1 2013-02-01 Credit: Matthew Staver for The New York Times
2 2013-02-01 What can bond vigilantes do if you borrow in your own currency?...
3 2013-02-01 Bank of America customers were unable to access their online banking accounts, mobile payment systems or the company's telephone call centers on Friday. But it does not appear to be the result of hacking....
4 2013-02-01 The Zhejiang Geely Holding Group said that it had agreed to pay $17 million for the assets of Manganese Bronze, whose London Taxi Company unit produces black taxis....
5 2013-02-01 N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said it is pointless to try to cap prices of Super Bowl tickets because the secondary market will always prevail....
6 2013-02-01 After decades of repression in Myanmar, the country holds its first international literary festival....
7 2013-02-01 A ticket broker explains how he got into the business....
8 2013-02-01 Employment still has a long way to go before returning to its pre-recession level....
9 2013-02-01 The sense that Chuck Hagel performed poorly in his confirmation hearing has buoyed the outside groups that have been working to defeat his nomination....
10 2013-02-01 Capital One Financial has hired Stephen S. Crawford, a top executive of the boutique investment bank Centerview Partners, as its chief financial officer....
11 2013-02-01 A spokesman for the House Small Business Committee, which created Small Business Reg Watch, said the panel had no political purpose in mind for the Web site....
12 2013-02-01 It was not the Bolshoi Theater that announced the cancellation of Wayne McGregor's new ballet, but Emerging Pictures, the United States distributor for the films of the Bolshoi Ballet and Opera....
13 2013-02-01 Antony P. Jenkins, the new chief executive of Barclays, said that he would not accept a bonus as the British bank struggled to rebuild its reputation after a series of recent scandals....
14 2013-02-01 Sexual violence against women and crackdowns on freedom of expression cited as problems by Human Rights Watch....
15 2013-02-01 A review conducted internally by Johnson & Johnson soon after it recalled a troubled hip implant found that the company had not adequately assessed the device’s potential risks before it was used in more than 90,000 patients, court testimony on Thursday showed.

The engineering report, which was done in 2010, also found that Johnson & Johnson’s orthopedic unit had used inadequate or incorrect standards in trying to assess some of those risks before first selling the implant in 2003. The device at issue — the Articular Surface Replacement, or A.S.R. — proved to be among the most flawed orthopedic devices sold in recent decades.

The report was introduced on Thursday in Los Angeles Superior Court, in the first A.S.R.-related lawsuit to go to trial against the DePuy Orthopaedics division of Johnson & Johnson. More than 10,000 similar lawsuits have been filed in the United States.

In videotaped testimony shown in court, Jimmy Smith, a compliance manager at DePuy, was asked about the report, and he said it indicated that company officials had not used appropriate engineering controls to try to anticipate the device’s problems.

“They did their job, but they could have done it better,” Mr. Smith said.

Separately, a DePuy engineer, Graham Isaac, testified on Thursday that before selling the A.S.R., the company only tested its performance on laboratory equipment at one angle of implantation.
16 2013-02-01 The union even told the labor board that both it and OUR Walmart would not picket for at least 60 days at Walmart stores, “including confrontational conduct that is the functional equivalent of picketing.”

“Today, the National Labor Relations Board and the U.F.C.W. reached a settlement agreement that will bring the union’s unlawful tactics and disruptions toward Wal-Mart, our associates and our customers to an end,” said David Tovar, a company spokesman. “Our associates can now move forward knowing that the U.F.C.W. must stop its illegal and disruptive activities.”

As OUR Walmart and the union coordinated on-and-off demonstrations last October and November at Walmart stores around the country, culminating in a nationwide protest on Black Friday, Wal-Mart Stores asserted that the protests were clear violations of the law barring picketing for more than 30 days when a union is seeking recognition.

At the time, some OUR Walmart members insisted that the picketing was aimed merely at seeking higher wages and ending what they said was retaliation against employees who spoke out in favor of better wages and working conditions.

But other OUR Walmart members and union officials said their long-term goal was very much to unionize store workers. Such statements seemed to buttress the company’s claims that the demonstrations were indeed illegally protracted picketing that aimed to win union recognition.

In announcing that it would not, at least for now, bring charges against the union, the labor board said that the U.F.C.W. had disavowed any objective of seeking union recognition for Walmart workers and had promised to publicly state that commitment on its Web site and that of OUR Walmart and in mailings to the thousands of its members nationwide.

The labor board also noted another union concession — that if one of its regional directors brings charges against the union for violating the provision against illegal picketing, the union will not contest any N.L.R.B. effort to obtain a temporary injunction barring picketing.

Notwithstanding their promise not to seek to unionize Walmart workers and not to picket stores for at least 60 days, the union and OUR Walmart claimed victory.

The groups said they would still be able to picket after 60 days elapsed to call for improved wages and benefits.

In a statement, OUR Walmart said it “will continue to inform its members and supporters that the organization’s purpose is to help Wal-Mart employees as individuals or groups in their dealings with Wal-Mart over labor rights and standards.”

One official with the group said the labor board’s memo would in no way disrupt its plans to hold protests, strikes and rallies over the next 60 days and beyond, although protesters would be mindful not to walk in circles in front of Walmart stores.

In a statement, the union said, “Wal-Mart workers and their supporters will continue their call for change at Wal-Mart and an end to its attempts to silence workers who speak out for better jobs."

A union spokeswoman said it might someday seek to unionize the stores, but would do so while observing the law that bars picketing for more than 30 days.

Labor board officials said that the complaint that Wal-Mart Stores had filed against union would be “dismissed in six months as long as the union complies with the commitments it has made.”
17 2013-02-01 On Thursday, María Dolores de Cospedal, the secretary general of the Popular Party, denied that the party maintained a parallel account, saying at a news conference in Madrid that “the Popular Party only has one set of accounts, and it is clean, transparent and submitted to the official accounting authority.”

El País reported that Ms. de Cospedal was listed in the ledgers as having twice received payments of about $10,000 in 2008, after she was confirmed to her post at the party’s convention that June.

During a parliamentary debate on Wednesday, Mr. Rajoy made no mention of Mr. Bárcenas while he urged lawmakers to agree on a more transparent system of party financing. But that did nothing to quiet demands for a fuller explanation.

“Mr. Rajoy will now have to give some kind of clearer explanation,” said Gaspar Ariño Ortiz, a lawyer in Madrid and former member of Parliament from the Popular Party.

In the context of a recession and record unemployment, Mr. Ariño Ortiz said, “citizens who are struggling to make ends meet are seeing that huge amounts of money have been handled within a Spanish party funding system that is completely obscure, anonymous and open to corruption.”

Mr. Bárcenas, the former party treasurer, resigned in 2009 after being indicted in the early stages of a continuing investigation into a scheme of kickbacks and illegal payments that other Popular Party politicians are accused of being involved in. He has denied wrongdoing, and through his lawyer, he denied ever keeping a parallel and undeclared set of books in order to make payments to politicians.

When he resigned, Mr. Bárcenas took nine boxes of documents with him from his offices, a trove that stands as an implicit threat to party officials, commentators say, that if he is taken down in the scandals, he plans to take others with him. The recent disclosure that Mr. Bárcenas kept vast sums of money in Switzerland is just one of about 300 corruption investigations being conducted in Spain, many linked to questionable deals made among bankers, developers and politicians during the nation’s decade-long property boom. Few have been convicted so far.

The corruption investigations have also tainted Spain’s institutional fabric, from the monarchy to the Supreme Court, whose chief justice was forced to resign last year over questionable business expense claims. On Wednesday, a judge demanded that Iñaki Urdangarin, the son-in-law of King Juan Carlos, and his former business partner post bond of $11 million as the judiciary deepens its investigation into the possible embezzlement of millions in public money allocated to sports and tourism events.

Mr. Urdangarin has not been formally charged, but last year he became the first member of the royal family to appear in court in modern Spanish history.

The report in El País added to the disillusionment of many Spaniards, including some longstanding supporters of the Popular Party. One was Julian Acevedo Ruiz, a grocery store owner who said he had always voted for the party, including Mr. Rajoy in 2011.

“I wish that I had never voted,” he said, “because really none of our politicians are worthy of the trust that we placed in them.”
18 2013-02-01 Israel’s record on human rights should be under scrutiny, as every country’s should. But the last place that should be done is the United Nations Human Rights Council. Though the council’s mission is to monitor human rights, its record is one not merely of bias against Israel but of obsession with it.

With the world witnessing huge atrocities from Syria to Iran to Sudan to Congo, the majority of the council’s votes focus on Israel. The subject of Israel is the only one on the permanent agenda. Time and again, Israel is condemned while the deliberate targeting of Israeli civilians by Hamas and other Palestinian terrorist groups is ignored. And the threats to destroy Israel from the president of a member country, Iran, go unmentioned.

Contrary to your view, Israel’s refusal to participate in this charade will not undermine the need for universal standards and nudging countries to make changes. What undermines the process and the mission of the council is the obscene way it distorts its purpose in dealing with Israel.

Your editorial would have done better criticizing the bias, hypocrisy and unbalanced propaganda of the council, and by commending Israel for standing up against the travesty that is the Human Rights Council. Through that approach, there might be hope that it will be reformed to become a body truly pursuing its lofty mission.
19 2013-02-01 The body of a United States Air Force pilot, Capt. Lucas Gruenther, whose F-16 fighter jet disappeared Monday during a training mission, was found Thursday in the Adriatic Sea, his family said. Rescue teams had already recovered debris believed to belong to his aircraft. He was based at Aviano Air Base in Italy.
20 2013-02-01 At Sotheby’s, Batoni’s “Susanna and the Elders,” a history picture from 1751 expected to bring $6 million to $9 million, sold to a telephone bidder for $11.4 million, also a record price for that artist at auction.

Memling’s “Christ Blessing,” a panel painted on gold ground depicting Jesus, bust length, his right hand raised in blessing, brought $4.1 million. It had been in the same family for 150 years. The price was far above its $1 million to $1.5 million estimate and was another record for the artist at auction.

Few museums purchased paintings this week, experts said. One that did was the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Anthony Crichton-Stuart, a director of Noortman Master Paintings in London, bid in behalf of the museum for Fragonard’s “Goddess Aurora Triumphing Over Night,” a mythological canvas from 1755-56. It paid $3.8 million for the painting, well above its high $2.5 million estimate.

The Las Vegas casino owner Stephen A. Wynn has collected trophy paintings by masters like Vermeer and Rembrandt, Rubens and Picasso. Many have hung either in his art gallery or on the walls of his various resorts. Recently, however, Mr. Wynn has been a quiet collector, not talking about his purchases or his sales. This week he broke his silence, acknowledging that he was the mystery telephone buyer who scooped up “Tulips” — a monumental sculpture of colorful, polished stainless-steel flowers by Jeff Koons — at Christie’s in November, paying $33.6 million, a record price for that artist at auction. A few days ago “Tulips” went on view at the Wynn Theater rotunda in Las Vegas.

“This fall I was hanging around the auction houses like all of us art junkies and saw ‘Tulips’ outside of Christie’s and thought it would be perfect for the new hotel I am building in Cotai,” he said, referring to the Cotai Strip in Macau, the gambling haven on China’s tropical southeastern coast. The $4 billion project will be Mr. Wynn’s third hotel and casino in Macau. He said he was hoping it would open in early 2016, in time for the Chinese New Year. “Tulips” will be on a turntable in one of the resort’s three lobbies. But for now it is in Las Vegas.

“It’s right at the intersection where the Encore and Wynn Theaters meet,” Mr. Wynn said. “It’s a beautiful thing.”

Museum Web sites used to offer users little more than basic information about exhibitions, collections and programs. But increasingly those behind the scenes — directors, curators, conservators and installers, even guards — are contributing their thoughts and opinions.

Two years ago the Metropolitan Museum of Art started “Connections,” in which staff members talked about a theme they had discovered in the museum’s collection. Since it began in 2011, it has been seen by 1.5 million viewers. On Friday the Met is introducing another video project, called “82nd & Fifth,” in which 100 curators talk about 100 works of art at the Met. Each curator was asked to choose something — a painting or sculpture, drawing or object — that changed the way he or she sees the world. The curators have just two minutes to tell viewers why.

“The project fits neatly with my desire to position the museum and its curators as a trusted, authoritative voice that is relevant today and rises above the clutter of crowdsourced thinking,” said Thomas P. Campbell, the Met’s director, in an e-mail from Beijing.

The series starts on Friday with six episodes and will be followed by two more every week, beginning on Wednesday at 11 a.m. It will run through Dec. 25.

In one segment Luke Syson, the curator in charge of the department of European sculpture and decorative arts, talks about Antonio Rossellino’s 15th-century marble sculpture relief titled “Madonna and Child With Angels.” Mr. Syson said that “the very nature of sculptural relief is that bridge between something that is there with you, something that is three dimensionally present and something which is like a window on another world.”

In another segment Jayson Kerr Dobney, associate curator in the department of musical instruments, discusses a guitar created by Hermann Hauser for Andrés Segovia. “When I first encountered this instrument,” he said, “I thought it was pretty plain, but to understand how it changed music history I found to be very profound.”

Each clip also allows viewers various ways to see the featured works of art or objects up close.

Norman Rosenthal, the former longtime exhibition secretary of the Royal Academy in London, will forever be known for putting together exhibitions like “Sensation,” the show of works by Young British Artists from the collection of the advertising magnate Charles Saatchi that caused quite a stir, first at the Royal Academy in 1997, and then two years later when it opened at the Brooklyn Museum. Now an independent curator, Mr. Rosenthal is still organizing shows, but focused on New York instead of London. So when the Palazzo delle Esposizioni in Rome decided to present a series of exhibitions based on cities, he signed on to put together one on New York.

Mr. Rosenthal and Alex Gartenfeld, a New York-based curator, writer and editor, have organized “Empire State,” which explores the notion of New York as the new Rome of the art world. It opens in Rome on April 22.

“The center of the creative art world right now is New York,” said Mr. Rosenthal. “It’s the place artists are most drawn to.”

Mr. Rosenthal and Mr. Gartenfeld spent about two years visiting some 150 artists’ studios. But rather than concentrate on the work of emerging artists, the show will include well-known names like Mr. Koons, Dan Graham and Julian Schnabel alongside less familiar ones including Tabor Robak, whose art primarily circulates online, and Michele Abeles, who creates inventive photomontages.

The show’s name refers both to the 2009 song “Empire State of Mind“ by Jay-Z and Alicia Keys and also Thomas Cole’s famous series of paintings, “The Course of Empire,” which were made in New York in the 1830s. “People keep talking about New York as an empire, a culture that can be exported,” Mr. Gartenfeld said.

Mr. Rosenthal called it “a poem about the creativity of New York.” Right now, strangely, there are no plans for “Empire State” to travel to New York.
21 2013-02-01 Martin Soto Climent, who is from Mexico City, is a Conceptual sculptor in the mold of Gabriel Orozco and Damián Ortega; his works, like theirs, often produce succinct poetry from the slightest recontexualizations, juxtapositions and alterations of found objects. That’s almost the case in his latest solo show, at Clifton Benevento, where the primary material and the key metaphor never quite connect.

Here Mr. Soto Climent has chosen to work with automobile windshields, stacking them on the floor or propping them up against the wall or one another. Though sleek in form, these curved glass sheets bear traces of their former lives: tinted sun-blocking strips or waxy text identifying the maker and insurance company.

Their visual appeal is obvious; Richard Prince’s car-hood paintings come to mind, as do any number of “finish fetish” sculptures by Los Angeles artists of the 1960s. But the idea of the glass windshields’ becoming “mariposas migratorias,” or migratory butterflies, though fanciful and unexpected, feels a bit precious.

Two works stand out because Mr. Soto Climent subjects the glass to pressure, causing it to crack. In “Enjambre de Mariposas ( Swarm of the Butterflies),” arranging windshields in a lotus spiral on the floor creates the effect of crushed petals. And in “Reposo (Resting),” the metal clamp that holds two windshields together in an X shape also inflicts structural damage. Given the weakness of the butterfly conceit, an extra gesture — doing something and then something else (to paraphrase Jasper Johns) — makes a world of difference.
22 2013-02-01 The growing mainstream popularity has led some events, like the halfpipe and slopestyle contests in snowboarding and skiing, to be added to the Winter Olympics.

The recent four-day X Games, which ended Sunday, had at least six athletes sent to the hospital in ambulances, including Moore’s brother, Colten; a freestyle skier with a broken back; and a snowboarder who flew off the edge of the halfpipe and into the crowd.

A few hours before sustaining the injury that would kill him, Caleb Moore sat in his family’s trailer in , Colo., and described the first time he boarded a machine and performed a back flip. Living in Krum, Tex., he was 19 and on a four-wheel all-terrain vehicle.

“It was the most exciting moment of my life,” Moore said. “And the most stressful, heart-pounding moment of my life, too.”

The risks are nothing new to so-called extreme athletes in action sports, but the list of severe injuries and deaths only grows. The X Games this year featured tributes to the freestyle skier Sarah Burke of , one of the best in the world, who died last year after sustaining a in a crash during halfpipe training.

At the 2007 Summer X Games, the introduction of a Mega Ramp for skateboarders — 62 feet tall and 293 feet long — was debated after Jake Brown fell five stories to the wooden contraption and was knocked unconscious. The ramp, and Brown, returned the next year.

In 2009, months after winning a gold medal at the X Games, Jeremy Lusk, a freestyle motocross star, died after crashing on a jump in and sustaining a head injury.

One of the announcers at this year’s X Games was Kevin Pearce, whose Olympic hopes and snowboarding career ended three years ago when he sustained a brain injury during practice.

Among all the events, there may be nothing more frightening, or alluring, than snowmobiles — jet-quick and nimble, but also weighing nearly 500 pounds.

“As a result of this accident, we will conduct a thorough review of this discipline and adopt any appropriate changes to future X Games,” ESPN said in a statement after Moore’s death. “For 18 years, we have worked closely on safety issues with athletes, course designers and other experts. Still, when the world’s best compete at the highest level in any sport, risks remain. Caleb was a four-time X Games medalist attempting a move he has landed several times previously.”

The freestyle event that Moore participated in featured a series of ramps that launched snowmobilers 100 feet or more into the air. Contestants had 75 seconds to perform gravity-defying tricks to impress judges. Back flips are popular, with variations like letting go of the handlebars or trying to freeze momentarily with the snowmobile straight overhead.

Moore’s back flip on one jump fell short. The skis on the front of his snowmobile pierced the top of the ramp, throwing Moore face-first into the snow. The snowmobile somersaulted down the ramp and bounced on top of him.

Moore was knocked unconscious. Surrounded by paramedics, his father and his brother, who was waiting nearby for his turn, Moore regained consciousness and walked gingerly to a medical tent. Feeling woozy, he was placed on a stretcher and put into an ambulance, with a diagnosis of a .

Thirty minutes later, Colten Moore’s first run ended in a crash on the same landing ramp. He over-rotated on a back flip, his snowmobile landing hard on its back edge. Moore was hurled off the back.

He was strapped into a gurney and taken to an ambulance, where he joined his brother at Aspen Valley Hospital. Colten received a diagnosis of a separated pelvis and was released the next day.

“This is not new to us,” Wade Moore said after his sons were sped separately to the hospital. “You know it can happen at any time. We just hope it doesn’t happen here, on this night.”

Overnight, doctors found bleeding near Caleb Moore’s heart. He was airlifted to a hospital in Grand Junction, Colo., where he had surgery and was listed in critical condition.

On Sunday, a family spokeswoman said that the “cardiac injury has led to a secondary complication involving his brain.” On Monday, Moore’s grandfather, Charles Moore, told The Denver Post, “It’s almost certain he’s not going to make it.”

The weekend’s snowmobiling events were especially perilous. The freestyle competition began with eight participants and ended with four. The winner, Levi LaVallee, had missed the previous two years with a broken pelvis and a broken leg sustained while rehearsing jumps.

Jackson Strong, an Australian motorcycle rider with medals from the Summer X Games, had spent only four hours on a snowmobile before competing in the Big Air event Sunday, ESPN said during its telecast. On one of his crashes, the snowmobile’s throttle stuck open, and the machine zoomed full speed toward spectators. It was slowed only by a fabric fence. One boy was injured but was treated and released.

Caleb Moore won a bronze medal at the X Games only a month after he first sat on a snowmobile in 2010. The brothers had electrified snowmobiling since. They arrived as aerial artists from the confined niche of A.T.V.’s, a machine with no home in the X Games. Their immediate success — including a dual back flip in 2011 — caught the attention of fans and event organizers. Income arrived in the form of sponsorships, including from Polaris, a vehicle manufacturer, and Rockstar Energy Drink.

“We were paying the bills, but we weren’t making money,” Caleb Moore said last week. “Now we’re starting to live more comfortably. Me and him bought a house a year and a half ago, and things are going really good for us.”

Shortly before his accident, Caleb Moore listed the injuries he had sustained on A.T.V.’s and snowmobiles: a broken ankle, pelvis, back, tailbone, collarbone and wrist, and at least 10 concussions. Colten had a similar list.

There appeared to be no satiating the demand for their talent. After the X Games, Colten planned to rejoin the Nuclear Cowboyz tour, a series of dirt-bike and A.T.V. events. Caleb, leaning increasingly toward snowmobiling, detailed his intended itinerary.

“On Tuesday, I fly home, and on Wednesday, I fly to for a show on a quad,” he said. “Then the next weekend, I have a show in on a sled, then a week off, then I have a month out of the country where I travel to , France, , back to France, then back to the States.”

Moore’s plans went unfulfilled. His next run, on national television, would be his last.
23 2013-02-01 It hardly seems possible, considering that Super Bowl week is the N.F.L.'s ultimate fantasy circus, where all things N.F.L. are universally hailed as good and American and righteous, but the assembled media might have actually succeeded in scrubbing the sugarcoating off at least one corner of reality. Because sometime in the middle of questioning Ray Lewis about his use or nonuse of a banned substance to help him recover from injury, or asking player after player questions about the potential state of his brain with the creeping realization that many of them might not fare so well, or delving into the issue of homophobia in the sport, the fantasy world started looking not so fantastic.

And what has become painfully clear — and you can thank the unfathomableness of the phrase “deer antler spray” for this — is that succeeding in this sport or any other lucrative one has now trumped everything else. Players are apparently willing to do anything, try anything, risk unknowable consequences, to get to this level of success. Really, any entrepreneur worth his or her salt should be scraping the next great performance enhancer from bunny toenails. Selling it to athletes seems to be as simple as hawking a candy bar to a sugar addict. It might sell even faster if you tell them it cures concussion effects. No, it’s not tested or proven and we have no idea what body parts might suffer irreversible damage, but hey, it could shave a week off the recovery time for that leg injury! How many cases would you like? You want to win, don’t you? What are you waiting for?

Yes, this appears to be where we have arrived. In that little scrubbed-bare corner of reality, Baltimore’s Ed Reed can be found openly worrying about his brain after years of skull-rattling hits, as Dan Wetzel writes on Yahoo.com. And the player turned analyst Rodney Harrison admits that his history of concussions, over a career that included two Super Bowl wins, has him “scared to death” about his health and future. And 49ers cornerback Chris Culliver is facing the real-world backlash to his homophobic comments on a radio show. Yes, he’s now walking them back (by saying yes, he thought those things but didn’t feel them, whatever that means) but also showing how far from acceptance these guys really are, Ann Killion writes in The San Francisco Chronicle.

But if reality has been an unusually tough competitor in this Super Bowl week, it still often ends up being buried in a pile of nonsense. The fantasy world prevails eventually. You needed only to drop in on Lewis holding court after the SI.com article that reported he used the deer antler spray to be spun back into the world where none of this will puncture the Lewis myth, Jeffri Chadiha writes on ESPN.com, because he and the N.F.L. are still puncture-resistant. Lewis is particularly adept at holding reality at bay, Michael Rosenberg writes on SI.com, so much so that reality decides to give up and go grab lunch instead. After all, Lewis has never tested positive for something they cannot detect in a test yet. Case closed!

Soccer has been far less successful in staying inside a mythical bubble these days, thanks to racist fans who persist in turning some games into hate festivals. The latest outbreak came in a Dutch league game when Den Bosch fans unfurled racist chants on the American player Jozy Altidore, who plays for AZ Alkmaar. Altidore gained respect by handling it so well, Grant Wahl writes on SI.com, but soccer’s ruling parties still have to answer to why more hasn’t been done to curb the ugliness.
24 2013-02-01 Finally, I want to thank President Obama for his confidence and trust in me. I am humbled by the opportunity and possibility he has given me to serve our country once again.

I fully recognize the immense responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense. I assured the President that if I am confirmed by the United States Senate, I will always do my best for our nation and for the men and women – and their families –

who are called on to make the enormous sacrifices of military service. Their safety, success, and welfare will always be at the forefront of the decisions I make.

I also assured the President that I would always provide him with my most honest and informed advice. I make that same commitment to this Committee and to the Congress. If confirmed, I will reach out to the members of this Committee for advice and collaboration. It will be a partnership, because the national security challenges America faces require it.

Our nation’s security is the highest priority of our leaders and our government. We cannot allow the work of confronting the great threats we face today to be held hostage to partisanship on either side of the aisle, or by differences between the bodies represented in Articles I and II of our Constitution. The stakes are too high. Men and women of all political philosophies and parties fight and die for our country. As this Committee knows so well, protecting our national security or committing a nation to war can never become political litmus tests. I know Secretary Panetta has put a strong emphasis on reaching out to the Congress. I, like Leon, come from the Congress, and respect and understand this institution’s indispensable role in setting policy and helping govern our country.

We are all products of the forces that shape us. For me, there has been nothing more important in my life – or a more defining influence on my life – than my family. Whether it was helping my mother raise four boys after my father – a World War II veteran – died suddenly at age 39 on Christmas Day, or serving side by side my brother Tom in Vietnam, or the wonderful miracle of my wife Lilibet and me being blessed with two beautiful children. That is who I am. We each bring to our responsibilities “frames of reference” formed by our life’s

experiences. They help instruct our judgments. We build out from those personal foundations by continually informing ourselves, listening, and learning.

Like each of you, I have a record. A record I am proud of, not because of any accomplishments I may have achieved, or an absence of mistakes, but rather because I’ve tried to build that record by living my life and fulfilling my responsibilities as honestly as I knew how and with hard work. Under-pinning everything I’ve done in my life was the belief that we must always be striving to make our nation a better and more secure place for all of our people.

During the twelve years I had the privilege of serving the people of Nebraska in the United States Senate, I cast over 3,000 votes and hundreds of Committee votes. I’ve also given hundreds of interviews and speeches, and written a book. So, as you all know, I am on the record on many issues.

But no one individual vote, quote, or statement defines me, my beliefs, or my record. My overall worldview has never changed: that America has and must maintain the strongest military in the world; that we must lead the international community to confront threats and challenges together; and that we must use all tools of American power to protect our citizens and our interests. I believe, and always have, that America must engage – not retreat – in the world. My record is consistent on these points.

It’s clear that we are living at a defining time. Our nation is emerging from over a decade of war. We have brought our men and women in uniform home from Iraq, and have started to bring them home from Afghanistan.

That does not mean the threats we face and will continue to face are any less dangerous or complicated. In fact, it is quite the opposite. Recent events in Mali and Algeria remind us of this reality. Twenty first century complexities,

technologies, economies, and threats are bringing the seven billion global citizens closer together. And as our planet adds another two billion people over the next 25 years, the dangers, complications, and human demands will not be lessened, but rather heightened.

Despite these challenges, I believe we also have historic opportunities to help build a safer, more prosperous, more secure, more hopeful and just world than at maybe any time in history. Yes, the curse of intolerance, hatred, and danger exists around the world, and we must continue to be clear-eyed about this danger – and we will be. We will not hesitate to use the full force of the United States military in defense of our security. But we must also be smart, and more importantly wise, in how we employ all of our nation’s great power.

America’s continued leadership and strength at home and abroad will be critically important for our country and the world. While we will not hesitate to act unilaterally when necessary, it is essential that we work closely with our allies and partners to enhance America’s influence and security – as well as global security. If confirmed, I will continue to build on the efforts of this administration and of former Secretary Gates, Secretary Panetta, and Secretary Clinton to strengthen our alliances and partnerships around the world. I will also look forward to working with my former Senate colleague and friend, John Kerry, in this effort.

As I told the President, I am committed to his positions on all issues of national security, specifically decisions that the Department of Defense is in the process of implementing. This includes the Defense Strategic Guidance the President outlined in January 2012. Allow me to briefly address a few of those specific issues now.

First, we have a plan in place to transition out of Afghanistan, continue bringing our troops home, and end the war there – which has been the longest war in America’s history. As you know, discussions are ongoing about what the U.S. presence in Afghanistan will look like after 2014. The President has made clear – and I agree – that there should be only two functions for U.S. troops that remain in Afghanistan after 2014: counterterrorism – particularly to target al Qaeda and its affiliates, and training and advising Afghan forces. It’s time we forge a new partnership with Afghanistan, with its government and, importantly, with its people.

Second, as Secretary of Defense I will ensure we stay vigilant and keep up the pressure on terrorist organizations as they try to expand their affiliates around the world, in places like Yemen, Somalia, and North Africa. At the Pentagon, that means continuing to invest in and build the tools to assist in that fight, such as special operations forces and new intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance technologies. And it will mean working hand-in-hand with our partners across the national security and intelligence communities, to confront these and other threats, especially the emerging threat of cyber warfare.

Third, as I have made clear, I am fully committed to the President’s goal of preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and – as I’ve said in the past – all options must be on the table to achieve that goal. My policy is one of prevention, and not one of containment – and the President has made clear that is the policy of our government. As Secretary of Defense, I will make sure the Department is prepared for any contingency. I will ensure our friend and ally Israel maintains its Qualitative Military Edge in the region and will continue to support systems like Iron Dome, which is today saving Israeli lives from terrorist rocket attacks.

Fourth, while we pursue the reductions in our deployed stockpiles and launchers consistent with the New START Treaty, I am committed to maintaining a modern, strong, safe, ready, and effective nuclear arsenal. America’s nuclear deterrent over the last 65 years has played a central role in ensuring global security and the avoidance of a World War III. I am committed to modernizing our nuclear arsenal.

As we emerge from this decade of war, we also must broaden our nation’s focus overseas as we look at future threats and challenges. As this Committee knows, that’s why DoD is rebalancing its resources towards the Asia-Pacific region. We are in the process of modernizing our defense posture across the entire region to defend and deepen our partnerships with traditional allies, especially Japan, South Korea, and Australia; to continue to deter and defend against provocations from states like North Korea, as well as non-state actors; and to expand our networks of security cooperation throughout the region to combat terrorism, counter proliferation, provide disaster relief, fight piracy, and ensure maritime security.

I will continue this rebalancing, even as we continue to work closely with our longtime NATO allies and friends, and with allies and partners in other regions. At the same time, we will continue to focus on challenges in the Middle East and North Africa, where we have clear national interests. Rather, it is a recognition that the United States has been and always will be a Pacific power, and the Asia- Pacific is an increasingly vital part of the globe for America’s security and economy. That’s why we must become even more engaged in the region over the coming years.

Doing all of this and much more will require smart and strategic budget decisions. I have made it clear I share Leon Panetta’s and our service chiefs’ serious concerns about the impact sequestration would have on our armed forces. And as someone

who has run businesses, I know the uncertainty and turbulence of the current budget climate makes it much more difficult to manage the Pentagon’s resources. If confirmed, I am committed to effectively and efficiently using every single taxpayer dollar; to maintaining the strongest military in the world; and to working with Congress to ensure the Department has the resources it needs – and that the disposition of those resources is accountable.

Even as we deal with difficult budget decisions, I will never break America’s commitment to our troops, our veterans, and our military families. We will continue to invest in the well-being of our all-volunteer force. And, working with the VA and other institutions, we will make sure our troops and their families get the health care, job opportunities, and education they have earned and deserve – just as I did when I co-authored the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill with Senators Jim Webb, John Warner, and Frank Lautenberg. This includes focusing on the mental health of our fighting force, because no one who volunteers to fight and die for our country should feel like they have nowhere to turn.

In my twelve years in the Senate, my one guiding principle on every national security decision I made and every vote I cast was always this: Is our policy worthy of our troops and their families and the sacrifices we ask them to make? That same question will guide me if I am confirmed as Secretary of Defense. Our men and women in uniform and their families must never doubt that their leaders’ first priority is them. I believe my record of leadership on veterans issues over the years – going back to my service in the Veterans Administration under President Reagan – demonstrates my rock-solid commitment to our veterans and their families.

We must always take care of our people. That’s why I will work to ensure that everyone who volunteers to fight for this country has the same rights and opportunities. As I’ve discussed with many of you in our meetings, I am fully committed to implementing the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and doing everything possible under current law to provide equal benefits to the families of all our service members. I will work with the service chiefs as we officially open combat positions to women, a decision that I strongly support. And I will continue the important work that Leon Panetta has done to combat sexual assault in the military. Maintaining the health and well-being of those who serve is critical to maintaining a strong and capable military, because an institution’s people must always come first.

As we look ahead to the coming years, we have an extraordinary opportunity now to define what’s next for America’s military and our country. It is incumbent upon all of us to make decisions that will ensure our nation is prepared to confront any threat we may face, protect our citizens, and remain the greatest force for good in the world.

If confirmed as Secretary of Defense, it will be my great honor – working with the President, this Committee, the Congress, and our military – to ensure our policies are worthy of the service and sacrifice of America’s finest men and women. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.
25 2013-02-01 BEIJING — A court in southwest China gave severe prison sentences on Thursday to two Tibetans who court officials said were guilty of urging eight people to self-immolate, three of whom died, according to a report by Xinhua, the state news agency.

One Tibetan, Lorang Konchok, 40, was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve, which often means the convict will eventually get a lifetime prison sentence. His nephew Lorang Tsering, 31, was sentenced to 10 years in prison. The Xinhua report said the older Tibetan was also being stripped of his “political rights” for life, while the younger would have his stripped for three years.

The sentencing took place in Aba Prefecture of Sichuan Province, an area at the heart of the recent wave of self-immolations by Tibetans. Nearly 100 Tibetans have set themselves on fire since 2009 to protest Chinese rule in Tibetan regions, which lie in western China but which many Tibetans say should be granted independence or true autonomy.

At least 81 died after their acts, according to the International Campaign for Tibet, an advocacy group based in London. Few other nations have been confronted by such a large wave of self-immolations as political protest.

Chinese officials have sentenced Tibetans before to prison sentences for what courts have said were their roles in promoting self-immolations, but Thursday’s sentences were among the harshest. There now appears to be a concentrated effort to rein in the self-immolations, which gathered pace in late 2012, by criminalizing both the act itself and helping or encouraging people to commit it.
26 2013-02-02 The N.H.L. has made strides to improve player safety, but its new protocol for assessing concussions  may be too lenient....
27 2013-02-02 John Isner and Sam Querrey used their big serves to blast the United States into a commanding 2-0 lead over Brazil on Friday in a first-round Davis Cup match in Jacksonville, Fla. Isner sat out the Australian Open with a knee injury but recorded a routine 6-3, 7-6 (4), 6-3 victory over Thiago Alves after Querrey began the day by brushing past Thomaz Bellucci, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. The United States can advance if the Australian Open champions Bob and Mike Bryan defeat Brazil’s Marcelo Melo and Bruno Soares.

¶ Novak Djokovic, the reigning Australian Open champion, beat Oliver Rochus, 6-3, 6-2, 6-2, to give Serbia a 2-0 lead over Belgium in Charleroi, Belgium. In the opener, Viktor Troicki rallied from two sets down to beat David Goffin, 1-6, 3-6, 7-6 (5), 6-4, 6-4. (AP)

¶ Italy tied Croatia, 1-1, after Andreas Seppi beat Ivan Dodig, 6-2, 6-7 (2), 6-4, 6-4, in Turin, Italy. In the opening singles, Marin Cilic of Croatia rallied past Paolo Lorenzi, 6-1, 6-7 (6), 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. (AP)

¶ Andrey Golubev and Evgeny Korolev won to give Kazakhstan a 2-0 lead over Austria in Astana, Kazakhstan. (AP)

¶ Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Richard Gasquet gave France a 2-0 lead over Israel in Rouen, France. (AP)
28 2013-02-02 But the Nets were not able to take things in a leisurely way. Chicago was motivated and aggressive, and relentless on defense.

“They make you work for everything,” guard MarShon Brook said. “They try to turn you over, especially on nights like tonight when they’re missing some of their key guys on the offensive end.”

Brooks gave the Nets a spark off the bench in the fourth quarter, after the offense began to stagnate. The Nets were forceful inside early, scoring 18 points in the lane in the first quarter, but they strayed from that approach in the middle of the game. The Bulls shot 55 percent from the field in the second and took a 42-41 lead into halftime.

Nets Coach P. J. Carlesimo said his players were down in the locker room at intermission, because they were expecting to steamroll the depleted Bulls. But they regrouped.

“By that point, they said, well, this is the kind of game it’s going to be,” Carlesimo said. “Let’s just find a way to win.”

After trailing throughout the third quarter, the Nets began the fourth with a 7-0 run to take a 70-67 lead. The short-handed Bulls appeared to lose some of their steam, bending at the waist and tugging on their shorts. The Nets spread the floor and worked inside with Andray Blatche, who scored 11 points.

“We just pounded the ball down low, and I just tried to be aggressive,” Blatche said.

The Bulls continued snipping back any opportunities the Nets had to run away with a lead. With 31 seconds remaining, Wallace tipped in a miss by Deron Williams for a 91-86 lead. Bulls forward Luol Deng missed a crucial free throw seconds later; the Bulls had been 19 of 20 from the line before that miss.

But Deng made up for it after Jimmy Butler swiped the inbounds pass from Wallace by laying it in, cutting the lead to 91-89. Still, Watson and Wallace hit enough free throws in the closing seconds.

“It was great for the bench guys to come in and give us a lift and really close out the game for us,” Joe Johnson said.

Wallace steered the defense, which was strong. But he remained disenchanted with the team’s play of late.

“They weren’t at 100 percent,” Wallace said. “We were able to outmuscle them with the guys we have on the court.”

There is a chance Brooklyn could be similarly fortunate on Tuesday against the Los Angeles Lakers, who may be without center Dwight Howard. But sneaking by with more ugly wins over diminished teams?

That is not the way to please Wallace, who said, “There are still things we could have done better.”

In the first quarter Friday, the Nets owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov greeted the one-millionth guest to visit Barclays Center since its opening in September. The guest, Allison Barlow of Park Slope, was given a voucher for two tickets to every event at the arena for a year. Since officially opening on Sept. 28, Barclays Center has hosted 86 events, including Friday’s game.
29 2013-02-02 The rules also ban power companies from building or operating reactors on top of active faults, but continuing contentious discussions over what an “active” fault consists of might allow the government to avoid closing such plants for good.

Many of the proposed regulations bring Japan in line with standards in the United States.

The new guidelines are the latest step in Japan’s struggle to chart its energy future after the disaster. Previous governments led by the Democratic Party had given vague promises to phase out nuclear power as polls indicated that many people feared nuclear power and remained worried that the collusive ties between government and the industry that left the country vulnerable to disaster were ones that could not be broken.

But Mr. Abe has argued that keeping the reactors idle would hinder a recovery he is trying to jump-start with promises to tackle deflation that have already led to a weakening in the yen welcomed by struggling exporters. Nuclear energy had provided 30 percent of the nation’s electricity needs before the disaster.

With virtually all of its reactors offline, Japan has been forced to import more fossil fuels, driving resource-poor Japan to a record annual trade deficit last year. Before the accident, the country consistently posted large trade surpluses.

Still, Mr. Abe’s ability to sway the panel — or try to overrule it — might be limited. The regulatory body has been given significant autonomy, and is able to take a wide range of actions without government approval, partly as a result of maneuvering by Mr. Abe’s own party when it was out of power. Fearing the anti-nuclear agenda of some in the then-ruling Democratic Party, the Liberal Democrats had demanded that the body be insulated from political pressure.

But supporters of Japan’s powerful nuclear industry appeared to be starting a campaign Friday to ensure that the rules did not go into effect as they were.

“If we don’t have a stable energy supply, how are businesses supposed to invest and help Japan grow?” Hiromasa Yonekura, chairman of the Japan Business Federation, told reporters Friday.

Japan’s ten nuclear operators, including Tokyo Electric Power, the operator of the ravaged Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, could pay a total of 1 trillion yen to make the required reinforcements, the Nikkei business daily reported Friday, quoting estimates from the power companies.

The panel is expected to finalize the rules in July after a public hearing process, and there are lingering suspicions among anti-nuclear activists that the new panel will ultimately go easy on the country’s nuclear operators. Though nuclear power plants must meet the new guidelines before reactor restarts are cleared, the panel has left open the possibility that some standards could be suspended to allow limited reactor restarts.

The five-member nuclear authority was put in place after complaints that previous regulators were too close to industry.
30 2013-02-02 The elevator door opened, and both men entered. The intruder told the editor to give him all his money. The editor opened his wallet and handed over about $35. The intruder frisked him and found a couple more singles in a pocket. “He got so upset,” the editor recalled this week. “His eyes were twitching and completely bloodshot.”

The intruder — now a robber — also found the iPhone. He asked, “Is this a 4, or a 4S?” the editor recalled. It was a 4S. He took it. He took the wallet, too, and rifled through it, taking two MetroCards.

The editor realized he was holding half a sandwich from Subway. “Do you want my Subway sandwich?” he asked, getting a little cheeky. No, the man said, give or take an expletive, I do not want your Subway sandwich.

The editor must have pressed the button for the second floor, where he lived, but he doesn’t remember doing so. The doors had opened and closed once during the robbery, and they opened again.

Do you live alone? the robber asked. Yes, the editor lied, thinking of his sleeping parents.

The editor squeezed past and moved quickly to his apartment door, but before he could get inside and pull it shut behind him, the robber had clamped his hands on the door and was pulling, hard. “I was slowly losing the battle,” the editor said.

That is when he had his good idea. Instead of pulling, he let go and slammed his shoulder into the door. The surprising blow pushed the robber, already leaning hard in that direction, away against a far wall. The editor quickly closed and locked the door.

His father awakened and they called the police, who collected high-quality pictures from a surveillance camera. The suspect, it turned out, had hailed a cab eight seconds before they had arrived.

But he did not stay away for long. The next day, officers spotted the suspect nearby in the Prince Street subway station and arrested him, Detective Raul Delpozo said. The police identified him as Anthony Roman, 28, and said he had been busy in the neighborhood for a month, robbing five other people. He started small, stealing $25 and Chinese food from a victim in the West Village on Dec. 17, the police said, but three days later forced a victim to withdraw $200 from an A.T.M.

“This is your unlucky day,” he told a victim on Jan. 9, taking a cellphone, iPod and cash, the police said.

His gun, it turned out, was a toy that looked real, Detective Delpozo said.

The editor was called to the precinct station house to look at a lineup. He sat in a crowded waiting room, the Knicks game playing on a television. Turned out everyone there was a victim of the same suspect. He looked at eight or so men through one-way glass. Seven of them sort of stood there, while one man in the middle stared down, “anxious and depressed,” the editor said.

That’s him, the editor told detectives. No. 4.

The ordeal left the editor badly shaken. “I don’t know what would have happened,” he said, “if he had gotten in.”
31 2013-02-02 Two families from the Crow Indian Reservation in Montana can proceed with a lawsuit against an F.B.I. agent that accuses him of failing to properly investigate crimes against American Indians on and around the reservation, the United States Supreme Court has ruled.

The court declined last month to reverse a 2010 federal court ruling that said the F.B.I. agent, Matthew Oravec, did not have qualified immunity from legal action, a protection usually given to government employees when acting in an official capacity — and a status sought by the Justice Department, which had appealed the ruling by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

“The decision puts federal and state law enforcement agents on notice that they may be held personally liable if they discriminate against Indians in investigating crimes against them,” said Patricia S. Bangert, a Denver lawyer who is representing one of the families.

The Supreme Court’s decision was dated Jan. 14, but lawyers were only recently made aware of it.

Mr. Oravec, who remains an F.B.I. employee, investigated the deaths of two men, Robert Springfield and Steven Bearcrane, who died in unrelated episodes on the reservation in 2004 and 2005, respectively.

Federal prosecutors did not file charges in either case, and the men’s families sued, accusing Mr. Oravec of conducting a second-rate investigation, which they said was part of a wider problem of discrimination against Indian crime victims on the reservation.
32 2013-02-02 Merck said on Friday that it would delay seeking approval for an experimental osteoporosis drug, an announcement that helped send the company’s shares down 3 percent on the same day it announced its fourth-quarter earnings for 2012.

Company executives told analysts in a conference call Friday morning that Merck was delaying its application for the drug, odanacatib, because it is seeking additional data from a clinical trial. But they said they remained confident in the drug’s ultimate chances for approval and would submit their application in 2014.

Separately, Merck reported that it earned $1.4 billion, or 46 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, compared with $1.51 billion, or 49 cents a share, a year earlier, when it took charges for acquisition and restructuring expenses.

Earnings excluding the special items were 83 cents a share in the fourth quarter, down from 97 cents a share the previous year. The company nevertheless beat analysts’ estimates of 81 cents a share for the quarter.

Sales for the quarter fell 5 percent, to $11.74 billion. The company said strong sales of drugs like the diabetes medicine Januvia and sales of animal health and consumer products helped offset a 67 percent dip in revenue from the asthma drug Singulair, which lost its patent protection last year.

The company suffered another setback in December when a combination drug, called Tredaptive, aimed at raising so-called good cholesterol, failed to protect against heart attacks and strokes in a large clinical trial. After the news, Merck announced it would not seek approval of Tredaptive, which contained the drug niacin, in the United States and withdrew it from the European market, where it had already been approved.
33 2013-02-02 AS January goes, so goes the year.

That maxim of the American stock market would seem to bode well for the market this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index’s gain of 5 percent made the month the 12th best January since 1950, and the 19th opening month in that period when the index rose more than 4 percent.

“If history repeats, we would expect a double-digit percentage increase in the upcoming 11 months,” said Richard Peterson, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ.

Only once since 1950 has the market fallen in the last 11 months of a year when it rose 4 percent or more in January. That was in 1987, which began with the best January in the history of the index — up 13.2 percent — and ended including the worst single day ever for the index, a 20 percent plunge on Oct. 19.

On average since 1950, January gains of at least 4 percent have been followed by rises of 15.1 percent in the remainder of the year. Gains were lower when January gains were smaller, and on average the market has made no headway in years after prices fell in January.

There is, of course, no guarantee that history will repeat. In fact, during the Great Depression the opposite pattern existed. The market rose sharply during the first month of 1929, 1930, 1931 and 1934, only to plunge the rest of each year. Prices fell in the first month of 1935, which turned out to be an excellent year.

The January gains this year reflected generally strong markets around the world. As can be seen in the accompanying charts, all but two of the 20 largest stock markets in the world rose in January, and six of them — Japan, China, Britain, Switzerland, Sweden and Italy — rose more rapidly than the American market did. The two that showed losses were Brazil and South Korea.
34 2013-02-02 The music often seems devised to trail off, to run out of steam as it expresses Disney’s struggle with the cancer from which he died in 1966 at 65. But there is nothing exhausted about its inventiveness. Simultaneously eclectic and cohesive, the score incorporates strange, fractured brass fanfares out of Janacek’s “Makropulos Case” and lilting, seductive rhythms that feel almost foxtrotty, like a misty echo of the 1930s.

Appropriately, for this birthday year, there is a stentorian, Wagnerian choral setting of “Happy Birthday to You,” directed at Disney within the opera but perhaps also a wink from Mr. Glass.

His version of “The Perfect American” was commissioned during the adventurous impresario Gerard Mortier’s brief stint at the helm of New York City Opera. When Mr. Mortier’s hiring fell through in the fall of 2008, a year before his tenure was officially to begin, he decamped to the Teatro Real.

With him traveled many of his plans for City Opera, including a grand production of Messiaen’s “St. François d’Assise” in 2011; a version of Mozart’s “Così Fan Tutte,” directed by Michael Haneke, that opens later this month; and, next season, Charles Wuorinen’s new adaptation of “Brokeback Mountain.”

And, not least, “The Perfect American,” which has been directed by Phelim McDermott, who a few years ago with Julian Crouch created a vibrant version of Mr. Glass’s 1980 masterpiece, “Satyagraha,” that came to the Metropolitan Opera from the English National Opera in London. (“The Perfect American” travels to London in June.)

Mr. Jungk’s novel, originally published in German in 2001, is told from the perspective of Wilhelm Dantine, an Austrian-born Disney animator who, after being curtly fired, stalks his old boss through his final months. Like a more malignant version of the investigator whose inquiries frame the story of “Citizen Kane,” Dantine has sought out Disney’s family, friends, colleagues and acquaintances, from Salvador Dalí to Peter Ustinov, reconstructing a bizarre narrative of Disney’s illness and death.

Dantine’s telling advances rumors, some more substantiated than others, that Disney, far from the genial uncle persona he cultivated in public, was a cruel, adulterous alcoholic, as megalomaniacal and racist as he was visionary and inspiring. In his great strengths and great weaknesses, Mr. Jungk implies, he is a potent symbol for 20th-century America.

Archetypal and specific, good and bad, Disney is, in other words, an ideal operatic character. But Mr. Jungk’s tight, strange novel has been transformed into a slack, mild pageant with an alluring soundtrack.

Each inspired turn in the music is countered by Rudy Wurlitzer’s stodgy libretto. The prosy text takes us from Disney’s hometown, Marceline, Mo., to his Bel Air mansion to his hospital bed without ever coming together in a narrative, whether a traditional one or something in the abstract, ritualized mode that Mr. Glass has long favored.

The opera is a score in search of a story. Dantine has gone from narrator to bit player; the tension between him and Disney, Old World and New, has vanished without being replaced by another drama. The book’s most striking set pieces — Disney’s dialogue with an animatronic Abraham Lincoln; the unexpected arrival of a frightening girl in an owl mask — retain their mysterious power onstage but don’t connect to their surroundings.

Matters are not helped by Mr. McDermott’s uncharacteristically vague, inert production, though a disclaimer should be attached to that assessment: a technical malfunction before Wednesday’s performance prevented rigs above the stage from rotating properly. Though the problem was not announced to the audience, it evidently had an impact on some of the projections that form a large part of the production’s visual style.

Even if the technical side had been running smoothly, the show might well have still proved unsatisfying. Mr. McDermott and the designers Leo Warner and Joseph Pierce adroitly found their way around Disney’s copyright restrictions by settling on a look for the show’s projected animations that is more William Kentridge than Walt Disney. Deliberately rough and sketchy, the projections have the sober effect of Mr. Glass’s music, full of scratches, erasures and humans melting into animals and back again.

But not enough use has been made of Mr. McDermott’s extraordinary Improbable Skills Ensemble, whose puppetry and acrobatics formed the core of his “Satyagraha.” And little attention seems to have been paid to the singers’ interactions, which often feel awkward and unevocative.

The tenor Donald Kaasch powerfully fills out Dantine’s intense lines. But while the baritone Christopher Purves sounds firm, he is far too blandly affable as the misanthropic yet magnetic Disney. Neither he nor the opera’s creators seem to have known what to do with their protagonist, how to make a character who both repels and attracts.

Mr. Jungk’s book offers no pat conclusions, but it arouses emotion in a way that Mr. Glass’s opera, despite its searching, resourceful music, does not. It would be fine if we were to leave “The Perfect American” feeling ambivalent about Disney, but we shouldn’t feel nothing.
35 2013-02-02 LONDON — A senior police officer in Scotland Yard’s counterterrorism command was sentenced to a 15-month prison term on Friday for seeking cash payments from Rupert Murdoch’s News of the World tabloid in return for information about a Scotland Yard investigation into phone hacking at the paper.

A unanimous jury verdict after a four-day trial last month made Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn, 53, the first person to be convicted of a criminal offense in the phone hacking scandal, which has enveloped Mr. Murdoch’s newspaper domain in Britain for 30 months. The judge told Inspector Casburn that she would have drawn a three-year term if she did not have a 3-year-old child who was still moving through the adoption process.

At the trial, the jury was told that evidence implicating Inspector Casburn was provided to Scotland Yard by an internal investigative unit, known as the management and standards committee, that was established by Mr. Murdoch’s News Corporation as part of his pledge to give the police any incriminating information that it came across as it examined millions of e-mails and other documents relating to the hacking scandal.

A spokesman for Scotland Yard said Inspector Casburn, who continued to draw her $102,000-a-year salary during the trial, would now face an internal dismissal procedure. In a statement after her sentencing, Scotland Yard said Inspector Casburn had “betrayed the service and let down her colleagues.” It said her prison term “sends a strong message that the leaking of confidential information for personal gain is absolutely unacceptable and will not be tolerated.”

Inspector Casburn, who was impassive as the judge pronounced sentence, had told the court that she had telephoned The News of the World in September 2010 because she was angry that her superiors had decided to divert money and resources from counterterrorism operations to the phone hacking scandal, and thought that she was acting in the public interest.
36 2013-02-02 Hun Sen, the authoritarian prime minister who has been in power for nearly three decades and now dominates Cambodian politics, played a relatively low-key role, sitting with other officials in a float shaped like a mythical bird.

But analysts said that the spectacle was his way of drawing on the popular legacy of the late king as the father of the modern nation who led the campaign for independence from France.

“The policy of the government is to promote his memory,” said Pung Kek, president of the Cambodian League for the Promotion and Defense of Human Rights. “Hun Sen wants to be seen as the protector of the monarchy.”

The monarchy, especially among older Cambodians, is a defining institution, Ms. Pung said.

“Some Cambodians in the countryside like to say, ‘You cannot have a country without a king,’ ” she said.

There was little reference to the darker side of the late king’s leadership: lending his prestige to the Khmer Rouge and helping them come to power. The group’s rule left 1.7 million people dead.

Government announcers eulogized him as a leader who built national character along with factories, schools, roads and hospitals.

“He is the father of integrity and the father of national unity,” said one announcer, whose comments were carried on loudspeakers around the city and on national television, which broadcast the procession.

“He is the best king ever,” the announcer said.

The government has declared a week of mourning. Civil servants were given two days off and businesses along the procession route were ordered to close.

“All entertainment centers and broadcasters must refrain from displaying excessive happiness,” a government statement said.

Mourners praised the king for many virtues, including generosity.

Keo Sina, 56, who owns a cake shop on the outskirts of Phnom Penh and walked with nine other members of her family to see the procession, said she remembered the king delivering aid to her village when she was a child.

“Today is the last day that we can see the king,” Ms. Keo said. “He sacrificed his life to the country. I hope his soul rests in peace.”

Cannons, lined in formation along the banks of the Mekong River and loaded with shells provided by Vietnam, fired as the chariot carrying the king’s gilded coffin rolled past at a mournful pace.

“It reminded me of the battlefield,” said Mey Thorn, a bicycle rickshaw driver here in Phnom Penh watching the procession. “Things are better now, getting better and better.”

This is a time of relative stability for Cambodia and of rising prosperity in Phnom Penh and a few other urban centers. The procession in Phnom Penh on Friday passed near the signposts of urban affluence, including a towering skyscraper under construction.

But the economic growth has been uneven, leaving the countryside, where the majority of the population lives, dirt poor.

Vietnam, another war-torn nation, has surged ahead of Cambodia over the past decade in gross domestic product per capita, a measure of average wealth, according to World Bank figures.

Only one quarter of the Cambodian population has access to electricity, compared with nearly full coverage in Vietnam and Thailand.

About one-third of the Cambodian population does not have running water at home.

“The wealth that we get from economic growth does not benefit people over all — just a handful of people,” said Son Chhay, a senior member of the Cambodia National Rescue Party, the main opposition party in Parliament, which was formed by the merger of two parties last year.

“We have just rich and poor. We don’t have a middle class.”
37 2013-02-03 Amid all the fighting in Mali, residents of Timbuktu managed to preserve many ancient manuscripts, until recently....
38 2013-02-03 After a game delay because of a power failure, M.V.P. Joe Flacco and the Ravens, leading 28-6, withstood a determined comeback by the 49ers to win the Super Bowl....
39 2013-02-03 G.D.P. slips. Optimism rises. And the intrigue continues at Downton Arby's. Will immigration reform help your business?...
40 2013-02-03 With the number of self-immolations by Tibetans hovering at around 100, an eyewitness describes the large prayer meetings for the souls of the dead taking place in villages in Tibetan regions of China....
41 2013-02-03 “We hit our stride and never really looked back,” Coach Mike Woodson said.

Indeed, the numbers were mind-boggling. The Knicks’ bench outscored the entire Kings team, 82-81. The Knicks over all made 19 3-pointers, collected 34 assists and outrebounded Sacramento, 54-30.

Amar’e Stoudemire hit all 10 of his field-goal attempts — one short of the team record for most made without a miss — and supplied enough oomph off the bench to put the Knicks over the hump in the first quarter.

“We’re a deep team,” Stoudemire said. “There’s no knockoffs. We’re coming in, keeping the same amount of energy, or maybe more so. It’s great for us.”

Carmelo Anthony, who scored only 9 points, ended a streak of 31 games with at least 20 points, a franchise record. But Anthony, the N.B.A.’s second-leading scorer, gladly took a back seat Saturday.

He attempted only six shots before halftime, but the Knicks were already ahead, 56-33, because of a wild second-quarter run that kept going, going, going.

The Knicks initially fell behind, 15-4, after missing 12 of their first 13 shots. There was an early sense that Friday’s victory might have taken a toll on the Knicks, the N.B.A.’s oldest team. The Knicks were 5-4 on the tail end of back-to-back games this season entering Saturday, but they are not getting any younger or, for that matter, healthier. Point guard Raymond Felton reinjured his right pinkie in Friday’s game, and there were concerns about his effectiveness a day later.

Felton, wearing a thick gauze wrap, did not jolt the offense awake initially. It was not until J. R. Smith came in as a reserve, followed shortly by Stoudemire, that the Knicks’ offense began to find its rhythm.

“When I threw those two guys in, we kind of took off,” Woodson said.

Really it was Stoudemire, who promptly scored 7 consecutive points. Taking his cue, the Knicks went on a 19-2 run.

It grew to 28-4, then 33-4, then 41-7. The Kings did not score in the second quarter until 5 minutes 20 seconds had gone by. At one point, the Knicks hit 17 of 21 shots, including 8 of 11 from beyond the arc.

“We had a slow start, and then as soon as a couple guys started hitting shots, it’s contagious,” said Steve Novak, who made five 3-pointers. “It was just crazy how quickly it turned once we started making shots.”

Defensively, the Knicks attacked the glass and forced 18 turnovers. The Kings were 3 of 18 from the field in the second quarter.

Tyson Chandler, who finished with 11 points and 20 rebounds, led the Knicks’ starters in scoring. From the bench, Smith provided 25 points, Pablo Prigioni had 7 assists, and Stoudemire was a remarkable plus-31 over all, with 21 points and 6 rebounds.

“I feel like we have the best bench in basketball,” Chandler said. “People will really see it come playoffs and down the stretch.”

The Knicks are the first Eastern Conference team to 30 wins; it is their best 45-game start since 1997.

“I am not shocked in terms of where we are,” Woodson said, “but I am very excited.”

The Knicks hosted 150 children, their families and teachers from Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., on Saturday, and the national anthem was sung by the Newtown Choir. On Tuesday, the Knicks organization visited Newtown, where 20 children and 6 adults were killed at the school in December. “To be able to go down and touch those kids and talk to parents and then have them come up here and watch us play,” Mike Woodson said, “it’s pretty special.”
42 2013-02-03 Shanghai Bobby, the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile winner, and the Delta Jackpot winner Goldencents led the list of 369 early nominees for the Triple Crown series for 3-year-olds. Shanghai Bobby is trained by Todd Pletcher, who led all trainers for the fourth straight year with 29 nominees.
43 2013-02-03 TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said Saturday that he would not immediately ask the Okinawan authorities for approval to begin constructing a long-stalled American air base, casting doubt on his government’s hopes to show progress in a troubled base-relocation plan ahead of his planned trip to Washington later this month.

In a meeting on Okinawa, Mr. Abe told the Okinawan governor, Hidekazu Nakaima, that his government still wanted to go ahead with the plan to relocate the base, the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, to a site in northern Okinawa. However, in an apparent concession to Okinawa opposition, Mr. Abe said he would not ask the governor for a key construction permit before going to the United States, as some in Mr. Abe’s government had hoped to do.

The lack of progress in implementing the 17-year-old deal has strained ties between the United States and Japan, its largest Asian ally, at a time when both nations face the challenge of China’s rising military might. Mr. Abe, who took office in December with promises to patch up ties with Washington, had apparently hoped to restart the stalled plan ahead of his first meeting with President Obama, now likely to be held on Feb. 20 or 21.

Some members of Mr. Abe’s government had hoped to do this by formally asking the Okinawan governor for permission to begin land reclamation, a crucial step toward building the new base near the coastal village of Henoko. But Mr. Abe, after a one-hour meeting on Saturday with the Okinawan governor, said he would not ask for that permission ahead of the summit meeting.

Instead, Mr. Abe seemed to strike a more pragmatic tone, saying that he would work to regain Okinawan trust in the central government, which he said had been damaged when the previous prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama, reneged on his promises four years ago to relocate the base off the island. The governor, Mr. Nakaima, said that he still urged Mr. Abe to move the base off the island, citing the depth of local opposition.
44 2013-02-03 THE price of sequencing a person’s genome — putting in order all three billion base pairs of DNA in a set of human chromosomes — keeps dropping. But interpreting the billions of letters in a person’s DNA blueprint for use in medicine, and keeping that highly personal information secure and anonymous, is still a complex task.

Over the past few years, the cost of mapping one person’s genome has dropped to around $6,000 from about $250,000, and it is expected to go far lower. And, as genomic medicine quickly evolves, a powerful computer packed with software has arrived to interpret sequences privately within the walls of a lab, in contrast to systems that use the Internet and distant servers. The software parses variants in DNA, looking for ones that may be important.

The appliance, made by a human-genome interpretation company called Knome, is the size of a file cabinet and costs $125,000. Knome will begin shipping it in coming months to researchers investigating the genetic basis for cancer, rare diseases and drug response, said Jorge Conde, a co-founder of the company along with Dr. George M. Church, a geneticist and professor at Harvard Medical School.

For an additional, annual fee of $25,000, users can buy technical support and regular updates of the software for the machine, called the knoSYSTM100.

Because people can be identified by genetic data posted online, the privacy offered by the appliance, and its ability to discretely analyze data directly in a lab or office, may be an advantage. Lee Watkins Jr., director of bioinformatics at the Center for Inherited Disease Research at Johns Hopkins University, is considering buying one, in part for that reason. “You have control over it physically within your walls and logically within your network,” he said. “Everyone’s DNA is a very personal thing.”

Dr. Peter L. Nagy, a director of the personalized genomic medicine laboratory at Columbia University, is considering ordering a Knome machine for use in a clinical setting. Such machines may broaden the reach of genomic medicine, particularly in smaller labs.
45 2013-02-03 In 2009, the Supreme Court voted 8 to 1 to uphold Section 5, but Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. wrote that the section now raises “serious constitutional questions” and “must be justified by current needs.” Shelby County argues that it should be struck down because there is no longer proof of the “unremitting” defiance that existed when the Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965.

Justice Kennedy’s record makes it difficult to know for sure how he will vote in this case. But there is reason to hope that he will vote to uphold Section 5, because in cases on constitutional rights where the facts make clear an injustice, he tends to hew less to the simplicity of conservative ideology and to look for more nuanced solutions. In two important cases in the last decade, however, he has voted against using race as a factor in government policy. In a 2007 case involving the Seattle public schools, he cast the deciding vote with the conservatives in a 5-to-4 decision against letting the school system take account of a student’s race in assignment of students to achieve or maintain diversity in each school. And in a 2003 case, also decided 5 to 4, that preserved the use of race as one factor to consider in university admissions, he dissented.

But in both rulings, he wrote opinions distinguishing his views from those of the conservative bloc. In the case about public school diversity, he rejected colorblindness as a basis for the court’s decision, calling it an “all-too-unyielding insistence that race cannot be a factor in instances when, in my view, it may be taken into account.” In the case about university admissions, he endorsed the use of race as a “plus factor” in admissions, but said the court’s majority had failed to scrutinize the program as rigorously as it must when it examines a racial preference.

In the Shelby County case, as a federal trial court and a federal appeals court found, there is no room for equivocation. If Justice Kennedy votes to strike down Section 5, he will be calling a halt to an unfinished effort to end what the Supreme Court once called “an insidious and pervasive evil.”

Congress gathered an enormous amount of evidence in 2006 about the persistence of voting discrimination in covered jurisdictions. It found that discrimination was still heavily concentrated in those places and so widespread that case-by-case litigation — what Justice Kennedy has called “very expensive,” “very long” and “very inefficient” — is inadequate.

Without Section 5, from 1968 through 2004 more than 1,500 discriminatory voting changes would have gone into effect. And last year, Section 5 blocked attempts to discriminate against voters in many parts of the country.

In three momentous constitutional cases, Justice Kennedy voted to expand or uphold rights. Writing the 2003 majority opinion that found the Texas sodomy law unconstitutional, Justice Kennedy declared that “liberty protected by the Constitution allows homosexual persons” the right to express their sexuality as they choose. In the death penalty case in 2005, he recognized that under “the evolving standards of decency” it was no longer constitutional to impose capital punishment for crimes committed by juveniles under 18. And in a landmark case in 1992 about abortion rights, Justice Kennedy joined Justices Sandra Day O’Connor and David Souter to uphold the core of Roe v. Wade.

Justice Kennedy, in each of these cases, balanced facts, precedents and constitutional values differently, but in each one reached the conclusion that ultimately struck the American people as fair and proper. The Shelby County case presents the same kind of task. Justice now calls on him and the court to ensure the right to vote by upholding Section 5.
46 2013-02-03 “We do need a new architecture for this new world: more than formal Greek,” Mrs. Clinton said in a speech last week that served as both a valedictory and a reminder of why she remained the nation’s most potent political figure aside from Mr. Obama.

And yet, interviews with more than a dozen current and former officials also paint a more complex picture: of a dogged diplomat and a sometimes frustrated figure who prized her role as team player, but whose instincts were often more activist than those of a White House that has kept a tight grip on foreign policy.

The disclosures about Mrs. Clinton’s behind-the-scenes role in Syria and Myanmar — one a setback, the other a success — offer a window into her time as a member of Mr. Obama’s cabinet. They may also be a guide to her thinking as she ponders a future run for the presidency with favorability ratings that are the highest of her career, even after her last months at the State Department were marred by the deadly attack on the American Mission in Benghazi, .

“Secretary Clinton has dramatically changed the face of U.S. foreign policy globally for the good,” said , deputy secretary of state during the . “But I wish she had been unleashed more by the White House.”

In an administration often faulted for its timidity abroad, “Clinton wanted to lead from the front, not from behind,” said Vali R. Nasr, a former State Department adviser on and who is now the dean of the .

Mrs. Clinton made her first official trip to , a choice that spoke to her diplomatic ambitions as well as her recognition from the start that many big-ticket foreign policy issues in the Obama administration — , and peacemaking in the — would be controlled by the White House or the Pentagon.

In Afghanistan, several officials said, Mrs. Clinton hungered for a success on the order of the Dayton Accords, which ended the Bosnian War. But when her special representative, , who had negotiated that agreement, fell out of favor with the White House and later died, those dreams died with him.

Then came the Arab awakening, a strategic surprise that eclipsed America’s shift to focusing on Asia, and it plunged Mrs. Clinton into a maelstrom. It tested her loyalty to longtime allies like President of and reinforced her conviction that anger at decades of stagnation, fueled by social media, would sweep aside the old order in the Arab world.

After and argued for intervening to defend Libya’s rebels against Col. , Mrs. Clinton played an important role in mobilizing a broad international coalition and persuading the White House to join the -led operation.

But it was Syria that proved to be the most difficult test. As that country descended into civil war, the administration provided humanitarian aid to the growing flood of refugees, pushed for sanctions and sought to organize the political opposition. The United States lagged France, Britain and Persian Gulf states in recognizing that opposition as the legitimate representative of the Syria people, but by December, Mr. Obama had taken that step.

Still, rebel fighters were clamoring for weapons and training. The White House has been reluctant to arm them for fear that it would draw the United States into the conflict and raise the risk of the weapons falling into the wrong hands. Rebel extremists affiliated with had faced no such constraints in securing weapons from their backers.

When Mr. Petraeus was the commander of forces in Iraq and then-Senator Clinton was serving on the Senate Armed Services Committee and preparing for her 2008 presidential bid, she had all but called him a liar for trumpeting the military gains of the troop increase ordered by President Bush. But serving together in the Obama administration, they were allies when it came to Syria, as well as on the debate over how many troops to send to Afghanistan at the beginning of the administration.

Mr. Petraeus had a background in training foreign forces from his years in Iraq, and his C.I.A. job put him in charge of covert operations. The Americans already had experience in providing nonlethal assistance to some of the rebels.

The plan that Mr. Petraeus developed and Mrs. Clinton supported called for vetting rebels and establishing and arming a group of fighters with the assistance of some neighboring states. Defense Secretary was said by some officials to be sympathetic to the idea. Mr. Petraeus and a spokesman for Mr. Panetta declined to comment.

Wary of becoming entangled in the Syria crisis, the White House pushed back, and Mrs. Clinton backed off. Some administration officials expected the issue to be joined again after the election. But when Mr. Petraeus resigned because of an extramarital affair and Mrs. Clinton suffered a , missing weeks of work, the issue was shelved.

In an interview last week, Mrs. Clinton declined to comment on her role in the arms debate and emphasized other steps the United States had taken. “We have worked assiduously, first to create some kind of legitimate opposition,” she said. “We have been the architect and main mover of very tough sanctions against Assad.”

She added: “Having said all that, Assad is still killing. The opposition is increasingly being represented by Al Qaeda extremist elements.” She also said that the opposition was getting messages from the ungoverned areas in Pakistan where some of the Qaeda leadership was believed to be hiding — a development she called “deeply distressing.”

If Syria and Benghazi were low points for Mrs. Clinton, then the diplomatic opening to the military government in Myanmar, also known as Burma, was perhaps the biggest highlight. There, too, she initially met resistance from the White House and Pentagon, as well as the prospect of opposition from the Senate minority leader, of , a stalwart supporter of Myanmar’s prodemocracy leader, .

Once she secured Mr. McConnell’s acquiescence, Mrs. Clinton sent her assistant secretary for East Asian affairs, Kurt M. Campbell, to meet the generals. When he returned, persuaded that Myanmar was poised for change, Mrs. Clinton convened a full review of whether to ease American sanctions and establish diplomatic ties.

White House aides remained wary about rewarding a repressive government. So Mrs. Clinton, in effect, made an end run, seeking out Mr. Obama directly and persuading him to send her on a historic visit to Myanmar in December 2011.

“We didn’t know what was going to happen,” she said. “The president basically said, ‘Look, I’m behind you on this.’ ”

While Myanmar’s progress has not been without bumps, things have progressed enough that Mrs. Clinton accompanied Mr. Obama on his own visit last fall. And it was not the only bold move of Mrs. Clinton’s focus on Asia. In July 2010, she provoked a sulfurous reaction from when she announced that the United States had an interest in helping to resolve territorial disputes between China and its neighbors over the South China Sea.

“There had been a lot of rhetoric about the pivot to Asia, but here was an issue where more U.S. engagement meant a lot to the region,” said Benjamin J. , a deputy national security adviser.

And yet Mrs. Clinton’s involvement has done little to quell the tensions. China feuded recently with the over a rocky shoal claimed by both countries, and farther north, in the East China Sea, it is enmeshed in a dispute with over islands.

Mrs. Clinton insisted that her involvement had put China on notice that it could not brush off international legal norms in pursuing its maritime claims. “There’s still going to be belligerence, and there’s going to be a lot of very hot rhetoric,” she said. “But I think we’ve helped support a strong case for the kind of framework we believe in.”

The fruits of Mrs. Clinton’s work were evident last year in the fraught, but ultimately successful, negotiation over , the dissident who sought refuge in the American Embassy in . When an initial deal fell apart, she said, she passed a note to China’s senior foreign policy official, Dai Bingguo, that said, “You and I need to talk.”

Huddling in a small room, she persuaded Mr. Dai to order his deputies to go back to the table with her team. “It was incredibly intense,” she said, in an observation that could apply to so many of her days as secretary of state, “but I was always confident.”
47 2013-02-03 Some experts have posited that it takes about 10,000 hours of intense study to learn a language. Although the CBS pregame show for Sunday’s Super Bowl may seem that long, the reality is that fans hoping to be fluent in football by the kickoff do not have nearly that much time. As a reference, then, The New York Times offers this primer.

BALL SO HARD UNIVERSITY A small liberal arts college from which linebacker Terrell Suggs and other Ravens players may claim to have graduated. Known for its philosophy program, it competes in a league with the likes of Ball State University, Ball Don’t Lie Institute of Technology and the School of Hard Knocks.

BUBBLE SCREEN A short pass thrown with a long, sweeping motion, like the waving of a plastic wand filled with a soapy solution on a warm summer’s day.

CADENCE The nonsensical barking by quarterbacks awaiting the snap, using mostly repetitive nouns to remind teammates of the play’s basic instructions or just to sound in charge. Example: “Georgia! Georgia! Black dog! Black dog! Manning’s not here! Neither is Brady! Hut!”

DEAD-BALL FOUL An infraction between plays. Not to be taken literally; all balls are dead.

HALFBACK (see wing back, running back, up back, tailback, scat back) 1. The player who is carrying the ball. 2. Six positions Tim Tebow cannot play.
48 2013-02-03 “None of them have tried to harm anybody else,” said Penpa Tsering, the speaker of the Tibetan Parliament, which is based in Dharamsala, the Indian city that is host to the exiled Tibetan government. “None of the 99 people have tried to harm any Chinese.”

The Tibetan self-immolations began in 2009 as protests against China’s rule in Tibetan regions of the country. At least 81 Tibetans have died after their acts, and nearly all the self-immolations have occurred inside Tibet, with news smuggled out via e-mail or through networks of advocacy groups.

The Chinese authorities have responded by taking a harder line. Last week, a Chinese court handed down stiff sentences to a Tibetan monk and his nephew on charges that they had urged eight people to set themselves on fire, according to Chinese state news media. The monk was given a suspended death sentence, usually equivalent to life in prison, and the authorities have made it clear that committing or encouraging the act will be treated as intentional homicide. (Mr. Sangay said that six others in a different area of Tibet were also given harsh sentences.)

The Chinese government has blamed the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader, for inciting ordinary Tibetans to carry out self-immolations. Tibetans rebut the claim, saying the cause is Chinese repression.

“What are you left with?” Mr. Penpa asked. “The only thing you can do is sacrifice your life.”

With the Dalai Lama having ceded political control of the Tibetan government — and having encouraged the elections that elevated Mr. Sangay, a former research fellow and research associate at Harvard Law School, to prime minister — the Tibetan movement is in flux. To some degree, last week’s events were part of continued efforts to establish Mr. Sangay and other democratically elected Tibetan members of Parliament as figures capable of rallying political support for a movement long dependent on the charisma and stature of the Dalai Lama. (He did not attend the gathering.)

For more than a half century, India has been the primary host of exiled Tibetans, and many of the people who flocked to New Delhi came from special Tibetan villages elsewhere in the country. Lobsang Thai, 28, who came from Mundgod, a Tibetan village in the Indian state of Karnataka, said the self-immolations reflected the desperate situation in Tibet. “I don’t think it is about right or wrong,” he said. “That is the only thing we can do without hurting other people. That’s the best way to get the world’s attention.”

Tenzin Losec, 42, who is from Mainpat, a Tibetan village in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh, agreed. “This is very sad for us,” he said. “But people inside Tibet, they have no other way. They have no rights. Outside Tibet, we are trying to raise awareness around the world.”

Tibetan leaders were determined to portray the week’s events as evidence that the global community, especially India, supported their aspirations. Lawmakers and other political figures from India’s leading political parties appeared at different events, though the government’s top leaders stayed away.

Mr. Sangay and others want the United Nations to push China to improve conditions in Tibet and also to allow inspectors to tour the region. “The Chinese government should feel pressure to do something,” he said. “This is leading to a vicious cycle: hard-line policies, protests, repression, more hard-line policies, more protests, more repression.”
49 2013-02-03 “But,” he added, “maybe it was her business, because I was living in her building.”

For the majority of those who rent apartments in , the landlord is simply the person to whom they make out a monthly check, a faceless being who races to the bank with that check — but doesn’t always respond with similar speed when there’s a problem with the boiler.

For some, however, the landlord is not abstract. For better (he’s always around checking up on things) or worse (he’s always around checking up on things), the landlord is the upstairs or downstairs neighbor. It’s the durable stuff of movies and sitcoms, like the 1960s series “Hey, Landlord” and the ’70s series

Life with the landlord has its own particular complications and compensations. These range from the too-much-in-your-face and too-much-in-your-business sort, to the homeowner whose table always has an extra place. If the relationship is contentious— well, you know where the door is. But if it’s harmonious, that could translate into attractive terms when the lease comes up for renewal.

There are no hard figures on how many New York City apartment buildings have an in-house landlord. But it’s more likely to be the arrangement in small buildings, more likely on side streets than avenues, and more likely in the outer boroughs than . That’s “because the housing stock, a lot of duplexes, is built for it,” said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the real estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel.

“Having the landlord in the building is more common than you think,” he added. “But it isn’t something you see in the marketing or listing of a building, and it’s not seen as an amenity like a gym or a roof deck that will affect the rent you pay.”

There can be advantages to having a live-in landlord. “The assumption is that things will get fixed quicker because the landlord is there,” Mr. Miller said. “He’s subject to the same inconveniences as the tenants, so if the hot water is off, he has an incentive to fix it.

“By the same token, you may have to be more mindful of your behavior than in a large building where the landlord lives elsewhere.”

Sunny Zachi, the owner of Alpha Properties, a rental agency in Manhattan, says he makes a point of outlining the virtues and drawbacks of living in a landlord-occupied building. “I tell a prospective tenant that the building is clean and well taken care of. But then I say, ‘Guys, the landlord lives there, so there are things you have to be cautious about; he doesn’t want people who have parties until 4 a.m.’ ”

Landlords and tenants have to find a balance between privacy and intimacy that suits everyone.

The women who cycle in and out of the three-bedroom second-floor apartment that Melanie Adsit rents out in Astoria are tenants, but often they also become friends.

“We actually hang out and have dinner parties,” said Ms. Adsit, 37, an art education consultant who lives on the first floor with her husband, Alex Eaton, 36, a freelance cinematographer for film and television, and their newborn daughter. And sometimes, tenants become family. Ms. Adsit’s brother married a woman who had lived upstairs.

“I feel our tenants have been very patient with us,” Ms. Adsit said. “They know they have a good deal, so they’re not demanding.”

Megan McDonell, one of Ms. Adsit’s tenants, says that good deal includes the backyard. “Melanie and Alex are like, ‘Go on out there and invite your friends over,’ ” said Ms. McDonell, 31, an editor at a publishing company. “During both my roommates were stranded elsewhere, so Mel and Alex invited me down to dinner and to hang out with them.”

Despite the general coziness, Ms. Adsit said there had been some minor annoyances in the past, like the sound of clicking high heels overhead, and an oversharing tenant. “If you said ‘How are you?’ ” she recalled, “you’d get an epic tirade about the latest terrible things that were happening in her life. We used to watch from the window to make sure she was in the apartment before we went out, because we didn’t want to be stuck on the stoop for 20 minutes listening to her problems.”

Peter Harris was naïve, he said, to think it didn’t matter that the landlady lived on the premises when he and his wife, Jan, rented a duplex apartment on the Upper East Side in the late 1980s and early ’90s. “Then we found out she was a combination of nosy sitcom neighbor and cuddly grandma,” said Mr. Harris, 69, an executive in the business and the former chief executive of and the football team.

“She would not just note who came and went; she had a point of view about their demeanor. And when she came to our door, it was almost like a military inspection as she looked over my shoulder to see how clean our apartment was.”

The landlady’s probing went further, according to Mr. Harris. “She became very interested in our lives, including our latest in-vitro success. She wanted to know the details in a way that made it seem as if she were the third person in bed with us.”

And sometimes, he added, there were expectations that they would be there for her. “She asked us to feed her cat and accept deliveries when she wasn’t there,” Mr. Harris said. Once, in a swap of landlord-tenant roles, she even asked him to come look at her backed-up sink.

For a 36-year-old freelance medical writer living in a two-family house in Queens, the elderly landlady seems to be a combination of grandma and Santa Claus, “because she knows when you are sleeping, she knows when you’re awake.”

The writer, who asked that her name not be used because she hopes to renew her lease, said she thought the landlady was a very sweet person. “I like her,” she said. “I really do like her.”

But when she and her husband moved in last February, the lack of a door on their baby’s bedroom generated a battle, with the landlady finally saying to them: “Why do you want a door? Oh, you don’t want to hear the baby cry?” It felt like “a commentary on our lives,” the writer said.

With the demands of work and child care, the couple didn’t have time to buy curtains, and as a temporary solution, put cardboard boxes over the glass to keep the light out. “The landlady said the boxes didn’t look good and she gave us curtains,” the writer said. “I didn’t like them, but I put them up. If I hadn’t, I think she would have been hurt. It was like she was giving us a gift.”

It has taken a year for the couple to make their peace with the situation, to accept the trade-offs: the lack of privacy weighed against the attractive rent. The landlady’s reproving comments that the baby isn’t dressed warmly enough weighed against the freshly renovated apartment. The monitoring of their comings and goings weighed against the lovely view of the Manhattan Bridge and — what with no one above them or next door — the peace and quiet.

The writer is also aware that the living arrangements present challenges not just for her, but for the landlady as well.

“We’re paying tenants and we have our rights,” she said. “But I want to be respectful of the fact that this is my landlady’s home. I can tell she struggles with having someone live here.”

There is no such struggle for Dorothy Lashley, who has owned a brownstone in for 30 years. She lives on the first and second floor and rents out the third and fourth to tenants who call her Mama.

“It’s been a pleasurable situation so far,” she said. Perhaps that’s because Ms. Lashley, 71, spells out the rules of engagement before a lease gets signed. “We don’t slam doors,” she said. “If you want to have a party, invite everyone. People don’t have to come, but they have to be invited. If you don’t fit in, you have to move out.”

“Dorothy makes it homey,” said Barbara Morris, 64, a retired nurse who has been a tenant of Ms. Lashley’s since 1998. “People don’t have to worry about heat. If you need something done, it’s done right away.

“Last week I cooked some greens and rice in chicken broth and took a plate down to her,” added Ms. Morris, who was recently invited to Ms. Lashley’s apartment for a birthday dinner of lasagna and cake.

Mr. Curtin, meanwhile, weary of the incursions on his privacy, moved out as soon as his lease was up, and has since bought a condo in Long Island City. “My building is friendly but impersonal,” he said, sounding relieved. “I’d probably have to be dead for a few days before someone would come and check on me.”
50 2013-02-03 I’ve been living the life of a married man for 20 years. I have a successful career and three children. All this time, however, I have battled gender dysphoria and the deep sadness that comes from living a lie. From the earliest age, I’ve been unhappy being male. I believed I would find happiness only once I was true to myself. I recently had my self-diagnosis confirmed, and I’m initiating a transition to living as the real me. There is a cost involved: pain to my family and stress on my career. Ethically, is it right to be “true to myself” even if that authenticity ends my otherwise happy marriage and damages the emotional stability of my three children? If I had to maintain the lie, the emotional cost would be tremendous; a transition would share the pain with all who love me but might result in happiness. What’s the ethically correct thing to do? NAME WITHHELD,

The difficulty of your problem lies in the specificity of your desire. If you framed your situation in abstract terms — “Can I choose to do something for my own happiness that will potentially damage those whom I most love?” — it would seem as if the safest advice would be to place others before yourself. But this situation is unique. You’re arguing that this is not so much a choice as it is a correction to your central identity. My natural impulse is to tell you that every person has the right to decide (and become) whoever they feel they are. The desire to be yourself is not a selfish impulse. But there are some mitigating details in your specific case that make the answer less straightforward.

You believe you will “find happiness” only by being your true self — but that’s not exactly accurate. You describe your marriage as happy, you love your children, and your career is (at the very least) satisfying enough to make you worry about how a gender transition might complicate things. There is happiness in your life. Now, I realize what you’re referring to is a deeper, existential version of happiness that all people crave (and which goes far beyond having a good relationship or a good job). There are, however, many people who never experience that level of happiness, regardless of how they view their sexual identities. Even if you become someone else, you may never find it. So what we’re really weighing are the ethics of taking an irreversible gamble that will potentially improve your own interior life while significantly reinventing the lives of those around you.

Here again, the conclusion is not as simple as the question suggests: it’s impossible to know how much damage this would actually do. Your family may already sense that something is wrong. I could argue that an honest, difficult relationship is still better than a comfortable marriage based on the unreal; it’s also possible that your children (as they mature) will understand your desires completely. It’s entirely possible that this evolution could be positive for everyone involved. This, however, is all speculation. I don’t know you or anyone in your family, and it would be idiotic of me to pretend as if there were one irrefutable response to this situation. The person you need to talk to is your wife. You need to consider what this action will do to your three children, in both the short term and the long term. When you made the decision to have children, you committed yourself to the sacrifice of significant personal freedoms for the betterment of their lives; this is a profound extension of that reality, but that’s your ethical responsibility as a parent. So the question you really need to ask yourself is this: Is your psychological damage from gender dysphoria greater than the psychological damage that its restoration will inflict upon the lives of any (or all) of your children? If the answer is yes, proceed. If the answer is no, don’t do it. Your sadness is tragic, but at least it’s confined to yourself. This advice might seem reactionary, but it’s not a position on whether transitioning is ethical in and of itself. There’s no inherent ethical problem with that decision. It’s about the possibility of improving one life at a greater cost to three others who might lack the intellectual and emotional maturity to comprehend what’s really happening.

On Jan. 20, I responded to a query about the ethics of housing a beehive on your property (as a hobby) even if your new neighbors are allergic to bee stings. My response was that “it’s not ethical to pursue a recreational activity that puts unwilling third parties in nonspeculative danger, regardless of the legality.” I’ve received an inordinate amount of feedback to this response. Interestingly, most of the feedback takes issue not with the overall tenor of the advice, but rather with the specific danger that pose to humans.

I concede that the failure is my own.

When I received the original letter, I worked from the position that keeping a beehive next to a highly allergic person posed an authentic risk. But I have since received many, many responses that suggest living next to a beehive is not particularly dangerous for anyone, and that the annual number of deaths in the from bee stings is around 50 (which, relative to numerous other possible pastimes, is low). Moreover, bees have a habitat range of two to five miles in every direction, so the direct proximity of the hive is almost irrelevant to the risk. What can I say? I will never write a newspaper column called The Apiologist.
51 2013-02-03 WHICH WAY DID THE TALIBAN GO?

Luke Mogelson’s article on a unit of the Afghan National Army could have easily been written 40 years ago in Vietnam. A corrupt central government that does not serve its people, a largely inept army with some good leaders and some good units, plans by the U.S. to pull back from the countryside as part of the process of leaving, a lack of understanding of the culture and surrendering large swaths of the countryside to the enemy are all reminiscent of when we left Vietnam. There has never been any doubt as to the outcome of our endeavor: failure. MARK WEIMER, Austin, Tex.

Truly, one of the most interesting and thoughtful pieces on Afghanistan I have read. I feel for brave men like Lt. Col. Mohammad Daowood, who is fighting for what he believes in: education, women, etc. If there were enough men like him in government, Afghanistan would have a real chance to defeat the Taliban. I do support the coalition forces’ leaving, but I, too, fear that the Taliban will be back in the game sooner rather than later. APARNA TANTRI, Ossining, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

If Lt. Col. Daowood indeed supports education for women, he is progressive. But what did our money and training really provide? Ragtag standards (and a blind eye toward drug use)? A leader who plays everyone off one another? I doubt that the ill-equipped, cold, hungry men of the Afghan Army are going to succeed on their own. DEARREADER, New York, posted on nytimes.com

One night in Portland in 1996, I was at Chopsticks singing karaoke with some indie rockers, including Janet Weiss and Elliott Smith. Smith sang John Lennon’s “Jealous Guy” in a way that made us all verklempt. I chose “With or Without You,” by U2. The only way to cover the fact that I couldn’t sing a lick was to go totally overboard. Deep breathing into the mike, bellowing, the whole deal. Afterward, Janet Weiss touched my arm and said with a wry smile, “That was really intense.” I can still feel the chill that came over me right then, and I probably spent the next 10 years trying to reproduce that ecstatic moment. ARNE JOHNSON, San Francisco, posted on nytimes.com

Unless we’re just oblivious to the cultural significance of semiregular Willamette Week staff outings to slur “Closing Time” to empty chairs at Mazatlán, Dan Kois’s suggestion that Portland might be “one of the most exciting music scenes in America” seems a little spurious (perhaps not as spurious as then-mayor Sam Adams’s claim that Portland’s love of karaoke could be owed to the city’s “connection” with Japan). Still, the piece centers on a well-written profile of Baby Ketten’s John Brophy, and the Portland in the story actually sounds vaguely like the city with which you’re familiar, rather than some kind of hipster Neverland that exists only in the mind of East Coast food and travel writers. RUTH BROWN, Willamette Week, on wweek.com

Adam Davidson points out that economists disagree about “which policy is the right one” to address our widening inequality, but then he asks, “What do we value more: growth or fairness?” This is a false choice. There is no contradiction between economic growth and economic equality. The U. S. experienced its most sustained and rapid growth during the three decades following World War II, a period that also saw a dramatic increase in the overall standard of living and a sharp decline in income inequality. Likewise, many other affluent nations — including Germany and the Scandinavian countries — have much less inequality than the United States, a higher quality of life and living standard for its typical working family, and faster growth. PETER DREIER, Dr. E. P. Clapp distinguished professor of politics and chairman, Urban and Environmental Policy Department, Occidental College, Los Angeles

You’re so vain, I’ll bet you think this is a normal mirror, don’t you, don’t you... @katchow, via Twitter
52 2013-02-03 Mr. Shorter’s working band is far from the only one to embody these principles during the past decade, but it has been the most acclaimed and widely heard. Traces of its style can be detected in other groups, including those led by the saxophonist Chris Potter and the trumpeter Ambrose Akinmusire. Its slippery methodology has also taken root in the conservatory, and not just at the Berklee College of Music, where Mr. Pérez is on the faculty, or at the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz, where Mr. Shorter is a resident guru.

“The students are very familiar with that quartet,” said Doug Weiss, who teaches a popular Wayne Shorter ensemble class at the New School for Jazz and Contemporary Music. “They come in having heard the way that band plays together, and a lot of them have no idea what’s going on, and that’s why they’re there.”

So in addition to Mr. Shorter’s body of work — his terse and insinuative compositions, which have been closely studied by jazz musicians for decades — this newer generation has also had the opportunity to grapple with his elusive philosophy of play.

Once, in an interview, Mr. Shorter was asked to account for his pursuit of music above other art forms. He replied that music has an inherent sense of velocity and mystery. It would be hard to find a more concise distillation of his priorities as a bandleader.

“When we go out onstage we always start from nothing,” said Mr. Patitucci by phone from Mr. Pérez’s native Panama, where the quartet headlined a jazz festival last month. “So anybody can spin the wheels in a certain direction, and then we develop those themes.”

What follows isn’t free jazz, exactly, though it uses some of the same tools. “It’s spontaneous composition,” Mr. Patitucci said, “with counterpoint and harmony and lyricism. All of those values are still there. It’s just being pressurized into milliseconds.”

Mr. Shorter framed the idea as an image: “We don’t count how much water there is in a wave when we see the ocean.” He was on the couch of a hotel suite overlooking Central Park South, during one of his recent visits from Los Angeles, where he lives. That evening he would perform at a gala for the David Lynch Foundation, along with the pianist Herbie Hancock, his former partner in the Miles Davis Quintet. He wore dress loafers and a fleece pullover embroidered with the logo of Soka Gakkai International, the Nichiren Buddhist organization to which he and Mr. Hancock belong.

A scheduled interview began with an unscheduled interruption: Ms. Spalding — who won the Grammy for best new artist in 2011, and was also booked at the gala — dropped by with the Argentine pianist Leo Genovese. For all of her success Ms. Spalding still belongs to the demographic that grew up with the notion of Wayne as sage: she and Mr. Genovese were there simply to give him a hug.

Mr. Shorter is a notoriously elliptical conversationalist, prone to cosmic digression and quick-fire allusion. During a spirited two-hour interview he touched on modern art, social politics and science fiction — among the books he produced for inspection was the dystopian “Ready Player One” by Ernest Cline — as well as music and movies, and movie music. “I’m looking at a lot of old silent films now,” he said, “and I listen to the new, hip boy bands. I was checking out some Selena Gomez.” On the subject of jazz, he said pithily, “The word ‘jazz’ to me only means ‘I dare you.’ ”

But he also painted his own jazz narrative in precise strokes, whether it was hearing Charlie Parker at Birdland at the age of 18 — what stuck with him was a quotation of “Petrushka,” the Stravinsky ballet, that Parker sneaked into one solo — or sensing the mortal urgency that burned in John Coltrane, his fellow saxophonist, and in some ways a mentor. And Mr. Shorter made several references to the cryptic wisdom of Miles Davis, slipping each time into an unusually convincing imitation of that trumpeter’s throaty rasp.

Davis’s celebrated quintet of the mid-’60s was one of the most aerodynamically advanced in the history of jazz, and apart from Davis himself Mr. Shorter was its chief in-house designer. One of his signature contributions was “Nefertiti,” a slithery 16-bar tune ambiguously shaded with altered and half-diminished chords.

On record, as the title track to a 1968 album, the song features Davis and Mr. Shorter tracing and retracing its melody while the rhythm section improvises in the background, with all the supple intrigue of a shadow creeping across the landscape. It’s a useful precedent for Mr. Shorter’s current band, which derives much of its dynamism from rhythm-section cohesion within the loosest possible framework.

Another precedent, less obvious, is the transitional band that Davis led before his swerve into jazz-funk, a quintet with Mr. Shorter, the pianist Chick Corea, the bassist Dave Holland and the drummer Jack DeJohnette. A boxed set released last week on Columbia/Legacy, “Live in Europe 1969: The Bootleg Series Vol. 2,” illuminates just how much liberty that group took with its materials, even to the point of feverish abstraction. It never sounds freer than on a concert in Stockholm, attacking three of Mr. Shorter’s compositions: “Paraphernalia,” “Nefertiti” and “Masqualero.”

Two of those have surfaced on Mr. Shorter’s recent albums with the quartet, along with other pieces from a broad swath of his career. “Without a Net,” a compilation of live recordings from 2011, opens with “Orbits,” a theme from the Davis quintet era. It also includes a majestic take on “Plaza Real,” from the songbook of Weather Report, the epochal ’70s fusion band that Mr. Shorter led with Joe Zawinul.

But the provenance of the music takes a back seat to its process, which Mr. Shorter said was meant to herald an ideal of self-actualized communal leadership. “This kind of stuff I’m talking about is a challenge to play onstage,” he allowed, and chuckled. “When Miles would hear someone talking about something philosophical, he would say” — here came the rasp — “ ‘Well, why don’t you go out there and play that?’ One thing we talk about is that to ‘play that’ we have to maybe play music that doesn’t sound like music.”

If that sounds like a Zen riddle, comfort yourself with the knowledge that even Mr. Shorter’s band mates have had to warm to the uncertainty. “It was scary, to be honest,” Mr. Pérez said of his early experience in the quartet. “It was a shock to put myself into a situation where I had no idea what was happening. Even when I listened back, I felt like an outsider: ‘What is that? What key are we in?’ ” He gradually made adjustments, including one to his practice regimen: for two or three hours at a stretch he would watch Tom and Jerry cartoons with the sound muted, making up a score.

The band hasn’t relaxed its pursuit of revelation, which expresses itself in myriad ways: Mr. Pérez’s on-the-fly cadenzas, the unexpected thunderclap of Mr. Blade’s crash cymbal, the dartlike insistence of Mr. Shorter’s improvisational flights. All this remains true even as Mr. Shorter steps up his output as a composer. “He’ll bring in this 10-page piece of music, and it’s gorgeous,” Mr. Patitucci said. “And he’ll say, ‘Just this 16 bars.’ He’s not even attached to what he wrote.”

The center of gravity on “Without a Net” is “Pegasus,” designed to feature Imani Winds, a classical wind ensemble. Through much of that track’s 23 minutes, the woodwinds deftly frame the dramatic fluctuations of Mr. Shorter’s band; at times the two factions achieve a compelling synthesis, advancing a dramatic theme.

It’s horizon-scanning music, but it also features glimpses of the past, like the fanfare from “Witch Hunt,” which led off Mr. Shorter’s landmark 1965 Blue Note album “Speak No Evil.” During his solo in “Pegasus” Mr. Shorter also nods to the old Sonny Rollins tune “Oleo.” Elsewhere on the new album he drops a quotation of the Afro-Cuban bebop standard “Manteca,” and leads the band through a cubist recasting of “Flying Down to Rio,” a movie theme originally sung by Fred Astaire.

“To me there’s no such thing as beginning or end,” Mr. Shorter said. “I always say don’t discard the past completely because you have to bring with you the most valuable elements of experience, to be sort of like a flashlight. A flashlight into the unknown.”
53 2013-02-03 Blending folk art with more polished contemporary works could enliven the appreciation of both....
54 2013-02-03 Recontextualizing the Manti Te’o saga, the winter fiction series, a chart of long-shot Oscar nominees and more....
55 2013-02-03 Recontextualizing the Manti Te’o saga......
56 2013-02-04 The Thai government wants to shed its image as a place where many types of wildlife — turtles from Madagascar, marmoset monkeys from South America, baby sun bears, large exotic birds, to name a few — are for sale....
57 2013-02-04 Two decades ago, The Atlantic Monthly chronicled the rise of black academics, including Cornel West, Henry Louis Gates Jr. and Patricia Williams, who had vigorously taken on the role of public intellectuals, stirring debate on issues of importance to African-Americans. Today, more African-Americans hold more positions at colleges, not always involving subjects that have particular relevance to black people.

Do these academics still have a special obligation to address the nation’s social and racial issues? Are there particular challenges or opportunities faced by intellectuals who talk to the public about social issues?

Josef Sorett, an assistant professor of religion and African-American studies at Columbia University, organized this discussion.
58 2013-02-04 Tuesday is the deadline to take part in online voting to determine which existing piece used in the board game will disappear forever, and which of five candidates will replace it....
59 2013-02-04 Tami Reller, the chief marketing officer and chief financial officer of Microsoft's Windows division, said the company is pleased with the early progress of Windows 8 and predicted that a host of new touch screen devices featuring the operating sy...
60 2013-02-04 Senator John McCain's joke on Twitter about the Iranian president's ambitions to be an astronaut drew some accusations of insensitivity....
61 2013-02-04 Mitch Brandow joined Starcom USA, Chicago, in a new post, senior vice president and digital director. He had most recently been director for digital strategy at OMD, part of the Omnicom Media Group unit of the Omnicom Group. Starcom USA is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe.

Traci Elder joined Little & Company, Minneapolis, in a new post, director for new business and marketing. She succeeds Sunny Fenton, who left to join Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners. Ms. Elder had been director for customer experience and marketing at the Best Buy Connect unit of Best Buy, Richfield, Minn.

Beth Collins Ellard joined the Advertising Council, New York, as executive vice president for media. She succeeds Michael Auerbach, who started his own company, Milestone Ventures. Ms. Ellard had been executive vice president and general manager at DailyCandy, New York, part of the NBCUniversal unit of Comcast.

Brad Emmett joined Doner, Southfield, Mich., part of MDC Partners, as executive creative director for accounts that include AutoZone, Choice Hotels and Minute Maid. He succeeds Justin Smith, who takes a new role at the agency, chief innovation officer, leading Doner’s Digital Underground. Mr. Emmett had been executive creative director at DeVito/Verdi, New York.

Fingerpaint, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., hired three employees. They are Jessica Friedman, who joins the project management team; Hannah Reeves, who joins the operations team; and Slavik Volinsky, who joins the interactive team.

Greg Fox joined Plink, Denver, in a new post, vice president for sales and business development. He had most recently been senior vice president for sales and business development at Infinian, Los Altos, Calif.

Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, won the 2013 N.A.M.M. Excellence Award for Music from the National Association of Music Merchants, which presents the honor each year for ads deemed to be creative and engaging that feature music-making and musical instruments. The agency, part of the Omnicom Group, received the award for a commercial for the Chevrolet Sonic that features the band O.K. Go.

Michael D. Greene joined BooneOakley, Charlotte, N.C., in a new post, director for business development. He had been account manager at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.

GSD&M, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group, is adding two marketers to its client roster. One is Lee Jeans, Merriam, Kan., part of the VF Corporation, which is hiring GSD&M as its creative agency. The account, with spending estimated at more than $20 million, had previously been handled by Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas. The other new client is PGA Tour Superstore, which is hiring GSD&M to handle its creative and media accounts. The assignments had been handled by Wolfbone Marketing, Atlanta; spending was not disclosed. PGA Tour Superstore is operated by Golf and Tennis Pro Shop, Roswell, Ga., which is majority-owned by the AMB Group.

Doug Kleeman joined Baldwin&, Raleigh, N.C., in a new post, planner. He had been at the Boulder, Colo., office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, where he trained in digital and interactive development.

Michael Law and Bill Orr joined Burson-Marsteller — part of the Young & Rubicam Group unit of WPP — in new posts. Mr. Law becomes president for the United States region, based in San Francisco; he had most recently been president at Ogilvy Public Relations West, San Francisco, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP. Mr. Orr becomes executive vice president, also based in San Francisco; he had most recently been executive vice president and general manager at the San Francisco office of the Racepoint Group.

David Lebow joined YP, Atlanta, part of Cerberus Capital Management, as senior vice president and general manager at the new national markets group. He had most recently been president for revenue at Group Commerce, New York.

Rich Maiers joined Topsy, San Francisco, in a new post, senior vice president for sales. He had been vice president for sales at the Ziff Davis B2B Focus unit of Ziff Davis.

Jennifer Morgan joined the Time Out Group as president at Time Out North America, New York. She succeeds Aksel Van Der Wal, who was promoted in July to chief executive at the Time Out Group, based in London. Ms. Morgan had been chief operating officer at Collective, New York. The Time Out Group is majority owned by Oakley Capital.

Larry Novenstern joined the New York office of Tennis Channel in a new post, vice president for integrated partnerships. He had most recently been senior vice president and United States media director at Orion Trading, New York, part of the Orion Holdings unit of IPG Mediabrands, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. Tennis Channel is owned by investors that include IMG.

Omnicom Group, New York, will merge two agencies that are part of its Diversified Agency Services division: GMR Marketing, New Berlin, Wis., which specializes in sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing, and the SportsMark Management Group, San Rafael, Calif., which is focused on sports marketing. The combined agency will have more than 20 offices in 10 countries.

PageLever, San Francisco, which specializes in analytics for Facebook, was acquired for undisclosed financial terms by Unified, New York, which offers marketers a buying platform for social ads. The seven employees of PageLever will join Unified in New York and San Francisco.

Ari Paparo joined the New York office of Bazaarvoice, in a new post, senior vice president for media products. He had been senior vice president for product management at AppNexus, New York.

Jonathon Shaevitz joined Legolas Media, New York, as chief executive. He succeeds Yoav Arnstein, who stepped down last year, the company said, for personal reasons. Mr. Shaevitz had been chief executive at Maxifier.

Scott Shamberg joined TPN in a new post, senior vice president for growth and emerging commerce; he will be based in Chicago and be involved with all the agency’s offices, which also include Dallas, New York and San Francisco. Mr. Shamberg had most recently been president at S2 Digital, consulting with start-ups in areas like brand development and social media. TPN is part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group.
62 2013-02-04 Most people worry about whether to buy more or sell out when the stock market gets hot. Carl Richards reframes the question....
63 2013-02-04 A showing in Rome is postponed until after the Feb. 24 national election....
64 2013-02-04 Those who say China has too many railroads and roads should travel in the country this week, when the annual Spring Festival migration by hundreds of millions of people gets under way....
65 2013-02-04 Russia's largest stock Exchange said it had priced its shares at 55 rubles to 63 rubles, in a listing that would value the company at up to $4.6 billion....
66 2013-02-04 Why, with so much hype about Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis playing his final game after 17 years, did they pay so little attention to what he was doing (or not doing) on the field?

Lewis, that most ubiquitous of men, was rediscovered in the fourth quarter, with a statistic (four tackles) and a discussion of the murder charges against him that were dropped in 2000 and his polarizing personality. That’s a long time not to notice someone so integral to the Ravens.

But Justin and Aldon Smith, two of the 49ers’ defensive stars, stayed missing.

Why did Simms flat-out say that he wouldn’t second-guess Baltimore Coach John Harbaugh’s risky decision to call a fake field goal, which failed to yield a first down? Second-guessing is Simms’s job. More important, he should be first-guessing.

The second half began with Jones’s 108-yard kickoff return for a touchdown and a blackout at the Superdome that gave CBS a chance to replay, ad nauseam, the makeout session between the supermodel Bar Refaeli and the curly-haired nerd in a GoDaddy.com ad.

But it went to commentary from its on-field studio crew in the dim light.

Without a game to televise, James Brown, CBS’s studio host, and the sideline reporters Steve Tasker and Solomon Wilcots competed to tell viewers how long — 15 minutes? 20 minutes? “any moment”? — before the game could resume.

The delay, and the Ravens’ 28-6 lead, conspired against keeping the audience, and approaching viewership records.

Once the game resumed, Simms did not seem to draw inspiration from Beyoncé or studying highlights in the dark. He offered a trite truism about the 49ers, who were trailing badly: “When you’re down, you have to make great catches.”

Simms then added this tortured analysis: “One thing I’ve taken out of this game, and really all through the playoffs, is if you watch it, the number of big plays in the games are because the quarterbacks are throwing the football.” (Yes, yes!) Arm strength, he emphasized, is important.

Then, after the 49ers had amassed 105 post-blackout yards and 14 points, to the Ravens’ 15 yards, Simms said that the power failure had not hurt the Ravens but that it had helped the 49ers.

Later, he would all but refute his analysis when he said that the Ravens might have been thinking that they were close to winning the Super Bowl — a reason to play as if stuck in neutral.

At the Super Bowl, a network’s announcers and production crew should be in sync. But when Simms praised how little effort 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick expended on a hot, sharp pass, there was no replay to show that easy delivery.

Simms sounded out of sorts. He said that the Ravens came after Kaepernick with a “bunch group,” but did not say which defenders they were or if that was some sort of strategy.

And with a fourth-and-goal for the 49ers at the Ravens’ 5 and 1 minute 50 seconds left, Simms did not venture a guess about the type of play that San Francisco should call, and he did not interrupt Nantz when he saw the defense the Ravens were setting up, which he said he detected afterward.

He also delayed taking note, for too long, the contact made by the Ravens’ secondary against 49ers receivers in the end zone on Kaepernick’s incomplete pass.

The game, which promised a great finale for much of the fourth quarter, ended without much of a bang — although one of CBS’s strong on-field microphones picked up Baltimore quarterback Joe Flacco’s exuberant expletive, which he followed with the word “awesome.”
67 2013-02-04 The Medicines Company is licensing the rights to a powerful type of cholesterol-lowering drug from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, entering one of the hottest races in the industry.

The drug, known as ALN-PCS, inhibits a protein in the body known as PCSK9. Such drugs might one day be used to treat millions of people who do not achieve sufficient cholesterol-lowering from commonly used statins, such as Lipitor.

The Medicines Company will pay $25 million initially and as much as $180 million later if certain development and sales goals are met, under the deal expected to be formally announced Monday. It will also pay Alnylam, which is based in Cambridge, Mass., double-digit royalties on global sales.

That is small payment for a drug with presumably a huge potential market, probably reflecting that Alnylam is still in the first of three phases of clinical trials, well behind some far bigger competitors.

The team of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals is already entering the third and final stage of trials with their PCSK9 inhibitor, as is Amgen. Pfizer and Roche are in midstage trials.
68 2013-02-04 A Palestinian member of the advisory panel, Mohammed Dajani, a professor at Al Quds University in the West Bank, countered that the new study was “a strategic vision rather than looking through narrow eyes at one side or another.”

“People who are critical of the report are not appreciative of the work that went into it,” Mr. Dajani added.

Fourteen of the 19 advisory panel members expressed support for the study in a statement on Sunday.

The report was commissioned by the Council of Religious Institutions of the Holy Land, a group of Christian, Jewish and Muslim leaders who advocate for mutual respect and understanding. It was financed by a grant from the United States State Department.

The research was led by two prominent academics with long experience in textbook studies, Daniel Bar-Tal, an Israeli professor of research in child development and education at Tel Aviv University, and Sami Adwan, a Palestinian associate professor of education at Bethlehem University.

The project was originated by Dr. Bruce E. Wexler, professor emeritus of psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine, who co-founded an organization to promote Israeli-Palestinian cooperation.

In a response to the Israeli Ministry of Education, the three professors cited the rigorous research methods employed and wrote of their hopes that the ministries on both sides would “be moved to prepare a plan of action” to help “advance the peace building process.”

Dr. Wexler added that all the advisory panel members were familiar with the report’s main findings.

Unimpressed with the quality of previous, more subjective studies, Dr. Wexler said that he had insisted on applying scientific research methods for this one, so as “to provide real facts about a controversial issue.”

This included employing research assistants from both sides who were fluent in Hebrew and Arabic and data entered remotely into a database at Yale, similar to a blind study.

The study examined books from Israel’s state secular and religious systems as well as those used in independent ultra-Orthodox schools, books issued by the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Education and used in the West Bank and Gaza, and a small number used in the few independent Islamic Trust schools. It did not include religious scriptures.

Previous studies of Palestinian textbooks by monitoring groups like the Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education and Palestinian Media Watch suggested that they promoted the widespread dehumanization of Jews and Israel and a rejection of Israel’s right to exist.

The new study avoids harsh language and couches the bad news in a kind of symmetry.

It found that extreme examples of dehumanization and demonization were “very rare” on both sides. The few examples given included one from an ultra-Orthodox textbook describing an Israeli settlement established on the ruins of an Arab village that “had always been a nest of murderers.” A Palestinian language textbook included a reference to “the slaughterhouse,” explaining it as the nickname prisoners had given to an interrogation center “due to the brutality of the interrogators.”

The report said that both Israeli and Palestinian books provided unilateral national narratives that presented the other side as an enemy and that there was a lack of information about each other’s religions, culture and daily life.

The failure even to mark the existence of the other side on most maps, it said, “serves to deny the legitimate presence of the other.”

But another significant conclusion was that Israeli state textbooks provided more information and less negative characterizations of the other side and more self-criticism regarding certain historical episodes than the ultra-Orthodox or Palestinian books. Addressing the 1948 massacre in the Arab village of Deir Yassin, for example, a book used in the state secular and religious schools noted that the battle “developed into the killing of dozens of helpless Arabs.”

In many respects, the findings are similar to those of previous reports, but the interpretation largely differs.

There is little argument that most of the maps erase the presence of the other side or any kind of border between them. The Palestinians argue that there is no agreed border yet. Israelis counter that the state of Israel exists and should be named, while the West Bank is still a disputed area.

The study concludes that the maps reinforce each side’s self-narrative and fears — for the Palestinians, that Israel seeks to keep and expand occupied territories, and for the Israelis, that the Arab nations seek to wipe Israel off the map.

The textbook teachings on martyrdom and self-sacrifice are treated with similar evenhandedness. Palestinian sixth graders read in a language book that “every stone is violated, every square cries out in anger, every nerve is abuzz, death before submission, death before submission, forward!”

Israeli second graders are told the story of Joseph Trumpeldor, who died defending an early Zionist settlement from Arab attackers in 1920 and was said to have uttered in his last moments, “Never mind, it is good to die for our country.”

Coming after years of Palestinian suicide bombings, Israeli critics say, the Palestinian books glorify such acts of terrorism.

But Professor Bar-Tal said that “both societies are in the stage of mobilization,” with most Israeli students being prepared for compulsory army service.

He and others cautioned that the textbooks were only one factor influencing the younger generation, among others like teachers, the media and the Internet.
69 2013-02-04 During their hasty departure from the city last weekend, the fighters struck another parting blow, setting fire to dozens of ancient manuscripts at the Ahmed Baba Institute, the city’s biggest and most important library.

Irina Bokova, the director general of Unesco, accompanied President François Hollande of France on his visit here on Saturday to get a firsthand look at the damage the city’s cultural artifacts had sustained. She said that plans are already being made to rebuild the tombs of the saints.

“We are going to reconstruct the mausoleums as soon as possible,” Ms. Bokova said. “We have the plans, we have the ability to do it. We think this is important for the future of the Malian people, their dignity and their pride.”

In modern times Timbuktu has become a synonym for a remote place. But the city thrived for centuries at the crossroads of the region’s two great highways: the caravan route across the Sahara passed right by its narrow warren of streets, bringing salt, spices and cloth from the north, and the Niger River brought gold and slaves from West Africa. Traders brought books, and the city’s scribes earned their living by copying them out by hand. These manuscripts cover a vast range of human knowledge — Islamic philosophy and law, of course, but medicine, botany and astronomy as well.

“You will find all forms of knowledge in these manuscripts,” Mr. Essayouti said. “Every topic under the sun.”

Beyond their physical presence, Timbuktu’s artifacts are a priceless reminder that sub-Saharan Africa has a long history of deep intellectual endeavor, and that some of that history is written down, not just transmitted orally down the generations.

“This is the record of the golden ages of the Malian empire,” Ms. Bokova said. “If you let this disappear, it would be a crime against all of humanity.”

The cultural artifacts in Timbuktu — whose population of around 50,000 has shrunk with the latest troubles — have faced many dangers over the centuries. Harsh climate, termites and the ravages of time have taken a toll, along with repeated invasions — by the Songhai emperors, nomadic bandits, Moroccan princes and France. Yet many of the antiquities have endured.

“It is a miracle that these things have survived so long,” Mr. Essayouti said.

Their survival is a testament to the habit of Timbuktu’s families of hiding away their valuable relics whenever danger is near, burying them deep in the desert.

Konaté Alpha’s family has had a collection of about 3,000 manuscripts for generations, and when the Islamist rebels arrived Mr. Alpha called a family meeting.

“We need to find a way to safeguard these manuscripts,” he told his brothers and his father.

He was intimately familiar with the many nooks and crannies in which the city’s residents have long hid their treasured manuscripts. While expanding the family’s compound a decade ago, he found a trove of manuscripts hidden inside a wall.

“The previous owners had hidden them so well they forgot them,” he said with a shrug.

He took his family’s collection and hid it well. He declined to say where.

“We hid them, that is all I will say,” he said.

The manuscripts have been at the center of a broad international effort to preserve the fragile history of Timbuktu. The governments of South Africa and France, along with the Ford Foundation and others, have spent millions to build a new library to house the largest and most important collection of manuscripts at the Ahmed Baba Institute.

When the Tuareg rebels first arrived in Timbuktu in April, they looted and burned many government buildings, and the institute’s interim director, Abdoulaye Cissé, worried that the institute’s sleek new library building would become a target.

But when the Islamist rebels arrived a few days later, the library’s officials explained to them that the library was an Islamic institution worthy of their protection.

“One of the Islamist leaders gave his mobile phone number to the guard and told him, ‘If anyone bothers you, call me and I will be here,’ ” he said.

But library officials began to worry that the Islamists would discover that the library received financing from the United States, so in August they decided to move almost the entire collection, Mr. Cissé said.

“We moved them little by little to avoid rousing suspicion,” Mr. Cissé said. They were sent to Mopti, then on to Bamako, the capital, for safekeeping.

It turned out the worries were not unwarranted. In the chaotic final days of the Islamist occupation, all that changed. A group of militants stormed the library as they were fleeing and set fire to whatever they could find.

Fortunately, they got their hands on only a tiny portion of the library’s collection.

“They managed to find less than 5 percent,” he said. “Thank God they were not able to find anything else.”

None of the city’s libraries are in a hurry to return their collections from their hiding places, even though Timbuktu is back under government control. French forces are now stationed in Gao, Timbuktu and outside the town of Kidal, in the north, and airstrikes continue against the militants near the border with Algeria. The fighters have been chased away from major towns, but no one is sure whether they will come back.

“We will keep our manuscripts safely hidden until we are sure the situation is safe,” Mr. Alpha said. “When that will be we cannot say.”
70 2013-02-04 The United States was in trouble when Sam Querrey began his Davis Cup match against Thiago Alves on Sunday. A few booming serves later, the Americans were headed for the quarterfinals.

Querrey beat Alves, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (3), to give the United States a thrilling 3-2 victory over Brazil in Jacksonville, Fla., winning after his teammate John Isner lost to Thomaz Bellucci to send the countries to the deciding fifth match.

“I was very happy with the way I battled through,” Querrey said. “I fought through the tough points and got breaks in the second, third and fourth sets. I was just happy to get through it.”

Also advancing Sunday to the quarterfinals were Canada (over Spain), Italy (over Croatia), Kazakhstan (over Austria) and the Czech Republic (over Switzerland). Clinching spots on Saturday were France (over Israel), Serbia (over Belgium) and Argentina (over Germany).

Canada is in the Davis Cup quarterfinals for the first time. It defeated a five-time-champion Spanish team that was missing Rafael Nadal, David Ferrer and Nicolas Almagro because of injuries and fatigue.

It was the first time since 2000 that a United States team needed to win the fifth match to advance, and Querrey started fast, breaking Alves in the second game. But Alves, ranked No. 141, responded with breaks of his own in the third and ninth games to take the opening set.
71 2013-02-04 Liverpool did Manchester United a big favor on Sunday, holding Manchester City to a 2-2 draw and leaving City 9 points behind United in the race for the Premier League title.

Liverpool’s Steven Gerrard rifled home a dipping volley in the 73rd minute to leave City on the brink of only its second home loss this season. But Sergio Agüero scored a tying goal in the 79th to give City a point that will be of little comfort to Manager Roberto Mancini, whose team has dropped 4 points in six days and is struggling to keep pace with United.

Tottenham beat West Bromwich Albion, 1-0, in another Premier League game, again getting a superb goal from Gareth Bale. Tottenham is now just a point behind third-place Chelsea.

The game turned on the ejection of West Brom defender Goran Popov in the 48th minute for spitting in the direction of Spurs right back Kyle Walker. Bale scored 19 minutes later.

“I’m absolutely disgusted with Goran’s behavior,” West Brom Manager Steve Clarke said. “There’s no excuse for that. There’s no place for it in life, never mind on a football pitch.”
72 2013-02-04 ¶Nissan Motor Company expanded its relationship with TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, by naming TBWA as the global marketing agency for the reintroduction of the company’s Datsun brand. Spending has not been determined. Datsun was the original name for the Nissan brand; it is being brought back as a lower-price car line aimed at young, middle-class drivers in fast-growing markets like India, Indonesia and Russia. The worldwide creative and strategic work for Datsun will be led by TBWA Hakuhodo, Tokyo, and TBWA London. TBWA is also the creative agency for the Nissan and Infiniti brands sold by Nissan Motor.

¶Vonage Holdings, Holmdel, N.J., selected two agencies for assignments that had been handled by agencies owned by the Omnicom Group. Spending was estimated at $150 million. JWT New York, part of WPP, will handle the Vonage creative account, which had been handled by TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of Omnicom. And Horizon Media, New York, will handle the Vonage media account, which had been handled by PHD, part of the Omnicom Media Group division of Omnicom.

¶Chopin, the Polish vodka owned by Tadeusz J. Dorda, named Clarity Coverdale Fury, Minneapolis, as its worldwide agency of record. Spending has not been determined. Clarity Coverdale helped introduce Chopin in North America in 1997 and was the brand’s agency for eight years; recently, the account had been handled internally.

¶Deanie Elsner, president for the beverages business at the Kraft Foods Group, Northfield, Ill., was named the company’s first chief marketing officer. The Kraft Foods Group was formed after Kraft Foods spun off its snack foods brands into a stand-alone company, Mondelez International. The Kraft Foods Group sells former Kraft Foods products like Kraft cheeses, Maxwell House coffee and Oscar Mayer meats.

¶Chris Tussing rejoined DDB Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, as global business director, overseeing the agency’s new Reebok account. He had most recently been account managing director at the Chicago office of McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu, and earlier in his career was group account director at the DDB West division of DDB, based in San Francisco.

¶Lori Erdos, business development director for digital at Smithsonian Media, based in the New York office, was named to a new post, publisher for media and business development. Smithsonian Media is part of the Smithsonian Enterprises unit of the Smithsonian Institution.
73 2013-02-04 The winners of the Saturday Open Pairs at the District 3 Winter Regional in Rye Brook, N.Y., last month were William Ehlers of Madison, N.J., and Corey Krantz of Drexel Hill, Pa.

They finished one and a half boards ahead of Kelley Hwang and Michael Kopera of New York City, with Alison Wilson and Chris Willenken of New York City placing third.

The auction in the diagramed deal from the second session had more artificial than natural bids. Ehlers (South) opened one club, promising 16-plus points. Krantz (North) responded one diamond, indicating zero to seven points. East intervened with two clubs, showing either long diamonds or a major-minor two-suiter. West’s two-diamond advance was pass-or-correct: to play opposite diamonds or asking East to show his major with a two-suiter. After two passes, South balanced with two spades, which was passed out.

West led his higher diamond. East won with his ace and returned the diamond queen to South’s king.

Declarer had five top losers: one spade, one heart, two diamonds and one club. He was worried about a second trump loser. In particular a fourth round of diamonds from East might have been able to promote a second trump trick for West.

To try to stop this from happening South led a spade to dummy’s nine and continued with the spade jack. (Interestingly, this is also the percentage play for four tricks in the suit.)

West took the trick and shifted to a club. East won with his ace, cashed the diamond jack and led another diamond.
74 2013-02-04 In 2008 Allison Weiss released an EP called “The Only Girl at an All-Boys Pool Party,” the last song of which was “I Was an Island.” It’s a jagged little number, with scratchy guitars and sweet, yelping vocals, part pop-punk, part confident ’80s rock. The lyrics are imaginative, wounded and direct, and they begin like this:

I was an island before you came along

Put your boat in my sand, hand in my hand,

Your heart in my song

I was a fighter, and I was so brave

But I lowered my sword when you held me and swore

The next year, the same song appeared at the beginning of “... Was Right All Along,” Ms. Weiss’s first full-length studio album, but in radically revamped form. Ms Weiss swapped out serrated punk for light acoustic folk, and where before she had spit out the lines with fury and angst, this version was resigned and smooth, even a little whimsical. (In 2011 she released an EP named for this song, featuring both versions.)

“I Was an Island” was the first song Ms. Weiss played Friday night in the compact back room of Public Assembly, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn — the angrier, punkier version, and it suited her well. It’s also the approach she uses on her strong and impressively tart new album, “Say What You Mean” (No Sleep), due in April, which is full of unfashionable but still effective pop-punk with acoustic tendencies.

Nowadays we can watch our future stars grow up in real time, thanks to a combination of increasingly plentiful and accessible content and social-media-enabled narcissism. You have access to the early mistakes but also to the choices an artist makes over time that add up to a persona. Ms. Weiss, who is 25, has been on display for years, figuring it out in public.

She attracted early notice when, during the first months of Kickstarter in 2009, she crowdsourced the money for an album, something that’s now commonplace for artists with passionate niche fan bases but that felt revolutionary at the time. Last year she toured as a backup singer with and opening act for Lou Reed. She also embarked on a project of recording songs she’d written as a youngster, for a project called “The Teenage Years.”

“Say What You Mean,” which was produced crisply by Chris Kuffner, features some new songs, and some that have been repurposed and beefed up from her earlier releases. She drew heavily from that collection on Friday in an energized and infectious performance that cut through the album’s proud, strident melancholy.
75 2013-02-04 Similarly, Mr. Salehi said he had “good news,” responding to the proposal by the European Union foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, of another round of negotiations with Iran run by the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and Germany. She suggested that they take place Feb. 25 to 26 in Kazakhstan.

Iran has regularly delayed such meetings, which the six powers had hoped to restart in December, and then in January, with arguments over location and timing.

Iran is represented in nuclear talks by Saeed Jalili, who is designated as the “personal representative” of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. It is the ayatollah who will decide matters on the nuclear issue, and who will certainly decide whether Tehran opens direct talks with the United States, which he regards as being intent on overturning the Islamic Revolution in Iran, American officials said. Mr. Jalili is in Damascus meeting with officials from the Syrian government, which Iran is supporting with arms, fuel and cash.

Mr. Biden said bluntly in response to a question on Saturday that Washington was prepared for bilateral talks with Iran “when the Iranian leadership, supreme leader, is serious.” Mr. Biden added that the offer of talks “stands, but it must be real and tangible, and there has to be an agenda that they are prepared to speak to. We are not prepared to do it just for the exercise.”

Ms. Ashton’s spokesman, Michael Mann, noted that she has been proposing various dates and locations to Tehran since December, “so it is good to hear that the foreign minister finally confirmed now.” But he added, “We hope the negotiating team will also confirm.”

Iran has played hard to get on the nuclear issue, say Western diplomats involved with the talks, and since 2009, Mr. Jalili has regularly refused offers to meet separately with the American negotiator in the multilateral talks, who is now Wendy R. Sherman, the under secretary for political affairs in the State Department.

In the last round of talks, in Moscow in June, Iran insisted that the world powers lift all sanctions against Tehran as a precondition for substantive talks on reducing or eliminating Iran’s growing stockpile of enriched uranium. The six powers have argued that Iran must first comply with Security Council resolutions, demanding that it halt enrichment and satisfy the International Atomic Energy Agency that it does not have a nuclear weapons program. Iran has also refused the agency access to various sites in Iran.

Mr. Salehi also met with the leader of the Syrian opposition, Sheik Ahmad Moaz al-Khatib, who repeated his offer here of talks with representatives of the government of President Bashar al-Assad under certain conditions. Iran and Russia are Mr. Assad’s two most important allies and suppliers, and Mr. Salehi and the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, called Sheik Khatib’s suggestion “a good step forward.” Mr. Salehi said that Iran would talk to anyone and that “we are ready to be part of the solution” in Syria.

And Mr. Lavrov told the Russian news agency Itar-Tass on Sunday that Sheik Khatib’s proposal was “a very important step, especially since the coalition was created on the basis of categorical rejection of any talks with the regime.”

But Sheik Khatib’s offer has produced fierce criticism from his own coalition, which has demanded that Mr. Assad step down before any talks.
76 2013-02-04 “Some people seemed to think I was the Antichrist,” Mr. Shields writes in his new book about the reaction to “Reality Hunger,” “because I didn’t genuflect at the twin altars of the novel and intellectual property.”

Purists may aim the same criticism at “How Literature Saved My Life,” but it’s fairer simply to note that Mr. Shields is not very good at the form he likes most. It’s not for lack of good taste in models. He offers laundry lists of recommended books and movies. To name but three of the terrific egocentric works for which he stumps: “Out of Sheer Rage,” a book in which Geoff Dyer never quite gets around to writing a book about D. H. Lawrence; “Sherman’s March,” Ross McElwee’s wistful autobiographical film that was originally intended to be a documentary about the titular historical episode; and “Speedboat,” a kaleidoscopic novel by Renata Adler.

Mr. Shields’s book differs from those works in innumerable ways. For one thing, the aforementioned artists are funny, a quality gone missing in the increasingly earnest Mr. Shields, who now reads like a student who’s just had his mind blown by his first epistemology class. He quotes at length a letter he wrote to The New York Review of Books about the types of questions he likes to ask in his work: “What’s ‘true’? What’s knowledge? What’s ‘fact’? What’s memory? What’s self? What’s other?”

To weave such questions subtly into a work can be profound. To ask them explicitly, as Mr. Shields does repeatedly, is to engage in a long, dark night of the dorm-room soul.

He gushes briefly over outstanding examples of the work he favors but offers no real analysis of their style or substance, no window onto how difficult it is to make art from everyday mental wanderings. He offers no warnings about how it would be just as easy — if not easier — for disciples of his philosophy to make trash that badly imitates W. G. Sebald as it is for others to make trash that badly imitates E. M. Forster.

Instead Mr. Shields, who’s in his late 50s, indulges an almost teenage impulse simply to attest to the depth of his feelings: “Literature matters so much to me I can hardly stand it,” he declares at the end of one section. When a student tells him, “For years I’ve been taking notes for a book that I hope will materialize at some point, but every time I attempt to turn the notes into the book, I hate the results,” Mr. Shields writes back, “The notes are the book. I promise you.”

But this is vastly to understate the difficulty in what Mr. Shields’s heroes do. Mr. Shields tells you, over and over again, that he enjoys digressing. Mr. McElwee and his ilk go about the difficult business of actually digressing well.

The more lax method of appropriating reality can be seen in some of Mr. Shields’s younger colleagues, like John D’Agata, the essayist who insists that facts are secondary to style, and Sheila Heti, whose recent blend of fiction and fact, “How Should a Person Be?,” suffered from the belief that transcribing conversations among friends is inherently interesting.

There are good sentences throughout “How Literature Saved My Life,” about Mr. Shields’s stuttering and about his manic-depressive father, who went through several bouts of electroshock therapy. (“I’ll never forget his running back and forth in the living room and repeating, ‘I need the juice,’ while my third-grade friends and I tried to play indoor miniature golf.”) But these moments don’t amount to much. Forswearing traditional storytelling, Mr. Shields doesn’t allow himself to dwell on any subject long enough to say much that’s meaningful about it.
77 2013-02-04 But a more traditional party-line approach is being taken elsewhere. Democratic governors in Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland and Massachusetts are among those calling for stricter gun laws, and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York has already won the passage of sweeping gun measures since the Newtown shooting.

“Who can watch the sad images of the last several weeks, who can see the pictures of those young faces, and honestly say that we are doing enough?” Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland, a Democrat, asked in his State of the State address last week. Mr. O’Malley urged state lawmakers to ban the sale of “military-style assault weapons,” require licenses for buying handguns, bolster mental health treatment and information sharing, and spend more on school security.

Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, a Republican who took office this year, said in his speech that he would seek additional money in the state budget for “a comprehensive school safety review,” but he made it clear that he would oppose limiting access to guns.

“All of us were heartbroken after every parent’s worst nightmare unfolded in Newtown, Conn.,” said Mr. Pence, a former congressman. “While others have rushed to the well-worn arguments over gun control, Hoosiers know this is not about access to firearms. It is about access to schools. Hoosiers have responsibilities to protect our kids, and Hoosiers have rights. We will protect our kids, and we will protect our rights.”

On the federal level, the Obama administration’s push for stronger gun laws faces tough opposition in the Republican-controlled House and garnered a muted reaction even from the Senate’s top Democrat.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, in an appearance Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” said, “I want to get something done on guns.” But on specific measures, his language was guarded.

He noted that he had opposed the 1994 ban on assault weapons but would consider one now. On restricting high-capacity magazines, he said, “I think that’s something we definitely have to take a look at.” Regarding universal background checks, he said, “Yeah, we need to increase that.”

But as a gun owner himself, Mr. Reid said he would not allow the influence of the National Rifle Association to prevent the Senate from acting.

As a polarized Washington debates President Obama’s proposals, the state-level debate is also unfolding at an unusually partisan moment, with more states controlled by just one party than at any time in the past six decades. Republicans have the upper hand, holding the governor’s office and legislative majorities in 24 states, while the Democrats control both the executive and legislative branches in just 13 states. The stark divide can be seen in many of the bills being weighed in states this year.

In Tennessee, which is controlled by Republicans, lawmakers have introduced bills that would allow school employees to carry guns, let people keep guns and ammunition locked in their cars in public and private parking lots, and bar state money from being used to enforce any new federal law or executive order that “imposes restrictions on citizens who lawfully possess or carry firearms in this state.”

In heavily Democratic Massachusetts, Gov. Deval Patrick is calling for legislation to ban magazines containing more than seven rounds, require background checks for private gun sales and limit people to buying one gun a month. In his address to lawmakers, he said the proposals would “help stop tragedies like Newtown or the recent shooting of a 13-year-old boy in Roxbury on his way to choir practice.”

Most Republicans said they had drawn other lessons from the Newtown shooting. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, said in her speech that “the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary was unimaginable” but rejected calls for stricter gun laws.

“Arizonans have reduced crime by punishing criminals, and not by infringing on the rights of law-abiding gun owners,” she said.

Ms. Brewer focused instead on school safety, saying her budget would call for more money for school resource officers to provide security. “Our job now is to take common-sense steps that lessen the likelihood of a similar tragedy striking Arizona — while resisting the urge to turn a school into a fortress,” she said.

Gov. C. L. Otter of Idaho alluded to the Newtown shooting in his address as he called for building a 579-bed mental health facility at a prison complex south of Boise.

“We all saw just a few weeks ago the terrible impact on a community and a nation when mental illness leads to tragedy,” Mr. Otter said, echoing a commonly held belief, although the authorities have not described the mental state of Adam Lanza, the Newtown gunman, or said if he suffered from mental illness. Mr. Otter also ordered a review of school safety.

Some Democratic governors have said they are holding out hope for a federal law. Gov. Peter Shumlin of Vermont, the chairman of the Democratic Governors Association who was endorsed last year by the National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund, has opposed taking action on gun laws at the state level but has said he supports Mr. Obama’s recommendations.

And Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, a Democrat who has said he would pursue measures on gun control, school safety and mental health in response to the shooting that killed 20 first graders and six educators in his state, said those issues must be addressed at the national level. “As long as weapons continue to travel up and down I-95,” he told lawmakers, “what is available for sale in Florida or Virginia can have devastating consequences here in Connecticut.”
78 2013-02-05 A federal judge allowed the continuation of the suit, in which eight former employees said their tips were reduced to pay service fees of food-delivery Web sites....
79 2013-02-05 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Tuesday, selections include a look back at phone phreakers and how they influenced today's hackers, an app inspired by a film about a to...
80 2013-02-05 Mumbo-jumbo, I'm sure....
81 2013-02-05 In this post we celebrate Digital Learning Day by exploring issues around online identity and expression, with help from both Common Sense Media resources and materials from The New York Times and The Learning Network....
82 2013-02-05 Neither the magazine nor the director will say whether the shoots are part of a formal documentary project....
83 2013-02-05 Dell may be promoting its $24.4 billion leveraged buyout as the next step in its turnaround plan. But some of the computer maker's rivals, including Lenovo and H.P., couldn't resist throwing a few jabs at the company all the same....
84 2013-02-05 The Apple iBookstore will feature a grouping of self-published books titled "Breakout Books.''...
85 2013-02-05 Drawing your Social Security benefits as soon as you are eligible can affect your long-term well-being, while deferring them offers a savings rate hard to find anywhere else....
86 2013-02-05 WASHINGTON — Several Republican senators — notably John McCain — said Monday they would oppose a filibuster of former Senator Chuck Hagel’s confirmation as secretary of defense, moving the nominee much closer toward approval.

“I just do not believe a filibuster is appropriate, and I would oppose such a move,” Mr. McCain, a key Republican on military issues, told reporters, adding that he would press his colleagues on the matter. Senators Richard M. Burr of North Carolina and Susan Collins of Maine also said Monday that they would reject a filibuster, as did Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri last week, pushing the number of votes to force confirmation beyond the 60 needed.

Mr. McCain and the others cannot stop a single senator from blocking Mr. Hagel’s nomination from coming to an up-or-down vote, but his statement indicated what Senate Republican aides said Friday: In the event of a filibuster, Mr. Hagel almost certainly will have 60 votes. The Senate Armed Services Committee is expected to send the confirmation to the full Senate on Thursday, most likely along party lines.

The 53 Democrats and two independents who lean Democratic are expected to hold together for Mr. Hagel. Two other Republicans — Senators Mike Johanns of Nebraska and Thad Cochran of Mississippi — have come out for the confirmation of Mr. Hagel, a former Senate Republican from Nebraska.

But on Monday, it became clear many Republicans did not have the stomach to filibuster a cabinet nomination, a move that may be unprecedented. To do so would take egregious circumstances, like ethical or legal violations, Ms. Collins said.

“I’m not inclined to support a filibuster, regardless of how I ultimately come down” on a final vote, she said.
87 2013-02-05 But my business partner looks at travel as more of a chore. He’s a workaholic, but hates sacrificing family time because of business travel. So when we traveled together to Napa, he always insisted on taking the last flight out of New York on Sunday night. That left no time to enjoy Napa.

At the start of one Napa trip, we got to Kennedy Airport a little late, and neither of us had eaten. So I grabbed a quick meal at a deli before it was time to board, and my partner went to a fast-food place.

After finishing my meal, such as it was, I got on the plane and looked for my partner. We were supposed to be seated a few rows apart. I didn’t see him. I got myself settled, and then my phone went off.

It was my partner telling me he had been kicked off the flight. I asked him how that was possible since we weren’t boarding for that long. I thought he was kidding. I thought he just wanted out of traveling. I mean, this guy is not the type of guy to get kicked off a plane.

But apparently, his fast-food meal quickly disagreed with him, and he had some stomach difficulties. To make matters worse, he appears to have a little quirk that happens any time he gets nauseous. Basically, he kind of whimpers, or screams, depending on how you define the loud noise that he was emitting, in between his bouts of nausea. I couldn’t believe it. It was the strangest thing I ever heard. It’s not like he has a disease. He’s a healthy guy.

The flight attendants and fellow passengers weren’t happy with him. Not only did they have to deal with a guy who was getting sick in his seat, but also one who was loud. Very loud. They probably thought there wasn’t enough Pepto-Bismol on the plane, let alone the planet, to help him. He was escorted off.

I told him I knew he didn’t like traveling, but this was ridiculous. And then, I couldn’t stop laughing. He and I are still business partners, and friends.

We still travel together quite often and every time I get on a plane with him now, I just look at him and smirk. And hope that he hasn’t had any fast food.
88 2013-02-05 WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, said on Monday that a series of hearings he will schedule in the coming months would examine different pieces of a possible overhaul of the immigration system, including proposals for a pathway to citizenship for 11 million illegal immigrants in the country.

On Tuesday the committee will hold the first of those hearings, formally opening what Mr. Goodlatte, a Republican, called a “momentous debate on immigration” in Congress. While attention has been focused on the immigration proposals unveiled last week by President Obama and a bipartisan group of senators, Mr. Goodlatte is moving quickly to stake out a position for the Republican-controlled House on the issue. In an interview, Mr. Goodlatte said he expected that the hearings would result in one or more bills that reflect the House position on the overhaul.

Mr. Goodlatte, 60, has established a solid record of opposition to any measures he regarded as amnesty for illegal immigrants. But he said the Judiciary hearings would include scrutiny of proposals to offer legal status to most of the immigrants living illegally in the country.

Calling legalization of those immigrants “the most difficult side” of the immigration issue, Mr. Goodlatte said the committee would consider options to give “some kind of legal status to bring people out of the shadows,” offering them a chance at “being a fuller part of our society.” He said the committee would examine proposals that would allow most of the 11 million illegal immigrants to become citizens relatively quickly, as well as plans that would only offer limited legal status to far fewer people.

“We don’t want to prejudge anything,” he said.

Mr. Goodlatte’s plans for the hearings were a new sign of how far the center of gravity on immigration has shifted since the November elections, when Mr. Obama’s support for a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants helped secure his re-election. Many Republican leaders have been calling for the party to find a new approach that plays down strident rhetoric against illegal immigrants and instead offers solutions to Latinos, high-tech businesses, farmers and many other groups frustrated with the system’s failures.
89 2013-02-05 Re “Nominee for ‘Sheriff’ Has Worn Banks’ Hat,” by Andrew Ross Sorkin (DealBook column, Jan. 29):

No one who knows Mary Jo White’s record as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York would ever say she was soft on the financial community.

As former United States attorneys who have held that office and have worked with her on both the prosecution and defense side, we believe that she is a superb choice to head the Securities and Exchange Commission.  She will be hard-hitting and aggressive but also very fair, with excellent judgment.

We are all fortunate that Mary Jo, who has spent 16 years of her career in public service, has once again left a higher paying position in private practice to serve her country.
90 2013-02-05 It is not news, of course, that universities accept athletes who read at the fifth-grade level or worse; quite often academic counseling is remedial. But McAdoo wasn’t in that category. He had been an O.K. student in high school, and his mother, a schoolteacher, was adamant that he get a college education. He told his recruiters he wanted to major in criminal justice.

Once he got on campus, however, he was quickly informed by his academic counselors that North Carolina didn’t have a criminal justice major. According to McAdoo, his counselor picked his major, African-American studies, because it wouldn’t interfere with football practice.

Among the first classes he was “assigned” (as he phrases it) was a Swahili course, an “independent studies” class taught by the department chairman, Julius Nyang’oro. “There wasn’t any class,” McAdoo recalled. “You sign up. You write the paper. You get . I had never seen anything like it.” He never once met his professor. Despite the strange circumstances, he researched and wrote the paper. It was that paper that got him in the trouble with the N.C.A.A.

“All the academic counselors knew about the paper classes” — as they were called — “and they all steered athletes to them,” says Mary Willingham, a former academic counselor at the university.

But when the N.C.A.A. went after McAdoo, there was no mention of the phony classes. The school certainly never mentioned them, and as for the N.C.A.A., all it cared about was whether McAdoo had committed academic fraud for getting citation help in a class that never met. McAdoo’s contention — that he had no reason to believe he had done anything wrong, because he had simply done what he’d been told to do — fell on deaf ears. His college career was sacrificed so that the N.C.A.A. could maintain its longstanding pretense that college athletes are supposed to be students first.

The paper classes were eventually exposed by The News & Observer, after which the university asked former Gov. James Martin of North Carolina to conduct an investigation. Martin, who issued his report a few months ago, found that 216 courses were problematic, and that as many as 560 grades had been changed. He laid all the problems at the feet of Nyang’oro (who had earlier been allowed to retire), and one department colleague. Martin insisted that the scandal wasn’t strictly an athletic one, because nonathletes also took some of the paper classes. Well, maybe.

As for Michael McAdoo, the public humiliation still stings. “I had days when I was so depressed, I could barely get out of bed,” he told me. He feels that he put his trust in an institution that ultimately betrayed him.

“I would still like to get a college degree someday,” he said. “But not at the University of North Carolina. They just wasted my time.”
91 2013-02-05 Africa is the world’s fastest-growing region for smartphones, with an average sales growth of 43 percent a year since 2000, according to the GSM Association, an industry trade group based in London.

In sub-Saharan Africa alone, 10 percent of the 445 million cellphone users have smartphones, but that is expected to increase rapidly as operators expand high-speed networks.

By 2017, most consumers in South Africa will be using smartphones, up from 20 percent last year, according to the GSM Association. In Nigeria, the continent’s most populous country, the outlook for sustained growth is even greater, with smartphone penetration projected to reach just 30 percent by 2017.

The World Bank says that roughly a quarter of the one billion people on the continent are middle-class wage earners, the target group that Microsoft will try to reach with the Huawei phone, Mr. de Sousa said.

“Africans are generally quite conscious of brand, quality and image,” he said. “We are being very clear that we are not going to be building something cheap for this market. What we want to do is deliver real quality innovation at an affordable price. Compared to some smartphones that cost $600 here, this is very affordable.”

Microsoft plans to introduce the Huawei 4Afrika phone on Tuesday at events in Lagos, Cairo, Nairobi, Johannesburg and Abidjan, Ivory Coast. It will also be sold in Morocco and Angola.

The phone, which will run the Windows Phone 8 operating system, will be sold with applications designed for African consumers. Some apps give easy access to African soccer results. Others, like in Nigeria, focus on the country’s entertainment and film industries. An application developed in Egypt allows a woman who feels she is being harassed to alert the authorities to her location with one touch of her phone.

By targeting Africa, Microsoft is trying to build on momentum it recently gained through its partnership with Nokia. The company sold 4.4 million Lumia Windows smartphones in the fourth quarter of last year, up from 2.9 million the previous quarter.

In November, the Microsoft chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, said Microsoft had sold four times as many Windows phones at that point as it had a year earlier. A month later, Microsoft said sales of Windows phones over the holidays were five times those of a year ago.

Combined, Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS operating systems run about seven in 10 smartphones worldwide, with BlackBerry at 15 percent. But by 2016, Canalys expects Windows to overtake BlackBerry to become the No. 3 operating system, with a 15 percent share, compared with 5 percent for BlackBerry.

Microsoft is not alone in its focus on Africa. Samsung, the largest seller of smartphones and cellphones, has recently expanded the less expensive range of Galaxy smartphones to market in Africa and other emerging markets, said Anshul Gupta, an analyst at Gartner in Mumbai.

Mr. Gupta said there was pent-up demand among African consumers for a smartphone costing $100 or less. He said several smaller Chinese phone makers, including TCL, ZTE and Lenovo, were working on developing simpler smartphones that sold for $50.
92 2013-02-05 The tension between contributors and institutions is hardly new, but it has gained a higher profile in recent years. The weak economy has shrunk museum budgets, while technology or evolving tastes have led curators to reassess once venerable works. Institutions, which need money or space as artworks fill their basements, often look to sell items donated with the stipulation that they never be relinquished.

When it came to the Clyfford Still Museum, the City of Denver in effect argued that it had to violate the Stills’ wishes in order to fulfill them. Still’s wife, Patricia, gave Denver 2,400 of her husband’s works after his death with the understanding that the city would build a museum dedicated solely to his work and never sell or lend any of the art. But in 2011, six years after Ms. Still died, when fund-raising for the museum slowed, Denver received court permission to auction four of the paintings.

Amid cases like these, consultants and nonprofit organizations have stepped up efforts to help benefactors generate donations and wills that better ensure that their wishes are honored long after their deaths.

“I’m certainly getting more phone calls” about donor intent, said Jeffrey J. Cain, in 2008 a founder of the consulting firm American Philanthropic. Mr. Cain, who wrote a free guidebook titled “Protecting Donor Intent: How to Define and Safeguard Your Philanthropic Principles,” said the issue had “really captured the attention of conservative-minded donors, especially those giving gifts to the academy who worry about how those gifts would be managed over time.”

Philanthropy experts say that donors across the political spectrum are concerned about preserving their vision. But examples of foundations that have leaned left after being created by die-hard capitalists, like the carmaker Henry Ford and the oil magnate J. Howard Pew, have prompted several conservatives to speak out more loudly about the importance of donor intent.

“The Pews would spin in their graves,” states one of several case studies featured in the Philanthropy Roundtable’s library, which details the liberal organizations and causes, from radical environmentalists to campaign finance reform, that are financed by the bequests of conservative capitalists. “It hurts the growth of philanthropy if the foundations that donors set up proceed to ignore or violate the most cherished principles of their founders,” Mr. Meyerson of the Roundtable said.

Some philanthropy veterans said the interest in creating foundations with a limited life span could stem from growing concerns about donor intent. “Any perpetual foundation is going to be liable to drift,” said James Piereson, president of the William E. Simon Foundation.

Mr. Piereson was once executive director of the conservative John M. Olin Foundation, which was devised to spend all of its assets within a generation of Mr. Olin’s death in order to prevent mission drift.

“Donor intent cannot realistically be guaranteed beyond a generation,” Mr. Piereson said.

Museum administrators say they do their best, but that violating a donor’s wishes is sometimes unavoidable.

In perhaps the most famous of these cases, the Barnes Foundation in Pennsylvania convinced a judge a few years ago that its very survival depended on breaking the terms of its founder’s trust so it could move his magnificent art collection from suburban Merion to downtown Philadelphia.

Mr. Meyerson said the Barnes case illustrated how some restrictions could sabotage a donor’s desires. He pointed to a requirement that the Barnes invest in only Treasury bonds, which hamstrung the foundation’s finances. Even now, several months after the new Barnes opened its doors, the case remains a rallying point among an assortment of advocates in the philanthropy, legal and arts worlds who have campaigned for tighter compliance with donors’ wishes.

For the Brooklyn Museum, the issue is also financial. Colonel Friedsam’s will stipulated that his collection of paintings, porcelains, historical weapons and costumes never be split up. But although the inferior objects will not be displayed, museum administrators say they will, nonetheless, cost tens of thousands of dollars to store because the museum is running out of space.

In most states the attorney general is responsible for monitoring donations to charitable organizations, and in New York the attorney general has entered the case in support of the museum. The court has said that if the museum wants to split the collection, it must first try to find out whether any of Colonel Friedsam’s alternate heirs are still alive.

Since donations are often a museum’s lifeblood, most go to great lengths to fulfill a donor’s desires faithfully. The Museum of Modern Art transferred two van Gogh drawings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1998 because a donor had directed they be given away after 50 years.

And visitors to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, where few things in the darkly lighted galleries ever change position, can see the frames and the ragged edges of four paintings that were cut out and taken during a brazen 1990 theft. In part because Mrs. Gardner’s will ordered that “the general disposition or arrangement” of her collection be maintained, curators have chosen to leave the frames on exhibit. Many museum administrators agree that Mrs. Gardner’s instructions have created an unusual gem of a museum.

Nonetheless, most would no doubt prefer that donors leave the decision-making to them, emulating the stance of John D. MacArthur, who once told a trustee of his foundation: “I figured out how to make the money. You fellows will have to figure out how to spend it.”
93 2013-02-05 In 1930 Mary Wigman, one of the innovators of expressionist modern dance in Germany, toured the United States. In 1973 she died, and on Friday at the Museum of Modern Art she returned.

Or, it might be most accurate to say, the dancer Fabián Barba tried to bring the small audience at the Roy and Niuta Titus Theater back to that 1930 Wigman tour by performing nine short Wigman solos as Wigman. Chandeliers hung from the ceiling, and each seat held a vintage-style printed program. After each selection, none much longer than five minutes, Mr. Barba gave a different bow, and then came a pause, not much shorter than five minutes, during which he left the stage to change costume. Costumes were very important here.

Since only a few of the dances were preserved on film, Mr. Barba has had to reconstruct or reimagine the works using photographs and written descriptions. It was a mark of his achievement that the nine solos seemed convincingly of a piece. The measured pacing, the slight acceleration, the circling patterns and sculptural gestures and resonant final poses all looked like the products of the same choreographic mind.

His thin limbs delineated the relationship between a curved spine and curved arms. His attention to detail drew the eye to the press of fingertips and the bottoms of palms in an attitude of prayer. His control clarified sudden stops and quick shifts of position.

In a thin-strapped dress Mr. Barba wafted his wrists girlishly. With his face and body shrouded in red fabric, tight around the neck like a napkin ghost, or wielding a pole within his costume to make it billow, he suggested what Martha Graham might have seen in Wigman. And the costuming raised other questions of history and authenticity. Did Wigman actually wear, as Mr. Barba did, a hoop dress of see-through mesh? Through that mesh Mr. Barba’s hairy chest was visible, but gender bending did not seem to be the point. His fidelity laid bare the monotony in Wigman’s work. His precision underlined its foursquare connection to the music, whether repetitive piano figures or gongs.

While Mr. Barba’s performance was true to the subjugation of ego of which Wigman wrote, it lacked the intensity and charisma that so impressed those who wrote about her. Though this lack was likely inevitable, it may also have been by design. The bows and the ritualized, unrequested encores gave a sense of distance, as though the live performance were fragments of old film carefully spliced together. History moved, but the dead stayed dead.
94 2013-02-05 This year Academy publicists said 21 of the 25 nominees in the high-profile acting and directing categories attended. Missing were Emmanuelle Riva, a best actress contender for “Amour,” and that film’s director, Michael Haneke. Two supporting actor nominees, Alan Arkin (“Argo”) and Philip Seymour Hoffman (“The Master”), were absent.

Ms. Riva had commitments in Europe that she could not break, and Mr. Haneke was busy directing an opera in Madrid, said Michael Barker, the co-founder of Sony Pictures Classics, which released “Amour.” A spokeswoman for Mr. Arkin said he was in New Orleans filming a new movie, “Grudge Match.” A publicist for Mr. Hoffman said he was tied up in New York.

They missed blueberry vodka martinis, white orchid centerpieces and burrata cheese and honey-date appetizers. (The lightness and good cheer inside the hotel stood in contrast to a scene outside. Two anti-torture groups staged a silent protest of “Zero Dark Thirty,” a best picture nominee that has been criticized for its depiction of “enhanced interrogation” in the hunt for Osama bin Laden.)

Monday’s luncheon, the 32nd of its kind, came as “Argo” continued to surge in the run-up to the Oscars, which will be held on Feb. 24 and televised by ABC. After winning the top prize at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Jan. 27, “Argo” and Mr. Affleck also took home the biggest trophy at the Directors Guild Awards on Saturday.

Where does that leave Team “Lincoln,” which had been the early front-runner? If Mr. Spielberg was sweating it, he didn’t look that way. He arrived at his table and warmly greeted Quvenzhané Wallis, the young best actress nominee. She seemed more interested in the flavor of her salad dressing, but Mr. Spielberg promptly removed the orchid centerpiece as he took his seat. “I want to be able to see her,” he said.

The nominee luncheon is known for strained bonhomie — air kisses and hidden daggers — and, just as in the junior high cafeteria, a focus on who sits where. In the past the Academy has seated reporters by lottery. But last week the Academy spread the word that it would decide where reporters sat, prompting press corps whispering about the reasons behind the change. An Academy spokeswoman said, “We wanted to try something different.”

As usual, the Academy used the gathering to admonish nominees to keep acceptance speeches short, should they be called onstage to collect a little gold statue. “Please speak from the heart, not from a piece of paper,” said Craig Zadan, a producer of this year’s telecast.
95 2013-02-05 Mr. Ahmadinejad, who went to the Parliament in a failed attempt to head off the impeachment of his labor minister, Abdolreza Sheikholeslami, said Mr. Larijani and his fellow lawmakers had obstructed the government, stepped beyond their constitutional boundaries and written letters ordering the annulment of government decisions.

Instructed by Mr. Larijani to stick to the subject of the impeachment, Mr. Ahmadinejad said, “Don’t order me to close my mouth because you say it’s the law.”

With that, Mr. Ahmadinejad, who for years has threatened to reveal the names of corrupt officials, played a video clip of a conversation in which another of Mr. Larijani’s brothers, Fazel, appeared to discuss the purchase of a state company under favorable terms, the semiofficial Tabnak Web site reported. While Fazel Larijani used to head a medical association in Iran, his current position is unclear.

The public accusation, rare in Iran, could signal a new phase in an already intense conflict between Mr. Ahmadinejad, who represents a powerful group of young, ambitious politicians, and Mr. Larijani, who is the official representative of the holy city of Qum, the center of Shiite scholarship in Iran.

Mr. Ahmadinejad said his associate, Saeed Mortazavi, 45, was also at the taped meeting. In January, Mr. Mortazavi was dismissed as the head of Iran’s enormous social welfare organization under pressure from Parliament. Some days later, however, he was rehired by the president in the same position, this time as official caretaker.

During the conversation, read out in part by Mr. Ahmadinejad to astonished lawmakers, Fazel Larijani appears to try to use his family connections to buy a factory from the social welfare organization. He promises leniency for Mr. Mortazavi, the former Tehran prosecutor who faces several criminal proceedings over accusations that he played a role in the deaths of three protesters in a substandard prison in 2009.

Mr. Mortazavi was arrested Monday evening, the Fars news agency reported, though no reason was given.

“These are audio and video, and the tape is clear,” Mr. Ahmadinejad is quoted as saying by the Iranian Students’ News Agency. “If the honorable Parliament speaker sees fit, we can turn over the 24 to 25 hours to you,” he said of the recordings. On Monday, Iran’s Islamic Republic News Agency, a mouthpiece for Mr. Ahmadinejad, deepened the split by publishing the audiotape on its Web site.

Ali Larijani, cheered on by the Parliament, which has lost nearly every serious political battle with the president, silenced the room, saying: “Let him tell his words. If there is anything about my family, then let him talk about it.”Mr. Larijani said it was a “mafia film” and recalled how he had a meeting with Mr. Ahmadinejad’s estranged brother, Davoud. “He said many things against you,” Mr. Larijani told the president, “about economic corruption, about your inner circle and your relations with foreign countries.”

For his part, Fazel Larijani strongly denied any wrongdoing, saying that while he did appear in the clip, the words were not his, but rather had been added in a voiceover. Calling Mr. Ahmadinejad and Mr. Mortazavi “mafialike individuals,” he said he would sue them both for “spreading lies and disturbing public opinion.”

On Monday, several officials criticized Mr. Ahmadinejad and Ali Larijani, accusing them of lacking self-control and bringing shame on the country. “They broke the leader’s heart and gave the friends of the Islamic republic almost a seizure,” said Mojtaba Zolnour, a special consultant to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, the semiofficial Iranian Labor News Agency reported. “They provided ammunition for the foreign media on the eve of our election.”
96 2013-02-05 MOSCOW — Two Russian steel plant workers and an Italian citizen kidnapped by rebels in Syria have been freed in exchange for captured rebel fighters, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Monday.

Rebel militants captured the three on Dec. 12 as they traveled from Homs, a city in the country’s west that has seen heavy fighting, to the tiny Russian military base at the port of Tartus.

The Foreign Ministry said Monday in a news release that the three were exchanged for captured fighters, but did not specify how many.

The abductions came as a prominent Syrian opposition leader said that Russians “present legitimate military targets for militants in Syria,” citing the Russian government’s support for Syria’s embattled president, Bashar al-Assad.

Syria’s opposition coalition later rejected the statement and condemned attacks against all civilians “regardless of their nationality.”

The two Russians, Viktor Gorelov and Abdessatar Hassun, were taken to the Russian Embassy in Damascus and were healthy, the foreign ministry said.
97 2013-02-05 On Tuesday, Dell announced plans to go private in a $24.4 billion deal. It’s the largest buyout since 2007 when the markets tumbled and credit evaporated.
98 2013-02-06 Microsoft plans to unveil a new advertising campaign that will highlight research that shows most people don't know that Web e-mail providers like Google scan the contents of their messages to deliver personalized ads to them and, when they do fin...
99 2013-02-06 Watch the 137th Westminster Kennel Club dog show live, as curated by the W.K.C.
100 2013-02-06 Better Place, a company that provides charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, said it would concentrate on Denmark and Israel....
101 2013-02-06 Given the abundance of cheap natural gas, aging nuclear plants with expensive safety problems may find it harder to survive....
102 2013-02-06 The recent revisions to the DSM's definition of depression are based on a questionable conception of what is "normal." Why is that dangerous?...
103 2013-02-06 If you count tablets as computers, iPads far outsold personal computers in the fourth quarter worldwide....
104 2013-02-06 Now that a third bank has settled a case involving manipulation of Libor, other firms ensnared have a guidebook on what to expect when negotiating their own agreements....
105 2013-02-06 You can file a substitute W-2 form if the real one doesn't show up....
106 2013-02-06 The Acura NSX hybrid, advancing toward production, will be shown in Europe for the first time....
107 2013-02-06 Talking with three players in the New York Times Oscar pool who've gotten the top six categories right for each of the last two years....
108 2013-02-06 The advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather has created an animated video for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, just in time for Fashion Week....
109 2013-02-06 Brooks and Collins on a few suspicious signs that we might actually be headed in the right direction....
110 2013-02-06 The show, which was extensively retooled by NBC after a disappointing season, fell a staggering 71 percent in viewership from its opening episode last season....
111 2013-02-06 A drive to make childbirth safer involves a delicate balance between tradition and medical science....
112 2013-02-06 The owner of a company that rents automobiles for film and television production faces a big decision after the storm....
113 2013-02-06 The best way President Obama can keep the nation on track to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to enact new standards for power plants, a new study suggests....
114 2013-02-06 The E.P.A. finds that greenhouse gas emissions have fallen, largely because of a shift away from reliance on coal-fired power plants....
115 2013-02-06 A crumbling industrial area near Citi Field in Queens has been viewed by Las Vegas gambling companies, an Indian tribe, developers and even some elected officials as a likely location for a casino resort, if the state legalizes full-scale gambling.

But the Bloomberg administration on Tuesday tried to put an end to the speculation, insisting that there will never be a casino at the Willets Point area, where it hopes instead to develop new housing, shopping and entertainment venues.

Last June, the city selected the Queens Development Group — a joint venture of Related Companies and Sterling Equities, the developer and the owners of the Mets — to build a 1.4-million-square-foot retail and entertainment mall, a 200-room hotel and shops next to the Citi Field stadium, at Willets Point.

“There is no casino being built at Willets Point, period,” said Julie Wood, a spokeswoman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

Officials also said that the current zoning at Willets Point, as well as an environmental review, would not permit a casino.
116 2013-02-06 “He’s probably had more power and influence than anyone in a comparable position in the last 20 years,” said , who recently stepped down as the State Department’s top counterterrorism official and now teaches at Dartmouth. “He’s had enormous sway over the intelligence community. He’s had a profound impact on how the military does counterterrorism.”

Mr. Brennan, a former C.I.A. station chief in Riyadh, , has taken a particular interest in Yemen, sounding early alarms within the administration about the threat developing there, working closely with neighboring Saudi Arabia to gain approval for a secret C.I.A. drone base there that is used for American strikes, and making the impoverished desert nation a test case for American counterterrorism strategy.

In recent years, both C.I.A. and Pentagon counterterrorism officials have pressed for greater freedom to attack suspected militants, and colleagues say Mr. Brennan has often been a restraining voice. The strikes have killed a number of operatives of , the terrorist network’s affiliate in Yemen, including Said Ali al-Shihri, a deputy leader of the group, and the American-born cleric .

But they have also claimed civilians like Mr. Jaber and have raised troubling questions that apply to Pakistan and Somalia as well: Could the targeted killing campaign be creating more militants in Yemen than it is killing? And is it in America’s long-term interest to be waging war against a self-renewing insurgency inside a country about which Washington has at best a hazy understanding?

Several former top military and intelligence officials — including , the retired general who led the Joint , which has responsibility for the military’s drone strikes, and , the former C.I.A. director — have raised concerns that the drone wars in Pakistan and Yemen are increasingly targeting low-level militants who do not pose a direct threat to the United States.

In an interview with Reuters, General McChrystal said that drones could be a useful tool but were “hated on a visceral level” in some of the places where they were used and contributed to a “perception of American arrogance.”

Mr. Brennan has aggressively defended the accuracy of the drone strikes, and the rate of civilian casualties has gone down considerably since the attacks began in Yemen in 2009. He has also largely dismissed criticism that the drone campaign has tarnished America’s image in Yemen and has been an effective recruiting tool for Al Qaeda.

“In fact, we see the opposite,” Mr. Brennan said during a speech last year. “Our Yemeni partners are more eager to work with us. Yemeni citizens who have been freed from the hellish grip of A.Q.A.P. are more eager, not less, to work with the Yemeni government.”

Christopher Swift, a researcher at who spent last summer in Yemen studying the reaction to the strikes, said he thought Mr. Brennan’s comments missed the broader impact.

“What Brennan said accurately reflected people in the security apparatus who he speaks to when he goes to Yemen,” Mr. Swift said. “It doesn’t reflect the views of the man in the street, of young human rights activists, of the political opposition.”

Though Mr. Swift said he thought that critics had exaggerated the role of the strikes in generating recruits for Al Qaeda, “in the political sphere, the perception is that the U.S. is colluding with the Yemeni government in a covert war against the Yemeni people.”

“Even if we’re winning in the military domain,” Mr. Swift said, “drones may be undermining our long-term interest in the goal of a stable Yemen with a functional political system and economy.”

American officials have never explained in public why the C.I.A. and the Pentagon’s Joint Special Operations Command are carrying out parallel drone campaigns in Yemen. Privately, however, they describe an arrangement that has evolved since the frantic, ad hoc early days of America’s war there.

The first strike in Yemen ordered by the Obama administration, in December 2009, was by all accounts a disaster. American cruise missiles carrying killed dozens of civilians, including many women and children. Another strike, six months later, killed a popular deputy governor, inciting angry demonstrations and an attack that shut down a critical oil pipeline.

Not long afterward, the C.I.A. began quietly building a drone base in Saudi Arabia to carry out strikes in Yemen. American officials said that the first time the C.I.A. used the Saudi base was to kill Mr. Awlaki in September 2011.

Since then, officials said, the C.I.A. has been given the mission of hunting and killing “high-value targets” in Yemen — the leaders of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula who Obama administration lawyers have determined pose a direct threat to the United States. When the C.I.A. obtains specific intelligence on the whereabouts of someone on its kill list, an American drone can carry out a strike without the permission of Yemen’s government.

There is, however, a tighter leash on the Pentagon’s drones. According to American officials, the Joint Special Operations Command must get the Yemeni government’s approval before launching a drone strike. This restriction is in place, officials said, because the military’s drone campaign is closely tied to counterterrorism operations conducted by Yemeni special operations troops.

Yemen’s military is fighting its own counterinsurgency battle against Islamic militants, who gained and then lost control over large swaths of the country last year. Often, American military strikes in Yemen are masked as Yemeni government operations.

Moreover, Mr. Obama demanded early on that each American military strike in Yemen be approved by a committee in Washington representing the national security agencies. The C.I.A. strikes, by contrast, resulted from a far more closed process inside the agency. Mr. Brennan plays a role in overseeing all the strikes.

There have been at least five drone strikes in Yemen since the start of the year, killing at least 24 people. That continues a remarkable acceleration over the past two years in a program that has carried out at least 63 airstrikes since 2009, according to The Long War Journal, a Web site that collects public data on the strikes, with an estimated death toll in the hundreds. Many of the militants reported killed recently were very young and do not appear to have had any important role with Al Qaeda.

“Even with Al Qaeda, there are degrees — some of these young guys getting killed have just been recruited and barely known what terrorism means,” said Naji al Zaydi, a former governor of Marib Province, who has been a vocal opponent of Al Qaeda and a supporter of Yemen’s president, .

Mr. Zaydi, a prominent tribal figure from an area that has long been associated with members of Al Qaeda’s Yemeni affiliate, pointed out that the identity and background of these men were no mystery in Yemen’s interlinked tribal culture.

In one recent case, on Jan. 23, a drone strike in a village east of Sana killed a 21-year-old university student named Saleem Hussein Jamal and his cousin, a 33-year-old teacher named Ali Ali Nasser Jamal, who happened to have been traveling with him. According to relatives and neighbors of the two men, they were driving home from a nearby town called Jahana when five strangers offered to pay them for a ride. The drone-fired missile hit the vehicle, a twin-cab Hilux, just outside the village of Masnaa at about 9 p.m. The strangers were later identified in Yemeni news reports as members of Al Qaeda, though apparently not high-ranking ones.

After the strike, villagers were left to identify their two dead relatives from identity cards, scraps of clothing and the license plate of Mr. Jamal’s Toyota; the seven bodies were shredded beyond recognition, as cellphone photos taken at the scene attest. “We found eyes, but there were no faces left,” said Abdullah Faqih, a student who knew both of the dead cousins.

Although most Yemenis are reluctant to admit it publicly, there does appear to be widespread support for the American drone strikes that hit substantial Qaeda figures like Mr. Shihri, a Saudi and the affiliate’s deputy leader, who died in January of wounds received in a drone strike late last year.

Al Qaeda has done far more damage in Yemen than it has in the United States, and one episode reinforced public disgust last May, when a suicide bomber struck a military parade rehearsal in the Yemeni capital, killing more than 100 people.

Moreover, many Yemenis reluctantly admit that there is a need for foreign help: Yemen’s own efforts to strike at the terrorist group have often been compromised by weak, divided military forces; widespread corruption; and even support for Al Qaeda within pockets of the intelligence and security agencies.

Yet even as both Mr. Brennan and Mr. Hadi, the Yemeni president, praise the drone technology for its accuracy, other Yemenis often point out that it can be very difficult to isolate members of Al Qaeda, thanks to the group’s complex ties and long history in Yemen.

This may account for a pattern in many of the drone strikes: a drone hovers over an area for weeks on end before a strike takes place, presumably waiting until identities are confirmed and the targets can be struck without anyone else present.

In the strike that killed Mr. Jaber, the cleric, that was not enough. At least one drone had been overhead every day for about a month, provoking high anxiety among local people, said Aref bin Ali Jaber, a tradesman who is related to the cleric. “After the drone hit, everyone was so frightened it would come back,” Mr. Jaber said. “Children especially were affected; my 15-year-old daughter refuses to be alone and has had to sleep with me and my wife after that.”

In the days afterward, the people of the village vented their fury at the Americans with protests and briefly blocked a road. It is difficult to know what the long-term effects of the deaths will be, though some in the town — as in other areas where drones have killed civilians — say there was an upwelling of support for Al Qaeda, because such a move is seen as the only way to retaliate against the United States.

Innocents aside, even members of Al Qaeda invariably belong to a tribe, and when they are killed in drone strikes, their relatives — whatever their feelings about Al Qaeda — often swear to exact revenge on America.

“Al Qaeda always gives money to the family,” said Hussein Ahmed Othman al Arwali, a tribal sheik from an area south of the capital called Mudhia, where Qaeda militants fought pitched battles with Yemeni soldiers last year. “Al Qaeda’s leaders may be killed by drones, but the group still has its money, and people are still joining. For young men who are poor, the incentives are very strong: they offer you marriage, or money, and the ideological part works for some people.”

In some cases, drones have killed members of Al Qaeda when it seemed that they might easily have been arrested or captured, according to a number of Yemeni officials and tribal figures. One figure in particular has stood out: Adnan al Qadhi, who was killed, apparently in a drone strike, in early November in a town near the capital.

Mr. Qadhi was an avowed supporter of Al Qaeda, but he also had recently served as a mediator for the Yemeni government with other jihadists, and was drawing a government salary at the time of his death. He was not in hiding, and his house is within sight of large houses owned by a former president of Yemen, , and other leading figures.

Whatever the success of the drone strikes, some Yemenis wonder why there is not more reliance on their country’s elite counterterrorism unit, which was trained in the United States as part of the close cooperation between the two countries that Mr. Brennan has engineered. One member of the unit, speaking on the condition of anonymity, expressed great frustration that his unit had not been deployed on such missions, and had in fact been posted to traffic duty in the capital in recent weeks, even as the drone strikes intensified.

“For sure, we could be going after some of these guys,” the officer said. “That’s what we’re trained to do, and the Americans trained us. It doesn’t make sense.”
117 2013-02-06 Despite the strong case for an overhaul, however, changing our immigration laws may be tougher than the president appears to believe. While we may have overcome some of the obstacles of 2007, reform will probably face deep-seated opposition from many Americans — including most conservative Republicans — to what they will view as a potentially large expansion of welfare.

President Obama’s proposal is based on principles similar to those of the 2007 attempt: a path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants in the country, a legal channel for future immigrant workers and their families, and a plan to better enforce the nation’s borders and immigration laws.

Yet immigration reform today means something quite different than it did in 2007. Notably, the elements needed to stop the flow of illegal immigrants north are much less important to the enterprise. The Obama administration has already spent huge amounts of money on border enforcement. Today, border policing costs about $18 billion a year — nearly 50 percent more than it did in 2006. And deportations have soared. What’s more, illegal immigration has slowed to a trickle, as has grown more robustly than the United States. The illegal immigrant population has even been shrinking in the last few years. And it may continue to do so as the Mexican population of prime migration-age people stops growing.

Also, many employers have already gotten some of what they wanted: the number of workers entering the United States on temporary visas for low-end jobs in agriculture and other industries has increased sharply.

“The discussion is in a different environment,” said Gordon H. Hanson, an expert on the economics of immigration at the . “The flow of new immigrants is not the story anymore.”

This might help the cause of reform in some ways. It could allow the discussion about work visas to focus on the highly educated workers coveted by technology companies and pre-empt the kind of argument between business and labor over visas for cheap immigrant workers that sank reform in 2007. The A.F.L.-C.I.O., for instance, has heartily embraced President Obama’s plan.

But what supporters of an overhaul of immigration law seem to be overlooking is that these very changes could also make it more difficult to build a coalition across the political divide. If reform is mainly about granting citizenship to 11 million mostly poor illegal immigrants with relatively little education, it is going to land squarely in the cross hairs of our epic battle about , entitlements and the role of government in society.

It’s hard to say with precision what impact offering citizenship would have on the budget, but the chances are good that it would cost the government money. Half to three-quarters of illegal immigrants pay taxes, according to studies reviewed in a 2007 report by the Congressional Budget Office. And they are relatively inexpensive, compared with Americans of similar incomes. Their children can attend public schools at government expense — putting a burden on state and local budgets. But they are barred from receiving federal benefits like the earned-income tax , food stamps and . Only their American-born children can get those.

Government revenue might not change much with legalization. Most illegal immigrants who don’t pay taxes probably work in the cash economy — as nannies or gardeners — where tax compliance among citizens is low. Costs, of course, would increase. Once they became citizens, immigrants would be entitled to the same array of government benefits as other Americans. For and alone, offering citizenship to illegal immigrants would mean losing a subsidy worth several billion dollars a year in payroll taxes from immigrants who can’t collect benefits in old age.

The White House and other backers of reform have made much of a 2007 Congressional Budget Office analysis concluding that the failed immigration overhaul would have increased government revenue by $48 billion over a decade while adding only $23 billion to direct spending on entitlements and other programs. But the report also said that including the costs of carrying out the new law would actually increase the budget deficit by $18 billion over the decade and several billion a year after that. What’s more, it noted that most of the expected new tax revenue came from new immigrant workers, not from the newly legalized population.

Our history suggests we could have much to gain by turning illegal immigrants into citizens and putting an end to unauthorized immigration. The last time we permitted illegal immigrants to legalize, in 1986, incomes jumped for those who took advantage of the opportunity. Their children became more proficient in English and completed more years of school — becoming more productive and paying more taxes over their lifetimes.

But the same history underscores how immigration sets off fears about further sharing of government resources. Ten years after the immigration reform of 1986, reeling from some public anger, Congress passed a law barring legal immigrants from means-tested government services. The same issue is likely again to be a major flash point. Professor Hanson pointed to “the older white man who sees his entitlements at risk because of the demands placed by legalization on our fiscal resources.”

Conservative Republicans set on cutting government spending share those concerns. And for all their reasons to reach out to Hispanics, they might not find making illegal immigrants legal politically advantageous. On Tuesday, Republicans in the House argued against granting citizenship to illegal immigrants at all.

Hispanics are more liberal than the general population on economic matters, polls suggest, and more supportive of Big Government initiatives. Granting them citizenship would give them the vote.

As Steven A. Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, an advocacy group in Washington that favors more limits on immigration, said, “They will see legalization as a voter-registration drive for Democrats.”
118 2013-02-06 Representative Spencer Bachus, Republican of Alabama, turned to the question of how to approach an overhaul of the system when he said he thought the panelists could all agree that “it’s going to be a much easier lift to solve the problem of highly skilled workers.”

“When you take comprehensive, then we’re dealing with certain issues like full citizenship,” Mr. Bachus said. “And whatever else we disagree on, I think we would agree on that that’s a more toxic and contentious issue, granting full amnesty.”

But Representative Cedric L. Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana, countered that the only way to tackle immigration is through comprehensive legislation. “Why don’t we just get the skilled labor part done first?” Mr. Richmond asked. “Well, politically, and just being very practical about it, if we got the skilled labor part done first, do you think we would ever come behind it and finish the job? I think it has to be a comprehensive approach or we’ll never get to the hard part.”

Immigration advocates, who had been eagerly awaiting the hearing for an early hint of the tenor of the debate on immigration as it unfolds in the House, said the use of the word “amnesty” would most likely be a bad sign for those in favor of a comprehensive overhaul.

Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, tried to set the tone early — “I hope no one uses the term ‘illegal immigrants’ here today,” he said in his opening remarks. But the a-word, as immigration advocates have called “amnesty,” came up twice. In addition to Mr. Bachus, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, also used the phrase: “This is not our country’s first foray into amnesty.” He expressed concern for “respect for the rule of law.”

Meanwhile, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican, used a speech on his legislative priorities beyond the fights over deficit reduction to try to soften his party’s position on immigration. Speaking at a research group downtown, he explicitly embraced offering illegal immigrants brought to the United States as children a pathway to legal residency and citizenship, a position he had opposed. And he endorsed in broad terms a comprehensive overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws.

“I’m pleased these discussions make border security, employment verification and creating a workable guest worker program an immediate priority. It’s the right thing to do for our families, for our security, and for our economy,” Mr. Cantor said. But he warned, “There are some who would rather avoid fixing the problem in order to save this as a political issue.”

Representative Raúl R. Labrador, Republican of Idaho, also challenged immigration advocates on the question of a political versus policy victory.

“If we want a political solution, you guys are going to insist on a pathway to citizenship,” he said. “You’re going to beat Republicans over the head on this issue. But if we want a policy solution, I think there’s good will here in the House of Representatives for us to come together, actually pass a pragmatic solution to the current problem that we have, and solve and modernize the immigration system for years to come.”

In a flurry of immigration legislation offered in recent days in the House, a bipartisan group of lawmakers, led by Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, introduced a bill on Tuesday that would allow American citizens with foreign-born same-sex spouses or partners to obtain permanent resident visas, known as green cards, for them. Mr. Nadler’s proposal would allow a well-established same-sex couple to apply for a green card, avoiding any direct challenge to a federal law that bans recognition of gay marriage.
119 2013-02-06 HONG KONG — The Chinese government issued a long-awaited plan on Tuesday to narrow the gulf between rich and poor, offering broad vows to lift the incomes of workers and farmers and choke off corrupt wealth but few specific goals to rein in the nation’s wide inequality.

The proposal was mired for months in an internal dispute about whether to aggressively scale back the rising salaries and benefits of some officials working for state-owned businesses and banks. The document that emerged from the discussions is filled with commitments to deal with that issue and other sources of public concern about the gap between the incomes of residents of dirt-poor villages and those living in privileged urban enclaves.

“There are some stark problems in income distribution that need urgent solving,” said the plan, which was issued on the central government’s Web site. “Chiefly, there remain quite large disparities in urban-rural development and incomes, income allocation is poorly ordered, and there are quite serious problems with invisible and unlawful sources of income.” The plan was drafted by the National Development and Reform Commission and other central agencies.

The income distribution plan was an initiative promised by the departing Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, who leaves office in March. But it also underscores the extent to which the new generation of leaders under Xi Jinping has promised to expand state spending on health care, education and social welfare.

Mr. Xi, who was appointed Communist Party chief in November and is set to become state president in March, has said he wants to accelerate economic changes in the spirit of Deng Xiaoping, who initiated market-based liberalization from the late 1970s after decades of rule by Mao Zedong.
120 2013-02-06 Mr. Dudley said at a news conference Tuesday that the assets sales “have significantly increased the quality of the portfolio while reducing its age and complexity.” He said BP was now able to bring a tighter focus to a smaller set of oil and gas resources, including reserves in the Gulf of Mexico, in the deep waters off the coast of Angola, and in the more remote waters north of Scotland.

But BP acknowledged that the asset sales had a downside. For example, output, which is often a proxy for an oil company’s profitability, is likely to decline again this year after falling 6 percent in 2012, said BP’s chief financial officer, Brian Gilvary.

“The impacts of the divestments will be increasingly evident as we move through 2013,” Mr. Gilvary said, adding that asset sales last year would reduce output by about 150,000 barrels per day this year.

Mr. Gilvary said most of the decline “relates to higher-margin areas in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea.” In other words, BP may be streamlining but it has also lost some profitable assets, like the group of oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico that it sold to Plains Exploration & Production for $5.6 billion in September.

“Per-barrel profitability is likely to remain below historic levels this year,” analysts at Bernstein Research wrote in a note after the results.

Mr. Gilvary said that excluding TNK-BP, the oil and gas fields the company had sold would have accounted for about 500,000 barrels per day in production and about $5 billion in pretax earnings.

But BP’s production has actually fallen by about 700,000 barrels per day from 2010. The additional decline is largely because of a steep drop-off in production in the Gulf of Mexico, the result of a partial moratorium on oil company operations in the gulf that was imposed after the 2010 disaster and has since been lifted.

BP still produces about 2.3 million barrels per day, but that is much less than its traditional rivals, Exxon Mobil, at about 4.2 million barrels per day, and Royal Dutch Shell, at about 3.4 million barrels.

Mr. Dudley said that he thought production of about 2.2 million barrels per day would be “the low point for us.” He said the company brought five new oil and gas projects online in 2012, and was on track to start up a total of 15 from 2011 to the end of 2014.

Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec in London, said it would “take a while” for Mr. Dudley’s strategy to work. BP is “selling assets and investing in new assets,” and the new acquisitions will not pay off immediately, Mr. Joyner said.

The effects of the gulf spill continue to haunt the company in other ways. In November, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency prohibited BP from receiving new U.S. government contracts. As a result, Mr. Dudley said, BP did not participate in the most recent auction of leases in the Gulf of Mexico and might not bid in the next. But he said that BP, the largest leaseholder in the region, had such a large position that it was questionable whether it would want to add more terrain there.

BP also took $4.1 billion in additional write-offs for the gulf spill in the quarter, bringing total provisions to $42.2 billion. The new write-offs are largely the result of a settlement of criminal charges brought by the U.S. Department of Justice in connection with the spill.

Uncertainty over the ultimate cost of the spill lingers. BP still faces a civil trial in New Orleans in late February that could result in penalties of more than $20 billion, according to analysts.

The company’s shares remain down about 30 percent from their price before the spill, though they have risen about 10 percent this year. They rose 1.4 percent in London on Tuesday.

Last month, militants attacked an Algerian gas plant, In Amenas, that is part-owned by BP. Four BP employees were killed in the attack.

Mr. Dudley said BP “remains committed to operating in Algeria” but the company was “in mourning” for the people “murdered on what should have been an ordinary day of work”

In Amenas produced the equivalent of 17,000 barrels per day, making it a relatively small part of BP’s global portfolio.
121 2013-02-06 “Mr. Kenny has failed the test of moral courage,” he said. “Yet again an Irish government has let down the very people it purports to serve.”

Professor Smith said the prime minister’s failure to apologize not only was a setback for the dwindling number of survivors but would also ultimately reflect badly on the Irish state.

“The women really did expect something more from this government,” he said. “This fairly cynical response has lost it an awful lot of good will today as a result.”

Steven O’Riordan, a member of another lobby group, Magdalenes Survivors Together, said that while the report recognized that the Irish state was directly complicit in allowing the laundries to exist, Mr. Kenny’s statement was “halfhearted at best.”

“I am annoyed because it sounded like a throwaway gesture,” he said.

The report found that 10,012 women and girls were detained in the laundries from 1922 to 1996, but this figure excludes two large laundries operated by one Catholic order. It stated that 2,124 of those detained in the institutions had been sent by the authorities.

The survivors of the laundries are seeking a state apology for their treatment as well as redress for years of unpaid labor and pension payments. The “Maggies,” as they were known, were excluded from a previous compensation scheme for those who suffered in state-run institutions because officials said that the laundries were never under the aegis of the state.

The institutions were named after Mary Magdalene, a biblical figure who, at the time of their founding in the mid-1800s, was generally thought to have been a prostitute redeemed by the teachings of Christ. While many women sent to work in the 10 laundries around the country were unwed mothers, the report found that the vast majority were referred for a wide range of other reasons, ranging from petty offenses to mental illness.

In his introduction to the report, Martin McAleese, the committee chairman, said the women had for too long felt the social stigma of the “wholly inaccurate characterization” of them as “fallen women,” something “not borne out by the facts.”

The report characterized the conditions in the laundries as “harsh” but found no evidence of systematic sexual abuse. Mr. McAleese said that did not mean the women had not suffered in other ways.

“None of us can begin to imagine the confusion and fear experienced by these young girls, in many cases little more than children,” he said. “Not knowing why they were there, feeling abandoned, wondering whether they had done something wrong and not knowing when, if ever, they would get out and see their families again.”

When women were admitted to the laundries, they were uniformly given different names, which survivors say was done to erase their identities. The report says that the religious orders that operated the laundries and cooperated with the committee explained that the new names helped to protect the women’s privacy.
122 2013-02-07 Amid a spat over preferred stock, both the hedge fund magnate and the iPad maker would benefit from a streamlined approach, the author contends....
123 2013-02-07 Apple said in a statement on Thursday afternoon that it would continue to evaluate ways of returning some of its $137 billion cash pile to investors, after David Einhorn called on fellow stockholders to reject the company's plan to eliminate a kin...
124 2013-02-07 This time is different, predictably....
125 2013-02-07 The hedge fund manager David Einhorn made his name publicly challenging big companies like Lehman Brothers. Here is a look at some of his moments in the spotlight....
126 2013-02-07 Michelle Obama will attend the funeral for Hadiya Pendleton, the inauguration performer whose killing last month has become symbolic of Chicago's struggle with guns and gang violence....
127 2013-02-07 According to a Haitian judge, Baby Doc Duvalier should face trial for misappropriating public funds, but not for abusing human rights....
128 2013-02-07 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
129 2013-02-07 With Presidents' Day just ahead and an immigration overhaul on President Obama's second-term agenda, Larry Ferlazzo suggests ideas for having students deepen their definition and understanding of the idea of citizenship....
130 2013-02-07 The Senate Intelligence Committee is questioning John O. Brennan, the president's pick for C.I.A. chief....
131 2013-02-07 At the National Prayer Breakfast, President Obama meditated on the role of faith and humility in leadership....
132 2013-02-07 Warner will now own Parlophone, the historic label that is home to Coldplay, Blur and Kylie Minogue....
133 2013-02-07 A proposal being considered by Congress would help eliminate a tax loophole on certain financial contracts that some investors have used in order to avoid taxes, the author writes....
134 2013-02-07 Iran's state television showed what it described as video recorded by the American surveillance drone that crash-landed about 140 miles from the country's border with Afghanistan in late 2011....
135 2013-02-07 David Einhorn, the billionaire hedge fund manager, sued Apple to block a plan to eliminate preferred shares, showing deep dissatisfaction with the company’s once-explosive stock....
136 2013-02-07 The debate over gay marriage has showcased the weird spectacle of religion intruding into politics in a country where religion has not been a political factor for a generation or more....
137 2013-02-07 The government passed emergency legislation to liquidate Anglo Irish Bank, one of the country’s largest, as part of a plan to restructure debt payments....
138 2013-02-07 Sush Krishnamoorthy, a student in New Delhi who is applying to universities in the United States, wants to assure her prospective colleges that she is "a worthy investment who will give them manifold returns."...
139 2013-02-07 What Monopoly token was voted out of the classic game this week, and what token was voted in?...
140 2013-02-07 The chief executive, Brady W. Dougan, is targeting hundreds of millions of dollars in additional cost reductions after Credit Suisse reported a profit of $436 million for the fourth quarter....
141 2013-02-07 Asbury H. Sallenger Jr., a leader in the nation’s research on the causes and effects of sea level rise, storms and other coastal hazards, collapsed and died on Tuesday at his home in Oldsmar, Fla. He was 63.

His death was announced by the United States Geological Survey, for which Dr. Sallenger worked for decades, most recently from its center in St. Petersburg, Fla. No cause was given.

Dr. Sallenger was the architect of the agency’s program on coastal and marine geology. Its coordinator, John Haines, called him “our most effective advocate” for the application of science to coastal policy.

Dr. Sallenger, known as Abby, had headed the U.S.G.S. National Assessment of Coastal Change Hazards and led pioneering efforts to measure coastal topography before and after storms. The images that resulted offered striking evidence of storms’ power and also provided clues about why some buildings, beaches and dunes survived while others did not.

Like other coastal scientists, Dr. Sallenger questioned the wisdom of putting real estate developments and other infrastructure close to the beach, but unlike many of them he was able to speak about that highly politicized issue “diplomatically,” as Orrin H. Pilkey, a coastal scientist at Duke University, put it.
142 2013-02-07 His security seemingly ensured, Mr. Saeed has over the past year addressed large public meetings and appeared on prime-time television, and is now even giving interviews to Western news media outlets he had previously eschewed.

He says that he wants to correct “misperceptions.” During an interview with at his home last week, Mr. Saeed insisted that his name had been cleared by the Pakistani courts. “Why does the United States not respect our judicial system?” he asked.

Still, he says he has nothing against Americans, and warmly described a visit he made to the United States in 1994, during which he spoke at Islamic centers in , and . “At that time, I liked it,” he said with a wry smile.

During that stretch, his group was focused on attacking Indian soldiers in the disputed territory of Kashmir — the fight that led the military’s Directorate to help establish Lashkar-e-Taiba in 1989. But that battle died down over the past decade, and Lashkar began projecting itself through its charity wing, Jamaat-ud-Dawa, which runs a tightly organized network of hospitals and schools across Pakistan.

The Mumbai attacks propelled Lashkar-e-Taiba to notoriety. But since then, Mr. Saeed’s provocations toward India have been largely verbal. Last week he stirred anger there by suggesting that Bollywood’s highest-paid actor, Shah Rukh Khan, a Muslim, should move to Pakistan. In the interview, he said he prized talking over fighting in Kashmir.

“The militant struggle helped grab the world’s attention,” he said. “But now the political movement is stronger, and it should be at the forefront of the struggle.”

Pakistan analysts caution that Mr. Saeed’s new openness is no random occurrence, however. “This isn’t out of the blue,” said Shamila N. Chaudhary, a former Obama administration official and an analyst at the Eurasia Group, a consulting firm. “These guys don’t start talking publicly just like that.”

What it amounts to, however, may depend on events across the border in Afghanistan, where his group has been increasingly active in recent years. In public, Mr. Saeed has been a leading light in the Defense of Pakistan Council, a coalition of right-wing groups that lobbied against the reopening of supply routes through Pakistan last year. More quietly, Lashkar fighters have joined the battle, attacking Western troops and Indian diplomatic facilities in Afghanistan, intelligence officials say.

The question now is what will happen to them once American troops leave. One possibility is a return to Lashkar’s traditional battleground of Kashmir, risking fresh conflict between nuclear-armed Pakistan and India.

But a more hopeful possibility, floated by some Western and Pakistani officials, is that Mr. Saeed would lead his group further into politics, and away from militancy.

“When there are no Americans in Afghanistan, what will happen?” said Mushtaq Sukhera, a senior officer with the Punjabi police who is running a fledgling demobilization program for Islamist extremists. “It’s an open question.”

A shift could be risky for Mr. Saeed: Some of his fighters have already split from Lashkar in favor of other groups that attack the Pakistani state. And much will depend on the advice of his military sponsors.

For their part, Pakistan’s generals insist they have abandoned their dalliance with jihadi proxy groups. In a striking speech in August, the army chief, Gen. , said the country’s greatest threat came from domestic extremism. “We as a nation must stand united against this threat,” he said. “No state can afford a parallel system of governance and militias.”

Five years of near-continuous battle against the Pakistani Taliban along the Afghan border, where more than 3,300 members of Pakistan’s security forces have been killed in the past decade, has affected army thinking, some analysts believe. Senior officers have lost colleagues and relatives, softening the army’s singular focus on India.

“This is a changed army,” said Shaukat Javed, a former head of the Intelligence Bureau civilian spy agency in Punjab Province. “The mind-set has changed due to experience, and pressure.”

But for all that, there is ample evidence that parts of the military remain wedded to jihadi proxies. In Waziristan, the army maintains close ties to the , a major player in the Afghan insurgency. In western Baluchistan Province, it has used Sunni extremists to quell an uprising by Baluch nationalists — even though the same extremists also massacre minority Shiites.

And Mr. Saeed’s freedom to roam around Lahore — and, indeed, across Pakistan — suggests some generals still believe the “good” jihadis are worth having around.

Western intelligence officials say Lashkar’s training camps in northern Pakistan have not been shut down. One of those camps was the training ground of , an American citizen recently sentenced to prison by an American court for his role in the Mumbai attacks.

“There’s a strategic culture of using proxies,” said Stephen Tankel, an American academic and author of a book on Lashkar-e-Taiba. “And if that’s the tool you’re used to grabbing from the toolbox, it can be hard to let go.”

For all his apparent ease, Mr. Saeed has to walk a tightrope of sorts within the jihadi firmament. His support of the state puts him at odds with the Pakistani Taliban, which, he claims, are secretly supported by America and India — a familiar refrain in the right-wing media. “They want to destabilize Pakistan,” he said.

But that position leaves Mr. Saeed vulnerable to pressure from fighters within his own ranks who may still have sympathies. Western security officials say Lashkar has already suffered some defections in recent years..

“If he continues in this direction, the issue is how many people he can bring with him,” Mr. Tankel said.

But ultimately, he added, much depends on the Pakistani Army: “The army can’t dismantle these groups all at once, because of the danger of blowback. So for now they are putting them on ice. It’s too early to tell which way they will ultimately go.”
143 2013-02-07 WASHINGTON — President Obama declared at the White House on Jan. 7 that Chuck Hagel, his nominee to be secretary of defense, would be the “first person of enlisted rank” to run the Pentagon. The distinction, which Mr. Obama called “historic,” quickly made its way into news media reports around the globe, including in The New York Times.

The problem is that at least four other American defense secretaries — Melvin R. Laird, Elliot L. Richardson, Caspar W. Weinberger and William J. Perry — served part of their military careers as enlisted men.

According to the Historical Office of the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Laird, who was President Richard M. Nixon’s first defense secretary, entered the Navy as an enlisted man before serving as a junior officer on a destroyer in the Pacific during World War II. Mr. Richardson, who served four months as Nixon’s second defense secretary, enlisted in the Army as a private in 1942. He was subsequently commissioned as an officer, and as a first lieutenant landed with the Fourth Infantry Division in Normandy on D-Day.

Mr. Weinberger, President Ronald Reagan’s first secretary of defense, entered the Army as a private in 1941, was commissioned and served in the Pacific, and by the end of World War II was a captain on Gen. Douglas MacArthur’s intelligence staff.

According to biographies on the Web site of Stanford University, Mr. Perry, who was defense secretary under President Bill Clinton, served in the Army Corps of Engineers from 1946 to 1947 and was in Japan during the American occupation after World War II. He later became an officer in the Army Reserves. Today, Mr. Perry is a senior fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies and the Hoover Institution, both at Stanford.

Mr. Obama’s omission of the four other defense secretaries was first reported by Robert Burns of The Associated Press.
144 2013-02-07 For the last seven years, Mr. Iksanov said, the Bolshoi has been under “phenomenal pressure” over whether to produce new works or hew strictly to its classical repertory.

“Some people react badly to experiments,” he said. “ ‘The Bolshoi is turning away from our traditions.’ In our mentality, turning away from the Bolshoi’s tradition is like betraying your homeland: simultaneously treachery and espionage.”

Mr. Iksanov has seldom spoken so frankly, and with the investigation into the acid attack under way his insights are far from casual. He has said repeatedly that he does not suspect Mr. Tsiskaridze in the attack on Mr. Filin. But to Snob, and in a separate interview with The New York Times, he said that Mr. Tsiskaridze had lobbied to be named artistic director and general director, and that there was “no doubt” that he was involved in the 2011 publication of erotic photographs that prompted Gennady Yanin, who was at the time the Bolshoi director, to leave the company.

Mr. Tsiskaridze’s public defiance of the theater’s leadership, he said, emboldened the perpetrator of the attack. “I have only one feeling: Everything that happened is the natural result of the lawlessness that was created in the first place by Nikolai Maksimovich Tsiskaridze,” he said. “Pouring mud on the theater and its workers, constant intrigues and certainty of his own impunity — that was the background which made this tragedy possible.”

Mr. Tsiskaridze responded in his own interview, published Wednesday. After 20 years dancing with the company he has legions of passionate fans, and he has raised his profile by appearing on television, occasionally offering acerbic criticism of the theater’s leadership.

He said his dispute with Mr. Iksanov began in 2003, when he was asked to support the dismissal of the ballerina Anastasia Volochkova; Bolshoi officials had said she had gained too much weight. He said he was asked to tell reporters that he could not lift her, but he refused.

“First, I could lift her,” Mr. Tsiskaridze said. “Second, if I said I couldn’t lift her, that would mean I couldn’t carry out my professional duties. Finally, this involved a woman, and I could never have said the things they wanted me to say.”

He unleashed his own accusations, saying Mr. Iksanov had promoted dancers because of their political connections, and that the theater’s $760 million renovation was flawed, with the stage so uneven in spots that dancers “are all the time looking at the floor to avoid being injured.” He laughed off Mr. Iksanov’s suggestion that he was behind the publication of the photographs that promoted Mr. Yanin’s departure.

“With the same success I could accuse you of taking part in Kennedy’s assassination,” he said. “Believe me, if Mr. Iksanov had the slightest evidence of my participation in these affairs, it would have been given to the world’s press.”

He denied jockeying for either administrative job — Mr. Filin’s or Mr. Iksanov’s — though he said he would accept such a post “if the wish arose on the part of the Ministry of Culture.” He said he was being singled out because he had criticized his bosses.

“What connection can there be between this monstrous crime and my comments about the reconstruction” and other disputes? he asked. “Why do they even pronounce my name in connection with these terrible events? In the end, by casting a shadow on me, Mr. General Director has cast a shadow on the Bolshoi Theater itself.”
145 2013-02-07 Scene City: Social Animals Come Out of Their Shells
146 2013-02-07 TOKYO — A wildlife conservation group said in a report on Wednesday that Japan has been propping up its whaling industry with nearly $400 million in tax money in recent years, stepping up subsidies even as consumption of whale meat here has slumped.

The report, compiled by the International Fund for Animal Welfare, in Yarmouth Port, Mass., challenges assertions by the Japanese government that whaling is a tradition with wide support among Japanese consumers.

Instead, government figures tallied in the report paint a picture of a struggling industry employing fewer than 1,000 people and dependent on public handouts, including money meant for reconstruction after the devastating earthquake and tsunami of March 2011.

Most Japanese consumers have turned away from whale meat. The industry shipped just 5,000 tons in 2011, compared with 233,000 tons at the peak in 1962, according to data from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Demand this year is so low that the industry has cut its planned shipments by half, to 2,400 tons.

“Whaling is unprofitable, and survives only with substantial subsidies, something cultural and nationalist arguments for whaling obscure,” said Patrick Ramage, the director of the animal welfare fund’s whale program. He said the country would be better off economically and ecologically if it promoted whale-watching tourism instead of hunting whales.
147 2013-02-07 “I can say that this sports club, this ice hockey team, represents the Szekely,” said Papp Elod, the club’s former president, who is now a local politician. “We like to say that ice hockey represents our history as all our ancestors were warriors, and ice hockey needs warriors. There are very few Romanians who play for our club.”

Standing rinkside, Timo Lahtinen, the team’s 65-year-old Finnish coach, said, “Everyone in this town plays hockey and talks about hockey, this is the hockey center of Romania.”

The success of Csikszereda had caused a problem within Romanian ice hockey. The Romanian national team is almost entirely made up of ethnic Hungarians who play for Csikszereda.

“The whole national team is only my players, and everyone speaks Hungarian,” Lahtinen said.

This anomaly reached a critical point during a 2011 game between Romania and Hungary in Miercurea Ciuc. After the game, almost all of Romania’s players joined with their opponents to sing the Hungarian anthem.

“Some of the paparazzi caught it, and it was a big scandal,” said Attila Goga, Csikszereda’s captain, who has played for the Romanian national team for a decade but holds dual Romanian-Hungarian citizenship. “It’s a little bit strange, but I can see that, too. They don’t understand our situation here.”

There was only one anthem Goga was going to sing.

“Everyone here is Hungarian,” he said. “I feel Hungarian. From a little child I spoke Hungarian. We learn Romanian, too, but Hungarian is my mother language.”

The fall of communism gave some Hungarian minorities the chance to push for greater cultural and political freedoms after years of repression. A move by the Hungarian government in 2010 to grant joint citizenship to its former subjects across Eastern and Central Europe has emboldened old allegiances.

Laszlo Tokes, a former vice president of the European Parliament and one of Romania’s most prominent Hungarian politicians, is campaigning for full Hungarian autonomy within Romania, centered on the Szekley Land, with sports playing an important part.

“Our culture was oppressed,” Tokes said. “So it happened in sport. In Csikszereda that is why it is so important, the role of Hungarian sport life. Hockey sport because it is the people of Hungarian identity. Sport sometimes takes this function and role in a minority.”

Tokes, now a bishop, was a hero of the 1989 revolution that overthrew Ceausescu. When Romania’s secret police attempted to arrest him, his congregation resisted, sparking nationwide protest that brought down the regime.

Tokes called Romanians “very good friends,” but said they did not accept his people as Hungarian.

“Sometimes we are called Romanians speaking Hungarian,” he said. “That is not true. We are full Hungarians in the original sense of the word.”

He added: “Even if we lived on the moon, we would be Hungarian. Even if we are living in Transylvania, Romania, we consider ourselves Hungarians.”

Hoki Sport Club Csikszereda has attracted local businessmen and politicians promoting the Szekely Land. Although its home rink was built in the 1970s, it is well maintained, with a hotel next door to accommodate traveling teams. Inside, the walls are covered with advertisements from local businesses in Hungarian; Ciuc beer is featured prominently. A trophy cabinet heaves with the club’s many honors.

But in Bucharest, the Romanian capital, ice hockey has seen better days. The city’s main rink was partly flooded. On a recent day, a young girl practiced figure skating routines around patches of water pooled on the surface. Stray dogs stalked the perimeter. One stray managed to entangle itself in the hockey nets, until it chewed through the ropes to break free.

“Miercurea Ciuc has a local political and social interest,” said Marius Gliga, the technical director of the Romanian Ice Hockey Federation. “It is a small town. If they want to be seen by the rest of the cities, they have to show something. And they choose sport. The political men in the area use this team to promote themselves.”

Before the revolution, Bucharest was the power center of Romanian ice hockey. Romania’s golden age was in the 1970s and ’80s, when it qualified for the 1976 and 1980 Olympics. Back then, Steaua Bucharest, the team of the army, was the dominant squad.

“They used to take from the best players and allowed them to practice rather than have military service, which was good for the players,” said Gliga, who played center for Steaua his entire career. “They had two years of practice, which was very good for them at 18 to 20. That was good for the national team.”

But the abolition of national service, the supremacy of soccer in Bucharest and the influx of money into Csikszereda from businessmen and politicians eager to further the Szekely Land’s cause switched the balance of power.

Now Steaua is a shadow of its former self, and Bucharest provided little more than the office for the federation and the officials for most matches, including the Romanian Cup final in late December between Csikszereda and Corona Brasov, a team that also hails from Transylvania but whose fans chant in Romanian.

Csikszereda went ahead, 2-0, by the end of the second period, and it appeared that another piece of silverware was about to be added to its trophy cabinet.

The Szekely flag was flying when the third period began, but it did not herald the coronation the home supporters had expected. Brasov stormed back, scoring three times in five minutes. When Csikszereda had a player sent to the penalty box with two minutes left, the match was effectively over. Brasov was crowned champion, the players celebrating wildly in front of their traveling fans.

This time the Csikszereda fans chanted in Romanian, the language of the officials who had crammed into two cars and driven five hours from Bucharest to get there.

“Thieves!” they shouted at the referees.

“We’re Hungarian and the referees are always Romanian, so we always feel that Romanian referees aren’t fair when it comes to matches,” said Szikszai Laszlo, a 22-year-old fan of Csikszereda.

As the Brasov team members passed the cup among themselves on the ice, Lahtinen stood on the sideline wondering how his team had lost the match. He said one of his players was suspended just a few minutes before the start of the match.

“We were by far the best team and then I guess we got tired as they had more players,” he said.

Csikszereda had lost the final, but the fans had still had the chance to see the club play for a seventh league championship in a row. The rink, and the team, remain a symbol of something bigger than ice hockey.

“In the period of communism, local newspapers couldn’t write Csikszereda; you had to write Miercurea Ciuc,” Laszlo said. “Back then this place was a sanctuary. It was the only place where you could speak Hungarian freely. You can still feel that today to a certain level.”
148 2013-02-07 Lastly, the city would spend $140 million on competitions to help utilities protect their networks against future storms, and to jump-start economic development in business districts heavily affected the storm.

The plan, which the mayor announced in a news conference at City Hall, will require federal approval, but he said his administration had already had “extensive conversations” with the federal housing secretary, Shaun Donovan, and was hopeful the plans would be approved. In the afternoon, Mr. Bloomberg appeared with Mr. Donovan at a Staten Island pizzeria to thank the Obama administration for releasing the aid so quickly.

Mr. Donovan also met with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in Manhattan to discuss the state’s proposals for spending its share of hurricane relief money.

Mr. Bloomberg said it would take a few months to get federal approval for the programs and have them up and running, meaning the city would start taking applications for grants and loans in late April or early May.

But he defended the timing, saying the city had already made roughly $10 million in emergency loans available to businesses, and restored some combination of power, heat and hot water to 9,800 buildings.

By the standards of government, Mr. Bloomberg said, “this is instantaneous.”

“The government doesn’t back up a truck and dump bills on the ground,” he continued.

Asked about Mr. Cuomo’s proposal to offer to buy out homeowners in vulnerable coastal areas, Mr. Bloomberg said he appreciated the governor’s efforts, but he expressed doubt that many New Yorkers would accept the offer.

“We’re focusing on trying to get people back into their houses right now,” he said, adding, “People are very proud of their homes in New York, particularly in these communities, and an awful lot of them just want to stay there.”

Patrick Markee, a senior policy analyst at the Coalition for the Homeless, said that while Mr. Bloomberg’s proposals were “a start,” they offered little near-term help for what he estimated were 2,000 to 3,000 households, many of them very low income, still living in hotels.

The best way to help them, Mr. Markee said, would be to distribute federal rental assistance vouchers, as was done after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the Gulf Coast. He said Congress had authorized Mr. Donovan to allocate recovery money for such aid, known as Section 8 vouchers.

“We think that that’s frankly the most urgent need,” he said.
149 2013-02-07 But he never lost interest in the movie business. In 1993, he opened Automobile Film Club, using a lot from the city’s Economic Development Corporation. Mr. Lucci said he worked hard to get production companies the exact vehicles they wanted and stayed on set to make sure everything worked.

Over time, his business grew to 350 cars and 14 full-time employees, mostly secretaries and mechanics. The company survived the long drought after 9/11, when the mayor’s office stopped issuing film permits. Mr. Lucci said a $45,000 S.B.A. loan helped him get by and has been paid back. In 2008, his best year, the business grossed $1.8 million.

The next year, his contract for the lot ended. Unable to find a large, affordable parcel for his fleet, Mr. Lucci downsized, buying one 10,000-square-foot lot and renting another. He sold hundreds of cars. The payroll dwindled to him and his wife.

During Hurricane Irene in 2011, Mr. Lucci said, 30 of his cars were damaged. Because he was carrying only liability insurance on his vehicles, he could not claim damages. The S.B.A. offered him a $6,000 loan at 4 percent interest. He thought the amount was too small, so he turned it down. The following year, he said, was a struggle.

When Hurricane Sandy hit, Mr. Lucci’s vehicles were still insured for liability only. His office and garage were insured, as was $30,000 in equipment. But, like many business owners, he carried no protection against floodwaters or business interruption. After the storm, Mr. Lucci said, he received $5,800 for wind damage and nothing for what was destroyed by water.

THE OPTIONS Mr. Lucci has concluded he has two options. He can close the business for good, or he can borrow a lot of money and try to make another go of it.

New York City has been offering emergency loans to small businesses of up to $25,000, interest-free for the first six months and 1 percent interest for the 24 months after that. The city approved Mr. Lucci for such a loan, but he said it would barely make a dent. “I couldn’t even fix my office,” he said.

A local office of the Small Business Administration has urged him to apply for a fixed-rate disaster loan. The agency has said businesses can obtain as much as $2 million at 4 percent interest for up to 30 years. One drawback? The S.B.A. told him he would be required to have flood insurance, and Mr. Lucci fears that could cost him up to $25,000 a year.

In addition, Mr. Lucci said he would have to put up the home he shares with his wife as collateral. He turns 61 in May. “I don’t know how I’m going to pay it back,” he said. “I’ll finish paying when I’m 90. I might not be here.”

He knows that some businesses that get disaster loans end up defaulting — according to the S.B.A., the government wrote off $153 million, or nearly 2.5 percent, of the $6 billion in loans made after Hurricane Katrina. If the Automobile Film Club is one of those businesses that never rebounds, he knows he could lose everything.

“I want to leave something to my family,” he said. “What if I lose my house if something doesn’t go good?”

WHAT OTHERS SAY Kevin Langley, co-founder of Ellis Construction, in New Orleans, whose business was devastated by Hurricane Katrina: “Use the $25,000 New York City emergency loan and the S.B.A. loan to purchase assets that can generate revenues. Consider working out of your house or a temporary office until you are able to rebuild the office with cash flows. Consider the salvage value of the existing damaged fleet and sell off any vehicles and assets that will not generate revenue or that aren’t critical to the operation to generate cash.”

William Mathewson, president of Home Comfort Warehouse in White River Junction, Vt., took an S.B.A. loan to rebuild his alternative heating company after it was flooded in 2012: “I think Mr. Lucci, at age 60, has to ask himself what does he want to be doing in five years. If he wants to retire, he should determine if his business will be sellable in five years and if the projected value is at least what his S.B.A. loan balance will be. He shouldn’t take out a large loan, putting his home up for security only to find out the business is worth less than the loan. If that’s the case, he might be better off shutting down now and going to work for someone else. I don’t think he should spend three years losing money while he rebuilds the business.”

Rohit Arora, co-founder of Biz2Credit, which arranges small-business loans: "If he liquidates the business, what sort of work could he do? It would likely be very difficult for him to find a decent paying job at his age. In rebuilding his company, he knows what he is getting into. One thing he should not do is open again in a flooded area. After being hit twice, why open again in Staten Island when he can set up operations elsewhere in New York City?”

THE RESULTS Offer your thoughts on the You’re the Boss blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week, on the blog and on this page, we will give an update on what Mr. Lucci is planning to do.
150 2013-02-07 Stocks were flat on Wall Street on Wednesday as the latest round of earnings reports failed to give investors an impetus to push the market’s recent rally forward.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 7.22 points to close at 13,986.52, after trading slightly lower for most of the day. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 0.83 points, to 1,512.12. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 3.10 points, to 3,168.48.

Time Warner shares rose $2.05, or 4.1 percent, to $52.01 after the company said its net income rose 51 percent in the last three months of 2012 despite largely unchanged revenue. Marathon Oil fell 32 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $34.40 after its fourth-quarter net income fell 41 percent on higher exploration costs and taxes.

Stocks are consolidating their gains after surging since the start of the year. The Dow closed above 14,000 on Friday for the first time since December 2007 and had its best January in almost two decades. The index is up 6.7 percent this year, and the broader S.& P. 500 is up 6 percent.

“There’s no question that we need to take a pause and let reality catch up,” said Jim Russell, an investment director at U.S. Bank.
151 2013-02-07 “Confronting violence, radicalism and the forces of darkness is the main priority for societies if they want freedom and democracy,” Amr Hamzawy, a member of Egypt’s main secular opposition coalition, wrote on on Wednesday. “Assassinating Chokri Belaid is warning bell in Tunisia, and in Egypt too.”

The response by Tunisian officials was being closely watched. President Moncef Marzouki cut short an overseas trip to deal with the crisis. The prime minister, Hamadi Jebali, called the killing a “heinous crime against the Tunisian people, against the principles of the revolution and the values of tolerance and acceptance of the other.”

Bowing to the outrage, he said cabinet ministers would be replaced with technocrats not tied to any party until elections can be held.

The announcement, which had been expected for months, held out the promise that Tunisia might continue to avoid the political chaos that has plagued its neighbors. Since the uprising, the country has held successful elections, leading to a coalition government merging Ennahda and two center-left parties. An assembly writing the country’s constitution has circumscribed the role of Islamic law, allowing Tunisia to avoid the arguments over basic legal matters that have led to protracted unrest in Egypt.

The struggle over identity here has taken a different form, as hard-line Islamists have pressured Ennhada to take a more conservative path. Secular groups have faulted Ennahda for failing to confront the hard-liners, or for secretly supporting them. The restructuring does not completely loosen Ennahda’s hold on political power.

The killing remained a mystery on Wednesday. The authorities did not announce any arrests, saying only that witnesses said the gunmen had appeared to be no more than 30 years old. Among Mr. Belaid’s colleagues and relatives, suspicions immediately fell on the hard-line Islamists known as Salafists, some of whom have marred the transition with acts of violence, including attacks on liquor stores and Sufi mausoleums.

Mr. Belaid, a leading member of Tunisia’s leftist opposition alliance, criticized the governing party for turning a blind eye to criminal acts by the Salafists, and had received a string of death threats for his political stands, his family said.

In a chilling prelude to his death, in a television interview on Tuesday, Mr. Belaid accused Ennahda of giving “an official green light” to political violence. Separately, he accused “Ennahda mercenaries and Salafists” of attacking a meeting of his supporters on Saturday.

His wife, Besma Khalfaoui, blamed Ennahda and told Tunisia’s state news agency that the authorities had ignored her husband’s pleas for protection during four months of death threats.

In a stunned Tunisia, as news of the killing spread, thousands poured into the streets in the capital and other cities. A crowd gathered in front of the interior ministry, a massive building that is still a hated symbol of Mr. Ben Ali and his security services, to express anger at the new government. “Resignation, resignation, the cabinet of treason,” people shouted.

Riot police officers fired tear gas into the crowds and plainclothes security officers beat protesters, witnesses said, in scenes that recalled the uprising two years ago. In other cities, protesters attacked Ennahda’s offices.

The party vigorously denied any role in the killing, but the damage to its reputation seemed difficult to repair.

Salman Shaikh, director of the Brookings Doha Center, said the assassination was a blow to the aspirations of Islamist parties taking the reins in democratic transitions in the region, most notably in Egypt and Tunisia. In Egypt, he said, the Islamists have failed to build consensus and trust, relying instead on a narrow majoritarianism. In Tunisia, he said, they built a coalition with liberals but failed to take a stand against more hard-line Islamists competing for support on their right.

“Facing down extremists — Islamists find that very difficult,” Mr. Shaikh said.

In Tunisia, he said, the extremists included not only Salafis but more militant actors closer to . “They have not been very quiet in terms of their intentions, and yet Ennahda has not taken them on,” he said.

In Tunisia, some hoped that the killing would serve as a warning not just about the dangers of political violence, but also about the authorities’ refusal to confront it. Amna Guellali, a researcher based in Tunis, said the group had documented numerous attacks on activists, journalists and political figures by various groups, including the Salafis.

“The victims filed complaints to local tribunals, but never heard anything back,” she said. “There is a trend of impunity. This impunity can lead to emboldening” attackers.

“Yesterday, Chokri called for a national dialogue to confront political violence,” she said. “This just adds to the tragedy.”
152 2013-02-08 Zynga struggles to successfully migrate its games to mobile devices, Slovenia gives loan guarantees to several businesses and more restaurants add healthier options to their menus....
153 2013-02-08 Ms. Applegate announced Friday she has decided to quit the series on NBC rather than continue in a new format, which will transform the comedy from a single camera filmed show, to one filmed on tape in front of a studio audience....
154 2013-02-08 Producers cite a "crowded landscape" on Broadway for the decision to postpone the revival of the 1981 country music-themed musical....
155 2013-02-08 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Friday, selections include Bluefin Labs' genesis in a study of how a baby learned language, an indicator of the profitability of smartph...
156 2013-02-08 As recently as 2010, Jack Lew, President Obama's nominee to be the next Treasury secretary, had $56,000 invested in a CitiGroup venture capital fund based in the Cayman Islands....
157 2013-02-08 Grand Central Terminal set the scene last night for T’s celebration of Deborah Needleman’s inaugural issue....
158 2013-02-08 Sarah Lyall of The Times writes about the fashion successes (few) and failures (many) among Premier League managers....
159 2013-02-08 Bucks readers discuss how they managed the transition from one generation to the next of the family business or something else of worth....
160 2013-02-08 Students at Hewlett Packard factories in China may now complain about unfair practices....
161 2013-02-08 With deep pockets and a keen eye, Ted Sarandos is fusing Hollywood and Silicon Valley into a new TV paradigm....
162 2013-02-08 David Einhorn says he still loves Apple, but the company needs to change. | The Federal Reserve may be increasing its effort to spot bubbles on Wall Street. | The charges in the government's lawsuit against Standard & Poor's are reminiscent of wha...
163 2013-02-08 Q. Another good argument for a single-payer health care system. Health care should be a basic right, or at least not something big corporations expect to make big profits from. — XLibra, USA

A. To the extent that lack of health care during the lengthy period of unemployment prior to retirement is to blame, a singl- payer health care system would probably help address this issue. National health care reform passed as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“Obamacare”) would address some of these issues as well, albeit at some cost to the individual in the form of a subsidized insurance policy after a job loss.

Q. Has anyone studied the suicide rates in this age group? My brother, age 60, committed suicide last year. He had been out of work for four years and had zero hopes for getting a new job. He had spent his 401(k) and had thousands in credit card debt. His only asset was an old car. The situation seemed hopeless to him. I’m sure the endless silence in response to his résumé and the few interviews he got were humiliating. —Jen D, New Jersey

A. I’m sorry to hear about your brother. Addressing topics as sensitive as suicide focusing on economic analysis and data are difficult, but economists have explored whether a link exists between labor market conditions and the suicide rate. Some evidence suggests such a link exists. I am not aware, though, of any research that focuses specifically on the impact of recessions on suicide specifically for this age group.

Q. I’m glad (although sad) to hear validated what I have been expecting might be the case in terms of the impact of unemployment in those “boomer age” on life expectancy. I have been assuming that it is a combination of factors, and not just a lack of access to health care. I would think that some of these factors could be: depression, lack of money for better food, gym or fitness classes, suicide, growing distance from the work world and peers there leading to a diminished social network, feelings of failure, feelings of being irrevelant, hopelessness, etc. Can you tie in any of these to the diminished life expectancy, besides the lack of access to health care? And shouldn’t this be considered a public health threat, just as obesity and diabetes are? Or do those at high levels in the government just figure this is how we will deal with the Social Security fund problem; kill off the boomers earlier and they will collect less. — Greenie, Vermont

A. All of the factors that you mention may contribute to the impact of recessions on life expectancy, but we are not able to determine the specific causes in our research. We are able to verify that experiencing a recession at these ages leads to very long periods of without work that leads to lower income as well as a greater propensity to lose health insurance coverage. People in this position are also more likely to report being unable to obtain medical care because they cannot afford it. Beyond that, certainly other factors like those you describe may come into play, but we are unable to specifically determine their impact.

Q. I think the biggest divergence will be those employed by the public sector versus private. I have been in IT since 1980 — did great right away (better than peers) and had some tough years in late ‘80s, did well during the .dot com and struggled a bit after 9/11. The good was not THAT good (maybe $30,000 when others were making $20,000) but the boom and bust have made it tough to plan. I have a number of family/acquaintences in teaching and they know exactly what they will make every year of work. Now at 50 they are at top of the scale ($90,000, about same as me) but with no need to worry about layoff, outsourcing or retirement and health care. Thier pension would be worth an annuity of $750,000 ($60,000 at age 60 — life expect 25, rt equals 4 percent) so with a paid off house and savings every one is an actual millionaire. It seems from what I was told that all teachers would be net worth millionaires and many engineers would be scrambling to stay relevant but that is what is happening. When it comes to health, in my town the park-rec tennis and golf is very overrepresented with teachers so it looks as if they are doing fine. It goes without saying that public safety including park rangers are doing well (I know a 52-year-old ranger retired with a $63,000 pension, all public record). Sorry to ramble but if health is everything and life expectancy increasing, the public sector has everyone beat. — Alan, Fairfield

A. Although no work of which I am aware explores differences in life expectancy for public sector versus private sector workers, there are some interesting economic issues here. Those in the private sector tend to make more money on average, but they also experience greater volatility in earnings attributable to wage variation and unemployment. Public sector workers tend to experience these ups and downs a lot less frequently (although more so recently). An interesting question that emerges is whether income volatility over one’s work life alters long-term health outcomes. I am unaware of any research that addresses this.

Q. Thank you for investigating this hidden, terrifying issue for many boomers. I would like to add more strongly that this issue is even more difficult for singles, and most difficult for single women without families with the means to help.

I had almost no place to turn when the Great Recession hit. Luckily, friends took me in; that didn’t happen for everyone. And now that I’m again on my own, even with an excellent position, I face the stress of daily instability, due to the experience of layoffs at an earlier, wonderful workplace.

Are there studies and/or statistics about groups within the boomer generation? Singles, women, people of color, younger versus older boomers, self-employed boomers? It would be very helpful to see how different segments are faring. And would help the determining of policy. —Marilyns View, DC Metro

A. I agree with you that more work can and should be done on relevant subgroups of the population, although I am unaware of work like that focusing specifically on boomers. It is indeed the case, however, that among elderly women poverty rates are much greater than they are for elderly men. Widowhood certainly contributes to the problem for those whose pensions did not have a “joint and survivor” option. This problem probably will diminish now that older women are more and more likely to have extensive labor market experience on their own. It also means, though, that they will be more susceptible to the income deficits that accompany job loss at older ages.

Booming: Living Through the Middle Ages offers news and commentary about baby boomers, anchored by Michael Winerip. You can follow Booming via RSS here or visit nytimes.com/booming. You can reach us by e-mail at booming@nytimes.com.
164 2013-02-08 This company appears to have achieved an outstanding level of profitability in three ways....
165 2013-02-08 Motorcyclists 60 and older are three times as likely to be severely injured in a crash than younger riders....
166 2013-02-08 An autopsy report indicates a teenage Mexican boy who was apparently fatally shot by a United States Border Patrol agent in October was struck by at least eight bullets, all but one hitting him in the back. The report from medical examiners in Mexico describes several other wounds, but it is unclear if they account for additional bullets. Luis Parra, a lawyer for the family of the boy, José Antonio Elena Rodríguez, says he believes that the agent used excessive force. Border Patrol officials declined to comment on the autopsy report Thursday. The Border Patrol says agents responded on Oct. 10 to reports of drug smugglers at the fence along the border with Mexico in Nogales, Ariz. The agency says one agent opened fire through the fence as United States authorities were pelted with rocks.
167 2013-02-08 Private schools are fund-raising pros. They keep detailed tabs on families and alumni so they know whom to ask for annual funds, auctions and capital campaigns.

But recently, one of the top Manhattan private schools, the Dalton School, might have been a little too open with the data it had about some graduates. The school said Thursday that it had given out to some alumni who had volunteered to raise money for Dalton information about several other alumni whose own children had applied to the school. The information included whether those children had been admitted, information that most parents prefer not to be shared, especially in cases where the answer is no.

“It’s horrible,” said one alumna who has been financially supportive of the school, and like nearly everyone interviewed about what happened, declined to be identified for fear of upsetting school leaders. “Why should anyone know how much I have given and whether my kid got in or didn’t get in or even applied?”

The information leak, which was reported in The New York Post on Thursday, apparently began with good intentions. In November, according to a letter Dalton wrote Thursday to members of its community, a committee of 12 alumni from one class met to make plans for a reunion and for raising money for a class gift to the school. The committee was then given a list of 11 of their classmates whose children had applied to the school, and their admissions history; three of those were applying for admission for the coming year. The letter did not say how many of the applicants had been admitted.

The information was shared, the letter said, because the school has a policy of not soliciting money from families currently applying to the school. “We apologize for and deeply regret the release of this information,” said the letter, written by Ellen Stein, the head of school. “We are reviewing our protocols to ensure that information about the admissions status of all Dalton families and applicants is protected and remains confidential. We have reached out to apologize personally to those 11 alumni whose names were listed.”

Private schools have ratcheted up their fund-raising in recent years, on top of a steadily growing tuition.
168 2013-02-08 “It was somewhat of a pleasant surprise,” said Representative Joseph Crowley, Democrat of New York, “that the minority votes have relevance.”

Mr. Crowley, the vice chairman of the Democratic Caucus, said he anticipated that the pattern would repeat itself because Republicans would continue to struggle to find consensus. “Some of these items are going to be difficult for their caucus,” he said. “There’s no doubt about that.”

In his remarks to the Democrats who gathered here on Thursday, President Obama recognized the legislative partnership he hopes to have with House Democrats moving forward.

“We got a lot of work to do,” the president said, pointing to the lessons from his first term. “What I’ve learned over the last four years is that it won’t be smooth, it won’t be simple; there will be frustrations, there will be times where you guys are mad at me.” But he added that he expected Democrats to “continue the extraordinary progress that we’ve made already.”

Representative Steve Israel, the New Yorker who leads the Democrats 2014 House campaign efforts and also held the job in the last election cycle, said party members felt buoyed by their suddenly larger role. “We are, I think, more powerful than we’ve been since 2005,” he said. “We’re more united. We feel empowered.”

Their relevance is thanks in large part to an unlikely ally: Speaker John A. Boehner. Mr. Boehner has broken with Republican tradition by dispensing with one of the party’s unwritten tenets. It is known as the “Hastert Rule” for its chief adherent, former Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, who declared: “The job of speaker is not to expedite legislation that runs counter to the wishes of the majority of his majority.”

Mr. Boehner did this with the fiscal cliff compromise, which many members of his party opposed in part because it allowed tax rates to rise on people with high incomes and contained little in the way of spending cuts. One hundred fifty one Republicans — some two-thirds of their ranks — voted against the legislation.

With the Hurricane Sandy relief legislation, which many conservatives deplored as bloated with giveaways and far too expensive, 179 Republicans voted no.

There have also been some close calls. When the House voted last month to raise the nation’s statutory borrowing limit through May 18, 86 Democrats voted yes, providing a cushion so that 33 Republicans could vote no without bringing the bill down and handing Republican leaders a defeat.

One of the major choices Mr. Boehner could face this year is whether to allow immigration or gun control legislation to reach the floor even if there is strong dissent within his caucus. He has said that he is open to considering any gun measure the Senate passes. And he has also said that an immigration overhaul is a task this Congress needs to address.

Some Democrats said they were heartened by what they saw as the speaker’s pragmatism on these issues.

“There are a growing number of Republicans — and this is a very positive development by the way — who want to be seen as here to solve problems rather than force confrontation,” said Representative Peter Welch of Vermont.

Mr. Welch said he had seen other Republicans taking their cues from Mr. Boehner’s sudden openness to passing legislation with Democratic support.

“He’s made a practical assessment that they can’t hold this confrontational, in-your-face approach that they thought worked in the last Congress,” he said. “That gives license to the individual members to freelance.”
169 2013-02-08 The Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, the country’s first regional system for capping carbon emissions and creating a market in carbon allowances, proposed a fundamental change on Thursday to increase electrical utilities’ incentive to cut emissions from fossil-fuel plants by raising the cost of compliance.

The regional group proposed a 45 percent reduction next year in the total carbon dioxide emissions allowed. The cut is not as draconian as that number suggests, however, because the new total of 91 million tons reflects the current emissions level after five years of a slumping economy and increases in renewable energy and energy-efficiency measures.

The reduction from 165 million tons is expected to raise the price of compliance, and further reductions of 2.5 percent annually were likely to increase the value of the allowances that utilities must submit for every ton of carbon dioxide, or its equivalent, that they emit.

If the proposal goes into effect, the analysis done by the group, which is a collaboration of nine states to cut carbon emissions, indicates that by 2020, allowances that are now trading at $1.93 could trade as high as $10. That would be roughly at the level where allowances for California’s new economywide cap-and-trade system were auctioned last fall.

Cap-and-trade, a system of controlling carbon emissions by putting a price on them and therefore creating economic incentives for businesses to cut energy use — and for investors to back new businesses creating energy from renewable sources — was abandoned by Congress in 2009, leaving the regional group and the California system to forge new markets on their own.
170 2013-02-08 Under the proposals, the number of provisional workers permitted might increase when America’s unemployment rate was low and then shrink if the rate was high. In addition, many of these provisional visa holders, after working successfully in the United States for several years, might be given permanent residency that could lead to citizenship.

In another important step forward, many labor unions have joined with the Chamber of Commerce and other business groups in embracing E-Verify, a federal electronic system that uses Social Security numbers and other data to verify that newly hired workers are in the country legally. Union leaders have frequently denounced E-Verify as error-prone, a continuing concern. They said it often declared that immigrants with valid papers were not authorized to work.

When President Bush pushed for an immigration overhaul in 2007, many unions — long detesting the guest-worker program — helped to persuade the Senate to phase out that program within five years. Once that phaseout was approved, many business groups grew far less enthusiastic about the immigration effort. That encouraged many Republicans — already uneasy about what they viewed as “amnesty” — to vote against the plan.

Maria Elena Durazo, the chairwoman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.’s immigration committee, said labor’s opposition to the guest-worker program was longstanding. “Guest workers have no rights and no voice and no possibility of ever becoming legalized,” she said. “If they protest about wages or unsafe conditions, they risk getting deported.”

Many businesses have complaints with the current guest-worker program, disliking the frequent requirement to place advertisements to determine whether American workers are available before they can bring in guest workers.

“You have to go through four government agencies and often hire a lawyer and an agent,” said Shawn McBurney, senior vice president of governmental affairs at the American Hotel and Lodging Association. “It’s unbelievably complicated, cumbersome and expensive.”

Labor unions have urged business to embrace a plan pushed by Ray Marshall, labor secretary under President Jimmy Carter. He suggests creating a commission of experts who would use economic data to determine, for instance, whether 20,000 or 40,000 immigrants should be granted provisional visas to do seasonal work nationwide at shellfish plants, restaurants or apple orchards.

“Instead of a system that works at the whim of any employer, it will be a data-driven system,” said Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Under the current system, he noted, employers have applied repeatedly for new batches of guest workers. A data-driven system would ensure an adequate flow of immigrants to help employers meet seasonal needs, he said.

Mr. McBurney of the hotel association disagreed. “It will never work,” he said. “There are no experts who will know exactly what the economy will need — this was proved by command and control economies. The bureaucracy will never be able to respond to the economy. The economy is a very dynamic thing. Bureaucracies aren’t so dynamic.”

Randel K. Johnson, senior vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, agreed. “We oppose the commission because it would never be able to determine shortages in a timely manner that reflect the always-changing realities of the marketplace.”

Angelo Amador, vice president for labor policy at the National Restaurant Association, serves on the business-labor group seeking a consensus approach. “I’m optimistic about reaching an agreement,” on guest workers, he said. “The pressure on both sides is great. If we don’t come up with something, someone else is going to be drafted by other people.”

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president of the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington research group, predicted that it would be “extremely difficult” for the two sides to reach agreement on guest workers. He warned that without a deal between business and labor, the whole push for immigration changes could fail.

“They could get very close on this issue but might not be able to build a bridge to the other side,” he said. “One side starts from wanting zero guest workers and the other starts from unlimited. The unlimited side might move a lot, but the one that started with zero might not.”

He said the stakes were high for the union movement because if it plays a major role in gaining legal status for illegal immigrants, labor’s image will soar among immigrants, and that might help persuade many immigrants to push to join unions.

Eliseo Medina, secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, said labor unions were making a huge push for immigration changes.

“If we are going to make conditions better for all workers, we need to make sure that undocumented workers have the same rights as everybody else,” he said. “Otherwise, they’ll be used to lower labor standards.”
171 2013-02-08 The headline “My Valuable, Cheap College Degree” implies that a college degree costing $10,000 is equivalent to a traditional one costing many times that amount because both award the same bachelor’s degree, the assumption being that the object of the exercise is the degree, not an education. Such an equivalency is false.

No one would argue that a BMW and a Ford Focus are equivalent, although both are cars. And I would argue that a bachelor’s degree from Stanford is worth more than one from an online school, particularly if the standard is what was learned, not the degree granted.

Robert M. Hutchins, a onetime chancellor of the University of Chicago, reportedly once said we should award the B.A. at birth so that only those who want to learn will attend college. I agree.

Arthur C. Brooks extols the virtues of an online education, which for him proved to be a much cheaper and apparently more successful educational endeavor than the “unedifying year in college” he spent in a traditional classroom.

I suspect that some of Mr. Brooks’s success when he returned to school in his late 20s may be attributed to another factor: he had spent 10 years living life, becoming a musician and traveling abroad. These experiences probably taught him more than college courses ever could, and enabled him to return to his studies with one critical ingredient for college success: the desire to learn.

As Mr. Brooks himself put it, “I was ready.”

The writer is an associate professor of English at the New York Institute of Technology.

You can get a good education at a bad school and a bad education at a good school. Education is what you make it. My 1970 degree from Villanova was a highlight of my life and a wonderful experience.

In today’s world, a degree requires a cost-benefit assessment, and if you do not have an online component, you have missed some modern means to learn and communicate.

With luck, the irony was not lost on Arthur C. Brooks: the value he says came from his thrifty 10K degree — his master’s, doctorate, professorship and even current job (president of the American Enterprise Institute) — was made possible entirely from traditional educational institutions.
172 2013-02-08 After a “a partial vetting” by an outside firm, Hunter said he “pulled the plug.”

“So I’ve never invested any money or suggested that we invest any money in something that was going to cause the union to suffer,” he said.

Had he proceeded with the deal, Hunter said he would have disclosed the potential conflict of interest to the union’s executive committee, and his son would have divested from the bank.

Ashley, Hunter’s lawyer, said, “We see the bank issue as an issue which is really a non-issue.”

Much of the audit focused on Hunter’s hiring of friends and family members. His daughter, Robyn, and daughter-in-law, Megan Inaba, both worked for the union. The union also contracted with a financial services firm, Prim Capital, that employed Hunter’s son, Todd (who is married to Inaba). Gary Hall (now deceased), who was described in the audit as Hunter’s “best friend,” served as the union’s general counsel.

In response to the audit, Hunter announced last week that he was cutting ties with Prim and terminating the employment of his daughter and daughter-in-law. He also instituted an anti-nepotism policy.

Hunter said he had no regrets about employing family members. “The union has not suffered as a consequence of any of that,” he said. “Let’s make that point clear. There’s been no detriment suffered by the union. We did not have an anti-nepotism policy in place, so there was nothing unprofessional, unethical about hiring my children.”

Ashley, citing the audit, added: “Even with respect to the children, the finding was, No. 1, that they were qualified; No. 2, that they did their jobs right. And they were not paid exorbitantly. We all know that, in business, very often you find many instances where people hire their children to work for them.”

The audit raises concerns over a $1.3 million payout for unused vacation time, citing inadequate and faulty documentation. It also cites an e-mail from Hunter, indicating he was on vacation in California during a period (December 2006 to January 2007) that was not recorded as vacation time.

Hunter said the record of his vacation days was kept by an employee at the union offices.

“I don’t keep the vacation records,” Hunter said. “And they only cite one e-mail.” Hunter said he did not keep a personal journal to record his days off, conceding, “That’s been one of my problems.”

Ashley added, “Mr. Hunter maintains that he at all times called in and indicated clearly when he was taking a vacation day, and every single vacation day that he called in was properly logged, or should have been properly logged.”

The audit accused Hunter of suppressing criticism and cited an alleged incident involving Pat Garrity, a former player and secretary-treasurer for the union. Garrity in 2009 raised concerns over nepotism and conflicts of interest (including the proposed ISN Bank deal). When Garrity tried to raise these concerns with the executive committee, he was shouted down by Hall, according to the audit.

“I think it’s been blown out of proportion,” Hunter said. “Pat Garrity was allowed to come in. And, in fact, I think Adonal Foyle read the statement that Pat Garrity brought in.”

Hunter added: “But that’s only one incident. So you cite one incident, over 17 years of my tenure? And say that people were mistreated?”

Ashley said, “There’s no one instance where it indicates that Billy intimidated anybody, except this alleged Pat Garrity incident.”

Hunter also said that Garrity had retired and therefore lacked standing with the executive committee. (It is not uncommon for players to remain on the executive committee to finish their terms, even after they have stopped playing. Etan Thomas and Theo Ratliff were two recent examples.)

The audit criticized Hunter for spending more than $100,000 in union funds to purchase gifts for executive committee members, including a $22,000 watch for Derek Fisher, the union president.

Hunter said the purchase of gifts for executive committee members was a tradition that predated his tenure, and that the union’s bylaws allow for some compensation of committee members.

Ashley said, “And there was never a question raised with respect to the propriety of that.”

Ashley continued: “Very often what is happening here is that prior practices would be indicative that this is the way things were done. When Mr. Hunter involved himself in the same practice, he’s being criticized, roundly.”

In 2011, Hunter authorized spending $28,000 to help pay the legal fees of Charles Smith, who was pursuing a wrongful-termination case against the retired players association after being fired as its executive director. The audit called this aid to Smith “inappropriate.” The $28,000 was repaid to the union in March 2012, “shortly after Mr. Hunter learned that a reporter was preparing to publish a story about it,” the audit said.

Hunter said he felt that Smith “was being mistreated” and was “having some financial difficulties.” He said that Maurice Evans, a member of the union’s executive committee, wrote the memo suggesting that the union should help.

“He asked for assistance, he agreed to repay the money and he did,” Hunter said. “It was never a gift. The understanding was always that he would repay the money, and he repaid it.”

The validity of Hunter’s contract may become the biggest point of contention in the coming weeks. The audit determined that the contract, executed in 2010, was not properly ratified, making it “unenforceable.” The union could therefore fire Hunter without paying him. Under terms of the contract, Hunter is owed about $10.5 million through 2016.

Hunter and his lawyer disputed the audit’s conclusions and indicated that they would fight to enforce the contract. They conceded that the contract was not ratified by a two-thirds vote of the executive committee and the player representatives. However, they contend that requirement, which is contained in the union bylaws, pertains only to the appointment of a new executive director, not to contract renewals.

Hunter said his previous contract renewals, in 1999 and 2005, also were executed without a vote. Ashley said that the responsibility for arranging a vote would belong to Fisher, as the union president, not to Hunter.

“If Mr. Hunter has a valid contract, then under the contract’s provision, Mr. Hunter can only be terminated for cause,” Ashley said. “So there is a great deal stake in terms of what is the proper analysis with respect to whether or not Mr. Hunter has a valid contract.”

To fire Hunter “for cause,” the union would have to prove that Hunter was guilty of embezzlement, theft, larceny, material fraud or other acts of dishonesty, Ashley said. “We submit that that never occurred,” Ashley said, “and the report of Paul, Weiss basically confirms that, as far as we’re concerned.”

The Paul, Weiss firm based its conclusions on interviews with 37 witnesses, including union employees and players, as well as the review of thousands of documents. Ashley and Hunter objected to the use of anonymous testimony, and to the process, which did not permit them to cross-examine witnesses.

“We were never actually given any opportunity to question these people, in order to determine whether they were credible,” Ashley said. He added, “We were not permitted to call our own witnesses, who we expect would have given quite a different picture of Mr. Hunter and the way in which he managed the union.”

Ashley added, “Certainly, we can say definitely that there are very important facts which were not set forth in the report, and many of those facts support Mr. Hunter and they were just left out of the report.”

The union has not yet determined whether Hunter will be permitted to address the players before they decide his fate. Hunter wants that opportunity.

Ashley said, “We feel that it’s important that we have an opportunity to defend ourselves. Otherwise, due process will have been actually stripped from Mr. Hunter, from the beginning of this process to the end.”

Given the negative assessment in the audit and the union’s decision to suspend Hunter, he was asked whether it was worth fighting to keep his job.

“It would be impossible to work for people who don’t want you to work for them,” Hunter said. “Clearly, I work at the behest of the players. So if the players decide that they want to make a change, then I can’t stand in the face of that.”

Still, when asked if he wanted to continue as the union’s executive director in spite of everything, Hunter said, “As of this moment, I do.”
173 2013-02-08 British authorities say beef lasagna products recalled from British supermarkets by the frozen-food company Findus have tested positive for more than 60 percent horse meat. The revelation comes after millions of burgers were taken off shop shelves this month as it emerged that beef products from three companies in Ireland and Britain contained horse DNA. The Food Standards Agency said Thursday that its tests on Findus’s beef lasagna were part of an investigation into mislabeled meat and that there was no evidence the results posed a food safety risk.
174 2013-02-08 Judges at the International Criminal Court have ordered the Libyan government to hand over immediately Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi’s former intelligence chief, who has been charged with crimes against humanity. The former spy chief, Abdullah al-Senussi, also faces charges in Libya, and the government insists on trying him in a Libyan court. The international court’s order, published Thursday, rejected Libya’s request for more time to argue its case for trying Mr. Senussi in Libya. He is being held largely incommunicado in a jail in Tripoli. The new court order also ordered Libya to let Mr. Senussi see a British lawyer appointed by the court to represent him.
175 2013-02-08 But the allegations in the suit are reminiscent of what happened at Andersen, whose image had previously been of being the most independent, and most committed to quality accounting, of the major firms.

Until now, the role of the credit ratings agencies in the financial crisis had seemed — to me, at least — to be defensible. They may have been foolish or even stupid, but they were not venal. They applied their models in good faith in rating mortgage-backed securities. Their models proved to be overly optimistic, but the housing collapse was an unprecedented event. Being wrong is not a crime.

The Justice Department suit offers a different sequence of events. As the housing bubble grew, and the revenue from rating the deals skyrocketed, S.& P. was determined to stay competitive with other agencies — Moody’s and Fitch — in getting the business. That led to tinkering with models and ignoring inconvenient evidence so as to produce the ratings that were desired by the banks putting together the deals. Even when it became clear that new deals did not deserve the ratings they were getting, S.& P. chose to issue high ratings.

By not filing criminal charges, the government got a lower burden of proof — preponderance of the evidence rather than beyond a reasonable doubt — while the potential for a $5 billion fine provides punishment as severe as any criminal case against a corporation could.

It is important to understand the financial alchemy that was involved in rating mortgage securitizations.

In the corporate world, to get a top rating a company has to have a sterling balance sheet and good prospects. But not in the world of securitizations. The logic was that a lot of clearly risky subprime mortgages could be put together and — presto, become mostly AAA in a residential mortgage-backed security, or R.M.B.S. Since it was extremely unlikely that more than, say, 20 percent of the mortgages would default, 80 percent of the money that financed them could be raised by issuing AAA-rated securities.

And the agencies took that one step further. Put together junior securities from a bunch of such deals and issue a new securitization, called a collateralized debt obligation, or C.D.O., and most of it was AAA too.

The result was that the boom in subprime lending was financed by investors who were told they had supersafe securities. The bubble would not have happened without S.& P. and its peers.

The Justice Department has evidently been through every memo, e-mail and text message sent out by S.& P. analysts and executives from 2004 through 2007, and found some that sound as if bosses were putting the short-term commercial interests of S.& P. — both the fees it got and the need to maintain good will with the investment bankers who chose which rating firm to use — ahead of truth.

The most recent events the government complains about happened in 2007, and there are five-year statutes of limitations in some fraud laws. So the government turned to a 1989 law that makes it illegal to defraud a bank — a law passed during the savings and loan scandals — that has a 10-year statute of limitation, and cites case after case where banks bought the securities S.& P. rated, and lost money. Some of those cases sound real, but as Jonathan Weil of Bloomberg News has pointed out, in some cases the bank that S.& P. is supposed to have defrauded is the very same bank that put together the securitization, and kept part of it. It seems like a stretch.

By the government account, the crucial event that sent S.& P. down the road to crime and shame came in 2004, when the housing boom was a pale shadow of what it would become. “We just lost a huge Mizuho R.M.B.S. deal to Moody’s due to a huge difference in the required credit support level,” an analyst wrote in a e-mail. “What we found from the arranger was that our support level was at least 10 percent higher than Moody’s.”

That, the government said, spurred S.& P. to find ways to assure that it would not lose deals in the future. If that meant compromising its integrity, that was acceptable to the people running the agency.

I wondered what happened to that deal, which was sponsored by Mizuho Financial, a Japanese bank. It turns out that the deal, issued in Japan and backed by Japanese mortgages, worked out very well. All the investors were repaid.

That same Japanese bank, as it happens, provides some evidence to support an S.& P. defense argument — that it moved faster than its competitors in 2007 to downgrade bad securities.

The government complaint says that in the spring of 2007, as the C.D.O. market was starting to collapse, S.& P. worked with banks to let them issue C.D.O.’s with ratings that the agency knew were not deserved. But by July of that year, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission, S.& P. had announced new rating procedures that would have kept Mizuho from getting the desired ratings on a C.D.O. it was about to issue. Mizuho, the S.E.C. charged last year, lied to S.& P. about what was in the C.D.O., and got the desired AAA rating. Within six months, the C.D.O. was in default.

The fact that S.& P. was fooled may not speak well for its procedures and competence, but it does seem to indicate that in 2007 at least one of the banks pushing bad C.D.O.’s out the door thought S.& P. could not be relied upon to help it deceive investors.

The traditional ratings agency defense of free speech — this was our opinion and even if it turned out to be wrong we are not liable — will be in trouble if the government’s case that S.& P. knew it was handing out undeserved ratings stands up. That defense has already failed in a case in Australia concerning a complicated security, in which a judge found no “reasonably competent ratings agency” would have given it the rating S.& P. did. IMF, an Australian firm that finances litigation in return for a share of the proceeds if the litigation succeeds, has announced it will finance a similar action in the Netherlands.

I presume David Duncan, the Andersen partner who was in charge of the Enron audit, had no inkling the company was in danger of collapse when he sanctioned some questionable accounting over the objection of experts in Andersen’s national office.

If S.& P. analysts and executives acted as the government says they did, they presumably thought there were large enough margins of safety in their assumptions that cutting a few corners would not hurt.

Floyd Abrams, a partner in Cahill Gordon & Reindel who is representing S.& P., points out that the government case quotes from no secret whistle-blower, indicating that while the government has interviewed a lot of people from S.& P., including many who have left, it found none who would support the claim that the ratings were knowingly wrong. He notes that in 2007 those who thought the housing mess would not lead to disaster included the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department, as well as S.& P.

S.& P., like Andersen, issued opinions that turned out to be disastrously wrong. The firm needs to prove those were honestly held opinions, not ones motivated by greed. If the government can prove otherwise, S.& P.’s future may be bleak.
176 2013-02-08 But Ms. Hersman said the fire on a 787 parked at an airport in Boston on Jan. 7 started with a short circuit in one cell and then spread to the others.

She said investigators had still not been able to tell what caused the short circuit in that cell and led to a “thermal runaway,” overheating up to 500 degrees, that then cascaded to the rest of the cells.

Still, she said, “This investigation has demonstrated that a short circuit in a single cell can propagate to adjacent cells and result in a fire.”

Battery experts said that the finding pinpointed one step Boeing could take to make the batteries safer: it could expand the size of the battery to create more physical separation between the cells. Ralph J. Brodd, a battery industry consultant in Henderson, Nev., said Boeing and its Japanese battery subcontractor, GS Yuasa, could make the design and manufacturing changes needed to do that fairly quickly.

But unless investigators can determine what caused the first cell to short-circuit, federal officials said, Boeing will also be required to make other changes to prevent any of the possible causes and to better contain or vent any overheated materials. And given the safety board’s findings about how poorly Boeing gauged the original safety risks, the F.A.A. is likely to take its time in assessing the validity of any new tests.

The 787 is the first commercial airplane to use large lithium-ion batteries for major flight functions. All 50 of Boeing’s 787s that were delivered to airlines have been grounded since mid-January, when a 787 made an emergency landing in Japan after the pilots smelled smoke in the cockpit. That incident occurred nine days after the Boston fire.

In searching for the cause of the fire on the plane in Boston, Ms. Hersman said the safety board was still looking at the battery’s charging mechanism and potential manufacturing defects or contamination, and whether the cells were not as isolated as they should have been.

Investigators have so far ruled out two possible reasons for the short circuit — a mechanical or electrical shock from outside the battery.

“We have not yet identified what the cause of the short circuit is,” she said. “We are looking at the design of the battery, at the manufacturing, and we are also looking at the cell charging. There are a lot of things we are still looking at.”

Boeing said in a statement Thursday that it viewed the safety board’s findings as narrowing the likely source of the problem to within the battery itself, as opposed to other components of the plane’s extensive new electric system. But company officials said they also recognized that it would take a combination of changes to restore confidence in the battery system.

The F.A.A. has also been reviewing its own certification process and the battery tests it oversaw in 2007. It is also looking at other innovative systems on the 787 to see if they were properly approved.

Because airplane regulations did not cover lithium-ion batteries, the F.A.A. approved Boeing’s use of the novel technology under nine special conditions that covered the need to contain or vent any hazardous materials.

Ms. Hersman said that because the problems on the Boeing planes were unexpected, the safety board had been trying to understand “the special conditions related to the failure and the outcome we saw — fire and smoke.”

And while Boeing calculated the odds of a problem as minuscule, she said, “there have now been two battery events resulting in smoke less than two weeks apart on two different aircraft.”

In response to those comments, the transportation secretary, Raymond LaHood, and the F.A.A. administrator, Michael Huerta, said in a statement that the agency’s review was “a data-driven process.” They added: “Based on what information our experts find, the F.A.A. will take any action necessary to further ensure safety. We must finish this work before reaching conclusions about what changes or improvements the F.A.A. should make going forward.”

Still, Ms. Hersman’s comments increase the pressure on the F.A.A. to be tougher on Boeing than it was before.

Boeing picked the new lithium-ion technology because it provided more power than traditional batteries of the same size.

Boeing for the first time disclosed the testing the 787 batteries had undergone before they were certified. Each component was tested separately, for more than 5,000 hours, it said. Those tests included baking the battery, crushing it and puncturing it with a nail to provoke a short circuit. Boeing also said that the plane’s power systems were tested for more than 25,000 hours in labs. The battery was also tested on board an airplane, both on the ground and in flight, for more than 10,000 hours.

Boeing said it demonstrated the battery’s performance in specific operating conditions, like extreme weather conditions.

But Ms. Hersman said that flight data from the Boston plane showed that the battery’s voltage unexpectedly dropped from a full charge of 32 volts to 28 volts, which also suggested that problems began in one of the four-volt cells.

Ms. Hersman said it was still too soon to determine whether the battery’s casing had performed its job. While the container was damaged by the fire, it is still being evaluated to determine how protective it was.

Mr. Brodd, the battery industry consultant, said contamination, like minute metal shavings left in the manufacturing process, could cause a battery cell to overheat. Folds or wrinkles in the materials separating the cells could also keep the electric current from flowing uniformly and create hot spots that could set off overheating.

He said the cells could be better isolated from each other by inserting protective materials or spacing the cells farther apart.

Mr. Brodd said Boeing’s tests in 2007 might have miscalculated the likelihood of the problems because “when you’re making stuff for the first time, you don’t know” all the possibilities. Other experts said that after the two incidents with smoke and fire, the F.A.A. and Boeing may be able to refine the tests to focus more closely on the worst possible hazards.
177 2013-02-08 Cardiss Collins, who reluctantly ran for a Chicago Congressional seat left vacant when her husband died in a plane crash and went on to become Illinois’s first black congresswoman, serving for nearly 25 years as a voice for racial and gender equality and expanded health care for the poor, died on Sunday in Arlington, Va. She was 81.

Her death was confirmed by Representative Danny K. Davis, who succeeded her in 1997 after she retired from Congress.

Mrs. Collins’s husband, George W. Collins, had served two years when he was among 45 people killed in the crash of United Airlines Flight 553 near Midway Airport in Chicago on Dec. 8, 1972. Local Democrats, led by Mayor Richard J. Daley, quickly endorsed Mrs. Collins to succeed him. Mrs. Collins, then 41 and an auditor for the Illinois Revenue Department who was worried about the couple’s 13-year-old son, Kevin, was wary of running but eventually agreed to do so.

She campaigned little but easily won the primary in April and cruised through the general election in June with 92 percent of the vote. Six years later, and after some early struggles in office — she had never considered a political career before she was thrust into one — she became chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus. For much of the 1980s, she was the only black woman in Congress.

“In the last six years, my biggest roadblock has been shyness,” Mrs. Collins told The Washington Post in 1979. “I was basically an introvert, but once people learned I had something to say, I gained confidence.”
178 2013-02-08 But the senators repeatedly returned to the targeted killings Mr. Brennan has helped direct over the last four years.

The hearing came three days after the leak of a Justice Department document explaining the legal rationale for the killing of American citizens who join . On the eve of Mr. Brennan’s hearing, the White House gave in to pressure from lawmakers and said the Senate and House Intelligence Committees could see the full classified legal memorandum justifying the killing of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born cleric who joined Al Qaeda in Yemen and was killed in Yemen in a C.I.A. drone strike in September 2011.

Ms. Feinstein expressed frustration at the committee’s difficulty in getting information about the targeted killing program. She said that while senators were allowed to view two legal memos, they were still seeking eight others, and committee staff members were still prohibited from reading the classified documents.

In his opening statement, Mr. Brennan acknowledged “widespread debate” about the administration’s counterterrorism operations but strongly defended them, saying the United States remained “at war with Al Qaeda.”

He said later that when C.I.A. drone strikes accidentally kill civilians, those mistakes should be admitted. “We need to acknowledge it publicly,” he said. “In the interests of transparency, I believe the United States government should acknowledge it.”

But senators repeatedly complained that there was too little transparency about the targeted killing program, sometimes producing misleading information in the news media.

“I think that this has gone about as far as it can go as a covert activity,” Ms. Feinstein told reporters after the hearing.

But she defended the agency’s record on the strikes, saying the number of civilians killed each year has been “in the single digits.” A reporter pointed out that she has accused the agency of lying for years about its interrogation program and asked how she could have such confidence in its claims on casualties in the drone program. “I am confident of those figures until I am not confident of them,” she said.

The hearing made clear that even members of the Intelligence Committee, created in the 1970s to be the public’s eyes on secret government programs, are in the dark about many of their details.

Senator , Democrat of , told Mr. Brennan that the committee had never been given the full list of countries in which the C.I.A. has carried out lethal operations. Senator , independent of , urged Mr. Brennan — if he is confirmed, as appeared likely Thursday night — to be more candid with the panel than his predecessors. “There’s no one else watching,” he said.

Even Mr. Brennan had a hard time explaining how much information he thought should be disclosed about targeted killings. “What we need to do is optimize transparency on these issues, but at the same time, optimize secrecy and the protection of our national security,” he said.

The hearing began in chaotic fashion, as protesters began shouting at Mr. Brennan before they were escorted out. One man yelled, “Assassination is against the Constitution!” and one woman held up a sign that read, “Drones Fly Children Die.”

The protests continued as Mr. Brennan began his opening statement. After the fifth interruption, Ms. Feinstein temporarily stopped the hearing and cleared the room, asking that activists from the peace group Code Pink not be readmitted. The rest of the three-and-a-half-hour hearing was held in a mostly empty room.

When Mr. Brennan resumed his testimony, the panel’s top Republican, Senator of , pressed him on his knowledge of the C.I.A.’s past use of brutal interrogation methods, which were adopted when Mr. Brennan was deputy to the agency’s No. 3 official.

“I had some visibility into some of the activities there,” Mr. Brennan said. “But I was not a part of any type of management structure or aware of most of the details.” He said he opposed coercive methods and expressed objections privately to colleagues.

Mr. Chambliss sounded skeptical, pressing him for details of such conversations, but Mr. Brennan declined to say with whom he raised his objections. Mr. Chambliss also said records showed that Mr. Brennan had received 50 e-mails about the interrogation of , a terrorist facilitator subjected in 2002 to waterboarding, the near-drowning technique then used by .

Unlike Mr. Panetta, Mr. Obama’s first C.I.A. director, Mr. Brennan declined several times to describe waterboarding as “torture.” He instead called it “reprehensible” and “something that should not be done.”

The committee recently completed a highly critical 6,000-page study of the interrogation program, and Mr. Brennan said the parts of the report that he had read made him question his entire understanding about the program. “I don’t know what the facts are or what the truth is,” he said. He said he wanted to hear the C.I.A.’s response to the report before making a decision about whether it should be declassified.

Some of the most combative moments of the hearing came as Republicans accused Mr. Brennan of disclosing classified information to the press. Senator , Republican of , accused him of tipping off television commentators about a double agent who foiled a terrorist plot in Yemen to bomb a -bound airliner. Mr. Brennan admitted that he told the commentators that the United States had “inside control” of the operation, but denied the suggestion that he had revealed the role of the double agent and said the was investigating the source of that leak.

“It seems to me that the leak the Department of Justice is looking for is right here in front of us,” Mr. Risch said. Mr. Brennan strenuously disagreed, saying he was a witness and not a target of the investigation.

Showing a flash of temper, Mr. Brennan defended his record at the White House. “Senator, I live this every day and night,” he said. “I go to bed at night worrying that I didn’t do enough that day to make sure I protect the American people.”
179 2013-02-08 The chopping is the most time-consuming part of this recipe, but you can still be eating within 35 minutes....
180 2013-02-09 The ideas of Alexander Wang and Joseph Altuzarra seem to bleed together, Mr. Altuzarra has worked hard to stake out his own territory in New York. He should be looking for more ways to separate himself from the pack....
181 2013-02-09 Although many of us can’t increase the working hours in the day, we can measurably increase our energy. Science supplies a useful way to understand the forces at play here. Physicists understand energy as the capacity to do work. Like time, energy is finite; but unlike time, it is renewable. Taking more time off is counterintuitive for most of us. The idea is also at odds with the prevailing work ethic in most companies, where downtime is typically viewed as time wasted. More than one-third of employees, for example, eat lunch at their desks on a regular basis. More than 50 percent assume they’ll work during their vacations.

In most workplaces, rewards still accrue to those who push the hardest and most continuously over time. But that doesn’t mean they’re the most productive.

Spending more hours at work often leads to less time for sleep and insufficient sleep takes a substantial toll on performance. In a study of nearly 400 employees, published last year, researchers found that sleeping too little — defined as less than six hours each night — was one of the best predictors of on-the-job burn-out. A recent Harvard study estimated that sleep deprivation costs American companies $63.2 billion a year in lost productivity.

The Stanford researcher Cheri D. Mah found that when she got male basketball players to sleep 10 hours a night, their performances in practice dramatically improved: free-throw and three-point shooting each increased by an average of 9 percent.

Daytime naps have a similar effect on performance. When night shift air traffic controllers were given 40 minutes to nap — and slept an average of 19 minutes — they performed much better on tests that measured vigilance and reaction time.

Longer naps have an even more profound impact than shorter ones. Sara C. Mednick, a sleep researcher at the University of California, Riverside, found that a 60- to 90-minute nap improved memory test results as fully as did eight hours of sleep.

MORE vacations are similarly beneficial. In 2006, the accounting firm did an internal study of its employees and found that for each additional 10 hours of vacation employees took, their year-end performance ratings from supervisors (on a scale of one to five) improved by 8 percent. Frequent vacationers were also significantly less likely to leave the firm.

As athletes understand especially well, the greater the performance demand, the greater the need for renewal. When we’re under pressure, however, most of us experience the opposite impulse: to push harder rather than rest. This may explain why a recent survey by found that Americans left an average of 9.2 vacation days unused in 2012 — up from 6.2 days in 2011.

The importance of restoration is rooted in our physiology. Human beings aren’t designed to expend energy continuously. Rather, we’re meant to pulse between spending and recovering energy.

In the 1950s, the researchers William Dement and Nathaniel Kleitman discovered that we sleep in cycles of roughly 90 minutes, moving from light to deep sleep and back out again. They named this pattern the Basic-Rest Activity Cycle or BRAC. A decade later, Professor Kleitman discovered that this cycle recapitulates itself during our waking lives.

The difference is that during the day we move from a state of alertness progressively into physiological fatigue approximately every 90 minutes. Our bodies regularly tell us to take a break, but we often override these signals and instead stoke ourselves up with caffeine, sugar and our own emergency reserves — the stress hormones adrenaline, noradrenaline and .

Working in 90-minute intervals turns out to be a prescription for maximizing productivity. Professor K. Anders Ericsson and his colleagues at have studied elite performers, including musicians, athletes, actors and chess players. In each of these fields, Dr. Ericsson found that the best performers typically practice in uninterrupted sessions that last no more than 90 minutes. They begin in the morning, take a break between sessions, and rarely work for more than four and a half hours in any given day.

“To maximize gains from long-term practice,” Dr. Ericsson concluded, “individuals must avoid exhaustion and must limit practice to an amount from which they can completely recover on a daily or weekly basis.”

I’ve systematically built these principles into the way I write. For my first three books, I sat at my desk for up 10 hours a day. Each of the books took me at least a year to write. For my two most recent books, I wrote in three uninterrupted 90-minute sessions — beginning first thing in the morning, when my energy was highest — and took a break after each one.

Along the way, I learned that it’s not how long, but how well, you renew that matters most in terms of performance. Even renewal requires practice. The more rapidly and deeply I learned to quiet my mind and relax my body, the more restored I felt afterward. For one of the breaks, I ran. This generated mental and emotional renewal, but also turned out to be a time in which some of my best ideas came to me, unbidden. Writing just four and half hours a day, I completed both books in less than six months and spent my afternoons on less demanding work.

The power of renewal was so compelling to me that I’ve created a business around it that helps a range of companies including , , , the Los Angeles Police Department, and .

Our own offices are a laboratory for the principles we teach. Renewal is central to how we work. We dedicated space to a “renewal” room in which employees can nap, meditate or relax. We have a spacious lounge where employees hang out together and snack on healthy foods we provide. We encourage workers to take renewal breaks throughout the day, and to leave the office for lunch, which we often do together. We allow people to work from home several days a week, in part so they can avoid debilitating rush-hour commutes. Our workdays end at 6 p.m. and we don’t expect anyone to answer e-mail in the evenings or on the weekends. Employees receive four weeks of vacation from their first year.

Our basic idea is that the energy employees bring to their jobs is far more important in terms of the value of their work than is the number of hours they work. By managing energy more skillfully, it’s possible to get more done, in less time, more sustainably. In a decade, no one has ever chosen to leave the company. Our secret is simple — and generally applicable. When we’re renewing, we’re truly renewing, so when we’re working, we can really work.
182 2013-02-09 Scenes from the New York fashion week photo diary of Alfredo Piola....
183 2013-02-09 Go to next slide
184 2013-02-09 Go to next slide
185 2013-02-09 Go to next slide
186 2013-02-09 A very brief and informal history of the red lip, inspired by the breadth of matte orange on the spring runway....
187 2013-02-09 High profits, not weak investment....
188 2013-02-09 Trevor Fisher Jr. shot a nine-under 62, and Richard Sterne had a 65 to share the lead after the second round of the Joburg Open in South Africa.

Fisher had an eagle and seven birdies, including a run of three straight in his back nine on the West Course at Royal Johannesburg and Kensington Golf Club. Sterne went bogey-free for the second consecutive round on the East Course.

The South Africans were 15 under at the European Tour event.
189 2013-02-09 Rafael Nadal defeated his fellow Spaniard Daniel Gimeno-Traver, 6-1, 6-4, to reach the semifinals of the VTR Open in Vina del Mar, Chile. Nadal had not played for seven months before this event.
190 2013-02-09 A Chinese court sentenced a Tibetan man to 13 years in prison Friday on charges of goading a monk to set himself on fire as a protest. The sentence by a court in the northwestern province of Qinghai follows a news report that the Chinese government has detained 70 people in the province’s ethnic Tibetan areas. China is stepping up efforts to blame the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, for protests in which nearly 100 Tibetan monks, nuns and lay people have set themselves on fire since 2009. The protesters are calling for Beijing to allow greater religious freedom and the return from exile of the Dalai Lama, who lives in India.
191 2013-02-09 WASHINGTON — Senator Carl Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, told the committee’s top Republican on Friday that he and other Senate Republicans were out of bounds for demanding additional financial information from Chuck Hagel, President Obama’s choice to be defense secretary.

Mr. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said he would move quickly to hold a committee vote on Mr. Hagel’s nomination, and White House officials said they remained confident that Mr. Hagel would be approved, probably on a party-line vote, with all 14 Democrats in favor and all 12 Republicans opposed. They said Mr. Hagel would have the votes of enough senators to overcome any filibuster attempt when his nomination goes to the full Senate. The votes could be held early next week.

In a strongly worded letter to Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the committee’s top Republican, Mr. Levin said that he had “read with some concern” a Wednesday letter from Mr. Inhofe and 25 other Republican senators. Mr. Levin said the letter appeared “to insist upon financial disclosure requirements that far exceed the standard practices of the Armed Services Committee and go far beyond the financial disclosure required of previous secretaries of defense.”

The letter, which was drafted in the office of Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, asked Mr. Hagel to provide, among other things, the amount of foreign financing over the past decade for seven companies he had worked for. The letter also asked Mr. Hagel, a former Republican senator from Nebraska, to disclose the amount of foreign financing over the past five years for the Atlantic Council, a centrist foreign policy group, where Mr. Hagel has served without compensation as the chairman of the board of directors.

In his letter, Mr. Levin said that Mr. Hagel was no longer associated with four of the companies but continued to receive compensation as an adviser to three: Corsair Capital, McCarthy Capital and M.I.C. Industries.

“I am doubtful that, as mere adviser to these companies, Senator Hagel has either access to the corporate financial information that is sought in the February 6 letter or the authority to release such information if he were able to get access to it,” Mr. Levin wrote.
192 2013-02-09 The number of times New York City police officers stopped, questioned and frisked people in 2012 dropped by 22 percent from the previous year, according to statistics the Police Department released on Friday.

The decrease — 533,042 in 2012, compared with about 685,000 in 2011 — came amid mounting criticism from civil-rights advocates who have argued that the practice of stop and frisk unfairly targeted minorities — the vast majority of whom were released without any charges.

In the first quarter of 2012, the police stopped 203,500 people, an 11 percent increase from the first quarter of 2011, and appeared to be on pace to break the record for stops set that year. After criticism from a federal judge last spring and widening political protests, however, the police instituted new training. In the last three quarters of the year, there were 172,874 fewer stops than during the same period in 2011, a decrease of 34 percent. For the year, the police seized 39 fewer illegal firearms, a decrease of 4 percent.

Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, attributed the lower numbers to more training and a shift in deployment. For example, fewer officers have been assigned over the past few months to Operation Impact, a program that puts recent graduates of the Police Academy in high-crime neighborhoods with instructions to seek out suspicious behavior, Mr. Browne said.

“Stops declined after increased training and a decline in Impact staffing, but ultimately the number reflects suspicious behavior observed by police officers,” Mr. Browne said. “There was a period after the first quarter where staffing of Impact posts, which had been doubled, was lowered to address demand for staffing of regular precinct assignments.”
193 2013-02-09 Humor was not The Weather Channel’s intent when it started to give names to winter storms a few months ago. But humor is what it has provided — along with no small amount of controversy.

The channel bestowed the snowstorm that swept into the Northeast on Friday with the name Nemo, conjuring the image of the adorable orange fish from the Disney/Pixar film “Finding Nemo.” On Thursday and Friday, the jokes were flying as fast as the snow was forecast to fall. “They have named this new nor’easter Nemo. I am not looking for it,” the actor and comedian Albert Brooks — who supplied the voice of Nemo’s dad, Marlin — wrote on Twitter.

Many reporters and weather experts rolled their eyes at the name, just as they did when the channel’s storm-naming plan was announced in October. The common criticism is that it is a marketing ploy. The National Weather Service seems to agree; it has advised its forecasters not to follow the channel’s lead, and a spokesman said it had never named winter storms and had no plans to do so. (The New York Times advises reporters not to use the names in storm coverage.)

But the name game was catching on, as evidenced by the government officials, news media outlets and airlines that published advisories using the name. “We’re ready for Nemo,” the Twitter account for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, asserted on Thursday before listing all of the snow-removal tools at the city’s disposal.

Viewers and Web users seem to be playing along, too. Nemo was one of the top nationwide trends on Twitter on Friday.

“The fact is that Twitter needs a hashtag,” said Bryan Norcross, the Weather Channel meteorologist who helped conceive the storm-naming system. The main rationale for naming, he said, is to help raise awareness about the dangers of storms.

The name Nemo in Latin means “no one” or “no man.” Mr. Norcross said that derivation, not “Finding Nemo,” was part of the inspiration for the name, along with the Jules Verne character Captain Nemo from “Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.”
194 2013-02-09 Photographs recently released by the Yemeni government suggest that an interdiction last month by the United States Navy and Yemen’s security forces seized a class of shoulder-fired antiaircraft missiles not publicly known to have been out of state control.

Such missiles, in the hands of militants, would pose new threats to military and commercial aviation and would mark an escalation in illegal arms trafficking in the Arabian Peninsula. Yemen has asserted that the missiles were bound for rebels in the country’s northwestern frontier, and both the United States and Yemen have suggested that the shipment may have come from Iran.

The missiles were displayed this week to journalists in Yemen, along with other weapons and military equipment that the Yemeni authorities said had been seized from the Jeehan 1, a dhow that was boarded at sea on Jan. 23.

The photographs and accompanying video images are grainy, but they show either modern Chinese- or Iranian-made heat-seeking missiles in their standard packaging. The weapons are of a class known as Manpads, for man-portable air-defense systems, of which the best known example is the American-made Stinger.

Matthew Schroeder, an analyst who follows missile proliferation for the Federation of American Scientists in Washington and the Small Arms Survey in Geneva, said that while a definitive identification was not yet possible from the information released, the missiles appeared to be either QW-1M missiles from China or Misagh-2 missiles from Iran.
195 2013-02-09 The Obama administration will not allow Mississippi to run its own health insurance exchange because of a disagreement between Gov. Phil Bryant and Mike Chaney, the state’s insurance commissioner. Mr. Chaney had been planning a state-based exchange over the objections of Mr. Bryant, a fellow Republican. But federal officials decided it was not feasible without Mr. Bryant’s cooperation. The alternatives are for the federal government to run an exchange for Mississippi or to run one jointly with the state. President Obama’s health care law requires all states to have exchanges — online markets where people can shop for private health insurance and seek federal subsidies to help pay for it — by January 2014.
196 2013-02-09 Re “Weighing the End of Life,” by Louise Aronson (Sunday Review, Feb. 3): As a nurse practitioner who cares for our elders and has three black Labradors, including one of geriatric age named Golda, I read this article about the end of life for dogs with interest.

I often remark that our pets have a blessing in their options for passing from this life that our human patients do not have. Recognizing the sign posts and signals that our loved ones (both human and pets) send to us requires sensitivity and a listening ear.

My dogs have never spoken to me in English, but I hope that I hear their wishes when the time comes.

I listen hard with my patients. Hearing and listening are our final gift of comfort and respect to both.
197 2013-02-09 Take the quote above about swingin’ girls, in which the Duke discusses his philosophy of seduction in the aria “Questa o quella.” The Italian literally reads, “I would defy even the hundred eyes of Argus if a beautiful woman strikes me.”

The subtitles also use words and phrases like “yikes,” “get a load of the new dupe,” “jackpot,” “pack of lousy, rotten rats,” “home run” and “dreamboat,” none of which, it is safe to say, would have been uttered by Verdi or Piave. The Count of Monterone, who appears in traditional Arab robes to deliver his curse, is called “Your Sheikness.” “Signor” becomes “big shot,” “bella” becomes “knockout,” “fool” becomes “funnyman” or “jerk.”

At the dramatic climax, when Rigoletto thinks he is standing before the Duke’s body (alas, it is that of his daughter, Gilda), he declares in Italian that his nemesis “lies at my feet.” The Met title has Rigoletto say, “And now I’m the headliner!”

The orchestra plays the notes as Verdi wrote them, and the singers sing Piave’s original words. But the English-speaking audience member reading the titles gains a very different impression of Piave’s language.

The opera’s creative team says the titles are simply an extension of the opera’s updated setting.

“In terms of the tone, we wanted to capture some of that ‘bada-bing,’ that sort of swinging, Rat Pack ‘Fly Me to the Moon’ language,” Mr. Mayer said. “Why not make it as fresh and relevant to what’s happening visually as possible? The fewer disconnects the better.”

Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, pointed out that titles have always been loosely rendered, omitting words or changing elements mentioned in the original libretto.

The goal is clarity and coherent storytelling, he said, especially when an opera’s setting has been so drastically changed. “You’re obliged to have the titles go along,” he said. “Otherwise you pull the rug out from under the change of setting.”

J. D. McClatchy, a poet, librettist and sometime Met title maker, said that once a director sets the course, there is no choice but to follow. “That’s what makes me very nervous about directors,” he said, speaking in general terms, “that they will change things to suit themselves, rather than the text they’ve been given to interpret.”

Paul Cremo, the Met dramaturge and the man who oversees the titles, said that updating 19th-century language was a delicate balancing act. Titles should not wander too far from “what’s actually being said,” he added, yet convey meaning quickly as the opera train rushes on, match the production’s style and present the essential meaning of the text.

“It’s an exercise in minimalism,” he said.

For “Rigoletto,” Spanish and German versions are also available, as well as a straight Italian condensation reflecting the more archaic original. (Italian is now included for Italian operas, thanks to a request by the Italian consul, Mr. Gelb said.)

New York City Opera introduced projected titles to the United States in 1983, showing them above the stage. Twelve years later the Met installed its seat-back system. Now, the vast majority of opera houses in the world have some sort of titling.

At the Met, a cue caller watches monitors of the conductor and stage and follows along with an annotated score, signaling the moment for each title. A technician presses a button to activate it.

Michael Panayos is the house’s head title man. In the case of “Rigoletto,” which runs through May 1, he and Mr. Cremo took an existing set of “Rigoletto” titles and rejiggered them to match as closely as possible Mr. Mayer’s Rat Pack spirit. “It was like being in the writers’ room of a TV show,” Mr. Cremo said.

In “Questa o quella,” the Duke is a Sinatra-like figure delivering the aria as a lounge singer, holding a microphone and surrounded by showgirls. Mr. Cremo said he and Mr. Panayos read through the lyrics of Sinatra songs to find the right spirit.

Of the “Hop on, baby” couplet, Mr. Cremo said: “I don’t think it’s that far off. It’s a very hip, finger-snappy, Rat Pack way of saying it.”

Mr. Mayer said some tweaks were made after opening night, including cutting “Arab” from references to the curse to avoid distracting audiences from the general nature of the malediction.

Mr. McClatchy said he liked the “Rigoletto” titles but could not resist suggesting some tweaking of his own. “I was surprised the titles didn’t go a little further,” he said. “I would have called him Duke, not the Duke.”

And he suggested naming the seedy bar run by the assassin Sparafucile and his seductive sister Maddalena the “S&M Club.”
198 2013-02-09 “Joe has an uphill battle,” said Mr. Kalikow, a former owner of The New York Post. “I did tell him that.”

Mr. Kalikow, who said he admired Mr. Lhota’s decision to run for mayor, is a case in point: He has also donated to the Democratic mayoral campaign of William C. Thompson Jr., a former city comptroller, whom he called a “very good friend.”

Mr. Lhota’s résumé and his record in the business-friendly administration of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani make him a natural candidate of the city’s corporate and real estate crowds, long a reliable source of campaign contributions.

But Mr. Lhota’s Democratic rivals have made deep inroads with the city’s business community over the past four years, earning the good will — and campaign dollars — of many real estate and finance moguls.

In interviews, a dozen such executives expressed personal affection for Mr. Lhota but skepticism about his ability to win a general election. In the city, registered Democrats outnumber Republicans six to one.

The executives contend that Mr. Lhota, who has never sought public office and has relatively low name recognition, will struggle to distinguish himself given the spending limits imposed by the campaign finance program.

“Republicans in New York only win under special circumstances,” said a major developer, who has spent time in city government, and insisted on anonymity to protect his relationship with the candidates. “I don’t know anything that helps Lhota. There’s no crisis. The city’s not broke or torn to pieces by rioting.”

Mr. Lhota’s biggest hurdle may be the support already claimed by the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, a Democrat who has quietly become a fund-raising powerhouse in the corporate corridors by working closely with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and by taking a moderate approach to legislation affecting businesses.

An analysis of campaign contributions from employees of about 100 of the city’s most politically active corporations and organizations shows that Ms. Quinn is by far the biggest recipient, commanding 67 percent of their donations in the current election cycle. (Some of the donations are carried over from 2009, when she considered a mayoral run but opted out.)

For instance, employees of the Related Companies, a major developer, have given $40,050 to her, dwarfing the employees’ $3,450 in contributions to the second-biggest recipient, Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, another Democratic candidate.

Mr. Lhota recently spoke with top executives from Related, people told of the conversations said. But according to these people, the company’s leaders are loath to do anything that might alienate Ms. Quinn. She has even won the backing of several donors to Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign, who would seem to be ideological allies of Mr. Lhota. One of them, Ronald O. Perelman, the financier and chairman of Revlon, said Ms. Quinn and Mr. Bloomberg “made a great team.” He called her “tough, fair-minded and extremely competent.”

Another Romney donor, Randy L. Levine, the president of the Yankees, who served alongside Mr. Lhota as a deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration, has given sizable contributions to both Ms. Quinn and Mr. Thompson, citing his longstanding relationship with them.

A Lhota spokeswoman said his fund-raising was “on schedule” but declined to discuss it in detail. The extent of his fund-raising will not be known until he files a required report with the city in mid-March.

The candidate’s advisers are adamant that he can raise enough money to prevail in a primary and the general election, pointing to his deep network of relationships with business leaders; his ties to Mr. Giuliani, who has pledged to tap into his network of donors; and the track record of his wife, Tamra Lhota, a former Giuliani fund-raiser.

During a recent talk to members of a Republican club in Brooklyn, however, Mr. Lhota suggested that his wife would not join the campaign in a formal capacity, playfully bemoaning the occupational hazards of working too closely with a spouse.

So far, Mr. Lhota is eschewing big fund-raising events that might count toward his spending limit. Instead, he is favoring a few smaller events at donors’ homes and encouraging supporters to give online. He plans to hire Tamara Hallisey, a fund-raiser for John McCain in the 2008 presidential campaign.

Still, Mr. Lhota’s backers are leaving open the possibility that an outside group might form to bolster his candidacy.

Mr. Langone, who raised millions of dollars for Mr. Romney, said, “I plan to do everything I can to help Joe Lhota get elected, as long as it’s ethical and as long as it’s legal.” He called Mr. Lhota “a superb manager.”

On Feb. 22, Mr. Langone and Mr. Lhota will host a breakfast at the Harvard Club that is expected to draw donors and fund-raisers. Many of those attending say Mr. Lhota is singularly qualified to lead the city in the post-Bloomberg era, when they predict an uneven economy will test the city’s finances and public worker unions will seek to exploit close ties to Democratic candidates.

“I worry a lot about the fiscal health of New York City,” said Mr. Tisch, the head of Loews and an invitee to the Lhota breakfast. “As I look around at the group of people running for mayor, the person I think has the best capacity of dealing with these issues is Joe.”
199 2013-02-09 It may be no coincidence that the only analyst who even came close to calling the peak in Apple’s stock runs his own firm and is compensated based on the accuracy of his calls. Carlo R. Besenius, founder and chief executive of Creative Global Investments, downgraded Apple to sell last Oct. 3, with shares trading at $685. In December, he lowered his price target to $420, and this week he told me he may drop it even further, to $320.

Mr. Besenius founded his firm a decade ago after spending many years in research at Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers. “I saw so many conflicts of interest in trading, investment banking and research, so I started a conflict-free company,” he said this week from Luxembourg, where he was born and now lives. “Wall Street is full of conflicts. It still is and always will be. It’s incompetent at picking stocks.”

Since the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley, several studies have documented a decline in the percentage of analysts’ buy recommendations, albeit a modest one, while sell recommendations have increased. “Before 2002, analyst recommendations were tilted toward optimistic at an extreme rate,” Ohad Kadan, a professor of finance at Washington University in St. Louis, and co-author of one of the studies, told me this week. “That’s still true today, but it’s not as extreme. It’s a little more balanced.”

While investment banking conflicts have been addressed, “the most obvious conflict now is that research is funded through the trading desks,” Professor Gilson said. “If you’re an analyst and one way your report brings in revenue is through increased trading, a buy recommendation will do this more than a sell. For a sell, you have to already own the stock to generate a trade. But anybody can potentially buy a stock. That’s one hypothesis about why you still see a disproportionate number of buy recommendations.” That may be especially true for heavily traded stocks like Apple, which generate huge commissions for Wall Street.

But no one thinks conflicts alone can explain the analysts’ abysmal recent Apple performance. “There’s too much unanimity,” Bruce Greenwald, a professor of finance and asset management at Columbia Business School and a renowned value investor, told me this week. “That’s what’s so troubling. When that many analysts are in agreement, they can’t all be conflicted.”

He and other experts say there are additional documented factors that help explain why Wall Street analysts are so often wrong: they extrapolate from recent performance data; they chase momentum; they want to please their customers; and they show a tendency toward herd behavior. Which is to say, they fall into the same pitfalls that afflict most investors.

“Why aren’t they more sophisticated? You’d hope they would be,” Professor Kadan said. “But they always fall into the same traps.”

Professor Greenwald agreed. “When something goes up, they all put out buy recommendations. Their models extrapolate past performance into the future. They chase momentum. With Apple, they were right at $600, and they were right at $650, which reinforced the trend. So why would they be wrong at $700?”

Professor Kadan said that momentum investing has its adherents, and is often right, at least in the short term that many investors focus on. “You’d hope that analysts, of all people, would be able to anticipate an abrupt reversal, but they’re not very good at it. They loved Apple at $700. I’m sure they were trying to do their best, but they’re prisoners of momentum.”

Another factor is that analysts have a tendency to tell their audience what it wants to hear. “The analysts are in the end sales people,” Professor Greenwald said. “Their credibility depends on their not upsetting their investors too much. Everybody loved Apple, everybody did well. The bears were always wrong. It took an enormous amount of courage to fight the tide.”

Professor Kadan agreed. “Analysts tend to herd. There’s no big penalty if you’re wrong, because everyone else is wrong. You’ve got cover. You’re not going to lose your job. If you take a different opinion, either you get a big prize if you’re right, or you lose your job. An analyst needs to be really courageous to say something different from most other analysts.”

Mr. Besenius, the one analyst who downgraded Apple near its peak, said, “I’m not afraid to make big, controversial calls,” but attributed his decision less to courage than to survival. “I’m paid based on performance,” he said. “I have to go to my clients and explain why they should pay for my research when they can get it for nothing from the firms where they pay their trading commissions.”

Mr. Besenius based his recommendation on technical factors — as Apple hit $700, its upward momentum and trading volume were slowing — as well as more fundamental concerns about product quality and innovation, as well as growing competition from rivals like Samsung. And there were more subjective factors. Mr. Besenius said he became uncomfortable with what he deemed Apple’s arrogance. “I loved Steve Jobs,” he said. “He built a great company. But he was one of the most arrogant C.E.O.’s I’ve ever met. The way he introduced new products was one big display of arrogance. He ridiculed Microsoft as ‘Micro who?’ That’s a good reason to be cautious. A little humility is a good thing.” (An Apple spokesman declined to comment on Mr. Besenius’s observations.)

It galls Mr. Besenius that market regulators don’t measure the performance of Wall Street’s research recommendations, and he said he believed that they should require firms to disclose the track records of stocks their analysts recommend. “They’re not being held accountable” for bad recommendations, he maintained. “Little firms like ours have to be better than the big firms. We have to prove we can add value. Otherwise, we wouldn’t have an existence.”

Apple is only one prominent example of egg on analysts’ faces, and bullish Wall Street analysts were right for years — until they were wrong. Even today, analysts remain overwhelmingly positive about Apple. This week, 44 analysts rated it a strong buy or buy, although 10 now rate it a hold, according to Thomson Reuters.

Many brokers still rely on their analysts’ research, and offer the analysts’ reports to clients for guidance in picking stocks to buy and sell. But the Securities and Exchange Commission takes a skeptical approach. Despite the reforms it helped put in place, it warns on its Web site of continuing conflicts of interest and says flatly, “As a general matter, investors should not rely solely on an analyst’s recommendation when deciding whether to buy, hold, or sell a stock.” It notes that many brokers aren’t allowed to contradict recommendations from their own research departments.

Professor Gilson of Harvard said: “Analysts are like movie critics. Some are good and some are bad. I find some of them extraordinarily useful. I advise my students to look to them, but you have to read their recommendations smartly with a very critical eye.”

Professor Greenwald was more dismissive. “I never pay attention to them, “ he said. “When a dog barks, if the dog barks all the time, you stop paying attention.”
200 2013-02-09 “We still have a shot,” Mr. Brotherson said.

The SUNY vote, which was unanimous among the 12 voting members who were present, authorizes Downstate to present to the Health Department a plan for closing the hospital; the department will make the final decision.

But Dr. John Williams, president of Downstate, said Friday that “realistically we know as soon as word gets out today, patients are going to stop coming,” and that doctors and nurses who could find other jobs would leave. Nonetheless, he said, the hospital planned to maintain operations until the Health Department made a decision.

A state comptroller’s audit last month said SUNY Downstate was approaching insolvency and had $117 million in operating losses in 2011, of which $44 million was attributable to the acquisition of LICH, which had been losing money for many years.

Although the hospital is amid some of Brooklyn’s wealthiest neighborhoods, the area’s residents tend to favor hospitals in Manhattan, leaving LICH with a poor, largely unprofitable patient base.

A public hearing Thursday on the eve of the vote drew about 200 people and was dominated by union members. Opponents of the closing said LICH’s 50,000 emergency patients a year would suffer if they had to travel longer distances to other hospitals.

The nearest hospital, Brooklyn Hospital, is about a mile and a half away; New York Methodist Hospital is about three miles away; and Lutheran Medical Center, almost five miles away.

Studies suggest that travel time, and the ability of other hospitals to absorb the extra traffic, contribute to patient outcomes.

One study of heart attack patients from 1996 to 2005, supported by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, found a small increase in mortality rates when the drive to the hospital increased by less than 10 minutes. The study found “substantial” increases in mortality, especially among older patients, when the increase was more than half an hour. But most of the adverse effects disappeared after some period of transition, as other hospitals adjusted to the increased patient load.

A New York City study conducted in 1999 and 2000 found that overcrowding of emergency rooms led to more deaths in heart attack patients, from a combination of longer travel times when ambulances were diverted from hospitals that were full, and delays in treatment when the destination hospital was overburdened.

“We calculated about 80 more deaths per year from heart attacks, and as I recall Brooklyn was actually the borough that had the most heart attacks,” perhaps because the population was older, said Linda V. Green, a co-author of the study and a professor of business at Columbia University. She said that including stroke and accident victims could result in an even greater toll.

Dr. Williams of Downstate acknowledged that each minute indeed made a difference. “but the majority of people don’t live around the corner from their hospitals.” he said.

SUNY officials also denied assertions by hospital workers that Downstate wanted to close the hospital so it could sell its real estate for cash, though given Downstate’s precarious financial position and LICH’s prime location, seeking a buyer would seem to be a logical move.

“The answer is no,” H. Carl McCall, SUNY’s chairman and a former state comptroller, said Thursday when pressed on the issue of selling the property. “There is no plan whatsoever with respect to real estate.”
201 2013-02-10 Looking for a fresh start after a dismal exit from the postseason, the Yankees will open this season against the Boston Red Sox during the same day, and hour, as the Mets open their season at home....
202 2013-02-10 The popular annual issue will contain a style guide to help women recreate the looks in the magazine, and Target is a marketing partner....
203 2013-02-10 Army shades of green and khaki green are being paired with black and chic silhouettes on the runway....
204 2013-02-10 Prabal Gurung took the hybrid-boot, with its classic tassels, into edgy territory....
205 2013-02-10 Though the smart watch has been lost to science fiction comics and spy movies of a pre-smartphone era, such a device might soon become a reality, in the form of a curved glass device made by Apple....
206 2013-02-10 Rafael Nadal beat Jérémy Chardy, 6-2, 6-2, putting him in both finals of the VTR Open in Vina del Mar, Chile. Nadal will play with Juan Monaco in the doubles final Sunday.

¶ Varvara Lepchenko won in her Fed Cup singles debut to lift the United States to a 1-1 tie against Italy.
207 2013-02-10 In explaining why he chose to reopen Mr. Dorner’s case, Chief Beck acknowledged his department’s difficult history.

“The Los Angeles Police Department has made tremendous strides in gaining the trust and confidence of the people we serve,” he said in his statement, and he conceded that “Dorner’s actions may cause a pause in our increasingly positive relationship with the community.”

Mr. Dorner, who joined the Police Department in 2005, was fired in 2008 for giving false statements, after he accused his training officer of kicking a suspect. He sued the department for wrongful termination, and lost at trial and again on appeal.

The decision to review Mr. Dorner’s termination marks a reversal from the tone Chief Beck struck just two days ago, when he was asked about Mr. Dorner’s accusations of racism at a news conference.

“You’re talking about a homicide suspect who has committed atrocious crimes,” he said. “If you want to give any attribution to his ramblings on the Internet, go right ahead. But I do not.”

Asked about Mr. Dorner’s efforts to clear his name, Chief Beck said, point blank, “It’s not going to happen.”

Joe Domanick, at professor at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg Institute for Justice and Journalism, and author of “To Protect and To Serve,” a history of the Los Angeles Police Department, said that Chief’s Beck and his predecessor as police chief, William Bratton, had gone a long way toward repairing relations with the black and Latino communities in Los Angeles.

“The history of the L.A.P.D. with the African-American community has been so fraught with mistrust and abuse and hatred on both sides,” Mr. Domanick said. “Charlie Beck is a very savvy guy, who really understands community relations and community policing. Right now, it’s in his interest to quell these rumors.”

An episode on Thursday morning, in which two women delivering newspapers in Torrance, Calif., were shot by Los Angeles police officers who mistook their vehicle for Mr. Dorner’s pickup truck, made the need for Chief Beck to reach out to the community even greater, Mr. Domanick said.

One of the women, Emma Hernandez, 71, who was struck by two bullets in her back, was released from the hospital on Friday night, according to her lawyer. Her daughter, Margie Carranza, 47, suffered an wound to her hand. Chief Beck met with the two women on Saturday and told them that the department had arranged for the donation of a new truck for them, Cmdr. Andrew Smith said.

Their lawyer, Glen T. Jonas, said their pickup truck was hit with dozens of rounds, though he could not confirm exactly how many. Los Angeles police officers were investigating the shooting, officials said, and would not release details.

Police officials here on Saturday also announced the formation of a task force that will bring together officers from Los Angeles, Irvine, and Riverside as well as from the F.B.I., the United States Marshal Service and other agencies in the hunt for Mr. Dorner.

The search has already taken law enforcement officers from dozens of agencies, including from San Diego and Riverside and Nevada.
208 2013-02-10 The storm system that walloped New England has also aggravated the sea, placing much of the east coast under a coastal flood warning and inundating some low-lying areas....
209 2013-02-10 A Boeing 787 test plane flew for more than two hours on Saturday to gather information about the problems with the batteries that led to a worldwide grounding of the new jets more than three weeks ago.

The flight was the first since the Federal Aviation Administration gave Boeing permission on Thursday to conduct in-flight tests. Federal investigators and the company are trying to determine what caused one of the new lithium-ion batteries to catch fire and how to fix the problems.

The plane took off from Boeing Field in Seattle heading mostly east and then looped around to the south before flying back past the airport to the west. It covered about 900 miles and landed at 2:51 p.m. Pacific time.

Marc R. Birtel, a Boeing spokesman, said the flight was conducted to monitor the performance of the plane’s batteries. He said the crew, which included 13 pilots and test personnel, said the flight was uneventful.

He said special equipment let the crew check status messages involving the batteries and their chargers, as well as data about battery temperature and voltage.
210 2013-02-10 In other words, Mr. Perry got just what he wanted. The first part of persuading someone to move is getting them to consider that idea.

Behind the ads and the commentary is a serious competition between the states for economic pre-eminence. In that corner, Athens. In this one, Sparta. Each serves as the other’s foil, the Ali to its Frazier, the Moriarty to its Holmes, the red to its blue. Each sees itself as the economic, cultural and political engine of the future.

Over the past decade, Texas has been knocking the feathers out of the competition, adding jobs faster than any other state. That’s one of Mr. Perry’s brags, and it would have been a centerpiece of his 2012 presidential campaign, had he kept that effort alive long enough to need a centerpiece.

Not from Texas? Here’s one argument heard lately in California: Mr. Perry and Texas didn’t create all those jobs. They stole them. When Countrywide Financial (may it rest in peace) moved to Texas from California in 2004, Texas threw $20 million at the company, which in turn promised 7,500 jobs. Even the rosiest spin on that deal failed to add up to the number of jobs in the universe. It just relocated them.

You can put all of the eggs under one chicken, but that does not make that chicken the best egg-layer in the coop. On the other hand, it does make that chicken the one with the most eggs.

The governor versus governor and state versus state competition is a king of the hill thing, with winners and losers. For a national candidate, it is a harder sale to make, because a president gets blame or credit for the overall picture and not just for health in one precinct of the country. Both governors have been national candidates; Mr. Perry hasn’t ruled out being a national candidate again.

Maybe he just wants to make friends. If you had both states in the bag, you’d be the next president. It would be highly unlikely that a candidate could take Texas and California and lose.

But at the moment, it is highly unlikely that anyone could get them into the same camp. New friends or not, Mr. Perry would find the same stiff political headwind in California that Democrats face in Texas.

In his speeches, the Texas governor says other states — he doesn’t mention the big rival here — have been “trying to beat us at our own game” by, among other things, “aggressively courting major employers.”

Texas’ low taxes and regulations are in there, too — that’s Mr. Perry’s stock in trade. “We led the nation out of recession and into recovery, and remain the nation’s prime destination for employers and job-seekers alike,” he told lawmakers last month.

The Californian is good at this economic development thing, too. The state’s finances are getting better, and the economy there is improving more quickly than the national average. And he has a different audience, too.

Texans might be rooting for Mr. Perry’s marauding out West. Californians have to be cheering Mr. Brown’s unwelcoming response.
211 2013-02-10 In San Diego, property owners owe $630 million on a $164 million bond. For the Folsom Cordova Unified School District, a $514,000 bond will cost $9.1 million.

And in the most expensive case yet, the Poway Unified School District borrowed $105 million to finish modernizing older school buildings, which local property owners will be paying off until four decades from now at an eventual cost of nearly $1 billion. Because payments on the bond do not start for 20 years, current school board members faced little risk of resistance from property owners.

Still, residents and elected officials have expressed growing outrage at the bonds since news of the Poway deal was reported.

A bill making its way through the State Assembly would cap the maturity of the bonds at no more than 25 years and the total debt at no more than four times the amount borrowed.

“Right now, if they don’t have the revenue, school boards can say, Let’s just kick the can down the road 20 years and let them deal with it,” said Assemblyman Ben Hueso, a Democrat from San Diego who co-sponsored the bill.

Capital appreciation bonds have become especially popular in California and Texas, according to Fitch Ratings, which evaluates risks for bond investors.

Some states — including, until recently, California — have strict laws to curb use of these bonds. Michigan has barred school districts in the state from selling capital appreciation bonds at all.

But in 2009, as the housing market crash drove down tax revenues for schools and state education financing was cut, California lifted its requirement that long-term bonds be paid off at approximately the same rate each year, opening the door for bonds that delay payments for 20 years.

Tom Duffy, a former superintendent of the Moorpark Unified School District who now works as a lobbyist for the Coalition for Adequate School Housing, said long-term capital appreciation bonds offered school districts needed flexibility. He criticized efforts to limit them again.

“California school districts have a very limited number of tools available to them when it comes to financing public infrastructure,” he said.

The bonds let school districts embark on costly school renovations with minimal immediate pain for property tax payers.

A bond measure that Santa Ana voters approved in 2008, which authorized the district to borrow $200 million, has financed the replacement of hundreds of temporary classrooms with new, permanent ones. More than 800 existing classrooms have been renovated.

District officials had pledged to complete all those projects without raising property taxes further. To keep those promises, they had to turn to long-term bonds, said Michael Bishop, an associate superintendent for the Santa Ana school district.

Although the 2009 capital appreciation bond brought in only 17 percent of the $200 million authorized by the 2008 bond measure, it accounts for more than half of the total debt the district incurred. As a result, more than half the cost of all the projects will fall on the shoulders of taxpayers decades from now.

In addition, if property values do not continue to rise in the intervening years, as district officials are anticipating, future school board members may have to raise taxes to pay for 30-year-old classrooms.

Still, Mr. Bishop said, the incentives to build as soon as possible included low construction costs in 2009 and the promise of millions of dollars in matching money from the state that would otherwise have gone to other school districts. And future taxpayers, he said, will also benefit from the new classrooms.

“We are not financing a computer over 30 or 40 years,” he said. “We are financing buildings that will probably be operating a good 50 to 60 years after that bond was issued.”

As Mr. Lockyer sees it, the only people these deals benefit are the financial advisers, who have collected millions of dollars helping school districts sell capital appreciation bonds, according to the treasurer’s office.

Many voters — and even some school board members — said they did not realize when they supported the bond measures that they would be signing up for huge debts that local homeowners would still be paying off 40 years from now.

“If you asked the average voter,” said Assemblywoman Joan Buchanan of Alamo, a co-sponsor of the Assembly bill, “I think they would have no idea what a capital appreciation bond is.”
212 2013-02-10 Business owners had to start docking their employees’ pay, and their own, by an extra two percentage points on Jan. 1, when a two-year reduction in the payroll tax expired. They might also have had to increase withholding or estimated-tax payments to adjust for higher income and Medicare tax rates that went into effect that day for high earners.

Tax rates on dividends also increased for those with high incomes. That could affect owners of businesses set up as C corporations, who often extract money from their companies as dividends instead of salary, Ms. Barton said.

The higher rate on dividends could make a C corporation less tax efficient than a sole proprietorship or an entity like a partnership or a subchapter S corporation, in which income ultimately accrues to the owners as individuals. She noted, though, that this is just one of several considerations when deciding which structure is best.

“It might be better to have a lower corporate rate than a higher individual rate,” but with the changes made on Jan. 1, “the difference in rates could be only four percentage points,” she said. “You really need to think it through because there’s more flexibility with a partnership or some other flow-through entity. You’ve got to run the numbers to see what’s best.”

Several deductions and credits coveted by small businesses have been renewed, expanded or reinstated retroactively, said Carl J. Giardino, managing director of the tax group at the CBIZ MHM consulting firm. The amount of the Section 179 deduction, which allows expenditures on capital items like factory equipment to be written off immediately rather than depreciated gradually, has been raised to $500,000 from $125,000. The increase applies to 2012 and 2013 alike.

Bonus depreciation, which allows capital equipment to be written off at a faster rate beyond what the Section 179 deduction allows, has been extended and applies to the first $2 million spent, he said. Unlike the situation with the deduction, only new equipment — not used — qualifies for accelerated depreciation.

Two credits that expired in 2011 or were sharply curtailed, the Research Tax Credit and the Work Opportunities Tax Credit, have been brought back and made retroactive to 2012, Mr. Giardino said. The first credit is for 20 percent of research expenditure that exceeds a baseline amount or 14 percent using a different formulation. The second is for 40 percent of varying portions of wages for new employees in certain fields.

The Work Opportunities credit, which covers military veterans, workers coming off government assistance, and ex-felons, is useful for “almost any type of Main Street business,” he said. “If I hire 10 people and can put $25,000 to $40,000 back in my pocket, that’s significant” to a small business. “A lot of companies in the restaurant field were taking advantage of this. It really helped them stay afloat.”

That was until the credit was eliminated for all categories of workers except veterans last year, before the reinstatement. While he acknowledges the value of this and other credits to small businesses, Mr. Giardino finds the on-again, off-again situation unhelpful.

“We keep doing Band-Aids, extending credits a year or two,” he said. “We need some permanency with these provisions for them to become meaningful so that businesses can plan accordingly.”

Some intense planning could be in order as the Jan. 1, 2014, deadline approaches for important requirements of the Affordable Care Act. It could cost employers dearly if they fail to meet certain conditions, warned J. D. Piro,  head of the legal group of the health and benefits practice at the Aon Hewitt consulting firm.

A business with 50 or more employees who each work at least 30 hours a week must offer them health insurance that meets certain criteria. If it does not and if any employees get subsidized coverage at a government insurance exchange, Mr. Piro said, the business is subject to hefty fines. The calculation is tedious, but it works out to a fine of $2,000, times the size of the total work force — not just the employees who obtain an exchange subsidy — minus $60,000.

Businesses also face a penalty when the premium for the employer’s plan exceeds 9.5 percent of an employee’s wages and the employee decides to take an exchange subsidy. This penalty is $3,000, but is assessed based on the number of employees who get the subsidy, not the entire staff.

Even if companies manage to escape the penalties, Mr. Piro said, headaches may be unavoidable.

“Small businesses are going to have to conduct tests to make sure their coverage is affordable and to make sure they’ve offered it to full-time employees,” he said. “There’s a lot of work involved to make sure they meet these rules.”

Ms. Barton at Ernst & Young agreed. “A lot of companies of all sizes are grappling with it and are very ill prepared,” she said. “I’m really worried about small companies. They should do a feasibility analysis to see if their existing benefit plan is adequate and their employees are educated.”
213 2013-02-10 But my father also encouraged us to have broader horizons. I attended college at Catholic University in Washington and earned my degree in sociology in 1989. I played a lot of volleyball, and in my senior year I began working at a gourmet market on Capitol Hill. I liked it so much that I continued working there after receiving my degree.

In 1991, I decided to move back to New York and go into the meat business. My first job was putting together boxes. Then I was promoted to packing meat in boxes, which were then loaded into tractor-trailers.

One day, while helping pack meat in a box, I noticed that the delivery was running late, so I asked my co-workers to toss the meat to me faster. They threw a 30-pound roast so fast that I fell in the fat and blood. After that, I asked my dad if I could just stick to answering the phones, and he agreed.

My father trained me in how to buy and sell meat, and I had to learn to be a dogged negotiator in an industry that was dominated by men. One sister decided not to join the business, and my other sister is our bill collector — that’s also a tough job.

One thing I enjoy is the chance to visit some of our suppliers, who are located in Iowa, Colorado and Nebraska — something I like so much that I wear a cowboy hat as a tribute to the hard-working ranchers and farmers.

Last year, we started to sell to customers of Williams-Sonoma the type of prime, dry-aged steaks we sell to steakhouses. People can order our steaks and other meats from the online store and have them delivered to the door.

People are still eating our beef, often as a celebration meal. So to make it more accessible for everyday meals, I expanded our offerings in the New York metropolitan area last year to include natural beef, lamb, pork and veal under a new independent label called Suzy Sirloin. The meat, which has no hormones or antibiotics, comes in one-pound packages to make it easier for home cooks.

To keep up with industry news, and to offer recipes, health and safety tips, I started a Web site called the Sirloin Report. When I travel, I often promote American beef and its nutritional value. I earned a special kind of M.B.A. — a Master’s in Beef Advocacy from the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association — to help me be a better ambassador.
214 2013-02-10 Nature is firing a shot across our bow to direct our attention to the asteroids that make up the near-Earth object population. We should take the warning seriously....
215 2013-02-10 The tags can provide multiple screens of information. To reduce power consumption, Altierre uses black-on-gray liquid crystal displays, the same type used in digital watches and pocket calculators. The most generous thing that can be said about this type of display is that its legibility is satisfactory.

At Altierre’s headquarters, a full-size mock grocery store is set up with its tags installed on the shelves. There, I was surprised to find that the LCD’s legibility problems didn’t seem so significant: shoppers stand close to the shelves anyway. On some shelves, Altierre showed off an improved tag, at a higher price, that uses E Ink technology. Its text is noticeably crisper than that of an ordinary LCD tag.

I asked Sunit Saxena, Altierre’s chief executive, why grocery stores haven’t leapt at the chance to save themselves money by installing the tags. “They’re treading carefully because the fear is, they’ll put 30,000 of these in a store where people are used to seeing paper and it will be a drastic change,” he said. “They worry that their sales will drop.”

Digital sign technology is hardly new. In France, customers are accustomed to digital signs in grocery stores, where an LCD tag with limited display capacity has been on shelves for about 10 years, says Michel Itié, an I.T. consultant. It shows only the price and the price per weight, so it requires a separate paper tag to show an item’s name.

Many French hypermarkets, which combine grocery stores and department stores, also use the tags. Mr. Itié is working with a company that is installing Altierre’s technology for the hypermarket chain E.Leclerc, which has installed 300,000 new LCD tags in 10 stores and plans to deploy a total of two million tags by year-end.

In the United States, grocery stores still cannot justify making the investment in digital price tags, says Patrick C. Fitzpatrick, president of Atlanta Retail Consulting. “If the payback was advantageous, you’d see them everywhere.”

Stores are eager, however, to find an affordable way to reduce price-related errors. Mr. Fitzpatrick says that when grocery store managers conduct “price integrity audits” and compare price labels on the shelves with the prices in the store computer, paper labels are only 95 percent to 96 percent accurate.

“If you make 10,000 price changes and you have 1,000 stores, you have 10 million instances,” says Chris Donnelly, a managing director of Accenture who specializes in retail consulting. “Even if you get the right label in the right place 99 percent of the time, that leaves 100,000 misplaced labels.”

Addressing this problem helps make the case for digital signs that labor savings alone can’t, Mr. Donnelly says. Another advantage is the tags’ ability to provide multiple screens of product information. He gives an example: grocery store customers who have a gluten allergy could press a button and quickly see a symbol that shows whether gluten is in a particular product.

SO far, the only company in the United States that has adopted Altierre’s technology is Kohl’s, the department store chain. Last month, it completed installation of digital signs in its stores. It uses a large-format LCD screen that sits atop, say, a rack of clothes or on a countertop in the jewelry department, showing a description and a sale price. This allows the store to offer a discount without having to affix new price labels. A Kohl’s spokeswoman declined to say how many digital signs the company uses or how much labor they save. Nor would she comment about the legibility of the text on the LCD screen. In one Kohl’s store, I found the LCD signs impossible to read from an angle.

Mr. Saxena of Altierre says the LCD displays at Kohl’s serve a limited purpose, providing prices once a customer is drawn to a particular item. Attracting the customer is the responsibility of colorful paper signs that accompany each of the LCD rectangles. These call out “Sale” or other messages and can easily be seen from far away.

Digital tags look best when they remain small and are modest in their ambitions, like in a grocery store, where they are spared the burden of trying to be the visual equal of color on paper. Seeing thousands of them on shelves seems rather strange at first glance. But not so much at the second. After the third, paper price tags look as quaint as a rotary-dial telephone.
216 2013-02-10 The chocolatier Jacques Torres, who started Jacques Torres Chocolate in 2000 as a small factory in Dumbo with his business partner, Ken Goto, now has five shops around the city. Mr. Torres, 53, who grew up in the South of France, shares an apartment in Hell’s Kitchen with his wife, Hasty, 37, who runs a chocolate business in California; in milder weather, he spends as much time as he can on his boat, docked in Jersey City, near the Statue of Liberty. On Sundays, Mr. Torres rides his bike and his motorcycle, checks up on his shops and often cooks dinner.

GOOD CAPPUCCINO I get up around 7:30, 8 o’clock. I’m very serious about having a good cappuccino in the morning. I have an espresso machine at home from Krups. Between that and the Illy coffee, I get a pretty good cappuccino.

CROISSANTS AND NEWS I love to have the breakfast that we have in France, meaning I take my croissant or pain au chocolat. I will warm it up in the oven, so it’s very decent. Then I will check on The Times on the iPad. I have something called TV5; it’s the French news. I just scan that and finish my breakfast and then I’m out.

WHAT TIDE IS IT? It depends on the season, the tide, and the weather — am I going to the boat or am I just going to the park? I don’t think I will be able to take New York without Central Park. I used to Rollerblade, I used to run, now it’s biking. I have a carbon road bike called a Project One. It’s a very light carbon bike, and it responds very well.

ON THE HUDSON When the weather is good, the wind is good, then definitely I will go on the boat. I go with Ken, my business partner, and his daughter, Juliet. I love to fish. In front of the Statue is a reef called Diamond Reef. We drift there, and there’s a lot of striped bass. Even if you catch nothing, it doesn’t matter. You’re on the water, you’re in a magical setting, you see some beautiful boats around you, and this is New York. It’s one of the capitals of the world.

TOUR DE STORE I ride a motorcycle, so I will jump on my bike and ride to one or maybe two of my stores. I’ll do a tour of the equipment — it’s pretty fast, it takes 10 minutes — then I go into the store and have an espresso and talk to the customers. On Sundays it’s a different feeling. A lot of time, they come with the family. I give lollipops to the kids. I just love to do that.

SEAFOOD SELECTION By then it starts to be pretty late — 5 or 6 o’clock — so it’s back on the motorcycle, back home. I usually cook on Sunday. I like to cook anything; my repertoire is very big. I do love fish. If it’s not fish that I catch, then it’s fish that I buy. I love sea urchins. Lately the oysters are really good.
217 2013-02-10 The giant screen is the first hint. It is multiplex-size, slightly tilted, spanning most of the upstage wall at the Yale Repertory Theater, showing a rich blue Irish sky at first. Then there is the AstroTurf-like floor, rising to create a little hill, representing the greenness of the Emerald Isle. There are a couple of big klieg lights and a towering movie-set crane.

Marie Jones’s “Stones in His Pockets” can be produced with little more than a bare stage and a few hat changes, and it has been, in one regional theater after another. But clearly Yale Rep’s satisfying new staging is going for a bit more.

This is a comedy with a tragedy in the middle. And it resonates for American audiences even more now than when it won the Olivier Award, London’s equivalent of the Tony, in 2001. (You can tell its approximate age by one character’s reference to the 1995 incident involving the actor Hugh Grant and a Los Angeles prostitute.) “Stones in His Pockets” is about haves and have-nots, and the unfairness and hopelessness of it all, without painting the rich and powerful as complete villains or the poor and struggling as total victims in their own plights.

Our chief have-nots are Charlie Conlon (Euan Morton) and Jake Quinn (Fred Arsenault), youngish Irishmen down on their luck who have landed jobs (“40 quid a day” and free meals) as extras in a Hollywood movie that is being filmed in their little village in County Kerry. And it is not easy to be surrounded every day by so many of the more fortunate: powerful directors, arrogant up-and-coming assistants and real live spoiled movie stars. Mr. Morton and Mr. Arsenault play all the characters, from Caroline Giovanni, a famous American actress who has a habit of “going ethnic” (i.e., inviting at least one local man to her hotel room) wherever she is on location, to Tommy, who claims to be one of the last living extras from “The Quiet Man” (John Ford, John Wayne, Maureen O’Hara, 1952, filmed partly in Counties Galway and Mayo). Mr. Morton is particularly good as Caroline, conducting a thoroughly believable seduction and flinging herself onto the grass as if to make love to the land itself. Kind enough to send all the flowers from a wedding scene to a local funeral. Serious enough that when a young man tries to pass off a Seamus Heaney poem as his own work, she recognizes the lines and corrects his recitation. Clueless enough to have no grasp of the thoughtless way she may have contributed to a local man’s suicide.

Both men are strong, able performers. Mr. Arsenault, who was in the Broadway productions of “Born Yesterday” and “The Royal Family,” recently made his Yale Rep debut as Emperor Joseph of Austria in “Marie Antoinette.” Mr. Morton, who received a Tony nomination for his portrayal of Boy George in the Broadway flop “Taboo,” was also spectacular as the adult Tommy in the Who’s “Tommy” at Bay Street Theater in Sag Harbor, N.Y., a few seasons back.
218 2013-02-10 It’s a sad truth that there will probably never be a total eradication of child sexual abuse. And questions about how we should handle child-pornography offenders and compensate sexual-abuse victims are certainly important. But if we’re really so disturbed by these stories, the most critical question we should be asking — and financing ways to answer — is how to prevent people from becoming offenders or victims in the first place. JENNIFER BLEYER, on The XX Factor blog, slate.com

Articles like this have two effects.They alert the public to a serious problem that needs to be addressed urgently, but they also, unintentionally, multiply victims’ pain by reminding them of what they went through and telling them just how bad those experiences were — perhaps even worse than they realized — thereby creating additional, unnecessary pain. Such discussions should be left mainly between the victims and their therapists or closest confidants. DANIEL SALZ, Berkeley, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

I am a survivor of childhood sexual abuse, and I couldn’t disagree more with the idea that this type of article multiplies pain for victims or that these discussions should only occur with therapists. Public dialogue about child abuse is helpful to me; it lets me know I’m not alone and that my reactions are normal. It also raises awareness. It’s a myth that people can bury traumatic experiences and not have to suffer the consequences. Yes, we can disassociate from them for a time, but the effects are there. For most people, bringing the experiences into our consciousness and processing them helps. It’s painful, certainly, but with help and support, victims can recover and move on. KATHY, Minnesota, posted on nytimes.com

This is beautifully written and probably the most complete article on Cyril Ramaphosa ever written in the Western press. But unfortunately, Ramaphosa is corrupt. Not by taking bribes but by looking the other way when his companies are destroying lives. He has simply turned into another ruthless businessman who seems to forget how difficult it is for black Africans to engage in business. This is especially apparent in his dealings in other African countries. He can use his money and influence to buy all the power he will ever want. I am just not certain that South Africans will be better off for it. ROSE ENONCHONG, Douala, Cameroon, posted on nytimes.com

What South Africa really needs is strong political competition. I was disappointed when Thabo Mbeki was chosen over Cyril Ramaphosa, but I think the best thing for South Africa is a political opposition that can actually force the African National Congress to produce results in order to win elections. Jacob Zuma is a corrupt, incompetent joke, as is the A.N.C.-run government in general. I’m not sure Ramaphosa can change it from the inside. RR, Minnesota, posted on nytimes.com

In Kurzweil’s future, nano-computers seem to exist to help lazy humans rationalize their poor choices. Heart disease? I just eat what I want because my arterial plaque nano-Zamboni keeps my ticker clean! Cancer? No worries. I’ve got a bunch of nano-Red 5’s to take care of my Death Star tumors! The leading cause of death today is ignorance. What’s wrong with leading a happy, thoughtful, responsible life where proper nutrition, exercise and good friends keep you alive into your 80s and 90s? The real future should get us back to these past principles. DAN WOOL, Tempe, Ariz., posted on nytimes.com

Betty Friedan was hardly a woman “who kept writing freelance magazine articles on the side.” She was ambitious and becoming successful as a writer. “Bored out of her mind”? Hardly; not with three young kids and a tempestuous marriage. Her genius was to use her skills, her frustration and anger to relate to women who were desperately unhappy and to tell them that their problems were not as trivial as boredom. Friedan saw what was happening to American women, and she was determined to open American society to their talents and energies. DANIEL HOROWITZ, Mary Huggins Gamble Emeritus Professor of American Studies, Smith College, Northampton, Mass.
219 2013-02-10 The closest competitor to the iPhone is Samsung’s Galaxy. But the Korean manufacturer’s business model bears little resemblance to Apple’s. Samsung’s product line is extensive, and it spends a lot more than Apple on research and advertising.
220 2013-02-11 A controversial talk at Brooklyn College last week drew protests and veiled threats from politicians. They failed, and academic freedom won....
221 2013-02-11 Ms. White also disclosed that her husband would relinquish his partnership at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, converting his interest in the firm from an equity to non-equity status....
222 2013-02-11 Being physically fit in midlife is associated with a lower risk of dementia in old age, a new study reports....
223 2013-02-11 With children bombarded with advertisements all day, parents need to limit screen time and discuss the message behind the advertising....
224 2013-02-11 The wrist is not a scary place for consumers to add their first computer. After all, we’ve been wearing a type of computer there for decades: the wristwatch....
225 2013-02-11 Transcranial direct current stimulation, which uses a very mild current to stimulate nerve cells, has shown promise in several studies....
226 2013-02-11 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include a program from Raytheon that tracks people by mining data from social media, the entrepreneur behind Google D...
227 2013-02-11 The special effects company behind "Life of Pi' enters bankruptcy....
228 2013-02-11 Why the Violence Against Women Act presents a challenge for Republicans.
229 2013-02-11 Brooks Day joined the San Francisco office of DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as vice president for business development. He succeeds Laura Maness, who left, the agency said. Mr. Day had been director for business development, West, at the San Francisco office of Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Audrey Eden joined 72andSunny, Los Angeles, part of MDC Partners, as director for experiential marketing, leading a practice that the agency hopes to expand. She had been executive vice president for experiential marketing at Deutsch L.A., which is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Bill Fritsch joined Digital Kitchen, Seattle, as chief executive, succeeding Tim Schmuckal, who had been chief executive since 2007; Mr. Schmuckal is leaving to pursue other opportunities, the agency said. Mr. Fritsch has been serving as an adviser to Digital Kitchen since late last year, and before that was president of Hydrogen, an agency he founded in Seattle, and held posts at companies like Aptimus and CF2GS.

J Public Relations hired four employees and promoted two others. The newcomers are Katie Conway, an assistant in the San Diego office; Emma Hartland-Mahon, a senior publicist in the New York office; Kristin Hutton, a director in the New York office; and Kelsey Sharp, a publicity assistant in the New York office. The employees being promoted, both of them in the San Diego office, are a publicist, Stephenie Medina, who becomes a senior publicist, and a junior publicist, Kendall Trainer, who becomes a publicist.

Martin Laiks joined the New York office of Arnold Worldwide as executive vice president and group account director, leading the Sanofi account. He succeeds Ray Hilton, who left to pursue other interests, the agency said. Mr. Laiks had most recently been executive vice president and managing director for digital at DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Troy Longie joined Haberman, Minneapolis, as the creative director of the agency. He succeeds Ray Fesenmaier, who left, the agency said. Mr. Longie had been a creative co-chairman at Mono, Minneapolis.

Mediabrands, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, made several shifts in senior managers at large agencies that are part of Mediabrands as well as at Mediabrands. Jacki Kelley, global chief executive at the Universal McCann unit of Mediabrands, becomes North American chief executive and president for global clients at Mediabrands, a new post. Daryl Lee, global chief strategy officer at the McCann Worldgroup unit of Interpublic, will succeed Ms. Kelley at Universal McCann. Guy Beach, president for the G14 group at Universal McCann, takes another new post, chief operating officer at Mediabrands, reporting to Ms. Kelley. Jim Hytner, global chief executive at the Initiative unit of Mediabrands, becomes chief executive for G14 at Mediabrands and president for global clients, also a new post. Jim Elms, chief strategy officer at Initiative, will succeed Mr. Hytner there. Yin Roon Rani, North American president at Universal McCann, is being replaced by Sarah Personette, who had most recently been at Facebook as global agency team director. And Nick Pahade, North American president at Initiative, is being replaced by Peter Mears, who had been chief executive at Mediabrands Canada. Also, Gayle Troberman joined Mediabrands in a new post, chief marketing and ideas officer; she had been chief creative officer at Microsoft.

Stephen Paez joined Spark, Chicago, in a new post, director for multicultural. He had been associate director for strategy at the Chicago office of OMD, part of the Omnicom Media Group division of the Omnicom Group, leading multicultural strategy. Spark is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

Parham Santana, New York, a brand consulting agency, and Adweek, part of Guggenheim Digital Media, announced the results of an online poll to choose the best and worst brand extensions of 2012. The poll, which had more than 11,000 respondents, they said, is part of a reintroduction by Adweek of the Brandweek name, which will appear on quarterly editorial sections. The respondents voted for Nestlé Crunch Girl Scout Cookie candy bars as the best brand extension and Zippo the Woman perfume as the worst.

Publicis Groupe, Paris, is merging two of its digital agencies, LBi, which it recently acquired, and Digitas. The merged agency, DigitasLBi, which be overseen by Luke Taylor, who is chief executive at LBi, as global chief executive; Digitas has not had a global chief executive since Laura Lang left in late 2011 to become chief executive at the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner.

Radius Global Market Research, New York, opened three offices, all to be led by vice presidents. One, in the Chicago market, based in Deerfield, Ill., will be led by Kathleen Relias. One, in the Detroit market, in Royal Oak, Mich., will be led by Jeff Zboril. And one, in Princeton, N.J., will be led by Glenn Staada.

Jane Reiss joined Grey New York as executive vice president and chief marketing officer. She succeeds Michael Houston, who is now chief operating officer. Ms. Reiss had been executive vice president and chief marketing officer at NYC & Company. Grey New York is part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP.

Patricia Röckenwagner joined Condé Nast Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, as senior vice president for corporate communications. She succeeds Patricia Steele, who is now senior vice president for corporate media relations. Ms. Röckenwagner had most recently been senior vice president for marketing and communications at the McGraw-Hill Companies, New York.

Rokkan, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, is expanding for the first time in the United States by opening offices in Chicago and Los Angeles. The agency also created a post, executive creative director, and hired Brian Carley to fill it; he had been senior vice president and executive creative director at Saatchi & Saatchi New York, part of the Saatchi & Saatchi unit of Publicis, and before that was a creative director at Rokkan.

Sheira Rosenberg joined SMM Advertising, Smithtown, N.Y., in a new post, account supervisor. She had most recently been director for creative services and account management at the Cree8 Group, Melville, N.Y.

Diana Valencia joined Porter Novelli, New York, part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, senior vice president for multicultural communications. She had been senior director for mobile sales development at Univision Interactive Media, New York, part of Univision Communications.

Debra Wurzel joined Innocean USA, Huntington Beach, Calif., part of Innocean Worldwide, in a new post, new business director. She had most recently been senior consultant at the External View Consulting Group, Culver City, Calif.

Xaxis, New York, part of WPP, opened an office in Hong Kong, which will work with the Hong Kong office of GroupM, also part of WPP. Andy Chung will lead the new office as director for Hong Kong.

Yangaroo, Toronto, promoted an executive and hired another for new posts. Todd Barkes, director for product development, based in Seattle, was promoted to vice president for advertising operations. And Lee Salas joined as vice president for sales, West, based in San Francisco; he had been director for television syndication sales at Deluxe Media.
230 2013-02-11 A new paper released Monday puts a spotlight on an opaque medical system in which prices are often hidden from consumers....
231 2013-02-11 The Connecticut congressman who wrote a letter seeking a correction in the way "Lincoln" portrays his state's vote on the 13th Amendment says he was not part of any effort to help "Argo."...
232 2013-02-11 Executives at Samsung Electronics emphasize the company's market research and design processes. But the other crucial parts to the company's success are its huge investments in capital spending and marketing, far exceeding any other consumer elect...
233 2013-02-11 An analysis by New York City's Criminal Justice Agency found wide variations in whether defendants in felony cases are released at arraignment, detained until bail is paid or denied bail altogether....
234 2013-02-11 Slowly but confidently, Amazon is building a library of television shows and movies to rival that of Netflix....
235 2013-02-11 On Tuesday, the Op-Ed columnist Gail Collins will host a live discussion about the state of feminism at nytimes.com/roomfordebate....
236 2013-02-11 French leaders initially promised that the maximum number of soldiers would be 2,500. Now the figure is put at 4,000. And while the initial French military action seemed to claim dramatic successes, a resurgence of fighting in Gao on Sunday, follo...
237 2013-02-11 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
238 2013-02-11 Apple has never faced a challenger able to make a truly popular and profitable smartphone or tablet — until Samsung Electronics. Yet these two rivals could not be more different, Brian X. Chen reports....
239 2013-02-11 A Super Bowl promotion costs one business owner $600,000 in free furniture. Manufacturing surges, home prices rise, and Mark Zuckerberg offers lessons in entrepreneurship. Will you notice when the Postal Service stops delivering on Saturdays?...
240 2013-02-11 The two-time world champion Mao Asada won figure skating’s Four Continents title in Osaka, Japan, leading a Japanese sweep.

¶ Lindsey Vonn had surgery on her right knee. She tore two ligaments during a crash last week.
241 2013-02-11 Hoping to turn around their fortunes, the Mets will open their season at home on April 1 against the San Diego Padres - the same day and hour as the Yankees at home....
242 2013-02-11 Over the years, several Air Force officials have been investigated for withholding evidence — wiping clean flight tracks and radar scans — and four generals were tried on charges of treason and obstructing investigations. But no one has been convicted.

In this hothouse atmosphere, it is not surprising that conspiracy theories have proliferated over the years. The crash has been blamed on U.F.O.’s (several Web sites subscribe to this reconstruction) or domestic terrorism (the Bologna train station was bombed not five weeks later, killing 85 and wounding dozens more). In this scenario, the plane went down after a bomb exploded onboard, most likely in the toilet.

The missile theory gained a new impetus in 2008 when Francesco Cossiga, the prime minister at the time of the Ustica affair, said in an interview that the flight had been shot down by French military planes. Mr. Cossiga did not provide further details, nor can he. He died in 2010, at age 82.

Cover-up theories have been fueled through the years by what news reports have described as a “suspiciously high mortality” among military personnel and others connected to the case. (Mr. Cossiga is not included among them.)

Through traffic accidents, shooting deaths and suicides by hanging, there were 36 untimely deaths by 2011, according to a television report about Ustica. The program also cited a number of “bizarre accidents” that befell Ustica witnesses, like being run over by a tricycle and slipping on a banana peel in a Rome subway station.

“What terrifying truth warranted a cover-up at the cost of the lives of all these people?” asked the show’s host, Adam Kadmon, who plays a mysterious masked vigilante who investigates topics like Ustica, underskin microchip implants and, more recently, Michael Jackson’s prophecy about Sept. 11, and favors the French missile theory.

At the time, proponents say, Italy was covertly allowing Libyan aircraft to fly through its airspace undisturbed. They did so by gliding in the slipstream of Italian domestic aircraft, where they could not be detected by radar. On the night of June 27, 1980, there were unsubstantiated reports that Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was on one of those planes, the theory goes, and French forces tried to shoot it down to kill the Libyan leader, but hit the DC-9 by mistake. Don’t ask why. It has to do with rebels in North Africa and jockeying for oil concessions between Italy and France.

But Colonel Qaddafi had been warned of the plan and never boarded his plane, according to this reconstruction, which also says the pilot made a successful emergency landing at sea. There, a British submarine reached it and deployed scuba divers to plant explosives to sink the plane and to silence potential witnesses to the assassination attempt.

One hypothesis, detailed by an investigative journalist, Claudio Gatti, holds that the plane was shot down by Israeli forces that mistook it for a plane carrying enriched uranium earmarked for Iraq. “No country would attack in the Mediterranean for anything but extraordinary reasons,” and Israel “had that reason,” Mr. Gatti said. “It’s the only scenario that makes sense.”

The Western warplane scenario has gathered weight through the years, as Italian prosecutors disclosed that several NATO planes were flying in the same airspace that night.

But the dynamics of the grisly accident are still hypothetical. Was there a near collision with the DC-9? Was there a dogfight between NATO aircraft and Libyan jets (a theory substantiated, for some, by the recovery three weeks later of the wreckage of a Libyan MIG fighter in the remote Calabrian countryside)? Was the missile fired from a launcher based on land or sea, specifically from the French aircraft carrier Clemenceau or the United States aircraft carrier Saratoga? (The United States military denies any involvement.)

“We’ve known since the judicial inquiry issued in 1999 that a missile was involved, but the perpetrators are still missing. We don’t know which country shot it,” said Daria Bonfietti, who heads the association of families of the victims that has relentlessly spurred the justice system to pursue the case. The truth lies under an elaborate cover-up, she said, one in which “everyone has something to lose.”

Prosecutors in Rome are still pursuing the Ustica affair. Several international rogatorie — legal requests for information — have since been sent to Belgium, France, Germany and the United States, but responses have been slow in coming, leading the victims’ families to accuse those countries of dragging their feet.

Prosecutors say there are no time limits to such requests, which “depend solely on the collaboration that countries see fit to give,” said Erminio Amelio, one of the prosecutors currently leading the criminal investigation, which has passed through various hands over three decades.

Even though much has changed since that night in the Mediterranean almost 33 years ago — like, for instance, the end of the cold war — official sensitivities are still high, and no one expects any of the governments thought to be involved to come clean anytime soon.

“This is an incredible story, where a series of colossal lies have been told,” Mr. Purgatori, the investigative reporter, said.
243 2013-02-11 Over in Queens, the Mets will host the San Diego Padres in what some will liken to a junior varsity event. The idea that the Mets, usually an afterthought in New York, will have to vie for attention with the Yankees isn’t one either team relishes, especially the Mets.

“Nobody is particularly happy about it,” said Katy Feeney, Major League Baseball’s senior vice president for scheduling and club relations. “But it’s unlikely to happen again anytime soon.”

Normally, the Yankees and the Mets do not play at home at the same time, on opening day or otherwise. There have been the occasional series when both have played in New York at the same time, including last season.

According to Feeney, the simultaneous home openers resulted from several factors. First, this is the first year with two leagues of 15 teams each and the first year there will be an interleague game nearly every day, causing some scheduling difficulties. That trend starts with the Los Angeles Angels visiting the Cincinnati Reds on April 1 for the first interleague opening day game.

The Mets-Yankees situation was also caused by a change in the date of the All-Star Game, which is normally the second Tuesday in July. This season it is scheduled for July 16, the third Tuesday of the month, and when every other factor was taken into account, the only way to make it all work was to have the Mets and the Yankees play at home on the same day, Feeney said.

The last time two New York teams opened their seasons at home on the same day was in 1956, when the New York Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers did so. In those days, with three teams in the city, it was much more common. And so on April 17, 1956, the Dodgers lost to the Phillies, 8-6, at Ebbets Field and the Giants beat the Pirates, 4-3 at the Polo Grounds.

Feeney was not positive, but she said she thought she was at that game at the Polo Grounds because her father, Charles Feeney, known as Chub, was the Giants’ head of baseball operations, and most opening days were a free pass to leave school and head to Coogan’s Bluff.

So, what is a New Yorker to do?

Michael R. Bloomberg already has a plan for his final opening day as mayor. He will attend both games, according to his spokesman, Marc LaVorgna. No word on which game Bloomberg, who grew up outside Boston, plans to attend first. Maybe it will depend on whether either team asks him to throw out the first pitch.

For those who have experienced both opening days as a player, it is hard to say which would be better. Darryl Strawberry, one of the best position players to wear both uniforms, said that picking one would be too tough.

“I wouldn’t be able to choose,” he said. “I think that’s a day for a fan to stay home and watch on TV and switch back and forth.”

Sounds like a plan. Unless it snows.
244 2013-02-11 Last Wednesday, Mr. Galvin’s office ordered one of the nation’s largest brokerage firms, LPL Financial, to pay $2.5 million for improperly selling the real estate bundles, known as nontraded REITs, or real estate investment trusts, to hundreds of state residents from 2006 to 2009, in some cases overloading clients’ accounts with them.

LPL said it agreed, as part of the settlement, to reform its process for selling such alternative investments.

There are few good statistics on the extent of the problem nationally. But cases are mounting in the offices of regulators like A. Heath Abshure, the securities commissioner in , where a majority of the 66 open securities cases involve complex investments sold to less sophisticated investors looking for a steady return.

J. Bradley Bennett, chief of enforcement at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra, Wall Street’s self-regulatory group, said that for the last two years, 10 staff members have looked at the “proliferation of these products, to understand how they are being sold.”

“It’s got our attention,” he said. “We recognize the trends.”

Brokers promoting bad investments to unsophisticated investors is nothing new. But while the easy prey used to be people looking to get rich quick, the pool has widened to include savers looking for ways to earn the kind of income once reliably available from traditional investments.

Regulators are warning investors that the dangers are unlikely to recede, given the Federal Reserve’s pledge to keep interest rates near zero and the push among financial firms to earn more revenue from so-called alternative investments marketed to retail investors. Brokers are eager to sell these investments because they often bring in higher commissions than standard mutual funds and stocks.

The money that retail investors have in alternative investments in the United States, ranging from baskets of commodities to mutual funds that employ sophisticated trading, more than doubled from 2008 to 2012, to $712 billion from $312 billion, according to McKinsey & Company. Many of the products hold out the promise of higher returns while ostensibly being immune to the volatility of stock markets.

The phenomenon of investors’ actively moving money in pursuit of higher interest rates, known as chasing yield, is reverberating through the economy. Jeremy C. Stein, a Federal Reserve governor, said in a speech on Thursday that he worried that investors desperate for yield could be creating a bubble in widely available investments like junk bonds.

Mary Beck, a furniture business consultant in , Calif., said that in 2008, as the stock investments in her husband’s began to fall quickly, the couple moved $470,000 to a new product recommended by their broker.

While the offering was unfamiliar — part ownership in a fleet of luxury cars — Ms. Beck bought the pitch because her broker had been around for years, and the product offered what seemed to be a modest annual interest rate of 7 percent.

“We knew that 12 percent wasn’t realistic, but 7 percent seemed realistic,” Ms. Beck said. “To us, it was a very conservative way to ensure that we’d increase our savings.”

Soon after they stopped receiving interest payments, the Becks lost their money when the venture went bankrupt in 2012. Ms. Beck and her husband have been reconfiguring their retirement and are planning to work longer.

Her lawyer, Andrew Stoltmann, is representing 10 of the broker’s customers, who have filed claims with the financial industry group, saying that the broker used their money on his own “exotic, opulent” lifestyle.

There is no agreed-upon list of the financial products that have caused problems for yield-chasing investors, but regulators say certain ones come up particularly often. Private placements, investments in largely unproven private companies, have been on the list of top enforcement concerns published by the national organization of state securities regulators every year since 2007.

Private placements are supposed to be available only to wealthy, sophisticated investors, but several loopholes, including relaxed procedures for verifying wealth, have allowed them to end up in the portfolios of less sophisticated retirement savers.

Gary Spiegel, 54, a woodworker in upstate New York, was persuaded to buy into three private placements after he grew tired of the volatile stock market and withdrew all of his money in March 2010. Much of that money, $100,000, went into a company that was supposed to produce a bilingual television show, “Hacienda Heights,” while paying a reliable 10 percent interest rate.

“The banks weren’t giving interest, and I was getting turned off by stocks,” said Mr. Spiegel, who says he ended up losing $318,000. He settled a legal dispute with his broker this month, just before an arbitration hearing.

Mr. Spiegel’s lawyer, Stuart D. Meissner, said that before the financial crisis, he never saw a client with a private placement case, but that they are now commonplace.

REITs have been one of the most heavily sold products because there are few rules about who can buy them. Popular for years, they used to come primarily in funds that could be traded on public exchanges. The hot new version — the type that got LPL Financial in trouble in Massachusetts — can be bought and sold only in private transactions.

The outstanding amount of such nontraded REITs grew to $65 billion last year, from $43 billion in 2009, according to Direct Investments Spectrum. The private nature of these investments has been advertised as a good thing, because it means they are less likely to move up and down with the stock market. But it has also made it hard for investors to value their holdings or to get out when they need the money.

In addition to the Massachusetts case, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority issued a $14 million fine in October against a big purveyor of nontraded REITs in the New York area, David Lerner Associates.

The group warned in January about one of the newest products being sold to retail investors: so-called business development companies, which hold the debt of small companies. Money in such investments grew to $4.5 billion last year from $8 million in 2008, according to MTS Research Advisors.

John Morgan, the securities commissioner in , said that based on the complaints coming into his office, the appeal of alternative products appeared to be undimmed. “The people that we talk to are just trying to find a stable source of income,” he said. “The promoters have found a sweet spot here.”
245 2013-02-11 COPENHAGEN (Reuters) — American regulators dealt a major blow to the hopes of Novo Nordisk, the Danish drug maker, for its new long-acting insulin Tresiba by demanding that it conduct additional clinical tests to assess potential heart risks.

Novo, the world’s biggest insulin maker, said the Food and Drug Administration had requested additional data from a dedicated cardiovascular outcomes trial before it would consider approving Tresiba and a related product, Ryzodeg.

The drug maker, which is banking on Tresiba to keep it in the lead in diabetes care, said on Sunday that it did not expect to be able to provide the data during 2013. Analysts said the F.D.A.’s stance could delay Tresiba until 2015 or 2016.

“They will have to make new studies and that will delay the launch of Tresiba in the U.S. by two to three years,” said Soren Hansen, an analyst with Sydbank. “It is a really bad situation.”

The setback for Tresiba, also known as degludec, is good news for rival makers of insulin medicines, including France’s Sanofi. A Sanofi product, Lantus, is under threat from Novo’s newer ultra-long-lasting treatment.
246 2013-02-11 A leading Republican senator said Sunday that he would block Senate confirmations of President Obama’s nominees to lead the C.I.A. and the Department of Defense unless he was given more information on the attack on the United States compound in Benghazi, Libya, last year.

Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a vocal critic of the administration’s handling of the attack, said he would use a Senate custom known as a hold to stall the nominations of John O. Brennan as C.I.A. director and former Senator Chuck Hagel as Pentagon chief until the White House gave him a full description of Mr. Obama’s actions during the attack on Sept. 11.

“What did he do that night?” Mr. Graham asked during an appearance on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” suggesting that the president could have intervened to manage the crisis personally.

“That’s not unfair,” Mr. Graham added. “The families need to know.”

Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans were killed when heavily armed Islamic extremist militants stormed and burned the compound.

“We believe the Senate should act swiftly to confirm John Brennan and Senator Hagel,” said Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the National Security Council. “These are critical national security positions, and individual members shouldn’t play politics with their nominations.”

A hold is an informal measure by which any senator may prevent a vote without having to provide a specific reason or even identify who he or she is. But it can be overridden by a vote of 60 senators.

Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, also on “Face the Nation,” called Mr. Graham’s threat “unprecedented and unwarranted.” He added, “I think it is an overreaction that is not going to serve the best interests of going forward, of the national security of the United States.”
247 2013-02-11 For many people, of course, there is plenty not to like. Michael Isikoff of NBC News obtained a 16-page white paper outlining when the government contends that it is legal to kill Americans who join Al Qaeda. His reporting helped make the drone issue part of the confirmation hearings, leading to this statement on Thursday to the Senate Intelligence Committee from Mr. Brennan, which sounded like a parody of Washington doublespeak: “What we need to do is optimize transparency on these issues, but at the same time, optimize secrecy and the protection of our national security.”

Congress, in spite of the pointed questions aimed at Mr. Brennan last week, has been remarkably incurious since the program began.

“Some 3,500 people have died in 420 strikes, and Congress has yet to hold a single public hearing on this issue,” said Micah Zenko, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “It has happened in the dark because we have allowed it to, and the press has far and away been the lead actor in surfacing this issue.”

Back in 2009, Jane Mayer did a deep dive into the issue. “It’s important,” Ms. Mayer said in a telephone interview. “After scientists working for America split the atom, there was an awesome new technology, and they had to come up with a legal framework to contain it. Drones represent a very big change as well, and there should be a lot of open discussion about defining the rules of its use.”

Most of that discussion has occurred in the press, not in the halls of government. An article by Jo Becker and Scott Shane in The New York Times last May revealed that the administration had a “kill list” of people who were targeted for elimination, often by drones.

Last week, an article in The Times by Robert F. Worth, Mark Mazzetti and Scott Shane pointed out that drones, which are held by the government to be instruments of precision, are often a blunt technology that sometimes takes out the very people the United States needs in places like Yemen.

If some of the news coming out of the hearings last week was a big surprise, it might be because people chose not to pay close attention.

“I think what you saw on Thursday,” Mr. Shane, referring to the Brennan hearings, said in a telephone interview, “is that people are beginning to realize that they have introduced this whole new way of killing people without public debate or pushback and the disaffection with the lack of oversight boiled over.”

The specifics of the drone program have been carefully shielded at every turn. In January a federal judge ruled against The New York Times in its effort to compel the Justice Department to disclose the memo that provided the legal justification for the targeted killing of Anwar al-Awlaki, a United States citizen who died in a drone strike in Yemen in 2011, without any due process of law. (The death of an American at the other end of a drone seemed to prompt a new level of interest and scrutiny by the news media.)

Even though the judge, Colleen McMahon, ruled in the government’s favor, she did not sound very happy about it.

“I can find no way around the thicket of laws and precedents that effectively allow the executive branch of our government to proclaim as perfectly lawful certain actions that seem on their face incompatible with our Constitution and laws while keeping the reasons for their conclusion a secret,” she wrote, adding, “The Alice-in-Wonderland nature of this pronouncement is not lost on me.”

A few things are at work here beyond government secrecy. Even though drones carry a payload of dark implications, they are positioned as an exercise in global hygiene — taking out terrorists a long way from here with very little risk. The government never wants to talk about drones, unless a high-value target is hit, in which case it invites the press in to watch the end zone dance. And could it be that because the keeper of the “kill list” was perceived as a liberal and had a background in constitutional law that he was cut some slack that others would not receive? Replace the name Obama with Bush and you could imagine the uproar.

“It’s worth noting that until last year, no one in the administration would use the word ‘drone,’ ” said Mr. Isikoff, who was quick to point out all the groundwork done by other journalists in advance of his scoop.

Now that the news coverage has finally goosed Congress off the sidelines, you are going to be reading a lot more about drones because it is, by definition, a story with a very long tail.

“We are in the same position now, with drones, that we were with nuclear weapons in 1945,” said David Remnick, editor of The New Yorker. “For the moment, we are the only ones with this technology that is going to change the morality, psychology, and strategic thinking of warfare for years to come.”

“But it’s inevitable that other countries — including countries that are hardly American allies — will follow. Then what?” he said. “We want to have it both ways: to be rid of terrorist threats without going to war in the old way, and not to have to think about the ramifications.”
248 2013-02-11 If you’d like to know why Republicans are trying to shut down the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, take a look at three things the agency has already accomplished in its first 18 months:

¶It called a halt to predatory practices by mortgage lenders, ensuring that borrowers are not saddled with loans they can’t afford and preventing brokers from earning higher commissions for higher interest rates.

¶It won an $85 million settlement from American Express, which it accused of deceptive and discriminatory marketing and billing practices.

¶It opened an investigation into questionable marketing practices by banks and credit card companies on college campuses, which often take place after undisclosed financial arrangements are made with universities.

The consumer bureau has taken seriously its mandate to protect the public from the kinds of abuses that helped lead to the 2009 recession, and it has not been intimidated by the financial industry’s army of lobbyists. That’s what worries Republicans. They can’t prevent the bureau from regulating their financial supporters. Having failed to block the creation of the bureau in the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform bill, they are now trying to take away its power by , and they may well succeed.

The bureau cannot operate without a director. Under the Dodd-Frank law, most of its regulatory powers — particularly its authority over nonbanks like finance companies, debt collectors, payday lenders and agencies — can be exercised only by a director. Knowing that, Republicans used a filibuster to prevent ’s nominee for director, , from reaching a vote in 2011. Mr. Obama then gave Mr. Cordray a , but a federal appeals court recently ruled in another case that the Senate was not in recess at that time because Republicans had arranged for sham sessions.

That opinion, if upheld by the , is likely to apply to Mr. Cordray as well, which could invalidate the rules the bureau has already enacted. The president has renominated Mr. Cordray, but Republicans have made it clear that they will continue to filibuster, using phony arguments to keep the agency from operating.
249 2013-02-11 Here in Montana, a state that backed in 2008 and Mr. Romney last year, voters under 30 have helped elect two Democratic senators and a new Democratic governor. Nationally, young voters have since 2004 been casting their ballots for Democrats by far wider margins than previous young generations — a shift that could reshape American politics for decades.

Under-30 voters are “the only age group in which a majority said the government should do more to fix problems,” the nonpartisan reported in November. In a Pew survey a year earlier, more than 8 in 10 said they believed that and Medicare had been good for the country, and they were especially supportive of seeing the programs overhauled so they would be intact when they retire. (Young people were also more open than their elders to privatizing the programs.)

And while Washington fights about how to cut the federal deficit, young voters believe that it is more important to create jobs, have affordable access to health care and develop “a world-class education system,” according to the Institute of Politics at Harvard.

Those sentiments were borne out in interviews here. When Forward Montana convened a focus group at a Missoula cafe to develop a “youth agenda” last week, the deficit did not register a mention. One attendee, Michael Graef, an 18-year-old who started a fitness business rather than attend college, said he rarely thought about the deficit.

“Education is top on my list,” he said. “If everybody is better educated, most of the other issues can work themselves out.”

Steve Bullock, the new Democratic governor, won after campaigning on a promise to freeze college tuition. Young voters also helped Senator , another Democrat, who narrowly ousted a Republican incumbent in 2006 and won re-election last year. Both times, polls stayed open hours past their official closing time to accommodate huge lines of students. Both times, Forward Montana ran huge voter registration drives — an effort that may “pay really big dividends” for Democrats in the future, said Christopher Muste, a political scientist here.

The victories rattled Republican state lawmakers, who are now trying to undo a Montana law that permits voters to register on Election Day. Republicans say last-minute registration creates long lines and confusion.

On campus here last week, dozens of students crowded into a stuffy conference room to hear Jorge Quintana, a Democrat and chief counsel to the Montana secretary of state, warn that their “voting rights are under attack.”

Nationally, voters under 30 accounted for 19 percent of the electorate last year, up from 18 percent in 2008. These millennials are by far the most ethnically and racially diverse voter cohort; whites account for just 58 percent of them, according to the Pew center, while 76 percent of older voters are white.

That diversity is partly why young voters skew liberal, said Scott Keeter, the center’s director of survey research. As more young people come of age, the electorate will grow more diverse. Unless Republicans break the bonds between Democrats and minorities, Mr. Keeter said, “this alignment is going to be baked into the younger generation.”

Kristen Soltis Anderson, who studies young voters for the Winston Group, which advises House Republicans, said her party ignores young voters at its peril. She sees “a real risk” that Republicans could lose millennials in the coming years.

So as Republican leaders focus on trying to attract more Hispanics and women, Ms. Anderson is urging them to develop a message that will appeal to the under-30 crowd by emphasizing nongovernmental alternatives to solving problems, as opposed to just limiting government.

“When you ask young voters what caused the recession, this whole idea that there wasn’t enough regulation, or it was ’s fault, is present,” she said. “When conservatives make the argument, ‘Hey, the government needs to get out of the way and let you make decisions for yourself,’ a lot of young people don’t have this idea of the government as a boogeyman. So it makes the conservative message less resonant.”

There is, of course, no guarantee that millennials will hold onto their current liberal tendencies. Studies show that voters are heavily influenced by the president with whom they came of age; the generation, for instance, stayed Democratic for decades, while many in the Reagan generation remained Republican.

But views can evolve; baby boomers, who supported big government in their 20s and 30s, have become more conservative over time, the Pew center has found. While today’s young voters are more likely to identify as Democrats than Republicans or independents, their ideas and philosophies are not quite fixed yet, said John Della Volpe, the polling director at Harvard’s Institute of Politics.

Here in Missoula, young people who voted for Mr. Obama last year said in interviews that they would be open to voting Republican, particularly if a candidate supports same-sex marriage. Young Republicans, too, hope their party will shift on that issue.

“The social issues are hard,” said Ashley Nerbovig, a 19-year-old who backed Mr. Romney. “It’s not realistic that you can be against gay marriage and .”

If the economy had been in better shape, she said, “I would have picked Obama over Romney for social issues.”

Mr. Della Volpe said he saw opportunities for Republicans in the future if they could rebrand themselves. Democrats, meanwhile, are looking ahead, convinced by the data that their philosophy — if not their party — will prevail.

“My analysis has been for a while that it’s going to come down to not whether the government should address certain problems, but how,” said Ruy Teixeira, a senior fellow at the left-leaning Center for American Progress in Washington. “We’ll shift from, ‘Does government even have a role?’ to ‘Given that government needs to play a role, what’s the best way of doing that?’ ”

He added: “I expect those to be the arguments 10 or 15 years from now. That would be a big shift, but I think it’s coming.”
250 2013-02-11 ¶Charles Schwab Corporation, San Francisco, chose the Los Angeles office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, to handle the creative assignment for the Charles Schwab brokerage firm, which had been handled by Havas Worldwide New York. Spending was estimated at $120 million and may be increased in 2013. Havas Worldwide New York, which created the popular “Talk to Chuck” campaign for Charles Schwab that has run since 2005, will continue on assignments like Active Trader. Havas Worldwide New York is part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas Creative, which is owned by Havas.

¶Sony Computer Entertainment America, Foster City, Calif., part of the Sony Corporation of America division of Sony, named the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe, to handle the creative assignment for the Sony PlayStation video game system, which had been handled by Deutsch L.A., the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spending was estimated at $50 million.

¶Hormel Foods, Austin, Minn., expanded its relationship with BBDO Proximity Minneapolis, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, by awarding the agency the creative assignment for the Skippy peanut butter brand, which Hormel recently acquired from Unilever. Spending has not been determined. When Skippy was owned by Unilever, the account had been handled by Barton F. Graf 9000, New York, which also handles other Unilever brands like Ragu and Wish-Bone. BBDO Proximity Minneapolis already handles Hormel brands like Jennie-O and Spam.

¶Spotify hired Droga5, New York, as its first creative agency of record as executives seek to increase awareness of the Spotify streaming music service in the United States. Spending has not been determined.

¶Giuseppe De Angelis joined MediaCom USA, New York, as director for visual experience, a new post. He had been principal at his own company, Purple Reel Productions. MediaCom USA is part of the MediaCom unit of GroupM, owned by WPP.

¶Anheuser-Busch, part of Anheuser-Busch InBev, signed an agreement with Justin Timberlake to work on the Bud Light Platinum beer brand. Financial terms were not disclosed. Mr. Timberlake, who is being described as the brand’s creative director, will appear in commercials and serve as an adviser on musical and cultural matters.
251 2013-02-11 That’s in stark contrast to the philosophy of Apple’s founder Steven P. Jobs, who rejected the notion of relying on market research. He memorably said that consumers don’t know what they want.

Nearly everything at Samsung, from the way it does research to its manufacturing, is unlike Apple. It taunts Apple in its cheeky advertisements while Apple stays above the fray.

And the Korean manufacturer may even be putting some pressure on Apple’s world-class designers. Before Apple released the iPhone 5, which had a larger screen than earlier models, Samsung had already been selling phones with even bigger displays, like the 5.3-inch screen Galaxy Note, a smartphone so wide that gadget blogs call it a phablet.

Samsung outspends Apple on research and development: $10.5 billion, or 5.7 percent of revenue, compared with $3.4 billion, or 2.2 percent. (Samsung Electronics is slightly bigger than Apple in terms of revenue — $183.5 billion compared with $156.5 billion — but Apple is larger in terms of stock market value.)

Samsung has 60,000 staff members working in 34 research centers across the globe, including, Russia, Britain, India, Japan, Israel, China and Silicon Valley. It polls consumers and buys third-party research reports, but it also embeds employees in countries to study trends or merely to find inspiration for ideas.

Designers of the Galaxy S III say they drew inspiration from trips to Cambodia and Helsinki, a Salvador Dalí art exhibit and even a balloon ride in an African forest. (It employs 1,000 designers with different backgrounds like psychology, sociology, economy management and engineering.)

“The research process is unimaginable,” said Donghoon Chang, an executive vice president of Samsung who leads the company’s design efforts. “We go through all avenues to make sure we read the trends correctly.” He says that when the company researches markets for any particular product, it is also looking at trends in fashion, automobiles and interior design.

Hangil Song, a Samsung product designer, described a visit to the Marina Bay Sands resort in Singapore, where he said he was amazed by the views of the sky, the cityscape and the water. He wanted to create an effect where water was overflowing from the screen. As a result, taps and swipes on the Galaxy S III’s phone screen create a unique ripple effect.

The genesis of the wide Galaxy Note phone reflects that same kind of consumer research. From focus groups and surveys, Samsung found that many respondents wanted a device that was good for handwriting, drawing and sharing notes. Asian-language speakers, in particular, found it easier to write characters on a device using a pen than typing. Those insights led to the Note, a smartphone that comes with a digital pen.

In courts, jury members have said some of Samsung’s research appears to comes closer to copying. Apple sued Samsung in Federal District Court last year for patent infringement and won a $1 billion judgment. One of the most explosive pieces of evidence was a detailed report breaking down each hardware and software feature of the iPhone and how each compared to Samsung phone features. Samsung is fighting the decision in court.

Samsung says studying the market helps it build confidence for the wireless carriers that its mobile devices will sell well. That, in turn, persuades the carriers to aggressively sell Samsung phones and tablets. “That’s kind of the secret sauce,” said Kevin Packingham, chief product officer of Samsung. (Samsung also spends heavily on advertising globally. It outspends Apple and Microsoft.)

Daniel Hesse, Sprint’s chief executive, called Samsung a “terrific partner” because of its willingness to work with the carriers on the creation of phones. For carriers, that could be a refreshing alternative to working with Apple, which completely controls the design of its iPhone’s hardware and software. “They work with the carriers, they want to hear from you what you want, they don’t tell you what it’s going to be. It’s very two-way,” Mr. Hesse said.

Samsung differs in one other important way. It remains a manufacturer, while Apple contracts out the assembly of its devices. Horace H. Dediu, a mobile industry analyst at Asymco, said that historically, it built its business around producing and selling components to other manufacturers, including Apple, Sony and Hewlett-Packard. While Samsung had been making and selling consumer electronics in Korea and developing markets for decades, these relationships taught it a lot about competing with — and beating — the biggest names in the industry. .

By working with so many companies, it gets insight into how to plan investments for successful products. And it can use the same resources to build its own products, Mr. Dediu said. This is why Samsung has long had a reputation of being a “fast follower.”

Apple has been one of Samsung’s largest customers. Samsung’s flash memory processors, graphic chips, solid-state drives and display parts have appeared in Apple’s iPhones, iPads and iPod Touch devices and MacBooks. But for some of its latest mobile products, Apple has been seeking other vendors like Toshiba, Elpida and Sharp to use their components instead.

Having worked closely with Apple and other companies for years, Samsung, which dedicated $21 billion last year — almost twice as much as Apple — for capital expenditures, can easily get a sense of how to plan production and distribution of a successful phone, Mr. Dediu said.

The next battle between Apple and Samsung is expected to be in TVs and wearable computers. Despite being labeled a fast follower, Samsung doesn’t appear to be waiting for Apple to make the first move in smarter TVs. Samsung is offering a box that people can buy to upgrade the speed and software of their Samsung TV, similar to the way they would get software upgrades for their phones.

This year, most of the televisions it is selling are Internet-connected and can run apps that help customers find what to watch. That’s something similar to what Apple watchers have been predicting for years from the Cupertino, Calif., company.

Mr. Dediu said that Samsung had made no serious investment in the “cloud,” where content is stored on remote servers and pulled from people’s devices over the Internet. The cloud could play a more crucial role as mobile products shift away from big screens toward wearable devices, like glasses and wrist devices, he said.

But then, the one thing Samsung may have trouble learning is how exactly Apple is going to swerve next.
252 2013-02-11 “It was just crazy, now when I think back on how insane it was,” Ms. Millich said in an interview.

If a Native American is raped or assaulted by a non-Indian, she must plead for justice to already overburdened United States attorneys who are often hundreds of miles away.

“Native women should not be abandoned to a jurisdictional loophole,” Mr. Udall said.

But conservative opponents say the Senate’s language goes too far, empowering courts that are not equipped for the job and depriving defendants of constitutional rights without nearly enough recourse to federal courts and no guaranteed protections like those afforded by the Bill of Rights.

“This is a bill which could do so much good in the battle for victims’ rights, but unfortunately it is being held hostage by a single provision that would take away fundamental constitutional rights for certain American citizens,” Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said on the Senate floor on Thursday. “And for what? For what? In order to satisfy the unconstitutional demands of special interests.”

The fight is pitting a dry legal position against an emotional and politically potent one. Native American groups and women’s rights advocates say they are not special interests. They are voters, however.

“Let’s just talk politics here,” said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma, who has been leading negotiations to end the impasse. “This will have passed the Senate. The president’s for it. And we’re holding up a domestic violence bill that should be routine because you don’t want to help Native women who are the most vulnerable over a philosophical point?”

Mr. Cole and another senior Republican, Representative Darrell Issa of California, have met repeatedly with Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, to try to get Republicans past the tribal courts issue. They have proposed extending Native American court powers but also offering non-Indian defendants a chance to appeal to federal law enforcement after arrest and after a conviction. Representatives from the National Congress of American Indians met with Cantor staff members last week as well — and they have backed the Issa-Cole compromise.

But with the Senate’s action, native groups say they will feel less pressure to water down the provision, not more. Jacqueline Pata, executive director of the National Congress of American Indians, said the tribes have tried to assuage Congressional misgivings, expanding financing and capacity, bolstering indigent legal representation, and changing rules to ensure that non-Indian defendants would face a jury of their peers, Indian and non-Indian alike.

At this point, said Ms. Pata, an Alaska Native, the opposition smacks of bias.

“When you see these amendments that give more rights to perpetrators than Native women, you start to wonder where the balance is,” she said. “We would give any other community in this country the resources and tools they need for justice, but we won’t give them to the Indians.”

Mr. Cole, whose state has one of the largest Indian populations in the country, agreed, to a point. He said some of his colleagues seem to “fear Indians are going to take out 500 years of mistreatment on us through this.”

“It’s that kind of fear, veiled in constitutional theories,” he said.

Republican leaders are eager to tamp down such accusations. Mr. Cantor took to the House floor last week to assure Democratic leaders that he cares “very deeply about women in the abuse situation, that we need to get them the relief that this bill offers,” and that he is even enlisting Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the talks.

But, he warned, “There’s been the introduction of some issues that are not directly related to the situation of domestic abuse on tribal lands.”

Advocates of the Senate’s tribal language — including some Republicans — say they are not giving up. Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, went to the Senate floor on Thursday to denounce the violence endemic in her state’s native communities, and to say she will urge the House to move forward.

“You don’t give up when the cause is right,” she said.

For Ms. Millich, the issue is very much alive. Her ex-husband is in prison, but she said she still feels the threat.

“It would be really good,” she said, “that regardless of where violence takes place, they’re able to be prosecuted.”
253 2013-02-11 Though the names of the dogs Moses will be sizing up at Westminster will not be announced until Monday, Moses is connected with many of the owners and handlers of the dogs who have qualified to show in front of him this year. Among his close associates is Jamie Clute, a handler who has worked and lived with Moses. Clute confirmed he would show at least two dogs in front of his mentor at Westminster.

“Everyone in the shepherd world has ties to Jimmy, so it takes the conflict away,” Clute said.

Separately, other dogs expected to show this week have bloodline connections to shepherds Moses has bred. One dog Moses showed to victory, Margarita Rose, prequalified to compete and was also scheduled to be in the Westminster ring, said people briefed on plans for the dog.

“There are few German shepherds in the country that are not connected to me,” Moses said during an interview at his house, on roughly 125 acres here, less than an hour’s drive from St. Louis.

He and his wife, Janet Lange Moses, live with more than 20 dogs, including Millie, a Shih-poo, a mix between a Shih Tzu and a poodle, whom they bought from a pet store. The couple’s home, replete with dog-themed wallpaper and mounted deer heads from hunting expeditions, is a shrine to animals. The reading material in their bathroom: The Canine Chronicle, a monthly magazine.

In a sport like figure skating, the judges might have a past in the sport but are not competing. The power players in the dog world typically make money breeding as well as handling and judging dogs in the same year, although not at the same show, creating conflicts that draw criticism from rivals. In the case of Moses, he is a divisive figure among German shepherd enthusiasts, and his detractors say he often plays favorites, giving a win to a friend when a better dog should have won.

Moses, 67, dismisses the criticism about him, saying people who think his connections have influenced his judging are “crybabies” with inferior dogs.

“I know 90 percent of the people who show under me,” he said. “How can you remember all that? If your dog licks you in the face every day, how can you be objective?”

Westminster judges commonly have breeding experience and deep connections within their breeds, the Westminster show chairman Tom Bradley said. Judges can and do eliminate dogs from competition if they feel they have a conflict, Bradley said. But he added, “Those situations rarely exist.”

The Westminster Kennel Club selects its own judges, but they are governed by standards set by the American Kennel Club.

“A conflict of interest exists when a judge is influenced by any relationship or factor other than the merit of the dog,” according to the club’s guidelines, which also say judges should “advise” relatives, employees and dog co-owners not to show in front of them because it “might give the impression of unfair advantage.”

The rules prohibit Moses from showing Captain Crunch. Another dog, Lakota’s Hitman of Cantar, qualified to show but will not be at Westminster because Moses’ former wife, Sheree Moses, is one of his breeders. Suzanne Berhony, one of the dog’s owners, said that no rule prohibited her from showing the dog, but that she spoke to James Moses months ago and they agreed in this instance that there could be the “appearance of a conflict.”

Although the dog show scene has been the butt of many jokes, parodied perhaps most famously in the 2000 film “Best in Show,” it is a high-stakes game for competitors like Moses.

During some years, he has spent almost 250 days on the road, he estimated, hoping to win enough local championships to qualify a dog for Westminster, a year-round effort called campaigning. Owners pour tens of thousands of dollars into the care, keeping, marketing and travel of elite dogs. Puppies sired by champions like Captain Crunch can sell for more than $2,000 each. This does not include payments to handlers, which can reach $125 per dog a day in addition to bonuses and expenses. Top handlers have been known to show more than 20 dogs a day. Some judges make $350 a day.

This competition is similar to the Miss America pageant, said Hal Herzog, a professor of psychology at Western Carolina University, who has spent time at dog shows for his research on the implications of shifts in the popularity of breeds.

“The judging is totally subjective,” Herzog said, noting that everyone in the dog world seemed to know one another. “But with Miss America, at least there is more than one judge.”

Moses has been surrounded by dogs his entire life. His mother bred miniature poodles, and his first German shepherd was a gift from his father when he was 9. He took the shepherd to an obedience class at the Air Force base near his home in Niagara Falls, N.Y., and soon found himself working as a dog trainer.

He was hooked. Too young to show dogs in the United States, where handlers at the time had to be at least 21, Moses became a fixture on the Canadian show circuit and was soon winning titles. He even trained one of his German shepherds to respond to hand signals, wowing visitors outside hotels in Niagara Falls and North Carolina as his father, a general contractor, moved from city to city.

“I would bet tourists $1 that I could do it,” he said.

He eventually gained a foothold in the United States and established himself as a successful handler, traveling with show dogs and showing them in the ring.

Moses received national attention in the 1980s, when Jane Firestone, the wife of Raymond Firestone, a former chief executive of the Firestone tire company, asked him for advice on showing German shepherds. Through Moses, she bought a dog named Manhattan, whom Moses handled. Manhattan won best in show at Westminster in 1987 and remains the only German shepherd to have won that title.

Mystique, another German shepherd Moses showed for Firestone, is the top winning show dog of all time, Moses said. When Jane Firestone died in 1994, she bequeathed Mystique and all of her other dogs to him, he said.

Years later, Moses found another wealthy benefactor when he began showing a dog for Andrew Hunte, president of the Hunte Corporation, a large puppy distributor. The company has been the subject of complaints that it has sold sick animals to unsuspecting customers, but it has previously denied those claims. A spokesman for the company did not respond to requests for comment for this article.

Moses defended Hunte. “I wouldn’t sell a dog to an attorney, but I would sell to Hunte again,” Moses said. “He is a good person.”

Still, Moses sometimes had difficulty making ends meet. In 1997, a fence company he ran to supplement his income filed for bankruptcy, Moses said and court records show.

In 2004, his American Kennel Club privileges were suspended for 30 days and he was fined $500 after “verbal altercations” at a dog show, according to A.K.C. records. Someone had bought a dog from his friend, Moses said, and the transaction ended in a shoving match.

“It was no big deal,” he added.

Within the dog world, however, his star continued to rise. In addition to being a force within the German Shepherd Dog Club of America, for which he is a director, he employs handlers to help him on the road.

“I’ve always looked up to him,” said Clute, the handler who used to work for Moses. “There isn’t anything he hasn’t done, and he is one of the most knowledgeable people I know in terms of getting into a dog’s mind.”

Still, conflict-of-interest accusations continue to follow Moses, who has become a lightning rod of criticism among some people who breed and own German shepherds. A number of individuals declined to be interviewed on the record for fear of retribution. Moses has been the subject of at least one complaint filed with the A.K.C.

The complaint, which was reviewed by The New York Times, said that Moses handled and had an ownership stake in a dog that was awarded best in breed at a show in 2010. Weeks later, according to the complaint, Moses showed another dog, which was bred and co-owned by the judge who had awarded him the best in breed.

A.K.C. rules bar judges from hiring handlers who have showed dogs before them in the previous four months, but in this case the club found the complaint to be without merit, according to the documents reviewed by The Times.

Moses started judging in 2011, creating new levels of possible conflicts. For instance, last May in Vallejo, Calif., he was the sole judge of a German Shepherd Dog Club of America show. As was the case with many other shows he judged in the past year, he had worked for some of the owners showing dogs in Vallejo, had bred dogs with other owners, and was Facebook friends with some of the winners he selected.

Abearcrombie, a German shepherd puppy owned by Gloria Birch and Cappy Pottle, did well that day. Moses has known Birch and Pottle for years. They bred Manhattan, the dog Moses was paid to show in the 1980s for Jane Firestone. Moses is featured on Birch and Pottle’s Web site for Covy-Tucker Hill German Shepherds, a kennel that breeds and boards dogs. The Web site said that Moses “trained, handled and showed” Manhattan “to absolute perfection.”

In another case, Moses previously acted as an agent for a dog that won a ribbon at the Vallejo show.

Moses conceded that while he could not keep track of all potential conflicts, his connections could come into play in exceptional cases.

“It’s rare that something is a tie,” Moses said, “but if it was and I was your friend, I would put you up. What are friends for?”

Dogs have been good to Moses personally as well. His first marriage ended in divorce, but last year he married Janet Lange, a breeder of champion poodles. She had inherited a fortune from her grandfather Harold Lange, a pioneer in refrigeration technology. But they are not the most prominent people in their neighborhood. The rock ’n’ roll legend Chuck Berry lives nearby. The couple said they had met him once, at a Chinese buffet.

Moses and his wife operate a state-of-the-art kennel on their property, which includes several lakes. Janet said the kennel, featuring high ceilings and containing glass blocks to let in light, was modeled after those built by Alyce Chester Kaiser, a poodle enthusiast and the wife of the industrialist Henry J. Kaiser. Four poodle statues are at the center of the circular driveway outside the kennel.

In their spare time, Moses and his wife hunt, and they have taken trips to Canada, New Zealand and Africa. He runs Dakota Outfitters, a 13,000-acre preserve for hunting white-tailed deer in Ohio. Its Web site features pictures of hunters, including Indianapolis Colts kicker Adam Vinatieri, posing with deer they have shot. The deer are bred at Dakota Whitetails, another company Moses operates.

As Moses talked, he thumbed through iPhone pictures of zebras, bears and antelopes he had killed over the years.

“Hunting is my true passion,” he said.

Moses said he planned to continue judging dogs but would show fewer of them while seeking more free time.

“You can beat a good dog,” he said, “but you can’t keep it down.”
254 2013-02-11 The musical world has changed surprisingly quickly since New Amsterdam, a vital composer-led record label and live-event presenter, teamed up with the Kaufman Center to produce the first Ecstatic Music Festival in 2011. The fundamental notion of the series was to facilitate and encourage collaboration among musicians with disparate styles, bridging art-music and vernacular traditions.

That idea anticipated a trend that has grown more widespread and pervasive. As Judd Greenstein, the festival’s curator, notes in an essay posted on the Kaufman Center Web page, “This development means that we don’t have to make the case for our principles anymore but instead are operating in a world that largely takes them for granted.”

Few of the fusions included in this year’s festival fit any definition of commonplace. But when the composer Sarah Kirkland Snider shared a bill with the genre-flouting vocalist and songwriter Shara Worden, the indie-pop singer D M Stith, the indefinable consort Clogs and Orchestra for the Next Century at Merkin Concert Hall on Wednesday evening, the mix was cozy and seamless.

This program — presented in collaboration with the WNYC radio series “New Sounds Live” and streamed on the Internet radio station Q2 — was a particularly familial collusion. Ms. Snider and Ms. Worden worked together on “Penelope,” a ravishingly melancholy 2010 song cycle. Mr. Stith has sung with Ms. Worden’s band, My Brightest Diamond. Ms. Worden studied composition with the Clogs violist and vocalist Padma Newsome. And the orchestra included players well known within New York’s highly permeable new-music circle.

What drew all these artists together was “Unremembered,” a new song cycle by Ms. Snider based on a sequence of 10 poems by Nathaniel Bellows. Initially conceived as a vocal octet, the work grew into an orchestral cycle tailored to the voices of Ms. Worden, Mr. Newsome and Mr. Stith, Ms. Snider explained onstage. Five more singers supported the soloists.

Performed on the concert’s second half, “Unremembered” reeled through elusive and evocative glimpses of a rural childhood among trees and ponds, with subtle electronics and sounds of nature linking the songs. Employing a broader temperamental palette than she used for “Penelope” Ms. Snider still showed a predilection for the wistful and melancholy. Again she made striking use of Ms. Worden’s distinctive voice, conveying innocence, ambiguity and insight.

The work attested to Ms. Snider’s thorough command of musical mood setting, organically integrating the structural economy and direct impact of pop songs with deft, subtle orchestrations that lent emotional gravity and nuance. Delicate sketches and animated videos by Mr. Bellows, projected overhead, strengthened a pervasive sense of memory’s mutability. The orchestra, conducted by Gary M. Schneider, played with sensitivity and expressiveness.
255 2013-02-11 In addition to its birthday, The F.T. can point to several other recent or pending milestones.

Last year the number of digital subscribers, now more than 300,000, surpassed the print circulation of the paper, which has slipped below that figure. This year, print and digital subscriptions and sales are set to overtake advertising as a source of revenue. Mobile devices now account for one-quarter of The F.T.’s digital traffic and about 15 percent of new subscriptions.

The F.T. was one of the first newspapers to charge readers for access to its Web site, which it did in 2002. It revamped its digital business model in 2007, moving to a “metered” approach, in which readers get a certain number of articles free before they are asked to subscribe.

Since 2007, The F.T.’s paying digital audience has tripled, and the metered approach has been adopted by other newspapers, including The New York Times.

With print circulation moving in the other direction — last year alone, it fell about 15 percent — The F.T. recently accelerated its move away from paper. In January, Lionel Barber, the paper’s editor, sent a memo to the staff, detailing a plan to “ensure that we are serving a digital platform first and a newspaper second.”

Under the plan, the print operations of The F.T. will be streamlined. While separate regional editions — for the United States, Britain, Continental Europe, Asia, India and the Middle East — will be maintained, there will be fewer nightly updates.

Editorial hierarchies will be simplified, Mr. Barber wrote, with an end to “octopus commissioning” under which reporters answer to multiple editors. Deadlines will be more strictly enforced. The paper is eliminating about three dozen editorial positions, though 10 posts are being created on the digital side.

Mr. Ridding described the new approach as “more of an evolution than a revolution.”

“It’s more of an intensification of an existing digital trend,” he said. “It’s driven by a need to redeploy resources to digital. That’s what readers want.”

It’s not all about cutting. The F.T. also continues to develop new products, like an F.T. Weekend mobile application, to accompany the Saturday/Sunday print edition, which remains an important source of advertising revenue; the app is set to be introduced shortly. Last year, The F.T. began publishing e-books with selected themes, compiling articles from the newspaper and enhancing them with material from journalists’ notebooks; the first one examined the possibility of a Greek exit from the euro zone.

At a time when The F.T.’s biggest rival, The Wall Street Journal, is trying to broaden its appeal to general readers outside the financial industry, The F.T. is ever more focused on corporate customers.

Its total 600,000 print and digital subscribers include more than 163,000 users at 2,700 companies and other concerns that have bought business licenses to The F.T.’s digital content. A large but unspecified portion of The F.T.’s individual subscriptions are bought on expense accounts.

“They are an unusual beast, because their market is business to business,” said Douglas McCabe, an analyst at Enders Analysis in London. “It’s a very different model from a conventional newspaper.”

Analysts say the strong growth in digital subscriptions masks the fact that online advertising has failed to catch on in a big way. This helps explain why The F.T., despite its plugged-in and mobile audience, has not done away with its print editions, despite their flagging circulation. The weekend paper, especially, remains a favorite of luxury advertisers.

“In one sense, its challenges are the same as everyone else’s,” Mr. McCabe said. “Print circulation and advertising are falling away. Advertising in a digital environment remains difficult for them, as it does for everybody.”

Although the business audience has been an attractive niche for The F.T., Mr. McCabe said, it could also make the paper increasingly vulnerable to competition from operations like Bloomberg and Thomson Reuters, which deliver news electronically alongside their financial data services.

This is one reason for the perennial speculation about a possible sale of The F.T. by its parent company, the London-based publisher Pearson.

“Pearson has said repeatedly that The F.T. is not for sale,” Mr. Ridding said. “This kind of thing has been around us for as long as I can remember. We’re getting used to it. I think people tend to hold on to The F.T.”

The F.T. has had only a handful of owners, and Pearson has held it since 1957. One of the reasons that the paper has reached the ripe age of 125 — a milestone that The International Herald Tribune, based in Paris, passed last year — is its founding values, Mr. Ridding said.

“Our role is to be a trusted guide, a filter,” Mr. Ridding said. “It’s actually a pretty constant value. In a multichannel world, whatever form journalism takes, those values and that fundamental rationale is unchanged.”
256 2013-02-12 Whatever you do, don’t see “Foodacts” on an empty stomach. The last thing this revue needs is the soundtrack of your tummy rumbling.

Over the course of an intermissionless hour and 45 minutes, the cast members perform excerpts from texts touching on various sweet and savory food-related themes: salivation and satiation, deprivation and the ways eating intersects with so many other important moments of our lives.

The source material is a mixture of contemporary and classic, fiction and nonfiction. Some of the prose is enchanting and evocative, like Proust’s famous meditation on the connection between taste and involuntary memory, as conjured by a madeleine. A description of squealing pigs tied up for a mass throat-slashing, from Upton Sinclair’s novel “The Jungle,” is haunting and visceral. And the actors shine in a very funny rendition of W. Somerset Maugham’s short story “The Three Fat Women of Antibes,” about the fragility of friendships founded upon mutually enforced dieting.

But with more than 27 texts, the revue has more courses than the tasting menu at Alinea, and is much less gratifying. Some of the excerpts (like the Last Supper scene from Matthew 26) feel dutifully included, with little added by the dramatizations by Barbara Bosch, who also conceived the show.

Worse — for both the length and pacing — are the many epicurean quotations that the performers recite between scenes.

Independently, these epigraphs might charm. (W. C. Fields: “Once, during Prohibition, I was forced to live for days on nothing but food and water.”) But dozens and dozens of them add up to no more than one of those pocket-size inspirational books of quotations sold at the bookstore cash register. Good theater usually resembles a thoughtfully prepared, hearty meal, not an endless assemblage of amuse-bouches.
257 2013-02-12 Not all preparation for the dogs at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show took place in the runup to the competition. The creation of a Best of Show affenpinscher or a champion bichon frisé begins before they are born, with selective breeding for the traits the judges prize.

But does the breeding of a pedigreed dog create genetic problems that a lovable mutt avoids?
258 2013-02-12 A new arts research center will soon be opening at Southern Methodist University in Dallas....
259 2013-02-12 New polls find continued dissatisfaction with the direction of the country, yet support for several of the policies the president has said he will push in his second term....
260 2013-02-12 With $140 billion in cash at stake, Apple and the hedge fund manager David Einhorn have been acting strangely....
261 2013-02-12 Tie-dye and beaded angels' wings were the most graphic elements of a Rodarte collection that had people talking about skaters, goth and bikers....
262 2013-02-12 Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, is likely to suggest ways to reward investors, who have been wanting more cash from the company....
263 2013-02-12 Verizon Wireless is calling out Android apps that can cause problems like rapid battery draining, exposed privacy or unexpected high data usage....
264 2013-02-12 The Australian Broadcasting Corporation reported on Tuesday that a man referred to in Israel as "Prisoner X," who was jailed and died under mysterious circumstances in 2010, might have been an Australian-born Israeli who worked for Israel's secret...
265 2013-02-12 Would you pack your bags, organize your family or child care, and get on a plane to advocate for global vaccination?...
266 2013-02-12 Moviegoers paid an average of $7.96 in 2012, a three-cent increase over the year before. But prices increases accelerated in the latter part of the year....
267 2013-02-12 The two companies will combine on a show based on the studio's upcoming movie "Turbo.''...
268 2013-02-12 The new bike, which is still being called the concept bike, is likely to be the last new model that will have an airhead-type engine....
269 2013-02-12 Illustration by Jeffrey Scales; photograph by William C. Shrout/Time Life Pictures - Getty images; Betty Friedan inset, Susana Raab

Room for Debate presents a video roundtable, via Google+, reflecting on the 50th anniversary of Betty Friedan’s “The Feminine Mystique.” The book tapped into anger among “happy housewives” in the 60s, helping create the second wave of feminism. But many women who balance career and family are still frustrated. Why? 

 

The half-hour debate, moderated by Gail Collins, a Times columnist, includes Stephanie Coontz, Anna Holmes, Shelby Knox, and Milly Silva.
270 2013-02-12 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
271 2013-02-12 Amazon.com is quietly building a library of exclusive online content to rival Netflix, the champion of streaming media; cat videos are used to sell things rather than simply distract; and a Japanese television show captures the angst of a major li...
272 2013-02-12 Part of the mission in Indonesia is to develop coastal eco-businesses and foster what some refer to as a "blue economy."...
273 2013-02-12 The Financial Services Authority, Britain's main financial regulator, fined UBS £9.45 million on Tuesday for improperly selling an A.I.G. fund....
274 2013-02-12 Tim Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili could do no more than watch and cheer Monday night. Their San Antonio Spurs teammates took it from there, beating the host Chicago Bulls, 103-89, behind Kawhi Leonard’s career-high 26 points and Danny Green’s 18.

The Spurs’ three stars were all out with injuries, and swingman Stephen Jackson also missed the game because of “personal business,” according to the team.

“One would hope that you could play with anybody in your system, but it was a tough challenge for them tonight,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich said. “And I couldn’t be more proud of what they did.”

Gary Neal and Tiago Splitter had 16 points apiece for San Antonio, which improved the league’s best road record to 19-10. Nando De Colo, subbing for Parker, had 9 points and 7 assists in his second career start.

Popovich said Parker’s knee swelled during a 111-86 victory over the Nets on Sunday, when he had 29 points and 11 assists.
275 2013-02-12 Alicia H. Munnell’s Feb. 1 Op-Ed essay, “A Pension for Security, Not Politics,” suggested that divesting from firearms companies is a political statement with little real-world impact. This assessment is not only mistaken, but also ignores the role of pension funds as long-term stewards of educators’ deferred wages.

Cerberus Capital made news in December when it announced its intention to sell Freedom Group, the gun company whose rifle was used in the massacre in Newtown, Conn.

One of the events precipitating this was the concern expressed by the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, known as CalSTRS, over Cerberus’s stake in Freedom Group. CalSTRS’s action was based on its fiduciary responsibility to act in the best interests of the more than 856,000 educators and school personnel participating in the plan.

CalSTRS’s decision represents a greater readiness by banks, insurance companies and other institutional investors to recognize their growing exposure to environmental, social and governmental risks.

Teachers devote their careers to improving the lives of children and our society as a whole. Investing teachers’ money in companies that make products damaging to our children and our society would fail to honor the special duty of trust placed on the stewards of workers’ capital.
276 2013-02-12 But it also added a new dimension to the storied competition: crosstown dog schlepping on a rainy day.

For months, the change of venue was a talking point among dog handlers and owners, who had to figure out a strategy to transport their prized pups between the piers and Midtown, where many of the historically canine-friendly hotels are. The show’s organizers offer shuttle buses, but many owners and handlers took matters into their own hands. A cabdriver agreed to chauffeur Lynn Kiaer of Argyle, N.Y., and Seaforth, her lean and leggy Scottish deerhound.

“He just sat in the back and stuck his head through the little opening to the front,” Kiaer said. “He was ready to go.”

It was still dark as hundreds of dogs, some of them wet and bearing that unmistakable smell, made their way to the new site Monday, barking and yelping along the way. Small dogs were toted in crates covered with garbage bags or tucked into the jackets of their owners. Large dogs wore boots and jackets, their owners discouraging them from playing in lumps of dirty snow left from last weekend’s snowfall.

“It’s raining cats and dogs out there!” one dog show attendee mused as she walked in, shaking an umbrella.

Camille, a pug, was scheduled to compete, but had to be withdrawn after a bit of salt from the street popped up and hit her in the eye.

All was not lost: her 15-month-old son Jagger did compete Monday morning. Jagger, who runs on the treadmill daily, was among the first ones to arrive for the 8:30 a.m. pug competition, and hailing from New Hampshire, he did not seem fazed by the weather.

Jimmy James, a cream-colored Afghan hound, had his long hair bound with plastic and rubber bands as he headed into the arena. Then came an hour with a brush and hair spray to perfect his silky tresses.

“That’s part of being at a dog show,” said Juan Miranda, the dog’s co-owner and handler. “You never know what’s going to happen. You have to watch the dog all the time.”

A dry-cleaning bag over a crate allowed Kristena Bravo of San Jose, Calif., to schlep her silky terrier, Morgan, to the piers.

“This is a California dog who isn’t used to the cold,” she said, noting that she put Morgan’s boots on for walks and woke up at 4 a.m. to allow Morgan to exercise indoors at the hotel. “You definitely don’t want to get salt in their paws.”

But Bravo, like most competitors, gave the new site positive reviews.

“The venue is great, and I love the natural light,” she said.

Others hailed the more than 200,000 square feet of column-free space and high ceilings. The increased bench space made preparation less stressful, especially for the larger dogs, and allowed for greater fan interaction with the canines.

Padow’s, a 68-pound chow chow, has had a dizzying schedule since arriving from Las Vegas on Sunday morning, consisting largely of keeping his copper-colored fur as puffy as possible.

“As soon as we got here, we started fluffing,” said Kurt Williams, his co-owner, breeder and handler.

But the efforts paid off for Padow’s, who won his breed Monday morning. By the afternoon, the rain was still falling and the puddles were still prevalent, and breed winners like Padow’s had to journey back to Madison Square Garden for group judging Monday night — and maintain their perfect grooming and competitive moxie.

“Now we have to figure out how to get to the Garden tonight,” Williams said.
277 2013-02-12 The video, by JWT New York, part of WPP, directed by Keith Schofield and produced by Caviar in Los Angeles, is the third in a series featuring cats for the brand. One introduced in September is in the style of psychedelic 1960s music (“I Haz a Catnip in Mah Head”) and has 1.3 million views on YouTube; another released a month later in the style of punk rock (“I Haz a Pie Row Tek Nik”) has more than 1.1 million views.

Claire Capeci, global business director at JWT New York, said one challenge with making videos promoting the product was that its function is hardly glamorous.

“At the end of the day, we’re talking about a disposal system for cat poop,” said Ms. Capeci. The cat music videos, Ms. Capeci said, were inspired by the popularity not only of cat videos but also of so-called lolcats, the online photographs of cats with grammatically idiosyncratic captions, like “I Can Has Cheezburger,” which is also the name of a popular Web site that features lolcats.

Because the product — and the broader category of odor-reducing litter pails — is relatively new, the videos needed to convey how the Litter Genie functioned.

“You can either say it in a voice-over and be terribly boring or say it in a song and have fun with it,” said Billy Faraut, a creative director at JWT.

A cat, Walter, is featured in all three videos and a television commercial for Litter Genie, by Grey New York that was introduced in September. The videos and commercial are both aimed at women ages 25 to 54.

Cats live in 38.9 million households in the United States, according the American Pet Products Association, a trade group. That is second only to dogs, which are in 46.3 million households. But because cat owners are more likely to have more than one, cats as pets outnumber dogs, with 86.4 million, compared with 78.2 million dogs.

Diaper Genie has an 85.4 percent share of the market for diaper disposal systems, according to Nielsen data cited by the brand.

Chikako Harada, the senior brand manager for Litter Genie, is a former brand manager at Diaper Genie. She said that while the products serve a similar function, the tone of marketing for the cat product was more irreverent.

“Cat culture is very fun, and people dress up their cats, and it allows us to poke fun a little bit,” said Ms. Harada. “But on the baby side, it’s more ‘oohs’ and cuddles.”

Like Schick, the razor brand, also owned by Energizer, the company makes more money from the replacement cartridges than from the devices. At PetSmart, the device has a retail price of $18, while cartridge refills, which last about two months, cost $12.

Ms. Harada said the base unit was priced relatively low to entice people to at least try it out. “And we know that the product satisfaction is so high and that people really loved it when they tried it, so we could be a little more profitable with the refills.”

Julie Klausner, a comedy writer and performer, interviews celebrities on her podcast, How Was Your Week? But she also frequently mentions Internet cat phenomena and her own cat, Jimmy Jazz. Ms. Klausner said her favorite YouTube cat video stars include Maru, whose amusing habits include getting his head stuck in boxes, with more than 194 million views on his YouTube channel; two cats playing patty-cake, with more than 16 million views of a single video; and Henri, a cat to whom a sense of ennui is ascribed in four short videos in the style of French noir films, with more than 11 million views collectively.

Ms. Klausner acknowledged that the Litter Genie videos were well produced, but she said she found the elaborate sets less compelling than cats behaving in inherently amusing ways in living rooms.

“It’s a lot funnier to see Maru jump into a box,” she said.

“It’s advertising funny,” said Ms. Klausner of the music videos. “But comedy funny is actually funny, and advertising funny is just funny for advertising.”
278 2013-02-12 That has led some investment advisers to express concern that big dividend payers have grown expensive to the point of being risky. Others are inclined to trust the wisdom of the masses this time. They find much to recommend in high-yield stocks, but they urge investors to be selective and to judge companies by more than the amount of cash they dispense.

“In order to find a good dividend-paying company, you have to go beyond the dividend,” said Robert Shearer, manager of the BlackRock Equity Dividend fund. A company has to have sufficient profits not just to pay the latest dividend, he explained, but also to expand the business so that it can pay future dividends, preferably in successively higher amounts. “If companies don’t have cash to invest in the business,” he said, “they won’t have it to grow dividends, either.”

The ability to increase dividends is an advantage that stocks have over bonds, which have fixed coupons, and some companies raise their payouts year after year. Dividend growth is essential, in Mr. Shearer’s view, because a stock’s price tends to rise in line with the dividend. That can provide a bigger component of the total return over the long haul than dividend payments themselves.

An emphasis on dividend growth can shift the search for the best income-producing stocks away from the sectors most closely associated with high yields, like utilities and telecommunications. Mr. Shearer said he was finding better opportunities in industrial companies and providers of consumer products and services, in part because those segments of the market had not been bid up as much as the others.

“We think there’s still value there, but you have to choose sectors appropriately,” he said.

Joshua Peters, editor of the DividendInvestor newsletter published by Morningstar, likewise sees richer pickings in sectors not typically associated with strong payouts, like technology and other economically volatile industries. High valuations elsewhere became a deal-breaker for him.

“I trimmed some of the positions I had held for a while and thought highly of because they had gotten too expensive,” he said, mentioning real estate investment trusts and tobacco companies in particular.

Robert T. Lutts, chief investment officer of Cabot Money Management, is put off by how expensive dividend stocks in general have become.

“It has almost gotten to the point where many of these stocks are priced at levels where investors aren’t going to be happy with the results going forward,” he said. “They’re priced at levels that exceed the growth profiles of the companies.”

Mr. Lutts considers valuations less stretched for foreign high-yield stocks. He recommends the Global X SuperDividend exchange-traded fund, which focuses on companies broadly dispersed geographically and commercially. The fund recently traded at just 13 times earnings and yielded 7.2 percent.

“It makes sense to take a global perspective,” he said. “There is less potential for price disappointment because the companies are involved in diverse economies and have strength in their industries.”

It may be harder to find reasonably priced dividend stocks, but Mr. Peters is confident that they will continue to appeal to long-term investors after the flow of money from short-term traders eases. Very low interest rates can persist only for so long; as rates rise, he said, the ability of companies to raise payouts will give stocks with healthy yields an edge.

The rapid rise in the number of people in or near retirement will also underpin dividend stocks as the need for income from all sources increases, Mr. Peters predicted.

“Demographic factors are causing a permanent shift in demand for income as a component of total return,” he said. “That’s a trend that’s not going away. Dividends are going to play a bigger and bigger role in investors’ strategies over time.”
279 2013-02-12 Zvi Bodie, a professor of finance at Boston University and co-author of “Risk Less and Prosper” (Wiley, 2012), says it is essential to know your human capital factor because it ties into how much risk you can take in your financial portfolio. Mr. Bodie has been a pioneer in applying economic life-cycle theory to human capital decisions.

Some, with a fairly secure income over their career — like college professors — may take more risk in their portfolios, while others whose income is linked to cyclical industries may not. You can characterize your human capital like a stable bond or an insecure stock. This is one of the first steps in linking your human capital to how much risk you may take in your portfolio.

“I see myself, for example, as a convertible bond,” Professor Bodie said. “I’m protected by tenure at a solid university and have the potential to do extra things for income. I have a lot more capacity to take risk in my portfolio than I choose to use. I’m risk-averse, don’t like to gamble and don’t get a kick out of winning. I hate to lose.”

Noting that “human capital is not a major asset for only a tiny fraction of the population,” Professor Bodie said that lifetime earnings and portfolio management should be reframed as a way of insuring a standard of living and not a focus on obtaining the highest returns.

Figuring human capital into a prudent financial plan requires an attention to detail that most financial advisers may not be able to handle. Because most advisers are focused on managing money or picking investments, they may not be able to do the right calculations that are flexible enough to accommodate changes in income.

Paula Hogan, a fee-only certified financial planner based in Milwaukee, has been employing human capital and the life-cycle theory that underpins it into her business model for years. Like most planners, she carefully examines cash flow, expenses, income and her client’s portfolio.

“A key insight of life-cycle theory,” Ms. Hogan said, “is that the consideration of human capital comes first and then portfolio management comes after that: financial capital is tailored to the human capital, not vice versa.”

Ms. Hogan also steps into the realm of “life” planning that merges human capital with various goals and changes in a person’s journey. This raises a set of questions that go beyond numbers.

“What do you care about?” Ms. Hogan said she asks clients. “Do you have a vision of where you want to be?” If they want to change, the questions become more focused on transition. “How can we make a bridge? What about health insurance? Will you need a new family budget? Do you have family reserves (savings)? Is your spouse on board?”

Sometimes the transitions are modest, as for an executive at the top of his profession whom she counseled. He wanted to “not go at full tilt” and spend more time doing other things. Other, more radical moves, like a career change, will require more support. Ms. Hogan works with career coaches and counselors like Jane Schroeder of Brookfield, Wis., to manage the vocational piece.

As a master career counselor and board-certified coach with a background in educational psychology, Ms. Schroeder applies standard assessment tools like the Myers-Briggs personality test and talks with clients on future direction. She delves into their core strengths, competencies, emotional intelligence and “brainstorms on possibilities.”

“What allows you to engage your human capital at the highest level?” she asks clients. “When were you at your best? What was happening? What was energizing?”

By re-engaging clients with the force that drives their ability to create, manage or earn money in a fulfilling way, Ms. Schroeder eases the transition that some need to make.

It is one thing to know if you need to make a change, but is that possible, given your financial situation? Will you have enough cash reserves to see you through a transition? Will a spouse or partner support your household while you make some changes or re-educate yourself?

Before you even make the decision to redeploy your human capital, you will need to run some numbers to see if it is possible. Online planning programs like ES Planner (esplanner.com) can give you some general ideas on what is possible given changing income and cash flow.

While these questions may be difficult at first, they may help you forge a satisfying new path. But you will need to take your time and do some detailed planning that may involve a paradigm change.

Your personal capital reserve and future earnings should drive your ability to make a change and not your portfolio return. That is a big leap for most, but a rewarding one if you are able to navigate it.
280 2013-02-12 “Mating Intelligence Unleashed: The Role of the Mind in Sex, Dating, and Love.” By Glenn Geher and Scott Barry Kaufman. Oxford University Press. 320 pp. $27.95.

Like a peer-reviewed version of"The Game,"this geeky treatise mines evolutionary and experimental psychology to help readers “succeed in their own mating-relevant goals.” The authors’ broad test of “mating intelligence,” originally devised as a magazine quiz, measures both desirable traits like creativity and kindness, and relationship skills like empathy, lie-detection — and even a bit of deception.

This annual event, organized by the National Audubon Society and the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, turns bird-watchers into avian census takers. Last year’s observers counted more than 17 million birds in North America, uncovering an unusual number of snowy owls and a shortage of blue jays in New England. This year the project goes global.

How do dust storms in the Sahara fertilize the Amazon? How does an undersea waterfall in Antarctica affect climate around the globe? How does the Earth’s magnetic field protect us from solar winds? Orbiting satellites provide the answers in this two-hour special, made with the help of NASA. Talking heads explain the science, from microbiology to meteorology. But the main attraction is a superb batch of computer animations, which reveal the hidden cycles of energy and matter that sustain life on Earth.

“Lust and Love in the Animal Kingdom.” The New York Academy of Sciences. 7 World Trade Center, 250 Greenwich St., 40th floor. Feb. 12, 6:30 p.m. $25.

The New York Academy of Sciences continues its monthly series inspired by the seven deadly sins with a panel on animal sex. Danielle N. Lee, a mammalogist, will discuss the secretive mating behaviors of the African giant pouched rat. Brian Switek, a science journalist, will point to fossil evidence for teenage sex among tyrannosaurs, as well as evolutionary arguments for the theory that dinosaurs had penises. And Marina Cords, a Columbia zoologist, will share her hunch that most primates “lust but probably rarely love their mates” — with the possible exception of humans.
281 2013-02-12 The Cost of the Recession

By the time the economy is projected to recover to its potential, we will have lost about $7.5 trillion in economic output.
282 2013-02-13 Welcoming back Jules P. Markey....
283 2013-02-13 Floridapassed a constitutional amendment in 2002 that required a voluntary pre-kindergarten program be offered for all of Florida's 4-year-olds. The program began in 2005; in 2010-11 it had the nation’s highest rate of attendance.

President Obama singled out Georgia and Oklahoma in his State of the Union address. They were the first states to offer universal preschool for 4-year-olds and have consistently had among the highest rates of attendance.

Arizona had a small state preschool program, but financing was frozen in 2010 because of budget constraints. It is now one of 11 states without a state program. (The others are , , , , , , , , and .)

In 2010-11, about 6 percent of Alabama’s 4-year-olds were enrolled in a state preschool program. Its governor, Robert J. Bentley, a Republican, has called for a large increase in the state’s existing preschool budget, with the eventual goal of expanding voluntary access to all 4-year-olds.
284 2013-02-13 For one thing, big businesses have a larger global footprint, which gives them greater exposure to growth in places like China and Brazil....
285 2013-02-13 “It’s not 1986 anymore,” a sneering Russian villain (one of several in “A Good Day to Die Hard”) says to John McClane. “Reagan is dead.”

McClane is in no position to argue at just that moment, though you can be sure he will have the last word. (It’s not “Yippee ki-yay,” which is reserved for a different Russian villain and which has somehow joined “Make my day” and “I’ll be back” in the lexicon of deathless action-movie catchphrases.) But the bad guy’s remark pays oblique homage to the longevity of the “Die Hard” franchise, which made a movie star of Bruce Willis in 1988, and also perhaps to its patriarchal, populist politics.

Back then McClane was an avatar of embattled American masculinity, a regular working stiff whose essential good humor was challenged by Japanese corporations, bureaucratic red tape, feminism and a nasty Euro-nihilist with a fancy suit and a silky accent. That those days are gone is signaled by the portrait of Barack Obama on the wall of the shooting range where we first encounter McClane in this movie, the fifth in the series.

McClane himself has evolved from angry Everyman to weary, worried dad. He travels to Moscow to help his son, Jack (Jai Courtney), who at first looks like a bad seed but turns out to be a chip off the old block. Some dads take their boys fishing or to the ballgame or to a movie like this one, but the McClanes prefer a more primal form of bonding — killing miscreants, though Pop McClane uses a more evocative word.

And there is never a shortage. The cold war may be a fading memory, and C.I.A. superspies (like the younger McClane) may have displaced big-city cops (like his dad) in the pop-culture pantheon. But this off-the-shelf blend of car chases, fireballs and the rat-a-tat, thunk-a-thunk of automatic weapons fire is not likely to go out of style. Style, sad to say, is precisely what is missing from “A Good Day to Die Hard,” the latest entry in the flourishing geezer-action genre. Directed by John Moore (“Max Payne,” “Behind Enemy Lines”), it consists of a handful of extended set pieces — each more elaborate and therefore somehow less exciting than the last — linked by a simple-minded plot and a handful of half-clever lines, most of them muttered by Mr. Willis.
286 2013-02-13 Paul Broun, Republican of Georgia, said in a fundraising letter that he was the first member of Congress to call the president "a socialist."...
287 2013-02-13 To commemorate its 30th anniversary, the brand is out with a toile-like tribute to the Finger Lakes....
288 2013-02-13 A guide to The Times's coverage of the policy areas President Obama discussed in his State of the Union address....
289 2013-02-13 Blue Jays pitcher Mark Buehrle will live apart from his wife and two children this baseball season because of the family's pit bull -- and the trade from the Marlins....
290 2013-02-13 On the Web site of the N.F.L.'s Redskins, other teams with that name get a turn in the spotlight....
291 2013-02-13 What will a higher minimum wage do for restaurant workers? Twitter users had many opinions....
292 2013-02-13 RHA, which makes some good-quality earphones at a modest price, has adapted some key components from its higher-end earphones to produce the budget-price MA150....
293 2013-02-13 Forty years ago, 10 years after she wrote "The Feminine Mystique," Betty Friedan said "housework and child-rearing will have to be more equally shared by husband, wife and society." How outraged are you that we're still not there?...
294 2013-02-13 Each week, Val Haller, a music-obsessed baby boomer and the founder of the Web site Valslist.com, matches tracks from her generation to that of her 20-something sons’ generation.

Not everyone wants a romantic love song for Valentine’s Day. So none of that from this week’s pair. The artists Janis Ian and Emily Hurd of the new band Stone Blind Valentine offer lots of sweet emotion but don’t sugarcoat things. The result is bittersweet, which, for a lot of us, is plenty sweet enough.

“I learned the truth at 17, that love was meant for beauty queens ...” If you're of a certain age, you probably thought those words were extremely sage — sung by the singer-songwriter Janis Ian in her 1975 hit, "At Seventeen." She was born Janis Eddy Fink on April 7, 1951, to a Jewish family in New York, raised primarily in suburban New Jersey and entered the folk-music scene as a teenager in the mid-'60s. In 1964, she changed her name, using her brother's middle name as her last. She is still relevant and has two Grammy Awards four decades apart to prove it. "At Seventeen" won in 1975, and on Sunday she won for Best Spoken Word Album, for her autobiography, "Society's Child." (Nominees included Bill Clinton, Michelle Obama, Ellen DeGeneres and Rachel Maddow.) A Booklist review said: "Her mesmerizing memoir transports us back in time with both words and music. Each chapter begins with an evocative lyric, and in this audio, read and sung by Ian, listeners are thrust into the moment."

She wrote her first song at 12, was published at 13, made a record at 14, had a hit and her first big show at 15, and, she says in her online biography, "was a has-been at 16." Her 1967 song "Society's Child," written at age 14 about an interracial couple, spurred much controversy at a time when just mentioning such things was considered taboo. Even so, it became a hit, and in 2001 the song was added to the collection at the Grammy Hall of Fame honoring recordings that shaped musical history. “At Seventeen” became her trademark (from the album “Between the Lines”), winning her a Grammy Award for Best Pop Female Performance in 1975. Ms. Ian says, " ‘At 17’ means more to me than you can know.” She was one of the first celebrities to come out publicly, and in 2003, she and her partner of 23 years married in Canada. They live in Nashville, where she has a record label called Rude Girl Records.

A few things I did not know about Ms. Ian: she performed on the first broadcast of "Saturday Night Live"; she was the first person asked to score "The Graduate" but turned it down on the advice of her agent at the time; after Johnny Cash died, she learned he kept a copy of her first book of poetry, "Who Really Cares," in his library; she sang the first Bud Light and Egg McMuffin commercials; and she appeared on Howard Stern’s radio show several times.

I first met the singer-songwriter Emily Hurd about three years ago, when she opened for a show I was sponsoring for a Brooklyn artist, Jann Klose. I liked her right away — she was approachable and soft-spoken and had her own style — in this case, little makeup, a dress, bare legs and cowboy boots. At first, I thought she was quite reserved, but that changed when she started to sing. The girl, as my friends would say, is 10 parts sass and 0 parts shy. Her voice was one of the purest I've heard. She sits at the piano, lips to microphone, Frye boot to pedal, and speaks her mind — in song. I became an instant fan.

There were times I could hear Regina Spektor, Janis Joplin, Joni Mitchell and Emmylou Harris in her voice. Last.fm says Ms. Hurd is "known for her intelligent lyrics and quirky live performance style." Her shows are an unpredictable ride; one song feels like cabaret, the next a sultry ballad, another Broadway-esque with crisply articulated lines. Ms. Hurd, who grew up in Rockford, Ill., and studied music at Columbia College in Chicago, has produced nine full-length albums since 2005. Her newest album, "Burn Like a Field," out Thursday, is a country project with the Americana/bluegrass musicians Colby Maddox, Gregg Ostrom and John Abbey. And I think it's her best work yet, spicing things up with strings and twang. This Valentine's Day, let Emily Hurd's music be a gift to yourself. Robert Carraher of The Dirty Lowdown writes, “It’s poetry meets music, it’s grace meets fire, its vulnerability delivering a slap in the face with the only weapon it owns, talent.”
295 2013-02-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
296 2013-02-13 The ING Group, based in Amsterdam, posted a fourth-quarter profit of $1.9 billion, up 21 percent from the period a year earlier, on one-time gains from asset sales....
297 2013-02-13 A report lists the names, ages, parents and aspirations of 98 Tibetans who killed themselves since February 2009....
298 2013-02-13 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
299 2013-02-13 But the move would almost certainly face stiff opposition. Many companies that hire low-wage workers — both small businesses and large businesses — have in the past vociferously opposed raising the minimum wage, as it increases their cost of business. By making employees more expensive for companies to hire, some economists argue that higher minimum wages increase the unemployment rate — a particularly toxic possibility given the high levels of joblessness that remain long after the recession has ended.

Moreover, some economists, like David Neumark of the University of California, Irvine, have even argued that minimum wages are counterproductive at reducing poverty.

On top of that, conservatives have often argued that higher minimum wages burden job creators, especially during times when the economy is weak. House Speaker John A. Boehner voted against a 2006 bill letting the minimum wage rise to its current level of $7.25 from $5.15. The legislation ultimately passed with bipartisan support in 2007, though many Republicans voted against it.

But many centrist, labor and liberal groups have pushed for higher minimum wages, and left-of-center research groups praised Mr. Obama’s new push on Tuesday evening.

“The president said he was putting jobs and the economy front and center tonight, and that’s exactly what he did by calling for a minimum wage increase,” Christine Owens, the executive director of the National Employment Law Project, said in a statement. “A higher minimum wage is key to getting the economy back on track for working people and the middle class. The president’s remarks also cement the growing consensus on the left and right that one of the best ways to get the economy going again is to put money in the pockets of people who work.”

Many state and local government set their own minimum wages above the federal floor. Currently Washington is the only state that sets a minimum wage above $9 an hour, but several states exceed the current rate of $7.25.

The White House said that the $1.75 increase in the minimum wage would be enough to offset roughly 10 to 20 percent of the increase in income inequality since 1980. According to data compiled by the economists Thomas Piketty, at the Paris School of Economics, and Emmanuel Saez, at the University of California, Berkeley, inequality has worsened considerably during that time, and many metrics show that wages have stagnated or declined for millions of working families. The income share of the top 1 percent of earners has doubled, to 20 percent in 2011 from 10 percent in 1980. Between 1980 and 2008, according to analysis by the Economic Policy Institute, the top 10 percent of earners captured 98 percent of all income gains.

The proposal is one of several that the White House has put forward to tackle that inequality. In the speech, Mr. Obama also proposed expanding early childhood education programs — another path that experts say can tackle inequality by leveling the playing field and increasing mobility among children from low-income families. “Every dollar we invest in high-quality early education can save more than $7 later on by boosting graduation rates, reducing teen pregnancy, even reducing violent crime,” Mr. Obama said. “Let’s do what works, and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind. Let’s give our kids that chance.”

In his 2008 campaign, Mr. Obama proposed lifting the minimum wage yet higher, to $9.50. Under the current proposal, the White House said that a family earning $20,000 to $30,000 would see an additional $3,500 of income a year.

“This single step would raise the incomes of millions of working families,” said Mr. Obama on Tuesday night. “It could mean the difference between groceries or the food bank, rent or eviction, scraping by or finally getting ahead. For businesses across the country, it would mean customers with more money in their pockets. In fact, working folks shouldn’t have to wait year after year for the minimum wage to go up while C.E.O. pay has never been higher.”
300 2013-02-13 JACKSON, Miss. (AP) — Edgar Douglas Kenna II, the quarterback of Army’s 1944 undefeated national championship team and the former president of the National Association of Manufacturers, died Jan. 28 in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 88.

His death was confirmed by Howard-Price Funeral Home in North Palm Beach, Fla.

Kenna went to the University of Mississippi before being recruited to West Point, where he was the captain of the tennis and basketball teams the same the year he led Army to the football championship, according to the National Football Foundation. Army’s basketball team lost only one game that season, and the tennis team was undefeated.

Kenna was later inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame and the Mississippi Sports Hall of Fame. He also served as a vice chairman of the National Football Foundation.

As World War II ended, Kenna was recruited by Gen. George Patton to coach Army football teams in occupied Germany, said Nicholas Hollis, a longtime friend who worked with Kenna at the National Association of Manufacturers in the 1970s. Kenna also was an assistant under Earl Blaik at Army before going on to a successful business career.

Hollis said Kenna held executive positions for several major companies, including the Avco Corporation, Mississippi Power and Light, Fuqua Industries, Robert B. Anderson Ltd., and Carrier Corporation.

Hollis said Kenna had the same precision in business that made him a championship quarterback. “You’d have to see him walk into a room,” he added. “Leadership is hard to define, but he was leadership personified.”
301 2013-02-13 HORSES TO DOGS Anne Bowes called being a judge at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show “the assignment of a lifetime.”

She has been in the dog world for more than four decades, breeding champion corgis in Duxbury, Mass.

On Monday, Bowes started her day judging the pugs, before picking the winners among the Pembroke Welsh corgis, the Shetland sheepdogs, and the Cardigan Welsh corgis.

Bowes was not always a dog person. She grew up around horses before stumbling onto the grounds of a dog show in 1967.

“I walked onto the grounds of that show and into the rest of my life,” said Bowes, who came to Westminster for the first time a year later.

At Westminster, she was amazed at how the dogs looked at their owners and handlers with such adoration. She later learned, “They all have a lot of food in their pockets.”

LIKE DRYING A MOP Perhaps one of the most noticed breeds was the komondor, revered for looking like kitchen cleaning gear.

Getting those white mop-like locks perfect takes 10 to 12 hours, said Val McNelis, an owner of Cole, a komondor from Indiana who won Best in Breed.

“The washing is easy,” she said. “It’s the drying that’s difficult.”

That involves placing Cole overnight in a large crate, where he sleeps as two or three box fans dry him. To stay clean, Cole wears T-shirts (size XXL) and may be lifted by the strong arms of his handler. MARY PILON

STRONG SPANIEL FIELD Not even 2 years old and making her Westminster debut, Ginger captured her breed title among the field spaniels. The win came over an increasingly competitive field, including more nonchampion entries at this year’s show.

“I don’t mind the added entries,” said Ginger’s co-owner Corinne Dooley of Sandwich, Mass. “If they’re worthy, more power to them. It’s anyone’s game.”
302 2013-02-13 When a gleaming new subway station opened at South Ferry in 2009, at a cost of over $500 million, its rickety forebear faded into retirement beneath the streets of Lower Manhattan.

But on Tuesday, more than three months after Hurricane Sandy hit Manhattan and doomed the new station to what could be a three-year rebuilding job, officials said its predecessor could be called back into service as a temporary replacement.

“We can’t have the impacts that people are experiencing today take many months,” Thomas F. Prendergast, the interim executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said at a City Council hearing on Tuesday. “That’s just too hard.”

South Ferry is the last stop on the No. 1 train and a critical connection for Staten Island Ferry riders. In its absence, commuters must either walk to the No. 1 at Rector Street, use the R train at Whitehall Street, or take the No. 4 or 5 train at Bowling Green.

Mr. Prendergast said the authority had two viable options: recommissioning the old station or bringing back the new station in stages, restoring service before a full rebuilding is complete. He said a shuttle bus between South Ferry and Rector Street was less appealing because of its limited passenger capacity.
303 2013-02-13 But that was far from ideal and, in the report, the center proposes changing the warning system so it could “continue issuing formal advisories on post-tropical cyclones as long as those systems pose a significant threat to life and property.” Once the storm was classified as a post-tropical cyclone, the center, because of its complicated rules, could no longer issue official advisories.

The center called on its parent agency, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, “to implement explicit storm surge watches and warnings, a goal NOAA has been working toward for several years.”

The center noted that tropical cyclones had killed more than 25,000 people in the continental United States over the course of the country’s history, with a majority of those deaths attributable to storm surges.

When a downgraded Hurricane Sandy finally hit, it did largely what the forecasts predicted, according to the report.

It made landfall as a post-tropical cyclone, near Brigantine, N.J., at 7:30 p.m. on Oct. 29, and “drove a catastrophic storm surge into the New Jersey and New York coastlines.”

By the time the waters receded and the winds subsided, at least 147 deaths across the Atlantic basin, including the Caribbean, were attributed to the storm, with 72 of those fatalities in the mid-Atlantic and northeastern United States, according to the report.

At least 650,000 houses were either damaged or destroyed and 8.5 million people were left without power.

The 156-page report is meant to provide “the official storm history,” Mr. Franklin said.

Much of it focuses on meteorological details like the exact path Hurricane Sandy took after its origin off the west coast of Africa on Oct. 11.

It adds details and context to previously reported information and also changes some earlier observations. For instance, the report notes that the storm went ashore as a Category 3 hurricane in Cuba, not a Category 2, as it was first classified.

But it was the sheer size of the storm that may well have been its most defining trait.

It was the largest tropical cyclone since the National Hurricane Center started taking such measurements in 1988.

The report details the factors that led to the storm’s being “an extraordinarily large hurricane,” as well as the “extreme size of the cyclone.”

Mr. Franklin said that the complex nature of the storm posed challenges for the center because of the way it was expected to change from a hurricane to a post-tropical cyclone while still over water. The center currently lacks the ability to convey the severity of a storm without being hemmed in by the technical definition of a hurricane, he said.

While Hurricane Sandy may have been unusual in its size and East Coast residents unlucky because of the path it took, Mr. Franklin said there were lessons that could be learned and applied to future storms.

“Obviously, it happened once,” Mr. Franklin said, “and we didn’t have the tools in our toolbox.”
304 2013-02-13 Q. How exactly does one move a bridge?

They couldn’t open the arena until the bridge went back, so we were very key in that happening. But they do it with cranes; they do it overnight.

Q. You’re also working on the World Trade Center transportation hub.

The World Trade Center started out being about 48 months and quickly grew to about six years. We are part of a large team with Turner and Tishman to provide construction management services and it’s really more on the consulting side for the Port Authority.

A. We’re construction managers there. We work for Lend Lease. On some components of the project McKissack does 80 percent of the work and they do 20 percent, and on other components it’s the flip. Just so happened the first project was ours and it was a utility relocation, so we led that effort. Now they’re into the “slurry wall,” which is the big “bathtub” that they’re building as the foundation.

We’ve been laying the groundwork for the actual building for five years. Their program is 20 years. Lend Lease and McKissack will do the entire infrastructure for the whole campus, so we’re there from beginning to end.

It’s taken 100 years to become an overnight success.

A. We were incorporated in 1905 by my grandfather, Moses III, and his brother, Calvin. They’re the first licensed black architects in the country.

But the first descendant of our family came here in 1790 — and we’re doing research now — and his slave master taught him the trade of making bricks and we believe he had his own business as a slave in 1820. And so he’s five generations from me and it’s his grandson that incorporated us. Moses McKissack I, the slave, we believe had a very good relationship with his slave master. His name was William McKissack, and he was from Scotland and had a plantation in Spring Hill, Tenn. He took his name, and William McKissack named one of his sons after Moses.

Both Calvin and Moses McKissack went to architect school through correspondence and took their exam. First the board would not allow two black men to even sit for the exam, so they lobbied each board member until they found one that found favor with them. He said, “We know they’re going to fail, so let’s just let them take it.” So they took it and passed with flying colors. Then they didn’t want to give them the license. Eventually they did, because the national news got hold of these two black architects who passed this exam and were trying to get licenses, and the board members all of a sudden had this national notoriety and so they said we have to give them the license. Not only that, they helped them get licenses in 22 other states.

Q. Have the minority- and female-owned company designations helped the business?

A. They help getting a business off the ground in a new location. We get a new client as a subcontractor, and then convert that into a prime relationship.

Q. Did you always want to be in this business?

A. No, I thought I was going to be a dancer or something fun.

My father, who took over for my grandfather, who incorporated us, always had my sister — who is my identical twin — and I in the office. He started us off with just tracing documents with a T square or a ruler.

I switched from architecture to civil engineering in undergrad school.

Q. Is your sister also in the business?

A. She’s McKissack & McKissack of D.C. She built the Martin Luther King Memorial. But she has to work in D.C., Chicago and Los Angeles to have the same opportunities that I have right in these five boroughs.
305 2013-02-13 For example, Ranger Steel, a company based in Houston that describes itself as the largest privately owned steel plate distributor in the nation, recently expanded its network of distribution centers. Until the late 1990s, Ranger Steel regularly trucked its heavy steel plates directly from a distribution center at the Port of Houston to customers throughout the United States.

“For a long time that concept worked like a charm,” said Jochen Seeba, the company’s vice president and chief operating officer. “Then you started to see the spike in fuel pricing, and new governmental rules and regulations on insurance coverage for truck drivers that made truck transportation very expensive.”

Like many retailers and wholesale suppliers, Ranger Steel in recent years has added distribution centers to its network, cutting delivery times by moving its inventory closer to customers.

Today, suppliers ship steel in bulk to Ranger Steel’s seven distribution centers around the country. From there, drivers can deliver orders to most of the company’s customers in 24 hours, leveling the playing field with local competitors in markets like St. Louis, where the firm opened a distribution center last year.

Reduced transportation cost is a secondary benefit, Mr. Seeba said. The more significant advantage is the ability to serve and retain customers better in an increasingly competitive marketplace, in which a three-day delivery time to St. Louis from Houston is no longer acceptable. “You have to adjust your model,” Mr. Seeba said, “and that’s what we have done.”

With just-in-time management, smaller on-site inventories put companies at greater risk of running out of merchandise in the event of a disruption. Shaw Lupton, CoStar’s senior real estate economist, said companies were trying to mitigate that risk by diversifying supply chains into multiple distribution centers. As evidence, he pointed to a long-term shift of cargo flows from West Coast to East Coast seaports, and a slowdown of the rate at which the largest warehouse markets have captured market share over the past decade.

Some researchers say that retailers, in particular, are under competitive pressure to establish distribution centers near major population centers. Many states have begun to require online retailers to pay sales tax, making it difficult to compete with brick-and-mortar stores on price.

In an effort to gain an advantage, online retailers are increasingly offering rapid shipping from nearby distribution centers, Mr. Circ said. “It’s driving this reconfiguration of supply chains and the building of these large warehouses, not just in a few key markets as it used to be, but a lot more widely spread” across the country, he said.

The closer to the customer that a company can transport its goods in bulk, the greater the efficiency and cost savings, said Tim Feemster, senior managing director at the Dallas branch of Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, a real estate company. Multiple, well-placed distribution centers minimize the time and distance spent on the final leg of delivery, when trucks are often nearly empty while transporting individual items. “The final mile is the most expensive cost per pound or cost per piece,” he said.

Retailers sometimes avoid that final-mile delivery by inviting online shoppers to pick up their purchases from nearby stores, Mr. Feemster said. In those cases, the store functions as a distribution center.

The tendency toward numerous distribution facilities runs contrary to a strategy that was common just after the recession, when some companies sought efficiency by consolidating warehouse operations, according to Bob Martie, executive vice president for the New Jersey region at Colliers International, a real estate service provider.

“As competition is growing, companies are seeing the need to have better customer service,” Mr. Martie said. “Five years ago, one might need two distribution centers to effectively manage the country; now that number seems to be five to seven.”

Or more, for the largest online retailers. On Jan. 30, for example, Amazon.com announced plans to open three fulfillment centers in Texas, each measuring more than one million square feet. In 2012, the company introduced the development of fulfillment centers in Dupont, Wash., and in Middletown, Del., and made a half-dozen similar announcements the previous year.

The redesign of supply chains has introduced some new distribution paths. The Hillwood Development Company, based in Fort Worth, will develop two of Amazon’s fulfillment centers in Texas, including one at AllianceTexas, Hillwood’s 17,000-acre master-planned community north of Fort Worth that is a nexus of rail service, airfreight and highway access. The second will be near Dallas, in Coppell; USAA Real Estate Company is developing the third center just northeast of San Antonio.

Plenty of companies need to establish and maintain distribution centers in smaller markets, too, according to Benjamin Butcher, chief executive of STAG Industrial in Boston. STAG owns and manages more than 29 million square feet of single-tenant industrial properties in 31 states.

Mr. Butcher said that companies were generally reluctant to make major adjustments to an established supply chain. “In the tenants we’re dealing with, there is a lot of stability,” he said. “They don’t tend to move unless there is a fairly strong and valid business reason to do it.”
306 2013-02-13 Facing challenges from foreign exchange rates, reduced demand for carbonated beverages and bumpy markets in Europe and China, Coca-Cola still managed to increase its fourth-quarter profit, the company said on Tuesday.

Net income was $1.87 billion, or 41 cents a share, compared with $1.66 billion, or 36 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue rose 4 percent, to $11.46 billion.

But that was not good enough for Wall Street, where the company’s share price fell 2.7 percent, to $37.56.

“In some of the key markets in Europe, sales were down more than expected, and I think that’s got people spooked a bit,” said Jack Russo, a stock analyst at Edward Jones. “Consumers there are in a fragile state, and cold weather was an issue, too.”

Nonetheless, Mr. Russo said, the company reduced costs, which will continue to pay off this year, and commodity prices should be lower.
307 2013-02-13 A British withdrawal from the European Union “would be a big problem for us,” said Mark Blinston, commercial director at BM. The company depends on the bloc for a third of its sales, which reached £22 million, or $34 million, last year.

In fact, BM, based in Mansfield in the north of England, has already started having trouble in Europe — not because of the Brussels bureaucracy but because of the harsh realities of competitive trade.

BM has been losing market share recently to a leading rival, AS, which is based in Spain, a nation that has one of Europe’s most troubled economies.

Because recession and high unemployment have driven down Spanish labor costs, AS has been able to undercut BM on price in the crucial German automotive market, as well as on BM’s home turf in Britain.

“We are worried,” Mr. Blinston said. “Economic changes in another market can really have an effect on you.”

On Jan. 23, Mr. Cameron called for a referendum on his country’s continued membership in the European Union if sufficient changes from Brussels were not forthcoming. In a poll after the speech, 40 percent of Britons said they would vote to opt out. But nearly as many, 38 percent, said they would oppose withdrawal.

Highlighting the stark trade reality this month was the incoming Bank of England governor, Mark J. Carney. In his first public remarks before Parliament, Mr. Carney pointed out that since 2000, Britain’s share of global exports have decreased about 50 percent — the steepest decline among the world’s 20 biggest economies.

That decline is all the more startling if one considers that it has happened during a time that the pound has lost up to a third of its value against other major currencies, one of the largest currency devaluations in the country’s history.

All other things being equal, a cheaper pound should make British assets, whether exports sent abroad or construction of factories at home, more of a bargain for foreign buyers and investors.

But a growing number of economists and policy experts say that a cheap currency alone is not enough to keep Britain competitive.

They make the case that the painful adjustments undertaken by government and industry in Spain, Ireland, Portugal and Greece have halted the decade-long loss of competitiveness that was at the root of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.

Unable to devalue their currencies as Britain has, these euro zone nations have cut spending, raised taxes and laid off millions of employees. The resulting gains in competitiveness, painful and hard won as they have been, are now apparent. All of those countries are reporting smaller budget gaps and improved trade deficits that in some cases have swung to surpluses.

By these crucial yardsticks, Britain is emerging less as an economic dynamo poised to become a main trading partner with China than as the surprising economic sick man of a Europe committed to putting its financial house in order.

According to the European Commission, on the purest measure of how much more a government spends than it takes in through taxes, Britain’s primary deficit of 3.9 percent of gross domestic product will be the largest in the European Union this year.

And on the trade front, Austria and France are the only other European countries that, like Britain, have experienced a widening trade deficit since the onset of the financial crisis in 2007.

Through January of this year, new export orders by British industry have fallen for 13 consecutive months, according to official statistics.

Few Britons presumably want to incur the economic hardships that Spaniards and Portuguese have endured on the road to a turnaround. But some economists say Britain may have to follow some of the Continent’s examples, rather than further distancing itself, if it wants to reverse its trade decline.

“On labor costs alone, Britain does not look competitive,” said Holger Schmieding, the chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London and the author of a recent report that shows Britain trailing Spain, Greece, Italy and Ireland in reducing the cost of its work force in recent years.

Even more troubling for British policy makers is the country’s persistent decline as a preferred home for foreign direct investment — money that comes into a country and is put into building factories, stores and other types of businesses.

Britain was once the undisputed European leader by this measure. But since 2007 Spain, France and Germany have seen inward investment grow or remain unchanged while such money into Britain has decreased 5 percent. In 2011, foreign direct investment in Britain was just £31 billion.

“This is a very worrying trend,” said Martin Cook, a consultant at the global management advisory firm Ernst & Young, which highlighted this development in a recent study.

Recently, the automakers Ford and Renault, which both have large operations in Britain but are struggling in the European market, announced plans to expand in Spain. Those moves suggest to analysts that at least for the big producers of midprice cars destined for Europe, Spain is becoming a more attractive place to build a factory than Britain.

Of course, Britain’s future as an exporting nation is not tied only to its ability to market catalytic converters and Ford Fiestas in the European Union.

As Mr. Cameron would have it, Britain’s global standing will be elevated by companies like Land Rover and Mini that are helping feed China’s voracious appetite for automobiles.

But with exports to China at just 2.8 percent of Britain’s overall output — lagging behind sales to that country by Germany, France and Italy — fulfilling the dream of becoming a high-end industrial powerhouse will require a substantial increase in investment in British industry.

In fact, the real growth in foreign money has been the funds flowing into British government bonds, which have reached record highs.

Foreigners, eager to park their money in a European country outside the risky euro zone, now hold £400 billion worth of British government bonds — an amount equivalent to about one-fourth of Britain’s overall economy. While that inflow has kept borrowing rates low, the risk is that these short-term investors could suddenly bolt as they did in Greece, Ireland and Spain.

But bond flows are not the concern of BM Catalysts, as the company ponders the prospect of a new British relationship with the Continent.

“I don’t disagree with the idea of getting a better deal,” Mr. Blinston said. “But in the end we see our market as Europe.”
308 2013-02-13 The interpretation fell along party lines. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, the subcommittee’s ranking Republican, summed up the position of other Republicans in his opening remarks.

“In my view the divide on this issue is fairly straightforward,” Mr. Cruz said.

“The focus should be on criminals” and enhancing prosecutor’s tools, he said, including possibly adding a new federal statute against straw purchasing, in which people buy firearms for those who are prohibited from doing so; Mr. Cruz called such a statute an idea with “potential bipartisan” support.

“At the same time,” he said, “we should continue to respect and protect the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens.”

Timothy J. Heaphy, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, was repeatedly questioned on the efficacy of current gun laws. When asked to weigh in on an assault weapons ban — which many gun rights advocates believe violates the spirit of the Supreme Court ruling because it bans, rather than limits, a specific category of firearms — he said he believed it passed the constitutional test.

While the topics of the hearing varied from proposed legislation on mental health services in schools to the wisdom of carrying a gun in restaurants, much attention focused on the one area upon which there is an increasing bipartisan consensus: enhanced and increased background checks for gun buyers. Patching holes in the existing laws is “our best opportunity to keep firearms out of dangerous hands,” Mr. Heaphy said.

Some Republicans expressed concerns about the wisdom of such enhanced laws. At one point Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina seemed deeply miffed that he might have to undergo a background check to buy a gun from Senator John Cornyn of Texas to improve his hunting outcomes.

Others wondered about how effective such laws would be. “Some on our side wonder why raise all this fuss about background checks,” said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, noting that most criminals buy guns illegally.

But the enduring potential of new background checks was underscored by submitted testimony from Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who emphasized the “need to close existing loopholes that allow criminals to avoid the common-sense requirement that gun sales should be performed with a background check,” and made some references to violent video games, but was silent on an assault weapon ban.

Next to the hearing, dozens of people affected by gun violence gathered in the afternoon in the Capitol basement in a room named for Gabriel Zimmerman, a Congressional staffer killed in Tuscon in 2011 when a gunman opened fire on Representative Gabrielle Giffords.

Mr. Zimmerman’s mother, Emily Nottingham, was one of several who called on Congress to reform the country’s gun safety laws. In an emotional plea, she recalled how her son had loved and admired the political process.

“But he was not naïve — he knew government processes are long,” she said. “Please don’t let us down.”
309 2013-02-13 Marriott and the Bloomberg administration sharply disputed the audit’s conclusions.

“The comptroller’s office did not understand the Marriott Marquis hotel deal, and its audit report is wrong on all counts,” Marriott said in a statement.

On Twitter, Julie Wood, a spokeswoman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, issued a sarcastic response to the audit: “Looks like @JohnCLiu has run out of things to audit, now rummaging thru Giuliani files. Shocker: Times Sq turnaround didn’t happen by itself.”

But Mr. Liu stood by his report, saying the audit relied on Marriott’s lease, prior audits and internal memos at the city’s Economic Development Corporation.

Randy Levine, who as deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration negotiated the 1998 agreement, said he could not recall its specifics. Mr. Levine is now president of the New York Yankees.

The audit’s most striking finding is that the city appears to have far undervalued the land.

The hotel, with more than 1,900 rooms, a ballroom, exhibition and meeting space, shops and a theater, sits on the west side of Broadway, between 45th and 46th Streets. It is the flagship for Marriott’s 33 hotels in New York City under nine brands.

“Times Square is a unique market in which the sky may be the limit for land,” said Daniel F. Sciannameo, president of Albert Valuation Group, an appraiser. “Recent prices are off the charts.”

In the early 1980s, the city and the state were desperate to redevelop Times Square, then a district of T-shirt and X-rated shops and shuttered theaters that many New Yorkers avoided. With Times Square considered a risky location, the government provided a menu of tax breaks and other incentives to encourage redevelopment projects by Marriott and others.

The city and the state signed a 75-year lease with Marriott in 1982 that was intended to ease the hotel’s financial burden by setting a low initial rent, a portion of which was deferred until the lease expired in 2057.

Under its original 1982 lease, Marriott had the option to buy the land for “fair market value,” after paying all deferred rent and repaying a low-interest federal loan. The lease stipulated that each side would hire an appraiser to establish the price.

Sixteen years later, in 1998, Marriott asked the Giuliani administration to revise the terms of its lease, so it could comply with requirements for forming a real estate investment trust.

By then, Times Square was beginning to thrive.

Marriott agreed to pay $54 million to cover some deferred rent and to repay the federal loan. The city, in turn, changed the rent calculation and amended the purchase price, inserting a formula that effectively reduced it to $19.9 million, according to the audit.

Marriott contends that it does not owe the $3.6 million cited by the comptroller because the original sum had been paid in 1998.

As for the purchase option, Marriott said the annual rent payments it had made to the city should be deducted from the purchase price.

But the comptroller’s office points out that nowhere in the original lease does it say that there would be a deduction for rent payments.

The revised 1998 lease eliminated the requirement for appraisers and instead set a price. According to the audit, the Economic Development Corporation failed to do a comparative analysis to establish whether the revised lease was in the best interests of the city.

According to internal city documents, Marriott offered to buy the property in 2010 for $10.7 million, even less than what was stipulated in the revised lease, although nothing came of it.
310 2013-02-13 Opinions on business conditions expressed by small and large businessmen have diverged in the last several years, according to surveys of the two groups — with small-business owners becoming more pessimistic.
311 2013-02-14 The Moscow Exchange, better known by its original name, Micex, garnered enough investor interest for an initial public offering....
312 2013-02-14 Sush Krishnamoorthy, a student in New Delhi who is applying to universities in the United States, wants to assure her prospective colleges that she is "a worthy investment who will give them manifold returns."...
313 2013-02-14 The exchange priced near the bottom of the expected range, valuing the company at about $4 billion....
314 2013-02-14 Two studios that are supplied by the company, called Rhythm and Hues, are extending credit, but a third, Warner Brothers, is not....
315 2013-02-14 On the battlefield, individuals with language skills are rare and highly prized. Once their job is done, however, they do not always receive much protection from the militaries they serve....
316 2013-02-14 If so, send it to us. No product shots, no marketing shots. We want photos that capture what it means to run a small business....
317 2013-02-14 It has taken a long time for new iPhone 5 accessories compatible with the Lightning connection port to hit the market. Here’s why....
318 2013-02-14 The plan is a result of the National Recording Preservation Act of 2000....
319 2013-02-14 A survey of utility customers, the first since Hurricane Sandy, shows that, as a group, businesses in the Northeast lost a lot of faith in their power providers last year....
320 2013-02-14 For years industry groups have complained that government regulations and taxes were at the root of the weak recovery, but survey data consistently showed that demand was actually far and away the biggest problem. Until recently....
321 2013-02-14 Finding "a human" to connect with at these organizations has been difficult, said one owner in the She Owns It business group....
322 2013-02-14 In place of the Class Act, Congress has created a new Commission on Long-Term Care. Some doubt it will lead to anything....
323 2013-02-14 Sports Illustrated’s swimwear issue has long drawn rebukes from some for objectifying and sexualizing women. But is this year’s, photographed around the world, also using non-Westerners as “ethnic props”?...
324 2013-02-14 Officials estimate it will take tens of millions of dollars to repair damage caused by Sunday’s tornado at the University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg. The College Board voted unanimously on Wednesday to allow the higher education commissioner, Hank M. Bounds, to sign contracts and take other actions without board approval to help the 16,000-student university recover. The university plans to resume classes on Thursday, although some sections will be in temporary quarters. The tornado damaged buildings at the southern edge of the campus. One of those, a former fire station converted to house the jazz program, will have to be torn down, Mr. Bounds said.
325 2013-02-14 TOKYO (AP) — Japan’s economy remained mired in recession late last year, shrinking 0.4 percent in annualized terms for the third straight quarter of contraction on feeble demand at home and overseas.

The government reported Thursday that growth for all of 2012 was 1.9 percent, after a 0.6 percent contraction in 2011 and a 4.7 percent increase in 2010 and a 5.5 percent contraction in 2009.

The figures were worse than expected, as many analysts had forecast the economy may have emerged from recession late last year as the Japanese yen weakened against other major currencies, giving a boost to Japanese export manufacturers.

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office in late December, is championing aggressive spending and monetary stimulus to help get growth back on track. He has lobbied the central bank to set an inflation target of 2 percent, aimed at breaking out of Japan’s long bout of deflation, or falling prices, that he says are inhibiting corporate investment and growth.

But the Bank of Japan was not expected to announce any major new initiatives from a policy meeting on Thursday. The current central bank governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, is due to leave office on March 19, and Mr. Abe is expected to appoint as his successor an expert who favors his more activist approach to monetary policy.

Last year began on an upbeat note with annual growth in the first quarter at 6 percent as strong government spending on reconstruction from the March 2011 tsunami disaster helped spur demand. But the economy contracted in the second quarter and deteriorated further as frictions with China over a territorial dispute hurt exports to one of Japan’s largest overseas markets.
326 2013-02-14 “Good ideas can come from just about anybody,” Ms. Quinn said in an interview on Wednesday, when asked about the real estate industry’s role. Recalling her days as a housing activist, she said it was impractical to formulate a serious affordable housing plan without the industry’s participation.

“If you are a housing organizer not willing to talk to landlords and developers, in addition to tenants, what are you getting done?” she asked.

City developers and landlords, led by their powerful trade group, the Real Estate Board of New York, have long sought a real estate tax cap, which would guarantee them a discounted and predictable long-term tax bill in return for renting out some apartments at below-market rates.

At the current tax rates in prime neighborhoods, the developers say, there is no financial incentive to maintain affordable apartments in their buildings; a tax cap would help alleviate that problem, they say.

Critics contend a tax cap gives highly profitable developers a sizable tax break on an entire building when a vast majority of apartments inside are rented at prevailing — and in New York City, generally quite high — rates.

“Whenever the real estate industry is framing the debate around affordable housing, tenants are going to lose,” said Jaron Benjamin, executive director of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a tenants’ rights group.

He expressed dismay over the concept of the tax cap. “It’s almost identical” to the Real Estate Board’s proposal, Mr. Benjamin said. “We think it’s a big mistake to give wealthy developers subsidies.”

Aides to Mr. Bloomberg said they were surprised, even startled, to see the tax cap proposal prominently featured in Ms. Quinn’s speech.

When the real estate industry sought a similar set of tax incentives through a bill in the New York State Legislature in 2011, Mr. Bloomberg’s office singled out the tax cap for criticism. In a memo, a top aide said the plan was “not, fundamentally, an affordable housing program,” but “a large tax break dressed up as a housing policy.”

Ms. Quinn’s aides said that her current proposal, which caps real estate taxes at a substantially higher rate than proposed by the Real Estate Board two years ago, would cost the city far less money.

“The concept and the framework are the same,” said Preston Niblack, Ms. Quinn’s director of finance, “but the fact that we are talking about a cap that is much higher than the original cap makes this significantly less costly and not a giveaway.”

Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board, said that while he was pleased Ms. Quinn had raised the issue of a tax cap, he needed greater detail. His members, he said, wanted Ms. Quinn to set the cap at 20 percent of their total rental income per building. That is well below Ms. Quinn’s goal of 28 to 31 percent.

Ms. Quinn said she wanted developers and landlords to “break even” on their investment in affordable housing units in gentrifying neighborhoods, not earn money.

Several of the companies most likely to benefit from a tax cap are major donors to Ms. Quinn. Related Companies, for example, has given her more than $40,000 since 2009.

“That has no relationship to what position I take on issues,” Ms. Quinn said. “My goal here is not to make any member of the real estate industry, whether they are donors or not, happy.”

Ms. Quinn estimated the cap would cost about $400 million in lost taxes over the next decade.

Her proposal comes at a time when Democratic officeholders have increasingly expressed concern about subsidies to developers.

“We’ve been giving away property taxes at an astounding rate,” said Senator Liz Krueger, a Democrat from the Upper East Side. “The city has a long history of giving away the store to powerful people in real estate. You have to be extremely careful.”

Ms. Quinn said she would vigilantly police the cost. “Is threading this needle complicated? she asked. “Absolutely.”
327 2013-02-14 “I don’t tell my wife that I love her,” Dr. Kallivayalil said. “My father has never in 88 years told me that he loved me. We don’t do that.”

A study led by James Witte, a professor of sociology at George Mason University in Virginia, reported that more than half of a set of volunteer respondents in India said they kissed at least several times a week. He solicited respondents through Internet portals, in English, but cautioned that his sample was not random. He said he reached people who were “well educated, younger and more urban” and who had access to the Internet.

In Professor Witte’s study, of the 112 respondents in the kissing module, 24.1 percent said they kissed passionately “many times a day,” but when asked about kissing, hugging or caressing in public, 41.1 percent of participants chose “hardly ever or not at all.”

A pivotal screen kiss reflected the changing romantic landscape here. Until the 1990s, kissing scenes were discouraged for decades by Indian film censors, and Shah Rukh Khan, a Bollywood heartthrob who is one of the world’s biggest movie stars, has been teasing Indian audiences in dozens of films since then by bringing his lips achingly close to those of his beautiful co-stars. But his lips never touched any of theirs until he kissed the Bollywood bombshell Katrina Kaif in “Jab Tak Hai Jaan,” which was released in December 2012.

Mr. Khan tried to soften the impact by saying in a published interview that his director made him do it. But the cultural Rubicon had been crossed.

“That kiss was an incredibly important moment,” Dr. Srivastava said. “Shah Rukh Khan defines what is mainstream. If he does it, it becomes acceptable.”

Kissing’s rise here may also reflect the growing power of young women in deciding who to marry, said Debra Lieberman, an assistant professor of evolutionary psychology at the University of Miami. In many cases, “women are now able to select mates without having to negotiate as much with family members,” Dr. Lieberman said.

And Dr. Avdesh Sharma, a psychiatrist practicing in New Delhi, said that his younger female patients are far more insistent than their mothers were that their emotional needs be met. That often involves kissing, he said.

“The terms and timing of intimacy used to be initiated and decided entirely by the man,” Dr. Sharma said. “That is no longer true.”

Indeed, while arranged marriages are still the norm in India, a growing share of young couples say that their views play a role in the process. If a young woman does not like the man her parents have picked, many families now offer her a veto.

Prakash Kothari, the founder of the department of sexual medicine at Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College in Mumbai, said that his female patients are much more demanding than they once were.

“For years, most Indian men used sex with their partners as a kind of sleeping pill, and few devoted any time to foreplay,” Dr. Kothari said. “Now, many women are able to ask for what they want.”

Aseem Chhabra, a columnist for The Mumbai Mirror, an English daily featuring local news, said public displays of affection are still a rare sight in India. “It’s not like you can walk on the streets of Delhi and Bombay and see people kissing. It’s still a big taboo,” he said.

“The educated 20-somethings are watching a lot more Hollywood films,” he said. “It’s not like they are imitating, but they are getting inspired.”

Six years ago, Richard Gere caused a national scandal when he kissed the Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty during an AIDS-awareness event. Mr. Gere quickly fled India, leaving legal complaints and at least one arrest warrant in his wake. Ms. Shetty was criticized for failing to resist him.

A 2006 government-financed survey, the most recent available, found that less than 1 percent of female respondents and 5 percent of male ones said that they had had sex outside of marriage in the previous year. Other studies suggest that premarital sex rates are higher than reported in official surveys, but the numbers are still very low compared with those in the West.

Rajat and Neha, two 22-year-olds in New Delhi’s majestic Lodi Gardens, agreed to discuss why they enjoy kissing when their parents had not done so, at least in front of them.

“Love,” Rajat said simply as Neha nodded. Their parents’ marriages were arranged; they hope to marry for love. They asked that their last names be withheld, however, in part because they are from different castes and fear that her parents would not approve.

Rajat and Neha expect to graduate from college this spring; they say their physical relationship has not gone beyond kissing and cuddling. They met four years ago in a park when he approached and asked if she would be his friend. She agreed but soon suspended the relationship for seven months while she studied for her last set of high school exams.

“It was very hard to spend a day without her,” Rajat said. “A single day.”

Soon after the exams, she called him. She had memorized his telephone number because she did not want her parents seeing the number in her phone.

“I knew he was waiting for me,” Neha said.

They meet regularly in Lodi Gardens, which is far enough from their homes that discovery is unlikely. In contrast to parks in other Indian cities, the police in New Delhi rarely harass young couples in Lodi Gardens. But young men often sit and stare hungrily at kissing couples. On a recent afternoon, kissing couples in Lodi Gardens had the added burden of shooing away a foreign reporter clumsily asking for interviews.

Rajat and Neha say they plan to reveal their love to their parents sometime next year. In the meantime, they kiss — igniting a bonfire of yearning that fairly leaps off their lips.

“Times have changed,” Rajat said. “We are different.”
328 2013-02-14 Thus, a company that pursues purpose marketing must communicate what its “core values” actually are, said Michael Simon senior vice president and chief marketing officer at the Needham, Mass., office of the Panera Bread Company restaurant chain.

For instance, Panera is “a place to get great soup, salads, sandwiches, but we stand for so much more,” he added, citing policies that include donating unsold baked goods, starting the Panera Bread Foundation, working with organizations like Feeding America and opening donation-based community restaurants under the Panera Cares banner.

“We talk about our values internally, but we’ve been reticent to leverage them,” Mr. Simon said. That changed as a result of research that showed that communicating those attributes and actions could be “more compelling to our customers” than conventional pitches about meal deals or how “my sandwich is better than the guy across the street’s.”

So Panera and its new creative agency, Cramer-Krasselt in Chicago, are introducing a campaign, with a budget estimated at $70 million, that bears the slogan: “Live consciously. Eat deliciously.”

The campaign will include television and radio commercials; digital, print and outdoor ads; and a significant presence on social media like Facebook and Twitter. The estimated 13 million customers who belong to the My Panera program will get a preview on Thursday. (The campaign is to be formally introduced on Monday.)

The effort is intended to convey that “as a successful business, the people at Panera believe it’s important to participate in the community beyond pure business,” said Marshall Ross, Cramer-Krasselt’s executive vice president and chief creative officer.

“Of course, Panera’s not the only people to care about these things, deliver these things,” he added, but “when people who like the company for the food hear about the kind of company it is, it changes how they feel; they like it even more, for more emotional, more potent, more loyalty-driving reasons.”

Mr. Ross acknowledged that purpose marketing “really does need to reflect real sincerity, without making people cynical.”

“Sometimes an ad agency’s job is to conjure the story and express it in a fascinating way,” he said. “This time, our job was to shut up and listen to the real story.”

A television commercial that will help introduce the campaign starts with a narrator who says: “When Panera began, we decided to get up every day and bake fresh bread from fresh dough in every bakery cafe. That decision made us wonder, what else could we do the right way?” The narrator goes on to ask: “Could we make food that lives up to our bread? And could it be food you can trust, with ingredients like antibiotic-free chicken?”

The commercial continues in a circular style, underlined by a Rube Goldberg machine that mimics the daily routine at a Panera restaurant. “Could we start all this with a humble loaf of bread?” the narrator concludes. “We already have, and every morning we start again.”

For Bumble Bee seafood, Bumble Bee Foods is playing down traditional ads focused on products in favor of purpose-based efforts under a rubric, “BeeWell for Life,” meant to emphasize health and nutrition. Those efforts involve blogs, e-books, Facebook and a Web site.

“We’re figuring out as a company, as people, how we can effect change,” said David F. Melbourne Jr., senior vice president for marketing and corporate social responsibility at Bumble Bee Foods in San Diego. “Rather than pushing out brand messaging, we’re engaging consumers in a more meaningful way.”

In pursuing purpose marketing, initiatives ought to “incorporate realistic goals,” he added, to keep the campaigns from seeming too ethereal.

Bumble Bee Foods is primarily working with two agencies, Mr. Melbourne said, Geary LSF in San Diego and Fleishman-Hillard, part of the Omnicom Group. Spending for the “BeeWell for Life” efforts is estimated at $5 million.

Other brands known for purpose marketing include Kashi, sold by Kellogg, and Whole Foods Market. A newcomer to the trend, Union Bank, is introducing a campaign by Eleven in San Francisco that carries the theme “Doing right, it’s just good business.” It features Edward James Olmos and Maya Angelou. Ms. Angelou? As in, “I Know Why the Caged Bank Sings”?
329 2013-02-14 It is unclear why policy and economic uncertainty would be taking a greater toll on small versus large businesses.

Smaller companies might have be more alarmed by headlines about the debt ceiling and fiscal tightening because they don’t have armies of in-house analysts to advise them about relative risks, said Nicholas Bloom, an economics professor at Stanford who maintains an index on policy uncertainty.

Smaller businesses are also more fixated on domestic uncertainty because they are less diversified than big firms — both geographically and in terms of product lines — and so have smaller margins for error. The last several years have offered multiple false starts in the domestic economy (remember “Recovery Summer” in 2010?), and small businesses that acted on any sense of optimism often found themselves badly burned.

Ralph Jensen, president of Pro Data IV, a nine-person accounting and bookkeeping firm in Green Bay, Wis., has watched and learned. He would like to open another office in Appleton, about 30 miles south, and hire a new employee. But he is concerned about how another blowup in Washington, or at the very least lingering uncertainty about tax increases and spending cuts, might affect his clients’ expansion plans.

Unlike a big company that can take a tax write-off for investing in space or equipment it ends up not needing, “I just don’t have much wiggle room if I fail,” he said.

Before he would feel comfortable expanding, he said, “I’d have to see my business is growing consistently for a long time, and I would have to have really, really strong faith in the fact that people were going to be opening more businesses around here that would be looking for services like mine.”

No matter what fiscal showdown Washington might have in the coming weeks, recent Congressional decisions have already had concrete effects on the economic security of small businesses.

Many business owners report continued confusion about what their health care liabilities will be in 2014, for example, when some employers will be required to offer health insurance and other changes to health benefits kick in.

Owners who sell directly to consumers say they are also concerned about the effects that Congress’s recent tax increases, like the end of the payroll tax holiday, will have on their bottom line.

“You know I’m in kind of a unique situation in that I don’t sell anything that anybody needs, the way you need groceries or some other things,” said Jason Starkey, the owner of Starkey Products, in Orange City, Fla., which sells lighting products and other accessories that are installed in new cars. “I know I’ve noticed the tax hike that just occurred, so people making $50,000 to $60,000, the people who buy our products, must be noticing it, too.”

The latest commercial and industrial lending numbers from the Federal Reserve suggest that the credit market for small businesses is healing. Rising housing values, too, are good for small-business borrowers, who often take out personal loans to finance their businesses.

But many small businesses are still struggling to have their credit needs met.

“The banks are not lending. They claim they are, but they’re not,” said Summit Kumar, president of Summit Telecom, a telecommunications company in Hicksville, N.Y. “I got a line of credit from a bank five years ago and I paid it back. Now the same bank says I’m ‘high-risk business’ and turns me away.” He acknowledges that his business has taken a hit in recent years and that he has had to lay off employees, but he says that his inability to get credit is part of the problem. He says he has had to resort to cash advance companies that expect him to pay back loans at exorbitant interest rates. One alternative lender said it would give him $50,000 if he paid it back with $75,000 six months later.

The struggles of small businesses ripple through the rest of the economy. They are reluctant to invest in expensive capital equipment, for one.

Mr. Starkey said that eight or nine years ago he could have justified investing in a $25,000 piece of equipment that would help him make a particular piece for a Ford Mustang, since he knew he would be able to earn back his investment in six months. But today, he doesn’t know if he will be able to get a return in six months or two years, and “having that kind of money tied up in one item is just too great a risk.”

Metrics of small-business hiring and hiring intentions are also very low, according to the National Federation of Independent Business and the Labor Department. That might partly explain why so many middle-age women have dropped out of the labor force in recent years, said Mr. Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisers, since women are more likely to be employed at smaller service sector companies than, say, manufacturers.

“Until the small-business sector starts to feel better,” he said, “the rest of the economy isn’t going to feel much better either.”
330 2013-02-14 Deere & Company, the world’s largest farm equipment maker, forecast a modest increase in sales for the year on Wednesday, disappointing investors who thought the prospect of a record United States corn crop would have meant better results.

The company’s shares fell 3.5 percent, as its forecast suggested continuing concerns about the global economy and equipment purchases for the rest of the year.

“The near-term outlook is being tempered by uncertainties over fiscal, economic and trade issues that are undermining business confidence and restraining growth,” Deere’s chief, Samuel R. Allen, said in a statement.

A record corn crop might seem likely to increase sales for a company like Deere, and last week government officials predicted the biggest such crop on record. But all that corn could put pressure on the staple commodity’s price. Deere cut its forecast for corn prices in 2013 to $5.25 a bushel from its earlier projection of $6.

Lower prices would mean a drop in total farm cash receipts. Farmers with less cash cannot spend as much on equipment, even if they have a lot to harvest.
331 2013-02-14 WASHINGTON — Saying that its debt could reach $45 billion by 2017 if Congress does not act, the Postal Service on Wednesday called on lawmakers to give it the flexibility to change its business model to keep itself solvent.

During a hearing before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Patrick R. Donahoe, the postmaster general, asked Congress to give the Postal Service permission to run its own health plan for employees and retirees, modify a Congressional mandate that requires the agency to pay $5.5 billion a year into its fund for future employee health benefits, and end Saturday mail delivery. Mr. Donahoe said the changes would allow the agency to save $20 billion by 2016.

Ending Saturday mail delivery would save the Postal Service about $2 billion annually, according to its estimates. The agency lost $15.9 billion in the last fiscal year and $1.3 billion in the first quarter of the current one.

But despite the outcry from some lawmakers after the announcement last week that the Postal Service would seek to end Saturday letter delivery, few senators questioned Mr. Donahoe on Wednesday about the agency’s proposal. Most of the questions came from rural lawmakers like Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, who said he was worried about the impact on rural communities of some other Postal Service changes, like the closing of mail-processing plants.

But Senators Mark Pryor of Arkansas and Carl Levin of Michigan, both Democrats, did question whether the agency had the legal authority to make the Saturday change. And both senators said they were not satisfied with the legal justification given by Mr. Donahoe, who said that the agency could end Saturday delivery without Congressional approval.
332 2013-02-14 The stock market lacked direction on Wednesday, as a slump in McDonald’s stock helped pull the Dow Jones industrial average below 14,000. Other major market indexes were marginally higher.

McDonald’s was among the biggest decliners in the Dow, losing $1.10, to $94, as investors worried that Americans were spending less on eating out after a rise in Social Security taxes at the beginning of the year. The government reported early Wednesday that spending by Americans barely grew last month.

Other fast-food companies also fell. Buffalo Wild Wings stock plunged $4.52, to $76.55, after its earnings fell short of analysts’ expectations. Burger King and Wendy’s also fell.

“Consumer spending is coming under pressure,” said Bryan Elliott, an analyst at Raymond James. “It’s the easiest way to save money; stay at home and cook.”

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 35.79 points, or 0.26 percent, to 13,982.91. The Dow is still up 6.71 percent so far this year and is just 182 points below the record close of 14,164 set on Oct. 9, 2007.
333 2013-02-14 LONDON — Adding momentum to police investigations that have already cost Rupert Murdoch’s newspaper empire in Britain hundreds of millions of dollars, Scotland Yard said Wednesday that six more journalists who previously worked for The News of the World were arrested at dawn on suspicion of hacking into cellphone messages.

The latest police swoop followed others in the past year that have resulted in the arrests of more than 100 reporters, editors, investigators, executives and public officials by police units investigating whether criminal activity occurred at British newspapers. Most of those have involved The Sun, Mr. Murdoch’s daily tabloid, and The News of the World, the highly profitable Sunday tabloid he shut down as the scandal broke in July 2011.

In an especially troublesome development for News Corporation, the New York-based parent company of the Murdoch newspapers in Britain, a statement on the latest arrests said they involved “a further suspected conspiracy to intercept telephone voice mail messages by a number of employees who worked for the now defunct News of the World newspaper” — in effect, a new break in the police inquiry, involving possible wrongdoing beyond the wide pattern of phone hacking at the paper that has resulted in 32 arrests so far.

The police statement said five of the arrests on Wednesday took place in London, and one in Cheshire, a county south of the northern city of Manchester. It said those held for questioning were three men and three women, all in their 30s and 40s, none of whom were identified. The Sun later confirmed that two of the six were currently working for the newspaper, having taken jobs there after The News of the World closed. The police said the homes of all those arrested were being searched.

Mike Darcey, chief executive of News International, the Murdoch subsidiary that publishes The Sun, e-mailed employees at the paper after the arrests. “As always, I share your concerns about these arrests and recognize the huge burden it places on our journalists in the daily challenge of producing Britain’s most popular newspaper,” he said. “I am extremely grateful to all of you who succeed in that mission despite these very challenging circumstances.”
334 2013-02-14 The protester in Nepal has not yet been identified but he timed his self-immolation to coincide with the important Tibetan festival of Losar, the Tibetan New Year, during which the government in exile has asked Tibetans not to celebrate in solidarity with Tibetans still in Tibet.

The protester set himself on fire near a major Buddhist stupa, or religious structure, that is in the Boudhanath section of Katmandu, where many Tibetan exiles live.

A waiter at the Golden Eye Cafe told The A.P. that the Tibetan man used the bathroom in the restaurant before stepping outside onto the street. Later, the waiter found a bottle of gasoline and clothing in the bathroom.

“He looked like the hundreds of Tibetans who came to Boudhanath today, and I did not suspect he was going to set himself on fire,” said the waiter, Prasant Tamang.

The Chinese government has condemned the self-immolations as criminal acts and has been waging a police crackdown. Last week, Chinese state media reported that at least 70 people had been arrested or detained in a Tibetan region of the province of Qinghai and accused of inciting others to self-immolate. Last Friday, a Chinese court sentenced a Tibetan man to 13 years in prison on similar charges.

Lobsang Sangay, the prime minister of the Tibetan government in exile, expressed sadness about the self-immolation in Nepal and said his administration had asked Tibetans not to take drastic actions, including self-immolation. But he also placed the blame for such acts on the Chinese government.

“The occupation of Tibet and repression of Tibetans are the primary reason for the self-immolations inside Tibet,” Mr. Sangay said by e-mail on Wednesday, while he was visiting the United States. “The solution to the tragedy in Tibet lies with Beijing and my administration is fully committed to dialogue and to address the issue peacefully.”

For decades, Chinese leaders have vilified the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, and the country’s state-run media have recently been blaming him for orchestrating the self-immolations. Tibetans have dismissed such claims as blatant propaganda and argued that the self-immolations are the result of repressive Chinese policies that have sharply restructured political and religious rights in Tibetan areas.

“Why do the Tibetans burn themselves?” asked Penpa Tsering, speaker of the exiled Tibetan Parliament, which is based in Dharamsala, India, in a speech earlier this month. “Political freedom in Tibet is nonexistent.”

Nepal is pinched between China and India and for decades has served as a way station for Tibetans escaping from Chinese rule. In recent years, Chinese leaders have pressured Nepal’s government to choke off this flow of refugees and to limit political protests by Tibetans living in Nepal.
335 2013-02-14 The hairstyling market just got a little hotter. The celebrity stylist Rachel Zoe, 41, having leveraged her personal brand into designing clothing and promoting lipstick, is scheduled to open DreamDry, a blowout and hairstyle salon, on Feb. 14 at 35 West 21st Street, mere blocks from similar ventures called Blow and Drybar.

Ms. Zoe and her business partner Robin Moraetes are adding a few twists: a loyalty program and a DreamDry Dossier to track customers’ loyalty points and style history.

Each client will be given an iPad to peruse the salon’s latest style offerings. At the end of each session, her look will be photographed and put in the iPad for future reference. Checkout from the chair is also offered.

No stranger to starlet styles, Ms. Zoe will update the menu with the most recent Hollywood trends, in addition to offering classics like the Audrey (a simple up-do) and the Farrah (soft, loose waves). Blowouts will cost $40, while dry hairstyling (braids and chignons) ranges from $20 to $30.

“The styles at DreamDry are inspired by my personal muses and fashion icons,” Ms. Zoe said in a statement. “DreamDry is all about making glamorous hair an everyday reality.”

The 2,600-square-foot space, decorated in black, gold and silver, will feature 17 chairs, a V.I.P. area and long hours: from 6:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Appointments can be made online or at (212) 886-5194. HILARY HOWARD
336 2013-02-15 Message: They don't care, and they probably can't fake it....
337 2013-02-15 The price of electricity in New England is running way above normal because the price of natural gas, which is used to generate electricity, has spiked.
338 2013-02-15 Sanctuary Records, which owns classic albums by the Kinks and Black Sabbath, was snapped up by BMG Rights....
339 2013-02-15 A leading Sherlock Holmes scholar argues that many licensing fees paid to the estate have been unnecessary, since the main characters are no longer under U.S. copyright....
340 2013-02-15 Regulators have a frozen a Zurich-based account that reaped $1.7 million in gains from trading options before  the $23 billion takeover of H.J. Heinz was announced....
341 2013-02-15 MissoniHome has taken beautifying the living experience one step further with a collection of graphic, scented candles, which make their debut tomorrow....
342 2013-02-15 The legal filings reveal acrimony among many of the former partners of Dewey, which entered Chapter 11 protection in May....
343 2013-02-15 Bucks readers discuss their experiences in dealing with succession at a family-owned business....
344 2013-02-15 Minor clashes between police and civilians were reported from few districts....
345 2013-02-15 Connoisseurs of the Academy Awards' worst moments can take part in Grantland's tournament....
346 2013-02-15 Paul McCartney talks about the Grammy Award he won for his album "Kisses on the Bottom," and why, by design, he wasn't at the Grammys ceremony....
347 2013-02-15 Keynes had nothing to do with it....
348 2013-02-15 Microsoft Word comes with plenty of built-in keyboard shortcuts for common menu commands, but you can also make your own shortcuts....
349 2013-02-15 A Tibetan man died Wednesday after setting himself on fire to protest Chinese rule, bringing the total number of Tibetans who have carried out similar protests since 2009 to 101, according to a report on Thursday by Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government. The latest protest took place in Sangchu County, known in Chinese as Xiahe, in Gansu Province. The area is the home of Labrang Monastery, an important center of religious study in Tibet. Radio Free Asia reported that the man, Drukpa Khar, 26, was survived by a father, mother and three children. On Thursday, a Tibetan man who set himself on fire on Wednesday in Katmandu, Nepal, where many Tibetans in exile live, died at a hospital, according to news reports. The police are still trying to identify him, The Associated Press reported.
350 2013-02-15 At the center of the installation (hanging between St. Augustine and St. John) is a seventh painting, the Clark’s “Virgin and Child Enthroned With Four Angels,” which came from a different altarpiece in Sansepolcro. It stands in for the lost central panel from the Sant’Agostino altarpiece, which may also have featured the Virgin.

Mr. Silver’s hypothetical reconstruction of that altarpiece (at the museum and in an excellent interactive illustration online), based on one by the scholar Machtelt Israëls, reveals some of Piero’s narrative and compositional devices. It connects the balustrade and blue sky behind SS. John and Augustine, for instance, who once stood next to Michael Arcangel and Nicholas of Tolentino. (Those last two figures are seen here only in reproduction; they remain at the National Gallery in London and the Museo Poldi Pezzoli in Milan.)

Other connections emerge, notably the subtle lighting effects that Piero used to make the space of his paintings contiguous with that of the church. Looking at St. John in isolation, you might notice that the backs of his hands, which support a book, are softly illuminated, even though the main light source seems to be coming from the upper right; this detail makes more sense when you envision him high up on the altarpiece, above flickering candles.

Look, too, at St. John’s bare feet. One of them is obscured by the edge of a platform. Infrared reflectography has shown that Piero painted the entire foot before starting on the platform, even though he had blocked out the entire composition and knew that part of the foot would be covered over. It’s a small detail, but it says a lot about Piero’s brick-by-brick approach to building a convincing pictorial space; for him there were no shortcuts.

The enthralling “Virgin and Child Enthroned With Four Angels” best exemplifies Piero’s uncanny orchestration of figures, architecture and religious symbolism. Mary is seated on a raised platform, surrounded by a square formation of stone-faced angels. Her torso is perfectly aligned with a column, and the top of her head appears to brush the decorative molding on the ceiling; she is, literally, a pillar of the church. The young Jesus, on her lap, reaches for a rose that’s echoed by the floral motif at the base of the throne.

Those who find such architectonic figures a bit dehumanizing will appreciate the smaller panels, which show that Piero was capable of sensitivity and even pathos. Here, for instance, is the virgin martyr St. Appolonia, holding one of her missing teeth (broken off by persecutors) with a pair of tongs, looking slightly dazed, with her eyes wide.

It’s no wonder that collectors like Gardner, Clark, Philip Lehman and Helen Clay Frick (the magnate’s daughter) competed fiercely for such works, on the few occasions that they came to market. Rarity had something to do with it, but as Mr. Silver suggests in his catalog introduction, so did modern criticism (by Roger Fry and Bernard Berenson) that linked Piero to Cézanne. Travel was also a factor, as newly wealthy Americans retraced the Grand Tour itineraries of 19th-century Europeans.

“Piero della Francesca in America,” you might say, is a kind of posthumous wish fulfillment for these collectors, who fell in love with Piero on their Italian idylls but found that all the money in the world could not buy them more than a panel or two.

And for the rest of us, it’s a reminder that some art experiences, even in an age of virtual museums and digital reconstructions, are strictly have-to-be-there. Viewers will leave this show charmed but not quite sated, planning trips to Sansepolcro, to Arezzo, to anywhere Piero’s art put down roots.
351 2013-02-15 Investors in PepsiCo saw glimmers of the end of the tunnel on Thursday when the company reported a 17 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit after a long lackluster performance.

Net income was $1.66 billion, or $1.06 a share, lifted by higher prices for the company’s products, significant investments in marketing of crucial brands like Pepsi and Lay’s and strong sales in Latin America and other emerging markets. Earnings were $1.42 billion, or 89 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

Signs that PepsiCo was moving out of what Indra K. Nooyi, the chief executive, called a transition year — as well as her announcement on a call with analysts that the company plans to apply to the Food and Drug Administration for approval of a new, lower-calorie sweetener — moved its share price up more than $2 by midday before it closed at $72.28, up 78 cents.

“It was an encouraging quarter,” said Kevin V. Dreyer, associate portfolio manager of the $2 billion Gabelli Asset Fund, which owns PepsiCo shares. “It looks like things might be getting a bit better.”

He said the news of Berkshire Hathaway’s purchase of Heinz for $23 billion, or more than 13 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, suggested that the value of PepsiCo’s vast Frito-Lay business was higher than the company’s stock price suggested. “That other announcement may be having an impact as well,” he said.

Investors were also heartened by a slight improvement in the North American beverage business, which grew 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter even though sales of carbonated beverages were down a bit.

The company introduced several twists on various products last year, including a Gatorade chew, Doritos dressed up with new, spicier flavors and Pepsi Next, which has roughly half the calories of a regular Pepsi.
352 2013-02-15 The self-taught artist Gayleen Aiken (1934-2005) has been called the Grandma Moses of Vermont. A lifelong resident of Barre, Vt., she began making art as a child. If you consider the nearly 30 drawings and paintings dating from 1955 to 1995 in this lively show, it looks superficially as if her technical skills were arrested at about age 10.

That is deceptive, though, as there is considerable formal complexity in much of her work. One of the people dancing in moonlight outside a big, old house lighted from within and full of revelers is a remarkable feat of depicting light and space, and a touching expression of human community.

At least part of Aiken’s mind evidently remained in a state of childlike openness. Carefully detailed and quirkily annotated pencil and crayon drawings of musical instruments, rural homes in zooming perspective and the inner workings of a granite gravestone company, whose raw material comes from nearby quarries, exude infectious curiosity about the world around her.

There is much commotion in her works. Many are populated by rambunctious children with maniacal toothy smiles. They are identified in handwritten captions as “Raimbilli cousins” from an imaginary extended family. Disasters happen, as in the comical drawing of a person thrusting a plunger into an overflowing kitchen sink, surrounded by cheerful onlookers, but the work has no dark side.

There is something unnerving, however, about some two dozen nearly life-size, full-figure portraits of madly grinning Raimbillis made of cardboard, paint and fabric, all hanging on the wall facing the gallery entrance.
353 2013-02-15 Mice already have EDAR, an ancient mammalian gene that plays a leading role in the embryo in shaping hair, skin and teeth. The Broad team engineered a strain of mice whose EDAR gene had the same DNA change as the East Asian version of EDAR.

When the mice grew up, the researchers found they did indeed have thicker hair shafts, confirming that the changed gene was the cause of East Asians’ thicker hair. But the gene had several other effects, they report in Thursday’s issue of the journal Cell.

One was that the mice, to the researchers’ surprise, had extra sweat glands. A Chinese member of the team, Sijia Wang, then tested people in China and discovered that they, too, had more numerous sweat glands, evidently another effect of the gene.

Another surprise was that the engineered mice had less breast tissue, meaning that EDAR could be the reason that East Asian women have generally smaller breasts.

East Asians have distinctively shaped teeth for which their version of EDAR is probably responsible. But the mice were less helpful on this point; their teeth are so different from humans’ that the researchers could not see any specific change.

The finding that the gene has so many effects raises the question of which one was the dominant trigger for natural selection.

Dr. Sabeti said the extra sweat glands could have been the feature favored by natural selection, with all the other effects being dragged along in its train.

“We’re the only mammals to have changed their entire hair pattern. So the changes in teeth, hair and breasts — it’s very possible they are the passengers and thermoregulation is the key,” she said, referring to the role of sweat glands in cooling the body.

East Asians are sometimes assumed to have evolved in a cold environment because of their narrow nostrils, which conserve heat, and the extra eyelid fat that insulates the eye. But the Broad team calculates that the EDAR variant arose about 35,000 years ago in central China and that the region was then quite warm and humid. Extra sweat glands would have been advantageous to the hunter-gatherers who lived at that time.

But Joshua Akey, a geneticist at the University of Washington in Seattle, said he thought the more likely cause of the gene’s spread among East Asians was sexual selection. Thick hair and small breasts are visible sexual signals which, if preferred by men, could quickly become more common as the carriers had more children. The genes underlying conspicuous traits, like blue eyes and blond hair in Europeans, have very strong signals of selection, Dr. Akey said, and the sexually visible effects of EDAR are likely to have been stronger drivers of natural selection than sweat glands.

Yet a third view is held by Dr. Kamberov, who believes that each of the effects of the EDAR variant may have been favored by natural selection at a different time. A series of selections on different traits thus made the variant version so common among East Asians. About 93 percent of Han Chinese carry the variant, as do about 70 percent of people in Japan and Thailand, and 60 to 90 percent of American Indians, a population descended from East Asians.

The Broad team is studying EDAR as part of a larger plan to identify all the genetic variants responsible for recent human evolution. Many researchers, including Dr. Sabeti, have devised ways of scanning the human genome to detect the fingerprints of natural selection. But these scans have typically identified large chunks of the genome that contain many genes. There is often no way to tell which gene was the target of natural selection.

A team led by Dr. Sabeti and Sharon R. Grossman of the Broad Institute has now refined the usual scanning methods and identified 412 sites on the genome that have been under selection. Each site is small enough that it contains at most a single gene.

Each race has a different set of selected regions, reflecting the fact that the human population had dispersed from its African homeland and faced different challenges that led to genetic adaptation on each continent. About 140 of the sites affected by natural selection are in Europeans, 140 in East Asians and 132 in Africans, the authors report in another article published Thursday in Cell.

Inserting some of the other selected genes into mice might help explain why they were favored, and point to critical turning points in recent human evolution, Dr. Sabeti said.

In the case of EDAR, putting the gene into mice has only magnified the mystery of why it was selected. But the researchers are not discouraged. “A reflection of good science is that a step forward opens up a lot more questions,” Dr. Akey said.
354 2013-02-15 “The settlement is even more gratifying because it underscores the value of private civil litigation to protect shareholder rights,” Christopher McDonald, one of the lead lawyers representing investors, said in a statement. Vytorin combines the statin drug Zocor, also sold by Merck, with the anticholesterol drug Zetia. Several studies — including the one in question — have failed to show that Vytorin or Zetia is more effective than statins, most of which are available as low-cost generics and have been shown to reduce the risk of heart attacks. Zetia has been shown to lower the so-called bad cholesterol, but whether it reduces heart disease is still not known.

Sales of Vytorin and Zetia have fallen since 2007, when they brought in a combined $5 billion, but they are still among Merck’s top-selling drugs. In 2012, Zetia brought in $2.6 billion and Vytorin $1.8 billion, according to company filings.

In settling the lawsuits, Merck did not admit any wrongdoing and said both companies had acted responsibly in connection with the clinical trial, which is known as the Enhance study. Schering and Merck merged in 2009.

A jury trial was scheduled to begin in early March.

“This agreement avoids the uncertainties of a jury trial and will resolve all of the remaining litigation in connection with the Enhance study,” Bruce N. Kuhlik, executive vice president and general counsel of Merck, said in a statement. “It is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders to put this matter behind us, and to continue our focus on scientific innovations that improve health worldwide.”

Daniel Berger, a lawyer whose firm represented the Dutch pension fund ABP, said the size of the settlement was noteworthy because many such suits are accompanied by a criminal or government investigation but there was none in this case.

“This was a case that we built ourselves,” he said. In 2009, the companies paid $41.5 million to settle class-action lawsuits from consumers and insurers over the same issue. Also that year, the companies paid $5.4 million to state attorneys general investigating consumer protection cases involving Zytorin and Zetia.

In their heyday, Zetia and Vytorin were heavily promoted by Merck and Schering despite continued skepticism by cardiologists that the drugs were effective. Zetia, also known as ezetimibe, was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2002 based on studies that showed that it lowered bad cholesterol 15 to 20 percent. Vytorin was approved in 2004. The drugs provided a comfortable source of revenue for Merck after its Zocor lost patent protection and faced competition from low-cost generic alternatives.

In 2007, about 800,000 prescriptions for Zetia and Vytorin were written each week. They made up nearly 20 percent of the market for cholesterol-lowering drugs. But by that fall, cardiologists began to complain and to question the drugs’ efficacy after the companies refused to release the findings of the Enhance trial.

Merck suffered another setback involving Zetia last year when the F.D.A. rejected its application for a drug that would combine Zetia with the active ingredient in Lipitor, a statin made by Pfizer that is now available as a generic. In January, Merck said that it had provided new information to the agency and was resubmitting the drug for approval.
355 2013-02-15 PARIS — A senior official of the United Nations nuclear supervisory body said Thursday that talks a day earlier in Iran had ended inconclusively and that international inspectors had not been given access to a site that they suspect may have been used for testing bomb triggers.

The official, Herman Nackaerts, deputy director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said the discussions “could not finalize” a document that “once agreed, should facilitate the resolution of outstanding issues regarding possible military dimensions of Iran’s nuclear program.”

He declined to say whether any progress had been made.

The talks have been going on for months, veering from apparent optimism last May when Yukiya Amano, the I.A.E.A. director general, said there had been a decision “to conclude and sign” an agreement, to far more muted recent assessments. Before Wednesday’s talks, Mr. Amano said, “The outlook is not bright.”

Mr. Nackaerts was speaking as he returned from Tehran to Vienna, where the agency has its headquarters. He said no date had been set for further talks.

“We will work hard now to try and resolve the remaining differences, but time is needed to reflect on the way forward,” he said.

“As on previous occasions, we were not granted access to Parchin,” he said, referring to a military site 20 miles south of Tehran that inspectors want to examine for evidence of bomb trigger tests.

While Western powers suspect Iran is seeking nuclear weapons technology, Tehran says its program is for civilian purposes.
356 2013-02-15 The exchange priced near the bottom of the expected range, valuing the company at about $4 billion....
357 2013-02-16 Life without defenseman Erik Karlsson began Saturday for the Ottawa Senators as they fell to the Toronto Maple Leafs, 3-0....
358 2013-02-16 Surprisingly good policy....
359 2013-02-16 Fredrik Jacobson birdied the two toughest holes at Riviera on his way to a six-under-par 65 and a share of the lead with Sang-Moon Bae going into the weekend at the Northern Trust Open in Los Angeles.
360 2013-02-16 N.F.L. owners nearly tripled Commissioner Roger Goodell’s compensation in the 2011 tax year to $29.49 million. According to the league’s most recent tax return, much of Goodell’s pay came in the form of a $22.3 million bonus. His base pay was $3.1 million.

¶ The Green Bay Packers released the veteran wide receiver Charles Woodson. General Manager Ted Thompson said that the team would not have won the Super Bowl in 2011 without Woodson and that he was a “once-in-a-generation talent” who was an ambassador for the organization off the field. Woodson, 36, had two years left on a five-year contract that was worth as much as $55 million. (AP)
361 2013-02-16 BEIRUT, Lebanon — Syria’s main opposition body on Friday formally endorsed an initiative to pursue a political solution through talks with members of the Syrian government — provided that Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, and security and military leaders involved in his bloody crackdown are excluded.

The group’s president, Moaz al-Khatib, had faced intense criticism from fellow opposition members after proposing the talks, a departure from the opposition’s longstanding refusal to negotiate with the government until after Mr. Assad steps down or is removed. The opposition group, the National Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces, made the announcement after its 12-member politburo met in Cairo overnight.

But challenges remain: the Syrian government has said it is open to talks to end the conflict that has killed more than 60,000 people, but rejects setting Mr. Assad’s removal as a precondition, as does Russia, its most powerful backer. And it is unclear where talks would be held. The government insists they must be in Syria; Mr. Khatib responded by saying they were welcome to meet in rebel-held areas, an invitation officials are unlikely to accept.

The coalition sought to reassure members of Mr. Assad’s Baath Party and government employees that they would have a place in a future Syria. Winning over such people is one of the key challenges facing the opposition.

“All Syrians will be part of any future political solution, including those currently serving with the state institutions,” the coalition declared in a statement after the meeting, “as long as they did not participate in any crimes committed against other Syrians.”
362 2013-02-16 The Internet abounds with epidermal reminders of the power of the Armstrong and Livestrong brands: the iconic yellow bracelet permanently wrapped around a wrist; block letters stretching along a rib cage; a heart on a foot bearing the word Livestrong; a mural on a back depicting Armstrong with the years of his now-stripped seven Tour de France victories and the phrase “ride with pride.”

While history has provided numerous examples of ill-fated tattoos to commemorate lovers, sports teams, gang membership and bands that break up, the Livestrong image is a complex one, said Michael Atkinson, a sociologist at the University of Toronto who has studied tattoos.

“People often regret the pop culture tattoos, the mass commodified tattoos,” said Atkinson, who has a Guns N’ Roses tattoo as a marker of his younger days. “A lot of people can’t divorce the movement from Lance Armstrong, and the Livestrong movement is a social movement. It’s very real and visceral and embodied in narrative survivorship. But we’re still not at a place where we look at a tattoo on the body and say that it’s a meaningful thing to someone.”

Geoff Livingston, a 40-year-old marketing professional in Washington, D.C., said that since Armstrong’s confession to Winfrey, he has received taunts on Twitter and inquiries at the gym regarding the yellow Livestrong armband tattoo that curls around his right bicep.

“People see it and go, ‘Wow,’ ” he said, “But I’m not going to get rid of it, and I’m not going to stop wearing short sleeves because of it. It’s about my family, not Lance Armstrong.”

Livingston got the tattoo in 2010 to commemorate his brother-in-law, who was told he had cancer and embarked on a fund-raising campaign for the charity. If he could raise $5,000, he agreed to get a tattoo. Within four days, the goal was exceeded, and Livingston went to a tattoo parlor to get his seventh tattoo.

“It’s actually grown in emotional significance for me,” Livingston said of the tattoo. “It brought me closer to my sister. It was a big statement of support.”

For Eddie Bonds, co-owner of Rabbit Bicycle in Hill City, S.D., getting a Livestrong tattoo was also a reflection of the growth of the sport of cycling. His wife, Joey, operates a tattoo parlor in front of their store, and in 2006 she designed a yellow Livestrong band that wraps around his right calf, topped off with a series of small cyclists.

“He kept breaking the Livestrong bands,” Joey Bonds said. “So it made more sense to tattoo it on him.”

“It’s about the cancer, not Lance,” Eddie Bonds said.

That was also the case for Jeremy Nienhouse, a 37-year old in Denver, Colo., who used a Livestrong tattoo to commemorate his own triumph over testicular cancer.

Given the diagnosis in 2004, Nienhouse had three rounds of chemotherapy, which ended on March 15, 2005, the date he had tattooed on his left arm the day after his five-year anniversary of being cancer free in 2010. It reads: “3-15-05” and “LIVESTRONG” on the image of a yellow band.

Nienhouse said he had heard about Livestrong and Armstrong’s own battle with the cancer around the time he learned he had cancer, which alerted him to the fact that even though he was young and healthy, he, too, could have cancer.

“On a personal level,” Nienhouse said, “he sounds like kind of a jerk. But if he hadn’t been in the public eye, I don’t know if I would have been diagnosed when I had been.”

Nienhouse said he had no plans to have the tattoo removed.

As for Mariash, she said she read every page of the antidoping officials’ report. She soon donated her Livestrong shirts, shorts and running gear. She watched Armstrong’s confession to Winfrey and wondered if his apology was an effort to reduce his ban from the sport or a genuine appeal to those who showed their support to him and now wear a visible sign of it.

“People called me ‘Miss Livestrong,’ ” Mariash said. “It was part of my identity.”

She also said she did not plan to have her tattoo removed.

“I wanted to show it’s forever,” she said. “Cancer isn’t something that just goes away from people. I wanted to show this is permanent and keep people remembering the fight.”
363 2013-02-16 Northeast and many other companies are temporarily insulated from the spot market because they sign long-term contracts for electricity supply. But Northeast’s energy charges next year could be 10 percent higher than they are now, Mr. Daly said, because the companies that sell power on a long-term basis will charge more to absorb the risk of short-term spikes in prices.

“It is certainly true that a region like New England that relies on a single fuel source like natural gas for the bulk of its power does leave itself open for more disruptions than a region with a more diverse fuel mix,” said Jay Apt, executive director of the Electricity Industry Center at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. “It’s not a knock against natural gas; it’s a knock against a single fuel source.”

The American Public Power Association has warned since 2010 that demand is outpacing the delivery capacity of gas infrastructure. At coal plants, “you can look out the window and see that 60-day supply of your fuel,” said Joe Nipper, the group’s senior vice president of government relations. But gas plants tend to deliver fuel just as it is needed.

The gyrations of the spot market are hard to follow because prices are set in units few consumers understand. Electricity is sold on the wholesale market in megawatt-hours, or thousands of kilowatt-hours; a megawatt-hour is enough to run a big suburban house for a month. Natural gas is sold in a unit called an MMBtu, or a million British thermal units. An MMBtu equals 10 therms, the unit home heating customers pay for.

Normally, a megawatt-hour costs $30 to $50, and an MMBtu less than $4. But not lately.

The problem began late last year. During a cold snap around Thanksgiving, electricity prices in New England shot up to the highest in the country: $103.20 per megawatt-hour and $12.37 per MMBtu on Nov. 27.

On Jan. 24, the cost of an MMBtu of natural gas at Algonquin Citygate, a spot near Boston where gas is traded, rose to $31.20, pushing the price of a megawatt-hour over $200. Constellation Energy, which operates plants in the region, attributed the jump to temperatures 15 to 20 degrees below average.

A megawatt-hour cost about $150 early this month, according to weekly reports from ISO New England, the independent operator that maintains the region’s electricity market. A year ago, the price was around $30.

New England’s problems have been moderated somewhat by imports. “Without Indian Point, New England would have been toast,” Mr. Short said. “We’re importing 1,400 megawatts out of New York.” Indian Point is a twin-unit nuclear plant on the Hudson River that New York State is seeking to close.

But the region is littered with 1950s- and 1960s-era coal and oil plants that have been retired in the last few years. The 214-megawatt, coal-fired AES Thames unit near Uncasville, Conn., shut down in 2011; Somerset Station, a 174-megawatt, coal-fired plant in Somerset, Mass., closed in 2010.

The Salem Harbor plant in Salem, Mass., once had four coal and oil units, with a capacity of 745 megawatts. Two have closed, and the others will probably close next year. A new owner intends to build a 630-megawatt plant that will run on natural gas.

The underlying issue in New England is that gas pipeline capacity is inadequate to keep prices steady in times of high home heating demand, said Vamsi Chadalavada, executive vice president and chief operating officer of ISO New England. ISO is leading a study focused mainly on reliability, but reliability is intertwined with price, he said.

Importing liquefied natural gas would help, Dr. Chadalavada said, but cargoes are going instead to Europe and South America, where prices are higher.

Several companies want to liquefy and export gas from the continental United States because of the shale gas glut, and the events in New England could affect that debate. Opposition has come mostly from domestic industries that use the gas. A spokesman for Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon and chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, said Mr. Wyden saw the price gyrations in New England as a reason to “look before we leap ahead with unfettered exports of gas.”

But the biggest problem may be the inadequacy of existing pipelines. On Feb. 7, ISO New England told the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that it was concerned about “increasing reliance on natural gas-fueled generators at times when there is an increasingly tight availability of pipeline capacity to deliver natural gas from the south and west to New England.”

Additionally, experts say that the natural gas market and the electric market mesh poorly, because while the electric market runs around the clock, the gas market closes down at night.

During the storm last week, with transmission lines being knocked out by snow and high winds, ISO asked some gas-fired generators to start running in the middle of the night, Dr. Chadalavada said, and found they could not. “We were sitting here, 3 in the morning, trying to get gas generators to start up, and we started seeing where they couldn’t access that market in the overnight hours,” he said.

About 30 percent of the generators in the region burn coal and oil, Dr. Chadalavada said, but they produce less than 1 percent of the energy because they run so seldom. Some can take 24 hours to return to service.

ISO and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees interstate electricity and gas markets and transmission, are trying to make the systems mesh better.
364 2013-02-16 But Collins challenged those assumptions. “We’ve come into camp saying, ‘Well, we’re looking to platoon here, we’re looking to platoon there,’ ” Collins said. “If Marlon Byrd is the same offensive player that he’s capable of being, we don’t need to platoon. We’ve got that guy.”

It was a highly conditional statement, though, for good reason.

Byrd put together four productive seasons in a row — three with the Texas Rangers and one with the Cubs — by batting .294 with an .807 on-base-plus-slugging percentage from 2007 to 2010. In the last of those years, he made the National League All-Star team.

But Byrd’s drop-off has been significant, and his recent seasons have been plagued by frustration and controversy. Last season, he batted .210 in 47 games combined for the Cubs and the Boston Red Sox before he was released.

Then, on June 25, Byrd was suspended for 50 games after testing positive for Tamofixen, a medication that blocks estrogen production and is sometimes used by athletes to block the side effects of steroids. Byrd noted Friday that the drug was used to treat gynecomastia — the enlargement of breast tissue in men — and he said he did not realize it was on baseball’s list of banned substances.

“It was something I took not knowing, because of the name, that I was taking, me not checking the list for the first time in my career,” he said Friday. “I’ve said it before, I think you have to be an idiot to test positive, and I was one of those idiots.”

He added: “It was something stupid. I was not trying to cheat. It was a banned substance. It was not a steroid.”

Byrd said he still worked with Victor Conte, founder of the Bay Area Laboratory Cooperative, which produced performance-enhancing drugs and distributed them to athletes. Conte’s actions resulted in an extended federal investigation and a series of guilty pleas and convictions that spanned several sports and ensnared prominent figures, including Barry Bonds.

Conte, who served four months in prison as part of his plea bargain, remains a contentious figure, but Byrd said Friday that if he had consulted with Conte last year, he would not have mistakenly taken the medication. “I should have been doing what I’ve been doing the whole time, consulting Victor, because he’s on the right side of the fence right now,” Byrd said.

Byrd has not played for a major league team since the suspension. Last week, he finished his first stint playing winter ball, spending three months in Mexico. Looking to revive his career, he said his goal was to compete hard for the chance to break camp with the Mets. “I can help out in any position, left, center or right field,” Byrd said. “So this is a perfect spot for me.”

Collins seemed to raise the stakes. “He’s under the radar a little bit,” he said, “but he has a chance to make a huge impact with us.”

Terry Collins said his preference would be that Johan Santana not pitch for Venezuela next month in the World Baseball Classic. He said he told Santana that he wanted him to be prepared to take the mound for the Mets on opening day.
365 2013-02-16 Philadelphia selected van Riemsdyk right after Chicago Blackhawks took Patrick Kane with the first pick in 2007. It was the first time American-born players had been picked Nos. 1 and 2 in an N.H.L. draft.

Van Riemsdyk attended the University of New Hampshire and, after collecting 74 points in 67 games, decided to give up his final two years of eligibility and sign with the Flyers.

Over the next two seasons, he collected 36 goals and 75 points in 153 games. In August 2011, the Flyers rewarded him with a six-year, $25 million contract extension, but van Riemsdyk struggled through an injury-plagued 2011-12 season, appearing in only 43 games. He missed 20 games because of a concussion and abdominal injuries, then sustained a foot injury in March.

Van Riemsdyk scored only six goals in his final 37 games, including the playoffs.

“I kind of expected something like that was coming,” van Riemsdyk said, looking back at the trade. “It wasn’t as shocking as it could’ve been. You never can fully prepare for it, but I kind of knew something was up.”

After the trade, van Riemsdyk began wearing a wristband under his equipment with the slogan: Prove them wrong. It was a gift from a friend who runs an inspirational clothing company. Van Riemsdyk said the motto had inspired him in his first season with Toronto, but he was not ready to offer a progress report.

“I’ll let them decide that, that’s not for me to answer,” he said after the Maple Leafs’ 5-2 victory over the Flyers.

Through the first 14 games, van Riemsdyk has a team-leading eight goals, three off the league lead. As a result of an injury to Joffrey Lupul, van Riemsdyk has gone from playing on the Maple Leafs’ third line with Nazem Kadri and Leo Komarov on opening day to playing on the top line with Phil Kessel and Tyler Bozak.

“He’s a good player; you can tell he’s a good player,” the Flyers’ captain, Claude Giroux, said. “Looks like he fits in well with those two players.”

On Monday night, in his first game against Philadelphia since the trade, van Riemsdyk scored a third-period goal when he danced around Schenn before beating Brian Boucher.

“It definitely feels better than a regular goal,” van Riemsdyk said. “I didn’t have one of my better games out there, but it feels good to chip in in a game like that against your former team.”

The goal was that of a prototypical power forward: the 6-foot-3, 200-pound van Riemsdyk used his speed to go outside on Schenn before cutting to the net and going backhand to the short side.

Van Riemsdyk had four goals and an assist in Toronto’s recent four-game winning streak. Despite the shortened season, he is on pace to set a career high in goals. He scored 21 in 2010-11.
366 2013-02-16 A Sotheby’s spokesman, Andrew P. Gully, said Ms. Levine could not comment further, given State Department restrictions on discussions of the panel’s deliberations.

The cultural panel’s major role is to advise the State Department on how to handle requests from foreign governments seeking to control and protect cultural heritage items, many of which are vulnerable to looters and can wind up on the art market. Its recommendations form the basis for agreements, called memorandums of understanding, that, in general, place broad American import and sales restrictions on cultural heritage items.

Ms. Levine, the senior vice president and worldwide compliance director for Sotheby’s, was appointed to the unpaid position on the 11-person panel in 2011. She is one of three members who specialize in the international sales of archaeological items. The panel’s charter also requires three members who represent archaeologists, two who represent museums, and three who represent the wider public.

Sotheby’s and the office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York are currently awaiting a judge’s ruling on whether to permit a lawsuit over a 10th-century Khmer statue, valued at $3 million, to go to trial.

At Cambodia’s request, the American government sought last April to seize the hulking sandstone sculpture, depicting a mythic Hindu warrior, from Sotheby’s. Cambodia said the statue was looted in the 1970s from a crumbling temple in an ancient complex called Koh Ker.

Sotheby’s has said that there is no proof that the statue was removed from Cambodia after 1970, and that its Belgian consignor’s husband, now deceased, had bought it in good faith from a London antiquities dealer in 1975.

State Department officials would not discuss whether Ms. Levine had recused herself. Susan R. Pittman, a spokeswoman for the State Department, said the fall meetings had been closed sessions. “As a result, we have no information to provide to you, including the attendance at the meeting,” she said.

Rick A. Ruth, a senior official with the department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, which oversees the panel, said reasons for private sessions included a wish to encourage freewheeling debate; the need to keep negotiating strategies secret; and the fear that organized traffickers would step up looting in advance of legal restrictions.

The United States currently has cultural property agreements with 15 nations. In general, they forbid the import or sale of items that lack export permits and documentation showing they were obtained legally from the country of origin after the agreement was signed.

In 1999 the State Department imposed emergency restrictions on cultural imports from Cambodia, which, beginning in 1970, had suffered catastrophic looting from its prized temples during decades of war, genocide and civil upheaval. The department negotiated a two-nation agreement in 2003 and renewed it in 2008. The agreements are reviewed every five years, and Cambodia hopes to extend the agreement from 2013 to at least 2018.

The existing agreement does not affect the Sotheby’s statue because the statue is known to have left Cambodia before the 1999 accord. Cambodia is seeking its return based on its own laws, which it says have banned the unauthorized removal of items like the statue for more than 100 years. Sotheby’s calls the laws “hopelessly ambiguous French colonial decrees” that have no force today.

In his letter the Cambodian minister praised Ms. Levine’s expertise but said, given the dispute, his government felt her recusal was appropriate.

Parts of the letter were read to The New York Times by two people who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak for the Cambodian government. A Cambodian government spokesman, Phay Siphan, acknowledged that a letter was sent but declined to comment on it.
367 2013-02-16 Pictures From the Week in Business
368 2013-02-16 Many of the detailed video images viewed around the world on Friday showing the explosive meteor in Russia can be traced to what may seem like an unlikely source: the country’s reputation for crazy motorists, stupefying traffic accidents and corrupt police officers. This has led many drivers in Russia to install dashboard cameras, which document every minute on the road.

The streaking flash of the meteor as it burned up over a swath of central and eastern Russia came during part of the morning rush-hour commute in the city of Chelyabinsk and other populated areas. Disbelieving motorists who caught the footage on their dashboard cameras quickly uploaded it on YouTube.

Capturing cosmic events on video, however, is not the primary purpose of dashboard cameras in Russia, where they have become almost standard equipment for vehicles in recent years in order to prove innocence in traffic accidents. They have also spawned a sort-of mini industry in voyeuristic Internet entertainment on their own for chronicling the dangers of driving in Russia.

Google “Russian traffic violence” or “Russian traffic accidents” to find a litany of motorist chutzpah, ranging from deadly hit-and-runs to crowbar assaults between angry drivers, sometimes in the middle of busy highways. The problem was highlighted by then-President Dmitri A. Medvedev a few years ago, in remarks before the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council in which he castigated the “undisciplined, criminally careless behavior of our drivers” for what seemed an epidemic of road mayhem.

Driving in Russia can be especially challenging because of poorly maintained roads, vast lawless areas and the unsavory reputation of the traffic police, who have been ranked in Russian opinion polls as among the most corrupt officials in the country. Insurance is costly and judges prefer to see visual proof of a motorist’s damage claims. Hence the prevalence of dashboard cameras.

The hazards were perhaps most succinctly explained last June by Marina Galperina, a Russian expatriate and an editor-blogger for the Animal New York Web site, who wrote about the ubiquity of Russian dashboard cameras in a blog post.
369 2013-02-16 Rogers had most recently been playing for Stevenage, a third-division English team, after being loaned away by second-division Leeds United. He did not specify when — or if — he might return, instead focusing on his personal issues.

Throughout his life, he wrote, he has “been afraid, afraid to show whom I really was because of fear.”

“Fear that judgment and rejection would hold me back from my dreams and aspirations,” he wrote. “Fear that my loved ones would be farthest from me if they knew my secret. Fear that my secret would get in the way of my dreams.”

Asked to elaborate, Rogers did not respond to an e-mail request for an interview. One of Rogers’s sisters, Alicia Nunn, wrote in an electronic message that “at this moment we not ready to make a comment.” His younger brother, Timothy, said in a brief telephone interview that “I know we are all very proud of Robbie and everything he has done.”

Rogers was similarly embraced throughout the soccer community. Numerous players took to social media to support him, including Eddie Pope, a former United States defender, who wrote on Twitter, “Brave men like you will make it so that one day there is no need for an announcement.”

Benny Feilhaber, who played with Rogers on the 2008 United States Olympic team, wrote to Rogers on Twitter that he was “proud to call you my friend.”

Testo, who finished his career with the Montreal Impact, then a second-division team, came out in a television interview two years ago and said he vividly recalled the emotions that came with finally revealing a secret that could, at times, feel all-consuming.

“I went out with friends and got drunk that night because it was such a relief,” he said, laughing. “I’m sure Robbie will have a good time in London. It’s just such a good feeling.”

The 31-year-old Testo remains active as an advocate for the L.G.B.T. community, and said he planned to reach out to Rogers and hopes to work with him in the future. “I hope he’ll consider playing again — he’s young enough and good enough. But he has impacted plenty of people even if he doesn’t.”

The emotional toll of living the “double life,” as Testo called it, may have drained Rogers’s desire to play. Rogers wrote that “secrets can cause so much internal damage,” adding: “People love to preach about honesty, how honesty is so plain and simple. Try explaining to your loved ones after 25 years you are gay. Try convincing yourself that your creator has the most wonderful purpose for you even though you were taught differently.”

To be sure, some gay male athletes — like the soccer player Justin Fashanu, the cricket player Steven Davies and the rugby star Gareth Thomas — have acknowledged they were gay during their playing careers. But they remain far more the exception than the rule.

Rogers played in Major League Soccer for five seasons and made 18 appearances for the United States, scoring the first goal of Coach Jurgen Klinsmann’s tenure in 2011. If Rogers is indeed finished playing soccer — at present he is still in London and, according to his Twitter feed, has done some recent work with the British version of the magazine Men’s Health — then it will be disappointing because of the circumstances, said Jim Buzinksi, a founder of OutSports.com.

If Rogers returns to the game, he almost surely would have “a target on his back,” Testo said, noting that soccer — like society at large, he added — has made progress, but is far from universal acceptance of homosexuality. Buzinksi agreed and said it was “absolutely depressing” that someone might feel pushed away from a sport he loves.

“It just shows that sports is the final closet in society,” Buzinksi said. “We’ve made huge strides in terms of support of gay athletes, and homophobia is no longer cool in sports. But the closet is very much in existence.”
370 2013-02-16 Such a ruling would “devastate innovation in biotechnology,” the company wrote in its brief. “Investors are unlikely to make such investments if they cannot prevent purchasers of living organisms containing their invention from using them to produce unlimited copies.”

The decision might also apply to live vaccines, cell lines and DNA used for research or medical treatment, and some types of nanotechnology.

Many organizations have filed briefs in support of Monsanto’s position — universities worried about incentives for research, makers of laboratory instruments and some big farmer groups like the American Soybean Association, which say seed patents have spurred crop improvements. The Justice Department is also supporting Monsanto’s argument.

BSA/The Software Alliance, which represents companies like Apple and Microsoft, said in a brief that a decision against Monsanto might “facilitate software piracy on a broad scale” because software can be easily replicated. But it also said that a decision that goes too far the other way could make nuisance software patent infringement lawsuits too easy to file.

Some critics of biotechnology say that a victory for Mr. Bowman could weaken what they see as a stranglehold that Monsanto and some other big biotech companies have over farmers, which they say has led to rising seed prices and the lack of high-yielding varieties that are not genetically engineered.

Patents have “given seed companies enormous power, and it’s come at the detriment of farmers,” said Bill Freese, science policy analyst for the Center for Food Safety, which was an author of a brief on the side of Mr. Bowman. “Seed-saving would act as a much needed restraint on skyrocketing biotech seed prices.”

Farmers who plant seeds with Monsanto’s technology must sign an agreement not to save the seeds, which means they must buy new seeds every year.

Monsanto has a reputation for vigorously protecting its intellectual property.

The Center for Food Safety, which has tracked the cases, said Monsanto had filed more than 140 patent infringement lawsuits involving 410 farmers and 56 small farm businesses, and had so far received $23.67 million in recorded judgments. The center says there are many other cases in which farmers settled out of court or before a suit was filed.

Monsanto says it must stop infringers to be fair to the large majority of farmers who do pay to use its technology.

But Monsanto typically exercises no control over soybeans or corn once farmers sell their harvested crops to grain elevators, which in turn sell them for animal feed, food processing or industrial use.

Mr. Bowman said that for his main soybean crop, he honored Monsanto’s agreement, buying new seeds each year containing the Roundup Ready gene, which makes the plants immune to the herbicide Roundup. That technology is hugely popular, used in more than 90 percent of the nation’s soybeans, because it allows farmers to spray fields to kill weeds without hurting the crop.

But Mr. Bowman also planted a second soybean crop later in the growing season, after harvesting his wheat. Since that late crop is more prone to failure, he says, he did not want to pay the high price for patented seed.

So starting in 1999, he bought commodity soybeans from a grain elevator. These beans were a mixture of varieties from different farmers, but, not surprisingly, most of them were Roundup Ready. So Mr. Bowman sprayed Roundup on his late-season crop.

“All through history we have always been allowed to go to an elevator and buy commodity grain and plant it,” he said in an interview.

The courts, however, have not agreed. After Monsanto sued Mr. Bowman in 2007, a district court in Indiana awarded the company more than $84,000. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which specializes in patent cases, upheld that decision, saying that by planting the seeds Mr. Bowman had created newly infringing articles.

The Supreme Court, which has generally been taking a narrower view of patent rights than the appellate court, agreed to hear the case, much to the chagrin of the biotechnology industry.

“We did not see it coming,” said Hans Sauer, deputy general counsel of the Biotechnology Industry Organization. “We thought this question was long decided.”

Despite the arguments for and against genetically modified crops contained in various briefs, the decision will probably rest on the intricacies of patent law.

Mr. Bowman’s main defense is patent exhaustion — the concept that once a patented object is sold, the patent holder loses control over how it is used.

The Supreme Court affirmed this principle most recently in a 2008 case involving Intel computer chips containing patented technology licensed from LG Electronics. The court ruled that once Intel sold the chips to computer manufacturers, LG’s rights were exhausted and LG could not control how the manufacturers used the chips in their machines.

In the seed case, Mr. Bowman argues, Monsanto had no more rights on the beans sold to the grain elevator.

Monsanto and its allies counter, saying that selling to a grain elevator and buying back seed would be too simple an end-run around the patents. They say exhaustion applies only to the particular item sold and does not give the buyer the right to make unlimited copies of that item, which is what Mr. Bowman did by growing new soybean plants from the grain elevator beans.

Mr. Bowman’s side says that he was not making seeds, he was merely using the seed from the elevator, which is permissible. It just so happens that because of the nature of a seed, using one results in more copies being created. Mr. Bowman argues there should not be an exception to the exhaustion rule just because a patented item is self-replicating.

Mr. Bowman and his allies say a ruling in his favor would not decimate the biotechnology industry. Monsanto could still use contracts to stop farmers from saving newly purchased seed, which is what most farmers will continue to use. Most farmers would not buy large amounts of seed from grain elevators, they say, because it is of poor quality.

Mr. Bowman said that before his case, Vernon Hugh Bowman v. Monsanto, 11-796, was taken pro bono by Mark P. Walters and other lawyers from the firm of Frommer Lawrence & Haug, he had spent $31,000 on legal fees and handled much of the legal research himself, using a computer at the library because he does not own one. He said he never considered settling because he thought he was in the right.

“I was prepared to let them run over me,” Mr. Bowman said, “but I wasn’t getting out of the road.”
371 2013-02-16 “There were members of the family involved in the business, but it became pretty evident that they weren’t going to become the C.E.O. of the company,” said Mr. Phelan, who is the executive board chairman. “The other children were either too young and didn’t know their careers or had started other careers.”

The Phelan brothers faced a situation common to anyone who has built a business with family involvement. If they sell outright, they risk that the proceeds could have unforeseen effects on their children and grandchildren. If they try to keep the company in the family, they run the risk of the company failing, or worse, tearing the family apart.

The brothers reached a conclusion that may not be for every company or family. They decided to create a holding company, Phelan Family Enterprises, to own and manage the three brothers’ shares in the family business and to put their children and the children’s spouses in charge of the holding company. They then brought in professional managers to run Taconic Farms.

There are plenty of financial structures that can be used to protect a family business from estate taxes. But those strategies often fail to take into account the biggest issue: internal family dynamics and how those conflict with the decisions a company needs to make.

“Everyone talks the talk, but few people set up multigenerational structures rather than handing off a company from one generation to the next,” said Frederic Marx, partner at Hemenway & Barnes, a Boston law firm and an adviser to the Phelan family. The American model of a family owning a single business “comes at this,” he said, “by looking at the family business and saying, ‘Let’s see what happens when you die.’ ”

Mr. Marx said he considered what the Phelans did more of a European model of creating a group that manages the original company but also invests in other ideas that family members have. With this model, he said, the founder of the company could retain control of the holding company while giving children and grandchildren the capital to start other businesses — or do something completely different.

Getting the structure right took nearly a decade of thinking, Mr. Phelan said. When he and his brothers realized that their children would be overseeing the company instead of running it, they wanted to make sure the children knew what this would entail.

“We wanted to teach governance as much as it could be taught but also to get that sense of the company instilled into the next generation,” Mr. Phelan said. “It wasn’t hard to instill that pride of ownership. We had to come to grips with, ‘Is it worth it?’ ”

To keep the seven children and their spouses together, the family set up a family council that has monthly meetings. They have semiannual family retreats and drew up a list of family values that they enforce. “We call people on the carpet when we don’t see the values upheld,” Mr. Phelan said.

While it would have been far easier, and probably quicker, to sell the company, there are advantages to keeping a company family-owned, even if it is being run by someone else, wealth advisers said.

From a purely business perspective, keeping a business private reduces the pressure to make decisions quickly. It can also protect the family members in other ways.

“Sometimes you’re protecting the inheritors from themselves,” said William Woodson, co-head of the ultra-high-net-worth business for the Americas at Credit Suisse Private Banking. “They can’t create the kind of liquidity that allows them to invest in other things where they won’t make good choices.”

But Mr. Woodson said that most families could not make the transition out the way the Phelans did. “Intellectually, they know they should do something, but they postpone that decision until it is too late,” he said.

And families who do create these types of family structures usually do so only when they’re forced to. Andrew Tanner, a managing director in the private business group at U.S. Trust, equated the realization to stubbing your toe.

“No one wakes up one day and says, ‘I think it would be a good idea to bring in outside management,’ ” he said. “It doesn’t often work out that Mom and Dad have four kids and one ends up in finance, one in sales, one in operations and one in human resources.”

Mark Stevens, who last summer sold a substantial stake in MSCO, a marketing firm he created 18 years ago, said he was able to distance himself from the emotion of his business, where his wife also works, by thinking about it as an opportunity to put some money in the bank, bring in fresh ideas and still retain his chief executive role for a couple of years longer.

Yet Mr. Stevens, who is 65, said he was open to the sale because he had seen many people miss their chance. “We have people coming in all the time saying they should have an exit strategy or ‘I had one but I didn’t act on it,’ ” he said. “I’ve heard this for decades.”

In its design, the European-style family group the Phelans have devised is both pragmatic and optimistic. Mr. Marx said the structure allowed the family to diversify their interests. The cash generated by the company will build up in the holding company, where it can be used for other investments or to help finance the companies family members start.

“There are only a certain number of people who can be in any family business,” Mr. Marx said. “If you’re able to diversify the business, there are other businesses the family can go into.”

For the optimistic, the structure also allows for family members to come back to the company if they want to.

Still, there are risks that the structure will be too restrictive and create additional problems.

“It’s pretty simple: a family is a very different type of organization than a business,” said Marion McCollom Hampton, senior partner at Banyan Family Business Advisors. “A family is historically rooted and it’s a place where people depend on each other for their identities. A business is supposed to be a meritocracy, where emotion is supposed to be put aside and the business is run rationally.”

And if this exercise in family ownership and cohesion does fail, the next generation can sell their stakes or the whole company.

Mr. Phelan said he and his brothers thought of doing just that many times. “I don’t think there is a family that is serious about its business and is committed to it that doesn’t ask itself periodically, ‘Where would you rather be? Here slogging it out or in the Caribbean?’ ” he said. “When we came to grips with wanting to be on a beach some time, we thought about a sale. But it was never in our DNA to do that.”

Now that decision will be up to their children.
372 2013-02-17 The founder of Business Insider, the online news franchise, promoted a managing editor into the new position of executive editor to help handle the site's growth....
373 2013-02-17 Cesar Millan, the star of the "Dog Whisperer" television series, is planning an extensive celebrity branding campaign in China....
374 2013-02-17 Greater wind capacity could counter the spike that New England is experiencing in natural gas and electricity prices, advocates say....
375 2013-02-17 Melissa Lynn O’Shea and Mark Stephen Fitzsimmons are to be married Sunday at Riverside Church in New York. The Rev. Julie Johnson Staples, a Congregational minister, is to perform the ceremony.

Ms. O’Shea, 40, will take her husband’s name. She works in New York as a vice president and the assistant to the United States chairman and chief executive of Publicis Worldwide, the French advertising agency. She graduated from Tulane University. She is a daughter of Barbara G. O’Shea of Greenwich, Conn., and the late Francis X. O’Shea, who lived in Point Lookout, N.Y. Mr. Fitzsimmons, 51, is a senior manager specializing in retail sales with Apple in New York. He graduated from the University of Iowa. He is a son of Teresa R. Fitzsimmons Eugene E. Fitzsimmons of Des Moines. The groom’s first marriage ended in divorce.

The couple met in October 2008 while in Mozambique with Habitat for Humanity. Mr. Fitzsimmons was the volunteer team leader and had been to Africa several times with the organization. It was Ms. O’Shea’s first time on such a trip. “She was this dedicated, hard-working person looking to give something back in life,” Mr. Fitzsimmons said. “She made working in the hot sun every day much more tolerable.” After two weeks of building homes and getting to know each other, Ms. O’Shea went back to New York, and Mr. Fitzsimmons to Atlanta. In the ensuing weeks, they exchanged dozens of e-mails and telephone calls; in November, Mr. Fitzsimmons visited Ms. O’Shea in New York. After two years of dating long distance and countless frequent-flier miles, including another Habitat for Humanity trip to Kenya in June 2010, Mr. Fitzsimmons moved into Ms. O’Shea’s New York apartment in January 2011. “Had I known I would have met the love of my life in Africa, I would have gone there 10 years earlier,” Ms. O’Shea said. VINCENT M. MALLOZZI
376 2013-02-17 The president of FILA, wrestling’s world governing body, quit in the wake of the International Olympic Committee’s decision to remove the sport from the 2020 Olympics. Raphael Martinetti’s resignation was announced at the FILA executive committee meeting in Phuket, Thailand. He had been in the position since 2002.
377 2013-02-17 Rafael Nadal outlasted 111th-ranked Martin Alund, 6-3, 6-7 (2), 6-1, at the Brazil Open in São Paulo on Saturday, making it to his second straight final after a long layoff to treat his ailing left knee. Nadal will face David Nalbandian, a former world No. 3, who defeated Simone Bolelli of Italy, 6-3, 7-5, to make it to his first final since June.

¶ Tommy Haas reached his first final in six months, beating John Isner, 6-3, 6-4, in the SAP Open semifinals in San Jose, Calif. Haas will face top-seeded Milos Raonic, who defeated Sam Querrey, 6-4, 6-2.
378 2013-02-17 Gary Carini, associate dean of the graduate program in management and entrepreneurship at Hankamer, serves on the governing board for the entrepreneurship program. He was so impressed with the curriculum that he persuaded the university to give the certificates.

More than 5,000 inmates apply each year, and 120 are selected for the program. “We ask, ‘Is the man genuinely committed to change?’ ” said Bert Smith, the program’s chief executive. “The second is, ‘Do we believe based on everything he’s done before, he’s got a strong work ethic?’ "

After three months of classes in character development and computer skills, the prisoners form business plans during six months of entrepreneurship classes.

Students in the program, which started in 2004, currently make up two-thirds of the prison unit’s population. Program officials say they raise up to $2 million a year from private foundations and individuals, and they estimate that the program saves the state roughly $6 million in reduced recidivism.

But it would not work for everyone in prison. “Part of it is probably that inmates who are interested are those already committed to changing their lives,” said Marc Levin, a criminal justice researcher with the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative research organization.

The partnership has drawn praise from many Texas business leaders who say that criminal justice reform can benefit the economy, as successful former inmates become employees, consumers and taxpayers. “Studies have shown that vocational education reduces recidivism more than anything else you can do,” Mr. Levin said.

Prisoners are delving into various fields. Shawn Evans, two years into his four-year sentence for driving while intoxicated, plans a Web site where people can design custom blankets for babies. Others want to sell vending machines with healthy products and work as party entertainers.

The program also operates transitional houses in Dallas and Houston that most of the graduates live in for two to three months after release. Jeremy Gregg, chief development officer for the program, said that the biggest challenge was to keep the program’s graduates accountable once they were released.

When the inmates were asked how they plan to deal with questions from future customers about their pasts, many of them said they hoped honesty would trump the stigma of having been in prison.

“You’ll get their confidence by telling the truth,” said Ricardo Blanco, who is serving a 13-year sentence for manslaughter and kidnapping.

Toward the end of his speech about paintball, Mr. Holbert stumbled, forgetting the next part of his speech. The crowd, which had been totally silent, encouraged him.

“You can do it!” someone shouted repeatedly, slowly overtaken by the cheers of the rest, until Mr. Holbert broke into a smile.

“It’s up to you,” Mr. Smith said, “but you’re not alone.”
379 2013-02-17 Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, simply views the practice as a waste of public resources.

“What it tells you is they didn’t need the money,” he said. “The authorization for the program says you’re supposed to be giving it to the communities that need it, so why would Beverly Hills need a C.D.B.G. block grant?”

The Community Development Block Grant program, signed into law by President Gerald R. Ford in 1974, gives communities more say over how public money is spent.

It is not clear why the trading has not caught on more broadly across the country. Mayor J. Christian Bollwage of Elizabeth, N.J., who has been active in community development for two decades, said he doubted that there were any instances of trading in his region, given the broad need for money. “Suffice to say, that is not happening in Connecticut, New York or New Jersey,” he said.

In the dozens of cases that are documented, the selling city relinquishes its claim to thousands of dollars of promised grants in exchange for a payment, typically set at 60 cents or so on the dollar. Whatever the agreement, the federal government will disburse the same amount that it had committed to pay. But the community that ultimately puts the money to work will receive less than if it had received the grant directly.

Regulators at the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development had tolerated these arrangements until fairly recently.

They did issue a warning to Milwaukee County in 2011 after a Wisconsin newspaper reported that one of the county’s richer suburbs, River Hills, was routinely trying to sell its grant allocation. Threatened with penalties, the county took that option off the table.

Until Mr. Coburn questioned the practice in his annual chronicle of government waste in October, federal regulators had raised few objections in Los Angeles County. There, a virtual bazaar had openly flourished for decades under the supervision of the Los Angeles County Community Development Commission.

County officials are convinced that it was Mr. Coburn’s criticism that prompted a cease-and-desist letter they received in October from Yolanda Chavez, a deputy assistant secretary at the housing department in Washington. “If cooperating jurisdictions cannot use their annual allocations,” she wrote, “the funds should revert to the county and be reallocated to areas of highest need.”

County officials say they have complied by passing along Ms. Chavez’s request to the 48 cities that receive block grants from the county. “If it’s going to raise eyebrows, we’ll figure out another way to help our cities function,” said Terry Gonzalez, a top official at the Community Development Commission.

That change is already being felt by cities that had been active in the brisk trade.

County records show that 14 of its 48 participating municipalities had signed away their rights last year to receive $1.1 million in federal grants for the current fiscal year in return for $782,000 in payments that were free and clear.

Eager for bigger allocations, Torrance, San Fernando and Hawaiian Gardens each picked up more than $100,000 in grants to bolster their usual allotment. La Mirada, the standout of the bunch, stitched together nearly $700,000 in grants from nine sellers, averaging 70 cents on the dollar for the privilege.

“That doesn’t seem in keeping with the spirit of the program,” said Mark Elliot, a Californian who objected on his blog, Better Bike, last March when Beverly Hills struck a similar deal with a city 30 miles to the south.

“Why trade away 90,000 bucks at a discount to the City of Hawaiian Gardens, of all places, when that federal funding could help house people of modest means or less-mobile seniors” at home, Mr. Elliot said at the time.

Municipal records suggest that the money Beverly Hills and other affluent communities earn under the formula often idles as they struggle to find eligible ways to put the awards to work.

In a report written last April, Malibu officials stuck to a line they had been using as far back as 2008 to lobby the City Council for the release — and sale — of the federal grants. “The city has not been able to identify a project that meets the criteria of the funding,” the report said.

In a similar memorandum drafted last March for its City Council, Beverly Hills explained why it had felt compelled to sell the grants. “It can be particularly difficult for cities such as Beverly Hills, which does not have any qualified low-income areas, to find C.D.B.G.-eligible projects,” it said, adding that, “staff has been researching promising projects, but none are ready to fund.”

Stockpiling the money until qualified projects emerged would only expose it to “recapture” if it appeared that the grants were languishing, according to the memo.

Some of those headaches could be avoided, the memo said, if the City Council approved the sale of grants to Hawaiian Gardens at 70 cents on the dollar.

Ms. Gonzalez defended the county’s allocation method, which is modeled on the federal government’s and factors in population, poverty and overcrowding, as “the fairest way to proceed.” Judged by that standard, she said, Beverly Hills and other suburbs were entitled to a share of the proceeds.

“They qualify,” Ms. Gonzalez said. “It’s borne out, it’s indisputable and it’s fair.”
380 2013-02-17 In a statement, Hunter denounced this “extremely troubling process” and hinted at a probable legal challenge, presumably to claim the $10.5 million remaining on his contract, which runs through 2016.

Hunter, 70, said that denying him the chance to defend his record “violates every tenet of fairness upon which the union was founded.” As of Saturday evening, he had not been directly notified of his firing.

“During the days and weeks ahead, my legal team and I will begin carefully reviewing the actions taken and statements made against me in the meeting room in my absence,” Hunter said in his statement, which is posted at gbillyhunter.blogspot.com.

“I look forward to gathering the evidence showing how certain individuals made sure the outcome was preordained.”

That last sentence was most likely a reference to Fisher, who began pushing for an outside audit of Hunter’s management after the 2011 lockout.

After initial resistance from Hunter and other players on the executive committee, Fisher succeeded in getting that audit. The result was a 469-page report, released last month, that charged Hunter with nepotism, poor management and abuse of union resources.

Hunter remains the subject of a criminal probe by the United States attorney’s office, as well as of investigations by the Department of Labor and the New York attorney general.

The next battle between Hunter and the union is likely to be over his pay. If the union fired him “for cause,” it would be freed of any contractual obligations. Under the terms of Hunter’s contract, that would require the union to prove embezzlement, theft, larceny, material fraud or “other acts of dishonesty,” failure to perform his duties, or conviction of a felony.

Although the audit, conducted by the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, found no criminal wrongdoing, it concluded that Hunter had put his own interests ahead of the union’s, and it recommended that the players reconsider his employment.

The audit also concluded that Hunter’s contract was not properly approved in 2010 and was thus unenforceable — a position that the union would probably take in court, and that Hunter’s lawyers would surely challenge.

In his statement, Hunter indicated that he would challenge the legitimacy of the board that fired him, suggesting that the union had violated its bylaws.

“I do not consider today’s vote the end, only a different beginning,” Hunter said.

Because of the pending government investigations, and the likelihood of a lawsuit, Fisher kept his remarks brief. He spoke for three minutes and declined to take questions. But his comments were pointed as he alluded to Hunter’s attempts to fight the dismissal.

“We want to make it clear that we are here to serve only the best interests of the players,” Fisher said. “No threats, no lies, no distractions will stop us from serving our membership. We do not doubt that this process will possibly continue in an ugly way.”

Hunter had served as executive director since July 1996, succeeding Simon Gourdine, who was fired earlier that year. (Gourdine challenged his dismissal and was later awarded $900,000 by an arbitration panel.)

Many longtime union officials and staff members, who chafed under Hunter’s management style, privately rejoiced when Hunter was placed on indefinite leave earlier this month. On Saturday, one joked about “breaking out the bubbly.”

Ron Klempner, the union’s deputy counsel, is serving as the interim executive director.

Hunter guided the union through three collective bargaining agreements and two costly lockouts, each of which ended with the players accepting a smaller share of league revenue and more restrictions on player contracts.

Commissioner David Stern, who negotiated each of those deals with Hunter, declined to comment on his adversary’s exit, but said, “We await notification from the union as to who we should be dealing with.”

The players also elected a new executive committee Saturday, filling seven vacancies. The new members are Stackhouse, James Jones, Roger Mason Jr., Chris Paul, Andre Iguodala, Stephen Curry and Willie Green. They join the committee holdovers Matt Bonner and Fisher, whose term as president ends in June.
381 2013-02-17 It gets better.

What did the New York Fed get from Bank of America in this settlement? Some $43 million, it seems, from a small dispute the New York Fed had with the bank on two of the mortgage securities. At the same time, and for no compensation, it released Bank of America from all other legal claims.

When I asked the Fed to discuss this gift to the bank, it declined. To understand how the settlement happened, we must go back to the dark days of September 2008. With the giant insurer A.I.G. teetering, the government stepped in. As part of the rescue, A.I.G. sold mortgage securities to an investment vehicle called Maiden Lane II overseen by the New York Fed. A.I.G. was bleeding from its toxic mortgage holdings, many of which were issued by Bank of America, and it received $20.8 billion for securities with a face value of $39.2 billion.

In 2011, aiming to recover some of that $18 billion loss, the insurer sued Bank of America for fraud. The case, filed in New York state court, sought $10 billion in damages from the bank, $7 billion of that related to securities that A.I.G. sold to Maiden Lane II. Bank of America, for its part, argued that A.I.G. had no standing to sue for fraud on the Maiden Lane securities. With the sale, Bank of America contended, the right to bring a legal claim against the bank for fraud passed to Maiden Lane II. That entity, controlled by the New York Fed, never brought fraud claims against the bank.

Not so fast, said A.I.G. Under New York law, which governs Maiden Lane II, an entity has to explicitly transfer the right to sue for fraud, it said. The original agreement between the New York Fed and A.I.G. never specified such a transfer, the insurer contended.

To settle this question, A.I.G. filed a separate lawsuit against Maiden Lane II in a New York court last month.

A.I.G.’s $10 billion fraud case against Bank of America, meanwhile, was moved to federal court. For pretrial purposes, the bank asked that Mariana R. Pfaelzer, a federal judge in the central district of California, oversee aspects of the case involving the bank’s Countrywide unit, which was in California. Its request was granted. On Jan. 30, Judge Pfaelzer said she would rule on the issue of who owns the legal claims.

Initially, in an October 2011 letter to A.I.G., the New York Fed agreed that the insurer had the right to seek damages under securities laws on instruments it sold to Maiden Lane II.

But more recently, the New York Fed began helping Bank of America battle A.I.G. In late December, the New York Fed provided two declarations to the bank. One stated that Maiden Lane II had “intended” to receive all litigation claims relating to the mortgage securities, meaning that it alone would have had the right to sue. Another said that the October letter was not an interpretation of the Maiden Lane agreement.

But Jon Diat, an A.I.G. spokesman, said in a statement that “A.I.G. and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York never discussed or agreed on any transfer of A.I.G.’s residential mortgage-backed securities fraud claims to Maiden Lane II.” He added that A.I.G. believes “it is the rightful owner of these claims and remains committed to holding Bank of America and other counterparties responsible for the harm caused.”

LAST week, the New York Fed opposed A.I.G.’s efforts to have the question of who owns the legal rights decided in New York, whose law governs the Maiden Lane II agreement, rather than in California. It was in this filing that the New York Fed disclosed its confidential July 2012 deal with Bank of America, releasing it of any liability arising from fraud in the Maiden Lane II securities.

Let’s recap: For zero compensation, the New York Fed released Bank of America from what may be sizable legal claims, knowing that A.I.G. was trying to recover on those claims.

To anyone interested in holding banks accountable for mortgage improprieties, the Fed’s actions are bewildering. If the Fed intended that Maiden Lane II own the right to sue Bank of America for fraud, why didn’t it pursue such a potentially rich claim on behalf of taxpayers? The Fed made $2.8 billion on the Maiden Lane II deal, but the recovery from Bank of America could have been much greater. Why did it instead release Bank of America from these liabilities and supply declarations that seem to support the bank in its case against A.I.G.?

The New York Fed would not discuss this matter, citing the litigation. But taxpayers, who might have benefited had the New York Fed brought fraud claims, deserve answers to these questions.

In an interview, Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who serves on the Banking Committee, said the New York Fed’s behavior in this case “underscores that the more we learn about these bailouts, gifts and advantages that Wall Street gets, the clearer it becomes that one set of rules applies to the largest megabanks and another set of rules to the smaller financial institutions and the rest of the country.”

A court will decide who actually owns these particular fraud claims against Bank of America. But the issue of Bank of America’s responsibility for paying for the misdeeds of Countrywide during the financial crisis remains much at issue. The New York Fed is among a group of institutions that agreed in 2011 to settle with the bank for pennies on the dollar over mortgage securities its Countrywide unit misrepresented as high quality when they were sold.

That deal, for $8.5 billion, has not been approved by the court. Other mortgage securities investors have objected to it, calling the amount too small.

A New York Fed spokesman said it supported the settlement because it would generate significant value without potentially high litigation costs.

But Walker F. Todd, a former official at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, warned: “As a public entity, the Federal Reserve needs to take its custody of public funds seriously enough to ask for more than merely nominal compensation when it is giving up things of value to a bank holding company. If the central bank starts releasing binding legal claims for nominal compensation, it looks like just one more element of the secret or back-door bailout of the banking system.”
382 2013-02-17 In the statement on Saturday, the Group of 20 pointedly avoided any criticism of Japan, where stimulus programs backed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe have kept interest rates near zero and flooded the economy with money — leading to a roughly 15 percent drop in the value of the yen against the dollar over the last three months.

The Japanese policies, which have reduced the cost of Japanese products around the world, were the primary cause of fears of a currency war.

In essence, the Group of 20 expressed a view that loose monetary policy, including steps that weaken currency values, are acceptable when used to stimulate domestic growth but should not be used to benefit in global trade.

Critics of that view say that it amounts to a distinction without a difference because loose monetary policies stimulate growth and bolster exports at the same time.

The United States has also used a loose monetary approach to aid in the economic recovery, in the form of “quantitative easing” by which the Federal Reserve buys tens of billions of dollars in bonds each month.

The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, who attended the conference in Moscow, gave brief remarks on Friday indicating support for Japan’s efforts.

Faster-growing, developing countries like Brazil and China have expressed concerns about the loose monetary policies of more established economies like Japan and the United States. The money created by policies like the Fed’s quantitative easing can prove destabilizing as it enters faster-growing economies.

The Group of 20 acknowledged this concern in its statement, saying: “Monetary policy should be directed toward domestic price stability and continuing to support economic recovery according to the respective mandates. We commit to monitor and minimize the negative spillovers on other countries of policies implemented for domestic purposes.”

As the three-day conference drew to a close, participants did not reach any new agreement on debt-cutting targets. Efforts to reach such a pact will continue at the annual Group of 20 summit meeting to be attended by President Obama and other world leaders in St. Petersburg in September.

But while the debt agreement was elusive, the Group of 20 leaders reiterated efforts to work together, promising to “resist all forms of protections and keep our markets open.”
383 2013-02-17 A FEW HOURS AFTER WE LANDED, we were sitting on the beach in the calm, upscale neighborhood of Leblon being schooled by Brazilian-American friends in the art of Rio beachgoing. Americans take a minivan’s worth of gear to the beach; Cariocas take almost nothing, just flip-flops, sunglasses, phone and a soft little wrap called a canga. Vendors rent out chairs and umbrellas and sell everything else you could possibly need, from cheese grilled on portable hot coals to bikini tops, which they twirl from umbrella-topped rods like tropical maypoles.

As the buffet of options passed by we did everything our friends Christina and Sundeep told us to do: try this fresh litchi, have some coconut water served in a green shell, look at that 70-year-old guy jogging in the 90-degree heat. Leblon is at the western edge of the city’s famous double crescent of beaches, quieter and with pricier real estate than Ipanema and Copacabana to the east. Each stretch of beach is a small world unto itself and our hosts pointed to spots for stoners, gay men and other crowds.

The beach at Leblon certainly seemed secure that afternoon, with the only commotion coming from children — now including my daughter — shouting as they hopped around in shallow waves. Yet even here, I was warned to be on guard: never wear jewelry and carry only a day’s worth of cash. My jumpy will-we-be-safe feeling returned.

HERE’S A TRAVEL CLICHÉ that comes to life in Rio even more than in many of the world’s other great cities: Spend as much time as possible with people who really know the place. E-mail your sister’s college roommate who lived there five years ago, or your colleague whose cousin lives in Copacabana. See what and can do for you. And if all else fails, hire a private guide or two, as we did. I’ve navigated plenty of foreign cities before with only some advance research, a guidebook and a map. But Rio is different, with relatively few English speakers, a language that cannot be faked and a reputation for street crime that makes you reluctant to linger on a corner squinting at a map.

When my daughter and I struck out on our own, we often found the city hot and confusing, with little air-conditioning to be found (even in pricey restaurants) and service that could best be described as languid. One afternoon we set out to explore Ipanema, the beachside neighborhood of the famous song, figuring we’d wander through its markets and shops, maybe buy some flip-flops and get lunch. Nope: we stood at the front of restaurants whose maître d’s never came to seat us, jammed my ATM card into a series of machines that didn’t work and finally retreated back to the hotel pool in defeat.

But every time we were with members of our loose new network of Carioca friends, a far friendlier metropolis emerged, with rooftop hide-outs and delicacies we would not have known to order. Which is how we ended up the next day at Clube dos Caiçaras, a private swim club on the lagoon, or lagoa, nestled just inland of the Leblon beach. The temperature had hit an unspeakable 109 degrees (usually Rio tops out in the 90s in summer), and Christina’s friend Claudia had taken pity on us, inviting us to her club for refuge.

To get there, we were ferried across a small channel to a verdant floating enclave with tennis courts, swimming pools and views of Rio’s famous Christ statue. Claudia, a petite, thoughtful handbag designer, ordered me a caipirinha, and as we moved to the pool, I realized we were enjoying the ultimate Rio luxury: the ability to leave our bags carelessly on chairs without worrying about theft, an irresponsible act elsewhere in the city.

When we left the club, my daughter asked me what the word “exclusive” meant. It is hard to be in Rio these days and not think about money and class, in part because everyone sits around and talks about the soaring prices: the equivalent of $20 for cocktails, $40 for entrees and $80 for children’s bathing suits. You can still travel there without paying absurd prices — we stayed at two lovely hotels during the December holidays for less than $250 a night, and my daughter ate lots of cheese pastries for about a dollar a pop.

But Rio has become a city where people talk without irony about how cheap the apartments are in New York. And although the economic boom that lifted Rio also lowered poverty and expanded the country’s middle class, the gap between Brazil’s new ultrarich and its perpetual poor is impossible not to feel. The rooftop pool at the -designed Fasano hotel, where rooms go for $750 and more per night, overlooks the democratic panorama of Arpoador Beach on one side, and on the other a favela, or urban shantytown, setting up a scene in which plutocrats relax while gazing at the homes of laborers.

I had been puzzling over whether and how to visit one of the favelas that climb the Rio hillsides. They are some of the most famous urban structures in the world: clusters of do-it-yourself housing that got by for decades with little official recognition from the Brazilian authorities, let alone police, garbage or sewage services. Since 2008, partly in an effort to bring down crime all over Rio in advance of the Olympics, the government has been “pacifying” favelas, clearing them of drug traffic, providing them with more services and making them far safer for visitors. If I didn’t go, I would miss seeing some of Rio’s most storied and fastest-changing neighborhoods.

But to ask around about visiting a favela is to be hit with torrents of conflicting advice: from Americans who warn that to do so is cheesy “poverty tourism,” and from bewildered middle- and upper-class Brazilians to whom favelas symbolize poverty and crime. “Cariocas don’t go,” Claudia told me at her swim club. “I never thought about it.” The State Department’s advisory on Brazil carries a stern warning about visiting favelas: “the ability of police to provide assistance, especially at night, may be limited ... be aware that neither the tour company nor the city police can guarantee your safety.” Some friends scoffed at that warning, calling it paranoid. Furthermore, they argued, the word “favela” is outdated; the more politically correct term is “comunidades,” or communities — and to stay away is to perpetuate the stigma that still hurts residents of those neighborhoods.

I put the favela question aside for a few days as my daughter and I continued to explore in and around the city. We spent a happy day splashing at Prainha Beach, an hour south and a world away from the city center, with calm aquamarine water, huge boulders and a multiracial crowd of Brazilian kids who traced their names for us in the sand. My daughter flew in a zip line across the Parque da Catacumba, and in a jeep tour we climbed through the urban rain forest that spreads through the city. We stopped saying things like “wow, look at the view,” because we saw stunning views almost everywhere we looked.

Halfway through the week we switched hotels, from the Promenade Palladium, a tidy and comfortable hotel in Leblon that had only been available for the first few days, to the Gavea Tropical, a small house-turned-inn in the leafy green hills above the city. The neighborhood of Gavea looks like Beverly Hills, but is sandwiched among favelas, and the hotel is home to a small population of friendly monkeys who munch on bananas that guests feed them. That was it for a certain 7-year-old. She could have spent the rest of the vacation right there, beckoning to her new friends. From the hammock on our balcony looking over a dusky blue and green panorama, the rest of the city seemed at a safe and manageable remove.

In our wanderings, we could see how hard Rio was trying to make itself ready for visitors, with construction projects and cleaning crews roaming around in orange jumpsuits. Newness was everywhere: a new subway stop under construction in Leblon, new umbrellas on the beach, new rapid-transit bus stations.

But at moments I felt we were in a city that had not fully capitalized on its own vast potential. I had wanted to teach my daughter about Carnival, which would be taking over the city in two months, but aside from the empty concrete viewing stands near downtown and a dusty shop where she tried on a costume it was hard to find a toehold. Where were the samba workshops with dance teachers and best-of-all-time Carnival performances on an screen? (Rio does have a Samba Museum, it turns out, but it’s obscure enough that we didn’t hear about it until we returned home. And tourists can attend rehearsals for the samba schools that compete at Carnival, but the events only get cooking at midnight, in far-off neighborhoods, many of them favelas.)

I asked the tour guide who was taking us around the city that day why Rio didn’t do more to showcase its cultural treasures. He rolled his eyes. “Brazilians do the minimum, they don’t invest,” he said, a sentiment I heard a few times during our weeklong stay.

Earlier in our visit, we had visited Corcovado, the majestic mountain that looms over Rio, topped by the towering Christ statue. Because we were part of a jeep tour group, we circumvented most of the long wait to get to the top, but we still ended up on a hot, messy line to the final ascent, with cars and pedestrians mingling as police officers stared at the chaos. I couldn’t help but wonder: if authorities cannot devise an orderly and comfortable way of visiting one of the most famous statues in the world — if even had faced serious logistical challenges with its Olympics — what will happen during Rio’s international invasion in 2016?

ON THE FINAL DAY of our trip, I set out to visit the favela of Rocinha, just next door to Gavea. I ended up leaving my daughter with new friends for a few hours: security concerns aside, a sociology lesson that lasts hours in the broiling heat seemed a bit much to ask of a 7-year old.

That was probably the right decision, but I’m sorry she missed Rocinha, a bustling, byzantine world of shops, patchwork houses and do-it-yourself electrical systems, crisscrossed by alleyways with the smallest stores imaginable, some just vitrines carved into notches in a wall. My guide — another friend of a friend — was Leandro , a walking personification of how Rocinha was changing. The son of an electronics repairman, he was slowly working his way through journalism school and had started a community news Web site, faveladarocinha.com.

As we walked up the hillside, motorbike taxis whipping past, he showed us the neighborhood’s new banks and florist, the still-spotty trash collection, posters of smiling light-skinned politicians embellished with spray-painted gang tags, a gleaming new government-built library, and even some ever-present Rio joggers happily bouncing past. As we got to the top, sensational views peeked out from between trash heaps and knots of overhead wires: Corcovado in one direction, the ocean in another, with hang gliders looking like small, colorful insects suspended in the distant air.

We talked about the shifts in the favelas, welcome and unwelcome — the B&Bs that were opening, the houses that had been marked for pre-Olympics demolition with residents given little say. For visitors who want to explore favelas, Leandro had some advice: go with a local guide, and while jeep tours are fine in other parts of the city, skip them in favelas, where residents find them insensitive. “The jeeps are almost like a safari, taking photos out of the window,” he said.

From a security point of view, the visit to Rocinha seemed like a nonevent, a sunlit walk through a busy neighborhood with police officers posted every few hundred yards. Around the same time, a friend sent news that a mass robbery had taken place on Leblon Beach just 24 hours after we’d been there. A gang of thieves had surrounded beachgoers, taken their belongings and run off before the police could get them. So which was the unsafe neighborhood, Leblon or the far poorer Rocinha?

We flew home that night, our Rio experiment at an end. There was no way the city had lived up to the here-come-the-Olympics, everything-is-awesome-now hype I had seen in some travel magazines. Still, Rio was easily the most visually dazzling city I had ever seen. We’d gotten acquainted with one of the world’s only other great multiracial democracies, experienced strange and wonderful new fruits, fed those monkeys, tried our tongues at Portuguese and bought fabulous sandals. And we were fine. I hope my daughter had learned the beginnings of an important travel lesson: Just because a place is not perfect doesn’t mean it isn’t worth the trip.

IF YOU GO

If you don’t have personal connections in Rio, you might want to consider a travel agent like Jill Siegel (973-783-2277; Jill@SouthAmericanEscapes.com), who used to live there and can add on more tranquil beach destinations like Trancoso or Buzios to your trip.

Private guides are also useful. Someone like the experienced and charming Gionia Belmonte (gbelmonte@oi.com.br) costs at least $250 a day; you can also find a guide through a travel agent or tripadvisor.com. If you are interested in exploring a favela, finding an informal guide may be easier than you think; lots of Americans teach English or work at nonprofits in favelas, so if you have connections to the nonprofit community in Brazil, they might come in useful. Otherwise, Favela Adventures (favelatour.org) is owned and operated by Rocinha locals.

Stay in Leblon if you can, for the leafy streets, cafes and restaurants, and easy access to the beach. (Ipanema is not quite as pleasant, and Copacabana can be a bit seedy.)

The Promenade Palladium (55-21-3171-7400; hotel-promenade-palladiumcom) has simple but comfortable rooms, terrific breakfasts and a helpful staff.

If you want to have a few days away from the beach, the Hotel Gavea Tropical (55-21-2274-6015; gaveatropical.com) is a calm refuge with great views and adorable monkeys. There are lots of steep steps.

Taxis in Rio are for the most part easy to hail or order, though few drivers speak English, so bring a written address for your destination. At the airport, buy a prepaid fare from Transcoopass to avoid solicitations from dodgy drivers.

A lot of the most fun-to-eat food in Rio is sold on the beach, including esfirras, or little Middle Eastern pastries. At sunset, grab one of the tables outside the Arpoador Inn (R. Francisco Otaviano, 177) and settle in for the show.

Bar Jobi (Avenida Ataulfo de Paiva, 1166) with patrons spilling out onto the sidewalk each night, is the best place to order a chopp (the light beer Brazilians drink) in Leblon.

Our favorite Rio food destination was Mil Frutas (multiple locations, milfrutas.com.br) in Leblon, for top-notch ice creams and sorbets, including Amazonian flavors like jabuticaba.
384 2013-02-17 The drummer Barry Altschul, who turned 70 last month, has been a stealth eminence in jazz — known mainly within the avant-garde, and for music he made many years ago. That’s changing, thanks to some estimable work with partners old and new. “The 3dom Factor” (Tum), his first album as a leader since the mid-’80s, features the youngish saxophonist Jon Irabagon, who has been one agent of Mr. Altschul’s recent re-emergence, and the veteran bassist Joe Fonda, who has been another. As a trio these musicians cohere mightily, swinging fast or free. The compositions, all but one by Mr. Altschul, suggest compact studies in durable melody. There are worthy new versions of “Irina,” a tender ballad Mr. Altschul introduced on record 30 years ago, and “Natal Chart,” a flighty excursion of even older provenance. Among the new pieces are the title track, which coyly nods toward the trio syntax of Sonny Rollins, and “Oops,” a kind of pointillist calypso (more Rollins, further abstracted). Mr. Altschul sounds acutely engaged, the force of his attention giving the album much of its power.

’SOLIDIFICATION’ Interiority and humility are unavoidable sensations in the music of Arve Henriksen, a Norwegian trumpeter with a shadowy sense of the sublime. His exquisite taste and technique have flourished in many settings, notably the electro-acoustic collective Supersilent, but never more fully than on his own recordings. “Solidification” gathers his four solo albums on the Rune Grammofon label —  one of which, “Chron,” is an expressive new suite — in a beautifully produced seven-LP boxed set ($150.98, at runegrammofon.com). Each of Mr. Henriksen’s first three albums is presented with bonus material, some of it illuminating: “Bonsai Ritual,” from “Sakuteiki,” is one of the purer demonstrations of the high, whispery sound he produces to emulate a shakuhachi flute. His manipulation of percussive and chordal instruments also makes an impression here, along with his choirboy falsetto, a timbre as otherworldly as his trumpet playing. And vinyl turns out to be the best way to hear this music, by far: along with the vibrant warmth of the sound, it magnifies the tactile and immersive qualities of the music.

“Music Is Emotion” (Alternate Side), due out on Tuesday, is the worthy new album by Ryan Keberle, a young trombonist of vision and composure. Mr. Keberle has a warm, centered sound, and his writing feels as bright and unlabored on a rock dirge (“Nowhere to Go, Nothing to See”) as on a post-bop sparring session (“Big Kick Blues”). His current band is Catharsis, with Mike Rodriguez on trumpet, Jorge Roeder on bass and Eric Doob on drums: a pianoless acoustic quartet, seemingly intended to evoke groups led by the likes of Gerry Mulligan in the 1950s. (The closing track is “Blueport,” an Art Farmer tune that Mulligan often played; there and on Billy Strayhorn’s “Blues in Orbit” the saxophonist Scott Robinson takes a piquant guest turn.) But Mr. Keberle isn’t painted into a corner by his sense of history. His decision to include “Djohariah,” by Sufjan Stevens, isn’t indie-rock pandering so much as a new take on a song he has probably played many times with Mr. Stevens on tour.

’THE MESSENGER’ Eclecticism was a creative prerogative for the guitarist Kevin Eubanks long before he took the musical helm of “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno,” when it became a corporate necessity. Mr. Eubanks left the show in 2010, and his output since has suggested a gentle but pointed reclamation. Consider the title and tone of “Zen Food,” released on Mack Avenue that year. “The Messenger,” due out on the same label on Tuesday, is a sharper and less self-conscious album, his most satisfying in more than a decade. An amalgam of funk and fusion, it also features some beautiful ballad writing, on songs like “The Gloaming” and “Sister Veil.” Mr. Eubanks’s longtime band, which includes Bill Pierce on saxophones and Marvin (Smitty) Smith on drums, supports the effortless flair of his playing —  as do Mr. Eubanks’s brothers, Robin (a trombonist) and Duane (a trumpeter), on a few tracks. And if nobody ever asked for a slow-groove version of John Coltrane’s “Resolution” featuring Alvin Chea of Take 6, the result ends up exceeding all reasonable expectations, especially during a too-brief guitar solo.

The polyrhythmic-triplet pulse common to the folkloric music of Peru — in dance rhythms like festejo, tondero and landó —  meshes well with  a jazz cadence, though there haven’t been too many attempts to meld the two. Gabriel Alegría, a trumpeter born in Peru and partly raised in Ohio, is the standout exception. His Afro-Peruvian Sextet, formed in 2005, has brought spark and intelligence to an uncommon strain of Latin jazz. “Ciudad de los Reyes” (Saponegro), the band’s fourth album, makes this hybrid feel natural and intuitive, with springlike lyricism and firm, dynamic groove. Mr. Alegría has an obvious rapport with the saxophonist Laura Andrea Leguía, who wrote half of the tunes, and the guitarist Yuri Juárez, who gives the music its more delicate flourishes. Thrumming indispensably almost throughout is Freddy Lobatón, who plays the boxlike cajón. The sextet, which will appear at the Zinc Bar on Thursday, knows its mission well, and has the execution down to a science.
385 2013-02-17 In what was an overwhelming response to Susannah Meadows’s article about treating her son’s juvenile idiopathic arthritis with conventional and alternative treatments, we heard from the medical community and from families of children who have the condition. Some were complimentary; others were critical of an article they felt made a case for alternative treatment at the expense of mainstream medicine. The article portrayed one family’s desperation to halt the progression of their son’s disease and the range of treatments they tried. In a case with few certainties, it was nonetheless clear that the source of this type of arthritis, and thus its cure, remains elusive for many. THE EDITORS

It is sad that Shepherd Strauss and his family had to go through so much physical and emotional pain because of the delay in his diagnosis and treatment. It is sad that his mother feels she cannot trust even the most reputable, well-trained physicians who recommended carefully tested and approved medications. And it is especially sad that other families may choose to delay appropriate treatment of arthritis, hoping for a miracle cure through diet. Before these treatments were available, children with juvenile arthritis often experienced chronic pain, progressive joint damage and sometimes blindness and death. Now most can live normal lives. If arthritis could be successfully treated with diet alone, we would do it. Most pediatric rheumatologists are open to a discussion about incorporating complementary treatment approaches, but it must be guided by the best available evidence to ensure a good outcome. While it is true that we do not know what causes arthritis, we do have proven treatments, and children are harmed when we delay in adequately treating them. ANNE M. STEVENS, M.D., PH.D., Pediatric Rheumatologist, Seattle and HELEN EMERY, M.B.B.S., Pediatric Rheumatologist, Seattle, Member, National Board, Arthritis Foundation

As the mother of a daughter with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, I completely related to the author’s description of her son’s condition at the beginning — walking with a limp, change of personality, loss of appetite, sapped energy. My daughter had not only active arthritis in all of her joints, but she also often had a fever of up to 105 degrees and had pericarditis — swelling around her heart. It has been frightening to give my child medicines off-label, before they are F.D.A.-approved for children. It’s not easy to give your child a daily injection, and have her run and hide in the closet, screaming in tears. It’s not easy, even when you truly believe that you are doing the best thing for her. But when your child’s life is on the line, and she is having suicidal thoughts at 9 years old because of her chronic pain, it’s amazing what you can force yourself to do. Our story ends similarly to the author’s: my daughter is also in remission (and by the way, she eats gluten). She has two titanium hips as a permanent reminder, but she is much like any other healthy, active teenager. Just as the author believes that the plan she followed is the reason for their outcome, I firmly believe that it was the care of our board-certified pediatric specialists, and the advancement of medicine, that led to ours. COLLEEN RYAN, Long Beach, Calif.

I was fortunate to discover alternative medicine 17 years ago. My son had ulcerative colitis at 5 and couldn’t tolerate chemotherapy. I found herbs through a support group and was able to put him into remission. Your article is helpful because it educates patients about some of the alternative possibilities. CHRISTINA HIFT, M.D., F.A.A.P., Consultant, Pediatric Rheumatology, Beth Israel Medical Center, New York

I wanted to compliment your article on its readability and the fact that it did not unduly criticize either traditional or alternative medicine. You did a good job in stating the impossibility of determining cause-effect issues in your child’s case. I hope readers take away your interpretive approach. As a neuropathologist, I am a strong skeptic of alternative therapies. But in some instances, including gluten sensitivities and other gut issues, there very likely is much to learn about some of these alternative-care options, within some semblance of a controlled study. PHILIP J. BOYER, M.D., PH.D., Department of Pathology, University of Colorado, Denver

The article addresses misconceptions about arthritis — that it is solely a disease of adults and that it is a mild inconvenience. But I am disappointed that Meadows chose to use anecdotal evidence. Her son’s improvement could have been attributed to one or more factors: coincidence, methotrexate or the alternative therapies. Your article may have the unintended effect of encouraging families to seek unproven therapies and possibly reject proven, effective therapies. NORMAN T. ILOWITE, M.D., Division Chief, Pediatric Rheumatology, Children’s Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx
386 2013-02-18 In 1963, Betty Friedan’s book “The Feminine Mystique” challenged the notion of the “happy housewife,” and helped lead to a new age of feminism in which women fought for equal rights.

But women today are still dealing with issues like equality at the executive level, equal pay, violence and work-life balance.

Fifty years after Friedan stirred women’s consciousness, what should the feminist movement be focusing on now?
387 2013-02-18 The armory, which converted itself into a performance, concert and art space in 2007, is drawing heavily this year on visual artists this season....
388 2013-02-18 European companies are considering public stock offerings as part of broader plan to pay down debt and bolster profit....
389 2013-02-18 Mets second baseman Daniel Murphy said he thought the issue was related to mechanical tweaks in his swing....
390 2013-02-18 Typically, when one auction house increases its fees the others follow....
391 2013-02-18 The magazine’s parent company filed for Chapter 11 protection in order to cut down the debt that has plagued the publication for years....
392 2013-02-18 When buying a car in a market a distance away, it pays to have a mechanic inspect the vehicle, the founder of a car selling Web site advises....
393 2013-02-18 Despite the support by some political parties in Europe, human rights organizations have been unable to prevent high-profile events taking place in autocratic countries....
394 2013-02-18 Cutting across party lines politicians demand that Mr. Guru should be buried in his hometown....
395 2013-02-18 The technology industry has set its sights on online gambling, Business Insider names Joe Weisenthal as executive editor and authenticating an online photo in Omaha takes more shoe leather than tech savvy....
396 2013-02-18 The Government Accountability Office raises the prospect of a 17- to 53-month gap in data from satellites that could impede weather forecasting....
397 2013-02-18 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
398 2013-02-18 As happened in “Downton,” a character’s exit is often driven by an actor’s decision to pursue other artistic challenges or bigger paychecks. The latter was the case with the demise of Lt. Col. Henry Blake, the character played by McLean Stevenson for the first three seasons of “M*A*S*H” on CBS.

After Stevenson signed a contract with NBC, the “M*A*S*H” producers gave Colonel Blake a send-off episode, in which he said his goodbyes and flew away. Even the cast (other than the star Alan Alda) didn’t know a coda scene would be added, to deliver the news that the colonel had gone down in a plane crash.

Stevenson’s career went with it. His character’s death stirred hostile reactions not only from the fans, who poured in angry letters, but also from CBS, which wasn’t happy its hit comedy had broken viewer’s hearts.

Today, thanks to the Internet and social media, audiences have more immediate ways to voice their fury. When the ABC drama “Lost” had a core character, Charlie, played by Dominic Monaghan, drown trying to save his friends, the show’s top producers were inundated with protests.

“People were really angry,” said Carlton Cuse, who with Damon Lindelof, was a main creative voice on the show. “They proceeded to blast the heck out of Damon and me for this woefully misguided decision. We thought people would be shocked, but we were unprepared for that level of anger.”

Mr. Cuse noted the unexpected extinguishing of characters is a growing — and mostly welcome — trend.  “If you watch ‘CSI Miami’ and someone puts a gun to David Caruso’s head, you know he’s not going to be shot,” he said. In recent years, especially on cable dramas, writers are more willing to blow up such conventions. “Now I think people are reaching further narratively, and maybe those shots of adrenaline are not as unusual as they were in the past,”  Mr. Cuse said, pointing out that “The Walking Dead” on AMC kills off familiar characters almost routinely. “These moments are really good for television, because as a storyteller you want to attack and break up those conventions the audience has in their minds.”

The producer Terence Winter knew his character Jimmy Darmody (played by Michael Pitt) was a hit with fans of HBO’s “Boardwalk Empire,” but he decided, for the credibility of the story, he had to be gunned down. “People freaked out,” Mr. Winter said. “They said: ‘I’m never watching this show again. I feel betrayed.’ It’s a little disconcerting to have thousands of people say they’re never going to watch your show again because you killed my favorite character.”

Fans ultimately stayed loyal to both “Lost” and “Boardwalk.” As Mr. Winter said, “Every once in a while it’s good to jolt the audience, keep them off balance.”

Like the time David E. Kelley, then running the NBC drama “L.A. Law,” had the show’s hugely popular villainess, Rosalind Shays, accidentally step into an empty elevator shaft. “That was one of the greatest moments in television ever for me,” Mr. Cuse said.

That scene played more comically than tragically, as did another famous exit, when Susan, the fiancée of George Costanza on NBC’s “Seinfeld,” licked wedding invitation envelopes tainted with toxic stickum and succumbed (off camera).

That decision had more to do with the show’s main actors having trouble playing off Heidi Swedberg, who played Susan. As reported in Warren Littlefield’s book about his days running NBC programming, “Top of the Rock,” Jerry Seinfeld described having problems in a scene with Ms. Swedberg, which led the co-star Julia Louis-Dreyfus to declare, “I just want to kill her.” With that the show’s co-creator Larry David was inspired.

But television death is usually more traumatic, especially if it comes when violence is not a part of a character’s usual life. The admen in “Mad Men” live a “self-destructive lifestyle,” said Matthew Weiner, the show’s creator. But death is not a regular part of the story line. So last season, which built to the suicide — by hanging — of Lane Pryce, played by Jared Harris, challenged Mr. Weiner.

“Your stomach churns a little bit,” he said. “For me dealing with one of the best actors I have ever worked with and whom people have seen struggle, I wanted to make sure I didn’t waste that, that I fully exploited it. Because I was committing to this. I’m going to lose this guy. The audience is going to lose this guy. It’s very easy. It’s the stroke of a pen. I better get some story out of it.”

Angry reactions to characters killed with a stroke of the pen have a history much longer than television. Consider what Charles Dickens, who delivered his novel “The Old Curiosity Shop” chapter by chapter to his fans, went through when he decided to kill off his heroine, Little Nell.

Daniel O’Connell, an Irishman who was then a member of Parliament, is said to have read of Nell’s death and cried out, “He should not have killed her,” before throwing his copy out the window of a train.
399 2013-02-18 Bernhard Langer shot a final-round 72 to win the ACE Group Classic in Tampa, Fla. Langer two-putted for par on the 18th hole to finish one shot ahead of Jay Don Blake.

¶ Jiyai Shin of South Korea won the Australian Women’s Open in Canberra by two shots, holding off the world No. 1, Yani Tseng, after being tied for the overnight lead with 15-year-old Lydia Ko.
400 2013-02-18 Rafael Nadal beat David Nalbandian, 6-2, 6-3, on Sunday in the final of the Brazil Open in São Paulo, for his first trophy since returning from a seven-month layoff to treat a left knee injury. It was his 51st career title, but his first since he won his seventh French Open championship last May.

“Brazil will always be in my heart,” said Nadal, who first won the event as a little-known player eight years ago. “Big things started to happen after I won here in 2005, and hopefully this is the start of something good again.”

¶ The defending champion, Victoria Azarenka, beat Serena Williams, 7-6 (6), 2-6, 6-3, to win the Qatar Open in Doha, ending a 10-match losing streak against Williams. But she will still surrender the No. 1 ranking to Williams on Monday.

¶ Juan Martín del Potro beat Julien Benneteau, 7-6 (2), 6-3, to win the ABN AMRO tournament in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Benneteau managed what no other player at the event achieved — breaking del Potro’s serve twice in the first set — but he struggled to hold his own and crumbled in the second set.
401 2013-02-18 Lawmakers’ efforts to gut the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and weaken critical reforms protecting small businesses and consumers are, quite simply, shameful (“Quietly Killing a Consumer Watchdog,” editorial, Feb. 11).

Entrepreneurs hammered by the recession and predatory lending practices are thrilled to have the consumer bureau in their corner. Scientific opinion polling that Small Business Majority released last month found that 84 percent of owners support the consumer bureau and say it’s needed to ensure that they’re treated fairly. And 60 percent support maintaining the bureau’s independent financing so that lobbyists can’t undermine its mission.

The financial industry wrote its own rules for too long. Honesty and transparency are not too much to ask from institutions that helped run the economy into the ground. Lawmakers — many of whom talk a lot about protecting small businesses — should be first in line asking for more accountability.
402 2013-02-18 Congress was entitled, the court went on, “to limit its attention to the geographic areas where immediate action seemed necessary.” Lawmakers chose the areas to be covered based on a formula that considered whether they had used devices to discourage voting, like literacy tests, and data from the 1964 election.

The court in Mobile this month said the case before it, concerning Evergreen, was simple: because the city had not obtained preclearance from federal authorities, it could not revise its voting list using utility records. Nor could it use a municipal redistricting plan enacted by the City Council that had concentrated black voters, who are in the majority, into just two of the five districts, limiting black voting power.

It is not clear when the municipal election, originally scheduled for last August, will be held.

A lawyer for Evergreen, James H. Anderson, said the ruling was justified. “The way the voter list was recomposed was improper,” he said. He added that the redistricting plan “could possibly be adopted by the Justice Department, but we need to tweak it a little bit.” In a court filing on Feb. 11, the city announced that it would create a third majority-black district “to have a total black population in the vicinity of 65 percent.”

Critics of the Section 5 preclearance requirement call it an unwarranted and discriminatory federal intrusion on state sovereignty and a badge of shame for the affected jurisdictions that is no longer justified.

But Mr. Anderson said he welcomed the process, to a point. “I think it plays a very valuable role, and I think we need it,” he said. “Personally, I think we need it nationwide.”

The problem, he said, is that the provision applies in only some parts of the country. “I think it’s discriminatory because it picks on us Southerners,” he said.

Congress has repeatedly renewed the law, and for a while it used fresher data with each renewal. But when Congress renewed the law for 25 years in 2006, it made no changes to the list of jurisdictions covered by Section 5 and used data from the 1972 election as a baseline.

The law applies to nine states — Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia — and to scores of counties and municipalities in other states.

Should the Supreme Court rule that Congress was not entitled to rely on old data to decide which jurisdictions should be covered, lawmakers could in theory re-enact the law using more current information. In practice, a decision striking down the coverage formula would probably amount to the end of the preclearance requirement.

In the rest of the country, objections to changes in how elections are run take the usual course, with after-the-fact lawsuits under another part of the law. “In many places,” said Debo P. Adegbile, a lawyer with the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, “the case-by-case method of vindicating voting rights for minority citizens was not up to task.”

Section 5, he said, “shines daylight on the dark rooms where these political redistricting decisions are happening” and “it makes sure you’re dealing the cards off the top of the deck.”

Mr. Gray is a slender, intense man with wiry gray hair and a slight goatee. He served for almost 30 years as state field director of the Alabama Democratic Conference, and he has seen his share of history.

He lives across the street from the high school he graduated from in 1955, when it was reserved for blacks. The movie theater was segregated, too. “You had to go down an alley and up the stairs” to a balcony reserved for blacks, he said. “We called it the buzzards’ nest.”

“We had no black elected officials anywhere,” he said. To vote, he said, “blacks had to get a written statement from a white businessman to say they were ‘a good Negro.’ ” Whether the statement was thought adequate was up to the whim of a white sheriff.

Things are better now, of course, but Mr. Gray says intimidation can take many forms. “As recently as the 2008 municipal runoff election between a white candidate and a black candidate for mayor,” Mr. Gray said in a recent court filing, “I witnessed white men standing in the beds of pickup trucks systematically photographing black voters as they approached the polls at each voting location in Evergreen.”

The challenge in the Supreme Court was brought by Shelby County. It is 90 percent white and as prosperous as Evergreen is poor.

In its brief in the case, the county acknowledged that “the Voting Rights Act of 1965 changed the course of history in the covered jurisdictions” but said the disputed parts of the law “have accomplished their missions.”

In a supporting brief, Alabama said it had “more than earned its spot on Section 5’s original coverage list in 1965” through “violence and willful defiance of federal law.”

“But that was a long time ago,” Alabama’s brief said. Black voter registration and turnout are high, it said, and the racial mix in the Legislature reflects the state’s population.

In 2009, when the Supreme Court last considered the issue in Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District Number One v. Holder, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. made similar points. But that 8-to-1 decision did not end up ruling on the larger questions in the case.

Instead, the court ruled on a narrow statutory ground, saying the utility district in Austin, Tex., that had challenged the constitutionality of the law might be eligible to “bail out” from being covered by it. Still, Chief Justice Roberts seemed skeptical about the continued need for Section 5.

“Things have changed in the South,” he said.

“The statute’s coverage formula is based on data that is now more than 35 years old,” he added, “and there is considerable evidence that it fails to account for current political conditions.”

In the last presidential election, courts relied on Section 5 to block voter identification requirements and cutbacks on early voting in covered jurisdictions.

Mr. Gray, for his part, said recent events in Evergreen proved that there was still a vital role for the Voting Rights Act’s central innovation.

“Section 5 allowed us to stop an election that would have been a disaster,” he said. “We need Section 5 because there are still bad actors, and Evergreen is one. They had removed almost 800 people from the voting rolls, including Jerome Gray.”
403 2013-02-18 CAIRO — Thousands of demonstrators shut down the administrative buildings of the Suez Canal terminal in the city of Port Said on Sunday, as part of a general strike protesting the death sentences handed down three weeks ago to 21 local soccer fans for their roles in a deadly riot last year.

The protests marked the closest that the chaos in Egypt over the last two years has come to threatening the operations of the Suez Canal, an artery of shipping critical to both international commerce and the battered Egyptian economy.

The administrative facilities were emptied as the protesters approached, residents said, but a military guard protected the port from disruption. President Mohamed Morsi, of the Muslim Brotherhood’s political arm, had deployed the military to protect the city when the protests there started three weeks ago.

The success of the strike, as life had begun to return to the streets, was a vivid reminder that the government in Cairo has not yet restored full control over Port Said, a major city at the Mediterranean head of the Suez Canal with a population of about 600,000. The government essentially backed down from its attempt to impose a curfew, and nothing has diminished the underlying anger behind the riots, first over the initial death sentences and then over the deaths of dozens of protesters in clashes with the police.

The possibility of a threat to the flow of traffic through the canal remains remote, but the Sunday protest raised the specter of such disruption at a critical time. Political turbulence has cut deeply into tourism and economic growth in the two years since the ouster of Hosni Mubarak. And now the political instability keeps delaying a proposed $4.8 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund, whose seal of approval is essential to obtaining the further billions in loans needed to close the country’s deficit.

The Egyptian pound is falling sharply against the dollar. Unemployment is high, and prices are rising. The Suez Canal is one of Egypt’s main sources of hard currency, along with tourism, foreign aid and remittances from Egyptians abroad.
404 2013-02-18 A spinoff four-hour documentary was broadcast on PBS in October, with a four-hour sequel coming in fall 2014.

Even more directly than possible with the book and television program, the game’s producers hope to actively involve the public.

The central character, an Indian woman named Radhika, faces various challenges with the assistance of players, who can help out with donations of virtual goods, for example. The players can then make equivalent real-world donations to seven nonprofit organizations woven into the game.

Ten dollars, for example, will help buy a goat for Heifer International; $20 will help support United Nations Foundation immunization efforts.

To further engage players, those who reach predesignated levels unlock donations from Johnson & Johnson and Pearson, which have each contributed $250,000 to buy real-world operations from the Fistula Foundation and books for Room to Read, respectively.

If the Half the Sky game takes off and the money is claimed quickly, the producers hope other sponsors will step in, said Michelle Byrd, co-president of Games for Change, a nonprofit that promotes the creation of so-called social impact games and is the game’s executive producer, along with Show of Force Productions.

Asi Burak, also co-president of Games for Change, said the hope is to draw two million to five million players, persuading 5 percent or more to donate. Players can play at no charge, but they will make faster progress through donations.

Those usage figures would put the game in the top rungs of social cause gaming.

The genre is still new enough that “I think it’s an open question as to whether or not and to what degree people want to play a game that’s focused on a social issue,” said Ken Weber, executive director of Zynga.org, the nonprofit arm of Zynga, the company behind Facebook’s FarmVille game.

Zynga, which has raised $15 million for about 50 causes like Japanese earthquake relief through FarmVille, signed on to support the Half the Sky game, helping in its development and promotion.

Zynga felt the game had “a fighting chance,” Mr. Weber said, because the content was compelling, there was already an established book and television property, financing was in hand — producers have raised $1 million — and Games for Change had hired “a commercial-grade developer,” the Canadian company Frima Studio of Quebec City.

Other supporters include the Ford, Rockefeller and United Nations foundations; Intel; and the National Endowment for the Arts.

The Half the Sky game starts out simply, as Radhika ponders how to afford a doctor visit for her sick daughter (the answer is to harvest mangoes, which players do for her).

Each step requires players to answer a question — for example, should Radhika ask her husband for help or stay silent? Neither answer is wrong, but each takes players on a different route.

As her empowerment grows, Radhika moves across the globe to Kenya, Vietnam and Afghanistan. But many of the game choices get progressively darker. One leads to a mother living and her baby dying.

Still, some of the game’s nonprofit partners have pushed for even more verisimilitude, Ms. Byrd and Mr. Burak said, questioning, for one, why Radhika can read when many women in her situation would be illiterate.

Finding that balance — how much to simplify complicated issues, how much fun to include and how much to focus on positive solutions versus grave challenges — has consumed much of the development process, the producers said.

“It’ll be a very interesting test as to what people’s thresholds are,” said Mr. Weber, of Zynga.

Players who reach the final level learn about sex trafficking in the United States and can donate to an organization in New York called GEMS, or Girls Educational and Mentoring Services, which helps young women leave the commercial sex industry.

Rachel Lloyd, the organization’s founder, said that games were “a brave new world for us, too. We’re watching and seeing how this works, if people really do engage in the way that we’d like them to.”
405 2013-02-18 If there was any question whether Danica Patrick could make an impact in Nascar’s premier Sprint Cup Series, the answer came Sunday with a performance that put her in the record books.

Patrick became the first woman to qualify on the pole for a Sprint Cup race, and she did it in stock car racing’s most prestigious event: the Daytona 500. Patrick turned a lap at 196.434 miles per hour in her No. 10 Chevrolet at Daytona International Speedway to take the pole for next Sunday’s season-opening race. She will start alongside Jeff Gordon, who qualified second. The rest of the grid will be set in Thursday’s twin qualifying races.

“I was brought up to be the fastest driver, not the fastest girl,” Patrick said. “That was instilled in me from very young, from the beginning. Then I feel like thriving in those moments, where the pressure’s on, has also been a help for me. I also feel like I’ve been lucky in my career to be with good teams and have good people around me. I don’t think any of it would have been possible without that.

“For those reasons, I’ve been lucky enough to make history, be the first woman to do many things. I really just hope that I don’t stop doing that. We have a lot more history to make.”

Patrick, 30, began racing in the IndyCar Series in 2005. She earned instant fame that season when she became the first woman to lead a lap in the Indianapolis 500; she finished fourth. She was the first woman to win an IndyCar Series race when she took the checkered flag at Motegi, Japan, in 2008.

Patrick began the transition to stock car racing in 2010 and committed full time to the sport in 2012. She raced in the lower-level Nationwide Series, in which she finished 10th in the standings, and she was voted the most popular driver of the series. She made her Cup debut in last year’s Daytona 500, starting 29th and finishing 38th.
406 2013-02-18 One speaker, the Rev. Lennox Yearwood, compared the rally to ’s 1963 March on Washington for civil rights, but, he said, “while they were fighting for equality, we are fighting for existence.” In front of the stage was a mock-up of a pipeline, looking a bit like the dragon in a Chinese new year parade, with the motto, “separate oil and state.”

Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, predicted that Mr. Obama would veto the $7 billion project because of the adverse effects development of the Canadian would have on the global climate.

“It’s rare that a president has such a singular voice on such a major policy decision,” Mr. Brune said. “Whatever damage approving the pipeline would do to the environmental movement pales in comparison to the damage it could do to his own legacy.”

Mr. Brune was one of about four dozen pipeline protesters arrested at the White House on Wednesday, in an act of civil disobedience that was a first for the 120-year-old Sierra Club.

So far, Mr. Obama has been able to balance his promises to promote both energy independence and environmental protection, by allowing more oil and gas drilling on public lands and offshore while also pushing auto companies to make their vehicles more efficient. But the Keystone decision, which is technically a State Department prerogative but will be decided by the president himself, defies easy compromise.

“This is a tricky political challenge for the president,” said Michael A. Levi, an energy fellow at the . “The reality is everyone has defined the stakes on Keystone in such absolute terms that it is borderline impossible to see a compromise that will satisfy all the players.”

The proposed northern extension of the nearly 2,000-mile Keystone XL pipeline would connect Canada’s oil sands to refineries around and the Gulf of Mexico, replacing Venezuelan heavy crude with similar Canadian grades.

Proponents say its approval would be an important step toward reducing reliance on the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries for energy. Opponents say that the expansion of oil production in shale fields across the country has already reduced the need for imports. Environmentalists have singled out the pipeline because it would carry oil derived from tar sands, in a process that is dirtier than other forms of oil production and that releases more carbon dioxide.

The State Department appeared poised to approve the pipeline in 2011, but Mr. Obama delayed a decision based on concerns about its route through vulnerable grasslands in . The pipeline company, , submitted a revised route, and the governor of Nebraska approved the plan last month, sending the final decision to Washington.

The Keystone pipeline is treated mainly as a domestic issue in Washington. But for Canada’s Conservative government, which has its power base in the oil-rich province of , it represents a crucial moment in Canada’s relationship with its most vital foreign partner even if the oil sands are also a divisive issue within Canada.  Mr. Obama and Prime Minister are not close, and the two make a portrait of contrasts in style and substance. While Mr. Obama comes from the liberal wing of his party and is known for stirring speeches, Mr. Harper is conservative even by the standards of his own Conservative Party and can be stiff in public. His political base, the province of Alberta, is the heart of the Canadian oil patch.

Mr. Obama’s recent expressions of concern about climate change contrast starkly with Mr. Harper’s stated priorities. Under Mr. Harper, Canada formally withdrew from the Protocol on climate change, which was agreed to by a previous Liberal government. (The United States never ratified the protocol.)

Still, the amount of Canadian oil that the United States imports daily — 2.4 million barrels, roughly twice what it imports from — points up a cornerstone of Mr. Obama’s goal to decrease dependence on oil from the unstable and unreliable sources like . The Keystone pipeline would increase Canadian oil imports by more than 700,000 barrels a day, the equivalent of roughly two-thirds of Venezuelan imports.

Canadian leaders are cautious not to threaten the Obama administration directly, but they suggest that if the pipeline is not permitted, the close relationship between the countries will be damaged and Canada forced to look elsewhere, particularly to , for new energy markets.

“The signal of a rejection of a permit by the president would be a significant change in the Canada-U.S. relationship,” said Greg Stringham, the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers’ vice president for oil sands and markets. “Canada, right now, with our potential growth in energy, is looking for security of demand wherever that might be throughout the world.”

Choosing his words carefully, Gary Doer, the Canadian ambassador to the United States, said the two countries had come to expect each other’s support on critical issues.

“Sometimes the call comes from a U.S. president to a Canadian prime minister, and sometimes it comes the other way,” he said. “So the decision has to be made on merit and not noise. And if people in Canada perceive that the decision is made on noise, there will be extreme disappointment.”

Experts who follow -Canada relations say that they do not expect to retaliate overtly if the Keystone project is not approved, but that a rejection could influence future decisions on purchases of American fighter jets and other trade and border matters.

Canada has powerful allies in the United States labor movement, which is pushing for the pipeline because proponents say it would generate tens of thousands of jobs, and in big oil companies like and that are heavily invested in the oil sands fields.

The rapid expansion of oil sands production has made oil critical to the Canadian economy. Canada has invested more than $100 billion in the oil sands over the last 10 years, shifting economic and political power westward to Alberta. Production is tied to 75,000 jobs nationwide, a number that is expected to multiply over the next 25 years, and nearly all of the country’s oil exports go to the United States.

The shortage of pipeline capacity has produced localized supply gluts, forcing the price of Canadian crude well below American and international benchmarks. If the Keystone pipeline is not completed, energy experts say, weak prices will make the economics of future oil sands projects questionable.

The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers estimates that the country’s current production of 3.2 million barrels of oil a day will reach 6.2 million barrels a day by 2030, with oil sands representing an overwhelming share of the increase.

The producers and Canadian officials insist that more Canadian oil will reach United States markets one way or another, even if the Keystone project is not approved — most likely through a combination of rail, barges, trucks and pipelines once used to transport natural gas.

“We hope Keystone will go through,” said Lorraine Mitchelmore, president of Shell Canada, “but it’s not the only option.”
407 2013-02-19 College graduates earn more per hour than high school graduates. But they are also more likely to be employed, and probably more likely to work the number of hours they wish....
408 2013-02-19 A federal judge says he is leaning toward the hedge fund magnate David Einhorn’s contention in a lawsuit that Apple violated securities regulations by improperly bundling several shareholder proposals into one matter....
409 2013-02-19 Report of the Detroit Financial Review Team
410 2013-02-19 Apple says its systems were attacked by the same group that hit Twitter and Facebook. Like Facebook, Apple confirmed that its employees' computers were infected with malware when they visited a Web site for mobile developers....
411 2013-02-19 A look at how trailers compare to their corresponding films....
412 2013-02-19 Dissecting a Trailer: The Parts of the Film That Make the Cut

How scenes from five of the nine best picture nominees were reassembled to promote the films.
413 2013-02-19 Harold Dawson joined Spark SMG, Chicago, in a new post, executive vice president and managing director. He had been senior vice president and group media director at Initiative, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spark SMG is part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

Kathy Delaney joined Saatchi & Saatchi Wellness, New York, as chief creative officer as well as global chief creative officer at Saatchi & Saatchi Health; both are units of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe. She succeeds Helayne Spivak, who left in August to become the director of the VCU Brandcenter at Virginia Commonwealth University. Ms. Delaney had most recently been running her own consultancy and before that worked at agencies that included Deutsch and Nitro.

Fonterra, a New Zealand cooperative that sells dairy product brands that include Anchor, chose MediaCom, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, to handle its media planning and buying duties in Asian-Pacific and Middle Eastern markets. Spending was estimated at $150 million. The assignment had previously been handled by OMD, part of the Omnicom Media Group division of the Omnicom Group.

Stephen Goldblatt joined Mullen, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as chief digital officer, a post that had been vacant for almost a year. He had most recently been partner and executive creative director at Evolution Bureau, San Francisco, a digital agency also known as EVB. Succeeding Mr. Goldblatt at EVB will be Steve Babcock, vice president and executive creative director at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners; Mr. Babcock will open a Boulder office for EVB.

Andy Grayson rejoined Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, to take a vacant post, head of brand strategy. He had been group strategy director at Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore., and before that was a group strategy director at Goodby, Silverstein.

Louis K. Gump joined LSN Mobile, Atlanta, as president and chief executive. He assumes those posts from Lee Durham, who becomes executive chairman. Mr. Gump had been vice president for mobile at CNN, Atlanta, part of the Turner Broadcasting System division of Time Warner.

Suzan Gursoy, director for integrated advertising at Adweek, New York, part of Guggenheim Digital Media, was named acting publisher after the departure of Erica Bartman, publisher, as part of a reorganization. Other senior executives are also leaving, including Alison Fahey, who had been associate publisher and began her career at Adweek more than two decades ago as a reporter; she also served as editor in chief and executive director for content. Also, James Cooper, executive editor at Adweek, was named editorial director, which had been a vacant post since the departure of Michael Wolff in October 2011.

Carla Hendra, chairwoman at the OgilvyRed unit of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, was named to an added, new post, vice chairwoman of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide board. Also, the board was expanded by 12 members to increase diversity and add more youthful leaders, the agency said; the new board members include Brandon Berger, worldwide chief digital officer; Shenan Chaung, chief executive at Ogilvy & Mather Greater China; and Annette King, chief executive at the Europe, Africa and Middle East operations and chairwoman at the London office of OgilvyOne.

Jackson County, N.C., Tourism Development Authority, which was recently formed, hired BCF, Virginia Beach, an agency that specializes in travel advertising, to develop a brand idea that would encourage tourists to visit the county. Spending has not been determined.

Kosher Media Network, Brooklyn, which owns properties that include the magazine Joy of Kosher With Jamie Geller and joyofkosher.com, and JMarketing Connections, New York, a commerce and marketing company that specializes in the Jewish consumer marketing, merged; the merged company will be known as Kosher Media Network. Financial terms were not disclosed.

Cassel Kroll joined Edelman, New York, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc., in a new post, vice president for media strategy at Edelman Digital. He had been director for social media strategy at Mindshare, part of the GroupM unit of WPP.

Mondelez International, Deerfield, Ill., expanded its relationship with Wieden & Kennedy by naming the agency to handle the creative duties for the Trident gum brand in the United States. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe, which continues to create campaigns for Trident in overseas markets. Wieden & Kennedy already creates campaigns for the Stride gum brand sold by Mondelez and created a commercial for Oreo cookies that ran during Super Bowl XLVII on Feb. 3.

Michelle Morris joined the Chicago office of Parade Publications, part of Advance Publications, as vice president and Midwest manager. She succeeds Stephen Buergher, who was promoted to senior vice president for marketing and research. Ms. Morris had been Midwest director at the Chicago office of New York Media. Parade Publications is part of Advance Publications.

The National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, hired Fifty & Fifty, San Diego, for assignments like content strategy and redesigning digital platforms that include the organization’s Web site, nationalmssociety.org.

NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, hired four executives for its advertising sales operation. They are Lou Koskovolis, who becomes senior vice president for sales and sales marketing at the NBC Sports Group’s Golf Media properties; Katie Larkin, who becomes senior vice president for advertising sales strategy; Peter Lazarus, who becomes senior vice president for cable advertising sales, responsible for the Chiller, Cloo, Syfy and USA channels as well as WWE programs on USA; and Laura Molen, who becomes executive vice president for cable advertising sales, overseeing the Chiller, Cloo, E!, G4, Syfy and USA channels as well as the WWE programs on USA.

Product of the Year USA, New York, presented its fifth annual awards for most innovative new consumer packaged goods. There were honors in 27 categories, including products from giant marketers like ConAgra Foods, General Mills, Johnson & Johnson, Nestlé and Reckitt Benckiser. Among the winners, by category, were: breakfast, Quaker Real Medleys oatmeal, from the Quaker Oat unit of PepsiCo; candy, Nestlé Crunch Girl Scout candy bars, from the Nestlé USA unit of Nestlé; frozen vegetables, Green Giant Seasoned Steamers, sold by General Mills; home appliance, SodaStream home soda maker, from the SodaStream USA unit of SodaStream International; insect repellent, Off! Bug Control Backyard Pretreat, from SC Johnson & Son; laundry packs, All Mighty Pacs, from the Sun Products Corporation; over-the-counter relief, Tums Freshers, from the GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare unit of GlaxoSmithKline; and stain removal, Resolve All-Stains, from Reckitt Benckiser. Product of the Year USA is part of an organization known as Product of the Year, which presents awards for new products in 32 countries.

Bob Shallcross, executive creative director at Moroch Partners, Dallas, was promoted to a new post, chief creative officer.

True Value Company, Chicago, hired Solve, Minneapolis, for a new assignment, brand agency of record, to create a branding effort that will be introduced in the spring and be focused on the heritage of the True Value chain and its retailer-owned hardware stores. Spending has not been determined. Duties will include brand and customer strategy, creative tasks and media planning. True Value will continue to work with the Chicago office of Marc USA, which had most recently created campaigns for the company, on assignments that include sales support and instructional videos.

WellPet, Tewksbury, Mass., which sells pet-food brands like Holistic Select, Old Mother Hubbard and Wellness, named KSL Media, New York, as the first agency to handle its media planning and buying account. Billings were not disclosed.

Shawn Wood joined On Ideas, Jacksonville, Fla., as creative director, a post being added as the agency expands its lineup of creative executives. He had been associate creative director and copywriter at Innocean USA, Huntington Beach, Calif., part of Innocean Worldwide.
414 2013-02-19 The Op-Ed columnist Gail Collins speaks with four women about what’s left in the fight for gender equality.
415 2013-02-19 Well-known chefs gather to welcome Paul Bocuse to the new centerpiece restaurant of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park....
416 2013-02-19 Readers complained about the absence of people of color in T: The Times Style Magazine....
417 2013-02-19 Should math and vocabulary be brought into P. E. class, and in what way?...
418 2013-02-19 The Great Recession, which began in Dec., 2007 and officially ended in June 2009, is the greatest economic downturn in the United States since World War II. Do our puzzle and see our related features to learn more....
419 2013-02-19 Shares of Office Depot and OfficeMax were up significantly in early trading on Tuesday, amid reports that the two were in talks to combine in a stock-for-stock deal....
420 2013-02-19 An overwhelming percentage of the attacks on American companies and government agencies start in a building on the edge of Shanghai, headquarters of a Chinese army cyber warrior unit, say American intelligence officials and cybersecurity experts....
421 2013-02-19 A new report on Chinese hackers depicts a wide-ranging cyberwar campaign against many American targets. One of them apparently was the Coca-Cola Company, which failed in a bid to buy a Chinese beverage maker....
422 2013-02-19 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
423 2013-02-19 A $3 billion surplus? Slower growth in health costs? The top 10 most-taxed cities in America. And is your company planning to make a Harlem Shake video?...
424 2013-02-19 She was born Malinda Gayle McCready on Nov. 30, 1975, in Fort Myers, Fla. She began singing at her local church when she was 3, and took training for opera before gravitating to country music. As a teenager she would sing karaoke, favoring hits from the likes of Trisha Yearwood and Reba McEntire.

In 1994, she headed to Nashville, equipped with her karaoke tapes and a large reservoir of hope, and was soon signed to a recording contract. Within two years, she had her only No. 1 hit, a male chauvinism critique, “Guys Do It All the Time.” She said her kind of song was one where the women were equal to the men.

Her first album, “Ten Thousand Angels,” sold over two million copies. Soon she was singing at concerts alongside some of country’s megastars.

But dark clouds trailed her. As her personal struggles intensified, her record sales dwindled.

She fought depression, and abused drugs and alcohol. In 2004, she was charged with fraudulently obtaining painkillers. In 2005, she was charged with drunken driving.

Her romantic life featured its own turmoil. In 2005, Billy McKnight, a fellow country singer with whom she would have a son, was charged with attempted murder after the police said he had choked and beaten her.

Ms. McCready served brief jail sentences in 2007 and 2008 for probation violations.

One more controversial episode ensued in 2008, when allegations arose that Roger Clemens had used performance-enhancing drugs, and The Daily News in New York reported that she had had a romantic involvement with the pitcher since she was a teenager. He denied that they were anything more than friends.

Ms. McCready tried to kill herself at least three times from 2005 to 2010.

In 2009, like other troubled stars willing to allow the public to watch them repair themselves, she signed up to appear on the reality series “Celebrity Rehab With Dr. Drew.” On one episode, she suffered a seizure.

In the last few years, four other cast members from that series have also died.

After her appearance on the show, she spoke of reigniting her career. She mentioned writing a book and creating a reality show with her brothers. Her fifth and final album was released in 2010, titled, “I’m Still Here.”

But she soon found herself in a custody battle with her mother and Mr. McKnight over her elder son. She settled down with Mr. Wilson in the rural town of Heber Springs, and had a son with him last year.

After Mr. Wilson’s death, according to published reports, her father became troubled by her behavior and her drinking. A judge ordered her to undergo evaluation and treatment. Her sons were removed from her care.

She was found on Sunday next to Mr. Wilson’s dog, a Dogo Argentino, which the authorities believe she shot before killing herself.

In addition to her children, Zander, 6, and Zayne, 10 months, she is survived by her mother, Gayle Inge; her father, Tim McCready; two brothers, Josh McCready and Tim Jr.; a half-brother, Sky Phelan; and her stepfather, Michael Inge.

On Monday, radio stations were playing her hits, and other country stars were expressing sadness.
425 2013-02-19 Mandiant provided an advance copy of its report to , saying it hoped to “bring visibility to the issues addressed in the report.” Times reporters then tested the conclusions with other experts, both inside and outside government, who have examined links between the hacking groups and the army (Mandiant was hired by to investigate a sophisticated Chinese-origin attack on its news operations, but concluded it was not the work of Comment Crew, but another Chinese group. The firm is not currently working for the Times Company but it is in discussions about a business relationship.)

While Comment Crew has drained terabytes of data from companies like , increasingly its focus is on companies involved in the critical infrastructure of the United States — its electrical power grid, gas lines and waterworks. According to the security researchers, one target was a company with remote access to more than 60 percent of oil and gas pipelines in . The unit was also among those that attacked the computer security firm RSA, whose computer codes protect confidential corporate and government databases.

Contacted Monday, officials at the Chinese embassy in Washington again insisted that their government does not engage in computer hacking, and that such activity is illegal. They describe China itself as a victim of computer hacking, and point out, accurately, that there are many hacking groups inside the United States. But in recent years the Chinese attacks have grown significantly, security researchers say. Mandiant has detected more than 140 Comment Crew intrusions since 2006. American intelligence agencies and private security firms that track many of the 20 or so other Chinese groups every day say those groups appear to be contractors with links to the unit.

And the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Tuesday that the allegations were ‘‘unprofessional.’’

‘‘Making unfounded accusations based on preliminary results is both irresponsible and unprofessional, and is not helpful for the resolution of the relevant problem,’’ said Hong Lei, a ministry spokesman. ‘‘China resolutely opposes hacking actions and has established relevant  laws and regulations and taken strict law enforcement measures to defend against online hacking activities.’’

While the unit’s existence and operations are considered a Chinese state secret, Representative Mike Rogers of , the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in an interview that the Mandiant report was “completely consistent with the type of activity the Intelligence Committee has been seeing for some time.”

The White House said it was “aware” of the Mandiant report, and Tommy Vietor, the spokesman for the , said, “We have repeatedly raised our concerns at the highest levels about cybertheft with senior Chinese officials, including in the military, and we will continue to do so.”

The United States government is planning to begin a more aggressive defense against Chinese hacking groups, starting on Tuesday. Under a directive signed by last week, the government plans to share with American Internet providers information it has gathered about the unique digital signatures of the largest of the groups, including Comment Crew and others emanating from near where Unit 61398 is based.

But the government warnings will not explicitly link those groups, or the giant computer servers they use, to the Chinese army. The question of whether to publicly name the unit and accuse it of widespread theft is the subject of ongoing debate.

“There are huge diplomatic sensitivities here,” said one intelligence official, with frustration in his voice.

But Obama administration officials say they are planning to tell China’s new leaders in coming weeks that the volume and sophistication of the attacks have become so intense that they threaten the fundamental relationship between Washington and .

The United States government also has cyberwarriors. Working with , the United States has used malicious software called to disrupt ’s uranium enrichment program. But government officials insist they operate under strict, if classified, rules that bar using offensive weapons for nonmilitary purposes or stealing corporate data.

The United States finds itself in something of an asymmetrical digital war with China. “In the cold war, we were focused every day on the nuclear command centers around ,” one senior defense official said recently. “Today, it’s fair to say that we worry as much about the computer servers in Shanghai.”

Unit 61398 — formally, the 2nd Bureau of the People’s Liberation Army’s General Staff Department’s 3rd Department — exists almost nowhere in official Chinese military descriptions. Yet intelligence analysts who have studied the group say it is the central element of Chinese computer espionage. The unit was described in 2011 as the “premier entity targeting the United States and , most likely focusing on political, economic, and military-related intelligence” by the Project 2049 Institute, a nongovernmental organization in that studies security and policy issues in .

While the Obama administration has never publicly discussed the Chinese unit’s activities, a secret State Department cable written the day before Barack Obama was elected president in November 2008 described at length American concerns about the group’s attacks on government sites. (At the time American intelligence agencies called the unit “Byzantine Candor,” a code word dropped after the cable was published by .)

The Defense Department and the State Department were particular targets, the cable said, describing how the group’s intruders send e-mails, called “spearphishing” attacks, that placed malware on target computers once the recipient clicked on them. From there, they were inside the systems.

American officials say that a combination of diplomatic concerns and the desire to follow the unit’s activities have kept the government from going public. But Mandiant’s report is forcing the issue into public view.

For more than six years, Mandiant tracked the actions of Comment Crew, so named for the attackers’ penchant for embedding hidden code or comments into Web pages. Based on the digital crumbs the group left behind — its attackers have been known to use the same malware, Web domains, Internet protocol addresses, hacking tools and techniques across attacks — Mandiant followed 141 attacks by the group, which it called “A.P.T. 1” for Advanced Persistent Threat 1.

“But those are only the ones we could easily identify,” said Mr. Mandia. Other security experts estimate that the group is responsible for thousands of attacks.

As Mandiant mapped the Internet protocol addresses and other bits of digital evidence, it all led back to the edges of Pudong district of Shanghai, right around the Unit 61398 headquarters. The group’s report, along with 3,000 addresses and other indicators that can be used to identify the source of attacks, concludes “the totality of the evidence” leads to the conclusion that “A.P.T. 1 is Unit 61398.”

Mandiant discovered that two sets of I.P. addresses used in the attacks were registered in the same neighborhood as Unit 61398’s building.

“It’s where more than 90 percent of the attacks we followed come from,” said Mr. Mandia.

The only other possibility, the report concludes with a touch of sarcasm, is that “a secret, resourced organization full of mainland Chinese speakers with direct access to Shanghai-based telecommunications infrastructure is engaged in a multiyear enterprise-scale computer espionage campaign right outside of Unit 61398’s gates.”

The most fascinating elements of the Mandiant report follow the keystroke-by-keystroke actions of several of the hackers who the firm believes work for the P.L.A. Mandiant tracked their activities from inside the computer systems of American companies they were invading. The companies had given Mandiant investigators full access to rid them of the Chinese spies.

One of the most visible hackers it followed is UglyGorilla, who first appeared on a Chinese military forum in January 2004, asking whether China has a “similar force” to the “cyber army” being set up by the American military.

By 2007 UglyGorilla was turning out a suite of malware with what the report called a “clearly identifiable signature.” Another hacker, called “DOTA” by Mandiant, created e-mail accounts that were used to plant malware. That hacker was tracked frequently using a password that appeared to be based on his military unit’s designation. DOTA and UglyGorilla both used the same I.P. addresses linked back to Unit 61398’s neighborhood.

Mandiant discovered several cases in which attackers logged into their and accounts to get around China’s firewall that blocks ordinary citizen’s access, making it easier to track down their real identities.

Mandiant also discovered an internal China Telecom memo discussing the state-owned telecom company’s decision to install high-speed fiber-optic lines for Unit 61398’s headquarters.

China’s defense ministry has denied that it is responsible for initiating attacks. “It is unprofessional and groundless to accuse the Chinese military of launching cyberattacks without any conclusive evidence,” it said last month, one of the statements that prompted Mandiant to make public its evidence.

Mandiant believes Unit 61398 conducted sporadic attacks on American corporate and government computer networks; the earliest it found was in 2006. Two years ago the numbers spiked. Mandiant discovered some of the intrusions were long-running. On average the group would stay inside a network, stealing data and passwords, for a year; in one case it had access for four years and 10 months.

Mandiant has watched the group as it has stolen technology blueprints, manufacturing processes, clinical trial results, pricing documents, negotiation strategies and other proprietary information from more than 100 of its clients, mostly in the United States. Mandiant identified attacks on 20 industries, from military contractors to chemical plants, mining companies and satellite and telecommunications corporations.

Mandiant’s report does not name the victims, who usually insist on anonymity. A 2009 attack on Coca-Cola coincided with the beverage giant’s failed attempt to acquire the China Huiyuan Juice Group for $2.4 billion, according to people with knowledge of the results of the company’s investigation.

As Coca-Cola executives were negotiating what would have been the largest foreign purchase of a Chinese company, Comment Crew was busy rummaging through their computers in an apparent effort to learn more about Coca-Cola’s negotiation strategy.

The attack on Coca-Cola began, like hundreds before it, with a seemingly innocuous e-mail to an executive that was, in fact, a spearphishing attack. When the executive clicked on a malicious link in the e-mail, it gave the attackers a foothold inside Coca-Cola’s network. From inside, they sent confidential company files through a maze of computers back to Shanghai, on a weekly basis, unnoticed.

Two years later, Comment Crew was one of at least three Chinese-based groups to mount a similar attack on RSA, the computer security company owned by , a large technology company. It is best known for its SecurID token, carried by employees at intelligence agencies, military contractors and many major companies. (The New York Times also uses the firm’s tokens to allow access to its e-mail and production systems remotely.) RSA has offered to replace SecurID tokens for customers and said it had added new layers of security to its products.

As in the Coca-Cola case, the attack began with a targeted, cleverly fashioned poisoned e-mail to an RSA employee. Two months later, hackers breached , the nation’s largest defense contractor, partly by using the information they gleaned from the RSA attack.

Mandiant is not the only private firm tracking Comment Crew. In 2011, Joe Stewart, a SecureWorks researcher, was analyzing malware used in the RSA attack when he discovered that the attackers had used a hacker tool to mask their true location.

When he reverse-engineered the tool, he found that the vast majority of stolen data had been transferred to the same range of I.P. addresses that Mandiant later identified in Shanghai.

Dell SecureWorks says it believed Comment Crew includes the same group of attackers behind Operation Shady RAT, an extensive computer espionage campaign uncovered in 2011 in which more than 70 organizations over a five-year period, including the , government agencies in the United States, Canada, , and were targeted.

What most worries American investigators is that the latest set of attacks believed coming from Unit 61398 focus not just on stealing information, but obtaining the ability to manipulate American critical infrastructure: the power grids and other utilities.

Staff at Digital Bond, a small security firm that specializes in those industrial-control computers, said that last June Comment Crew unsuccessfully attacked it. A part-time employee at Digital Bond received an e-mail that appeared to come from his boss, Dale Peterson. The e-mail, in perfect English, discussed security weaknesses in critical infrastructure systems, and asked the employee to click a link to a document for more information. Mr. Peterson caught the e-mail and shared it with other researchers, who found the link contained a remote-access tool that would have given the attackers control over the employee’s computer and potentially given them a front-row seat to confidential information about Digital Bond’s clients, which include a major water project, a power plant and a mining company.

Jaime Blasco, a security researcher at AlienVault, analyzed the computer servers used in the attack, which led him to other victims, including the Chertoff Group. That firm, headed by the former secretary of the , , has run simulations of an extensive digital attack on the United States. Other attacks were made on a contractor for the , and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, a lobbying group that represents companies that make components for power grids. Those organizations confirmed they were attacked but have said they prevented attackers from gaining access to their network.

Mr. Blasco said that, based on the forensics, all the victims had been hit by Comment Crew. But the most troubling attack to date, security experts say, was a successful invasion of the Canadian arm of Telvent. The company, now owned by Schneider Electric, designs software that gives oil and gas pipeline companies and power grid operators remote access to valves, switches and security systems.

Telvent keeps detailed blueprints on more than half of all the oil and gas pipelines in North and , and has access to their systems. In September, Telvent Canada told customers that attackers had broken into its systems and taken project files. That access was immediately cut, so that the intruders could not take command of the systems.

Martin Hanna, a Schneider Electric spokesman, did not return requests for comment, but security researchers who studied the malware used in the attack, including Mr. Stewart at Dell SecureWorks and Mr. Blasco at AlienVault, confirmed that the perpetrators were the Comment Crew.

“This is terrifying because — forget about the country — if someone hired me and told me they wanted to have the offensive capability to take out as many critical systems as possible, I would be going after the vendors and do things like what happened to Telvent,“ Mr. Peterson of Digital Bond said. “It’s the holy grail.”

Mr. Obama alluded to this concern in the State of the Union speech, without mentioning China or any other nation. “We know foreign countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets,” he said. “Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, our air-traffic control systems. We cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing.”

Mr. Obama faces a vexing choice: In a sprawling, vital relationship with China, is it worth a major confrontation between the world’s largest and second largest economy over computer hacking?

A few years ago, administration officials say, the theft of intellectual property was an annoyance, resulting in the loss of billions of dollars of revenue. But clearly something has changed. The mounting evidence of state sponsorship, the increasing boldness of Unit 61398, and the growing threat to American infrastructure are leading officials to conclude that a far stronger response is necessary.

“Right now there is no incentive for the Chinese to stop doing this,” said Mr. Rogers, the House intelligence chairman. “If we don’t create a high price, it’s only going to keep accelerating.”
426 2013-02-19 The tour commissioner, Tim Finchem, held a teleconference Monday with the PGA Tour’s policy board to formulate an official response to the proposed ban on anchored putting that was made public last November by the United States Golf Association and the Royal & Ancient, the guardians of the game.

In a news conference the day after the players’ meeting, Finchem left open the possibility that the tour could decide not to abide by the ban if it is enacted, as proposed, starting in 2016.

“We believe in the notion that one body of rules is important, and that’s always our intent,” Finchem said. “We just reserve the option not to, if we have overriding reasons not to do so.”

Jim Furyk, a 16-time tour winner who is on the tour’s policy board, said, “I don’t know what to expect, to be honest.”

Furyk said he did believe this about the anchoring issue: “Maybe once you start putting a face to the people that stand up in a player meeting and say, ‘I think this is wrong because of X, Y and Z,’ or you look at the players that are using that style of putter, once you put a face to it, it makes it more difficult maybe to be adamant in the press and say, ‘I think it’s a terrible idea.’ ”

Brendan Steele, a member of the Player Advisory Council, which presented reaction from tour members to the policy board before the teleconference, won his first tour title in 2011 using a long putter. He said he had been heartened by the recent tone of the debate.

Referring to the proposed ban, Steele, who attended his first advisory council meeting after the players convened in San Diego, said: “I’ll be interested to hear what everybody has to say, because when we met the last time with the PAC, most of the opinions were that we didn’t like it at all. Everybody was pretty much against it, so we’ll see what happens.”

At the tour stop outside Phoenix this month, Garrigus said it was unfortunate that golfers who choose to use the anchored stroke — a group that includes the recent major winners Ernie Els, Webb Simpson and Keegan Bradley — were faced with the prospect of being considered cheats, in retrospect, if the proposed ban takes effect.

At the players’ meeting, Garrigus said he spoke to Finchem and Mike Davis, the executive director of the U.S.G.A.

“I told them to go back to the tape in Canada when I couldn’t make a thing on the last day with a long putter,” Garrigus said of the 2012 Canadian Open, which he led after three rounds but finished one stroke back. “Couldn’t sniff the hole from 3 feet. And they think it’s cheating? I mean, I giggled at that.”

Garrigus said he also posed a question to Finchem about the sport’s policy makers.

“I asked him out of the 15 board members that vote on our game, our professional game, how many of them have ever struck a shot in competition?” he said. “And that was zero, and that’s all I needed to hear.”

Before 2001, only three players had used a long putter to win a PGA Tour event. The putters became an issue last year when they were used by Els, 43, of South Africa in his victory at the British Open in July and by 14-year-old Guan Tianlang of China in his victory at the Asia-Pacific Championship in November.

The use of the club by champions of such divergent ages signaled to the powers that be in golf that the long putter had gone from curiosity to keepsake.

Tiger Woods, a 14-time major winner and 75-time tour champion, has come out in support of the ban. Phil Mickelson, whose 41 tour titles include four majors, was more ambivalent. Last month in San Diego he framed the debate in shades of gray.

“Although I feel that anchoring should not be part of a golf stroke,” Mickelson said, “it was allowed 30-some-odd years ago and should not be taken away.”
427 2013-02-19 Attorney General Eric Holder Jr. recently said that his top priority is to improve the criminal justice system. He can start by pushing Congress and the United States Sentencing Commission to fix the unfair problem of excessive mandatory minimum sentences.

The commission reported recently that in the 16-year period through fiscal year 2011, the annual number of federal offenders “increased substantially,” from 37,091 to 76,216. The commission previously explained that “excessively severe” mandatory minimum sentences added heavily to this increase and to overcrowding in prisons.

Federal judges are acutely aware of this issue. Judge John Gleeson of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, for one, has been a vigorous critic of mandatory minimum sentences. In an opinion last year, he criticized federal prosecutors for seeking those sentences against defendants who are not “leaders and managers of drug enterprises” and Congress for laws that focus too heavily on the type and quantity of the drugs involved in a crime rather than the role the defendant played. This has meant that low-level offenders are often given sentences equal to those of major offenders.

Recently in another opinion, Judge Gleeson analyzed a related problem. The sentencing commission sets guidelines designed to help ensure that defendants in similar situations receive similar punishments. While the guidelines permit judges some ability to tailor sentences if necessary, they still look to drug type and quantity rather than a criminal’s role because they track Congress’s approach.

This compounds the problem for low-level offenders, who make up 93 percent of those convicted of drug trafficking. Judge Gleeson called on the commission to fashion fair sentencing ranges based on an offender’s role and to reduce all sentencing ranges for drug trafficking by a third. The trouble with mandatory minimum sentences is that it is impossible to make them fair and just in every case. It’s time for the attorney general, Congress and the sentencing commission to reform this scheme.
428 2013-02-19 W. Watts Biggers, who with a partner created the 1960s cartoon “Underdog” as a way to sell cereal and wrote its infectious theme song, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Manomet, Mass. He was 85.

The cause was a heart attack, Nancy Purbeck, his longtime companion, said.

Mr. Biggers was an account manager at the advertising firm Dancer Fitzgerald Sample in the early 1960s when he and Chet Stover, a copywriter, began conceiving a cartoon show to advertise General Mills cereals.

Mr. Biggers and Mr. Stover talked over dozens of ideas, but nothing seemed right. They knew that they would be competing for a morning time slot with Jay Ward and Bill Scott, who had created “Rocky & Bullwinkle.”

“We were going to be the underdog,” Mr. Biggers recalled saying to Mr. Stover. The idea stuck, giving birth to Underdog, a humble shoe shiner who would be  transformed into a superhero, especially whenever the reporter Sweet Polly Purebred was threatened. It won the slot and made its debut on NBC in 1964.

Voiced by the character actor Wally Cox in rhyming couplets, Underdog battled villains like the evil scientist Simon Bar Sinister and the wolf gangster Riff Raff. Underdog’s segments on the show were interspersed with those of other cartoon characters like the Go Go Gophers and Tennessee Tuxedo.
429 2013-02-19 “So I’d say it’s time to take that trip to Europe,” Ms. Keren said.

Well, talk is cheap, and back then in early January I wasn’t going anywhere far from home, business or coach. But the other day, I checked back to see how the international market was faring, especially across the Atlantic, where carriers have been sharply reducing capacity on what have long been their most profitable routes. Whereas the financial industry bought many of those seats before the recession, the energy, minerals and fashion industries are now dominant, Ms. Keren said.

In fact, January seems to have been a watershed for the trans-Atlantic routes. Seat capacity for the month on Delta Air Lines was 10.4 percent lower than in January 2012. On United Airlines, it was down 8.2 percent, and it was 7.9 percent lower on both American Airlines and US Airways. Elsewhere, growth was sluggish on the once-booming Middle East routes, relatively stable on the Pacific routes but robust on the Latin American and Caribbean routes.

Let’s stay with the trans-Atlantic market for now, because that’s where fares have been fluctuating most as jet fuel prices rise to what the industry warns will be record levels this year. A sale that ended on Monday for British Airways’s highly regarded Club World business class, for example, offered a fare of $3,408 round-trip between Atlanta and London Heathrow — with $1,158 of that listed as a fuel surcharge.

On international trips, the fuel surcharge is becoming an ever more critical part of the fare calculation, even in coach. So, for example, a recent round-trip coach fare on Delta between Kennedy Airport in New York and London Heathrow was $842, including $458 in a “carrier-imposed surcharge.”

As fuel prices rise and trans-Atlantic capacity is cut, the sharp discounts of early January are fading. So agencies like OKT Travel are scrambling to keep pace on discounts, including for last-minute business-class travel.

OKT Travel is a so-called consolidator, an agency that sometimes buys bulk fares from airlines as they become available. Consolidators are often nimble in capturing discounts on fare fluctuations and upgrade availabilities that always ripple through global reservations systems. They also work with businesses to use airline mileage points accumulated through corporate credit card spending to bump coach travelers into business-class cabins.

On Monday, a typical last-minute business-class fare on Delta between Kennedy and Heathrow was $4,777.50, including $1,110 in “taxes and carrier-imposed fees,” which included fuel surcharges. The coach fare was $842, including $638.30 in taxes and fees.

On the trans-Atlantic routes, the sharp capacity reduction has become “a big factor” in rising fares, Mr. Tan said on Monday. “In the long run,” he added, “prices for international fares will be pushed up — first class, business class and coach.”

Fares are rising even more on the Pacific routes, where demand is steady if not robust. “For example, on Cathay-Pacific, sometimes the market was $3,000 to $4,000 nonstop round-trip New York to Hong Kong in business class,” Ms. Keren said. “Now, the least expensive we’re seeing is $7,000 or $8,000.”

And likely to get crazier. Last week, jet fuel was $3.30 a gallon. By comparison, jet fuel was $2.05 a gallon in January 2010. And on Monday morning, with most business-class fares near $5,000 on the New York-to-London routes, a discount fare I saw on Orbitz.com was $2,302 on Icelandair. By noon, that fare had gone up — to $3,114.
430 2013-02-19 Part of the problem, Mr. Oros and others say, is that Mr. Abe faces conflicting political pressures. His base in the governing party’s most conservative wing expects bold steps to end what it sees as Japan’s overly prolonged displays of contrition for World War II. But he must also convince the broader public that he is a coolheaded, competent steward of a declining nation that also depends on China for its economic future.

There is also the ghost of his past failure. The last time he was prime minister, six years ago, he stepped down amid criticism that he had been “clueless” for having pursued a nationalistic agenda of revising the Constitution and history textbooks, and for not doing more to reduce unemployment and spur the economy.

This time, Mr. Abe is acting with the determined carefulness of a man given a second chance. He has focused on extricating Japan from its recession with steps that have quickly buoyed the country’s economy, the world’s third-largest. Since being named prime minister after his party’s election victory in December, Mr. Abe has promised $215 billion in public works spending to create jobs and promote growth.

He has also publicly pressured the central bank, the Bank of Japan, to move more aggressively to end years of corrosive price declines known as deflation — threatening, for example, to amend the law on the bank’s independence if it does not reach its target of 2 percent inflation. The bank’s governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, announced this month that he would step aside to allow Mr. Abe to appoint a new chief who will work more closely with the government by pumping more money into the economy to prompt banks to lend more and companies to spend more.

“Mr. Abe has clearly learned the lessons of his past failure,” said Norihiko Narita, a political scientist at Surugadai University, near Tokyo. “And the biggest lesson is that voters care more about the economy.”

Abenomics has already affected the yen, helping to drive down its value by 20 percent in just four months. This has strengthened Japan’s struggling export industries by making their products cheaper abroad, but also led to warnings of a trade war in which other nations push down the values of their currencies.

However, the biggest criticism of Abenomics is that it will provide only a short-lived adrenaline shot for growth, while producing little more than superfluous bridges and roads, and adding to Japan’s already stifling national debt. Economists say Mr. Abe’s policies so far contain few of the deeper-reaching structural reforms that they say are needed to produce sustainable growth by encouraging competition in Japan’s sclerotic economy.

They say the most symbolic step would be joining a Pacific-wide free trade pact that would force Japan to open sheltered domestic markets, like farm products. Mr. Abe appears to personally favor entering the pact, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which the United States champions as a way of binding the economically vibrant region together. Japanese and American officials say Mr. Abe may even privately promise Mr. Obama that Japan will soon join the pact. But he cannot afford to say so in public for fear of alienating the farmers who have been strong supporters of the Liberal Democrats — at least not until the July elections.

Similarly, fears of angering voters on Okinawa will also probably prevent Mr. Abe from offering progress on another issue that has long caused problems with the United States, the relocation of the unpopular American air base at Futenma. This has led some analysts to wonder what Mr. Abe’s visit to Washington will actually be able to produce.

Plans for the summit meeting seemed to get off to a rocky start last month when the administration declined a Japanese request for a visit in January, saying the American side was not ready. This was reported as a snub in Japan’s tabloid press. Perhaps to make amends, the Americans have increased the time that Mr. Abe will spend with Mr. Obama, adding a luncheon at the White House to the schedule.

For Mr. Abe, strengthening ties with the United States is crucial as Japan faces a growing challenge from China for control of the disputed islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. Analysts say Mr. Abe will probably tell Mr. Obama that he wants Japan to act as a fuller military partner with the United States, at a time when the Pentagon faces steep budget cuts. But it is unclear if more radical steps, like rewriting the Constitution, would sit well with the majority of Japanese voters who wish Mr. Abe to remain moderate.

“Mr. Abe is to the right of the mainstream,” said Koji Nakakita, a politics professor at Tokyo’s Hitotsubashi University, “and that carries a huge potential risk for him.”
431 2013-02-19 Many social scientists no longer think that America’s shift to longer prison terms has been a help to poor neighborhoods....
432 2013-02-19 The government’s main task, he said, is to promote growth and cut unemployment, but also to get public finances under control. The government wants to begin to reduce France’s accumulated debt, around 90 percent of G.D.P., and gradually reduce the government’s share of G.D.P., currently more than 56 percent.

France has committed itself to the European Commission to hit the 3 percent target this year, but Mr. Moscovici emphasized the government’s progress in reducing France’s structural deficit — which is supposed to be unaffected by economic cycles — by two percentage points this year.

That was the key figure, he argued, saying: “Our true commitment was to reduce the structural deficit.” And he pointed to a letter last week from Europe’s commissioner for economic affairs, Ollie Rehn, who suggested that countries might get more time to cut their deficits if they could demonstrate seriousness in structural changes.

France would wait to see European Commission growth forecasts later this week before deciding what to do, Mr. Moscovici said, and then hold talks with European officials in Brussels to come up with a solution. France’s actions will depend on those talks, Mr. Moscovici said.

For the moment, he said, he is holding to the 3 percent goal, but he acknowledged that France’s national auditors, the Cour des Comptes, said last week that given low growth, it would be next to impossible to hit the target without altering current plans. And the auditors again recommended that the government do more to limit spending and not raise taxes further.

On a proposed free-trade agreement between the United States and the European Union, which is intended to promote economic growth, Mr. Moscovici said France was “open but vigilant.”

Mr. Moscovici said that “an opportunity exists,” but that there were “irritants” that would need to be negotiated. He cited issues of concern to France, like agricultural regulations and “the cultural exception” — France subsidizes some of its own cultural products, like films, and promotes local content. Restrictions in the French marketplace are one reason the Obama administration was initially reluctant to get too deeply involved in a free-trade negotiation. As one senior official in Washington put it, “After we negotiate hard for two years, the French will kill it anyway.”

But pressed by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Mr. Obama supported the idea in his State of the Union address last week.

On the much-discussed effort by President François Hollande of France to temporarily raise the highest tax rate to 75 percent on those earning more than one million euros a year — a law found to be unconstitutional — Mr. Moscovici said that the government was working on a new tax for the wealthy, but refused to commit to a rate of 75 percent. “It’s an exceptional tax for exceptional times on exceptional income for an exceptional duration,” he said.
433 2013-02-19 Re “Endless Barrage of Hard Sell” (18 and Under, Feb. 12): Growing up, my father made my twin brother and me yell “Dumb! Stupid!” at the television whenever advertisements aired. It was humiliating. It seems to have worked, though: neither my brother nor I drink alcohol or soda, or eat McDonald’s or other junk food. We don’t even watch TV. Should I have children, I’ll be sure to make it a family tradition.
434 2013-02-19 A growing number of lawmakers say they see a distinct difference between limits on magazine sizes, which they would support, and an assault weapons ban, which they would not. “I see them as separate,” said Senator , independent of . “It’s the difference between appearance and functionality. High-capacity magazines have contributed to a lot of these tragedies.”

Even Senator of , the majority leader who has long stood with the and remains firmly against an assault weapons ban, has shown receptiveness to a magazine size limit for civilian gun owners. “I think it is something we ought to discuss,” he said.

But the issue also gives pause to many lawmakers, particularly Senate Democrats up for re-election in states that generally support gun rights. They seem torn over whether a restriction on ammunition erodes the rights of law-abiding gun owners, as its opponents insist, or is merely a mild annoyance for those owners in the name of public safety.

“I’m ready to step off the status quo on guns,” said Senator , Democrat of . “But I’ve got to work this one through in my mind.”

In a New York Times/CBS News poll last month of 1,110 adults nationwide, 63 percent of respondents said they would favor a ban on high-capacity magazines, while 34 percent opposed the idea. The N.R.A. has repeatedly and staunchly opposed a ban, arguing that it would have no effect on gun violence and that it would leave such equipment in the hands of criminals alone.

In a 2004 report for the National Institute of Justice that studied the impact of the 1994 assault weapons ban (which expired in 2004), the authors found that high-capacity magazines were used in crimes much more often than assault weapons were. They said that guns equipped with those magazines tended to account for a higher share of guns used in the killing of police officers and in mass public shootings, though those are a small percentage of overall gun deaths.

Many gun experts and lawmakers believe the two areas ripe for legislative consensus are a bill that would make background checks for gun buyers nearly universal, and a measure that would create a federal statute against straw purchasing, which would give prosecutors better tools to go after people who buy guns that they sell or give to others to commit crimes.

“If you prioritize things in terms of their value and likelihood of them getting passed,” said James Pasco, the executive director of the Fraternal Order of Police, “I don’t think there is anyone who will tell you that background checks aren’t the most important thing to get done.” Law enforcement officials say that combining background checks and straw purchasing penalties would do much to reduce the criminal use of guns.

But many lawmakers, gun violence experts and victims argue that large-capacity magazines, which gun rights advocates say are convenient for target shooting, increase carnage in shootings. has called for a maximum magazine capacity of 10 rounds. The police have said that Adam Lanza had a 30-round magazine on his semiautomatic rifle in Newtown.

, Ms. Giffords’s husband, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in January that , a 9-year-old girl killed in the Tucson shooting, was shot with the 13th bullet in the assailant’s gun. “I am 100 percent sure these magazines have an effect on the number of people killed,” Mr. Kelly said in a later interview.

Such magazines “are so easy to see as a menace to our society,” said Senator , Democrat of , who is sponsoring legislation that seeks to ban the sale of magazines of more than 10 rounds.

But gun experts say that standard may be unrealistic, because many handguns are designed to carry more than 10 rounds.

“We have to consider the millions of weapons out there that will be rendered useless,” said Robert A. Levy, a lawyer who was a principal architect of the victorious strategy in the 2008 Supreme Court decision that upheld the rights of residents in the to bear arms, a landmark case for gun rights. Mr. Levy supports a ban on magazines with over 20 rounds, which he said “would rule out very few weapons.”

As interviews with several lawmakers seemed to underscore, a vote to regulate high-capacity magazines would have to be separate from a bill to renew the assault weapons ban to stand a chance of passage. (Senator , Democrat of , has offered a bill that does both.)

“There is general agreement that when we went after the cosmetic features of the guns, we didn’t pay sufficient attention to magazine capacity,” said Garen J. Wintemute, the director of the violence prevention research program at the , referring to the 1994 ban. “Conceptually it has the advantage that you wouldn’t be taking anyone’s guns away. This is a reasonable price to pay for the benefit to public safety.”

Senator , Democrat of , shared the view of many conservative Democrats that each piece of gun legislation must be considered separately. “I’m not going to vote for Feinstein’s bill,” he said. “Beyond that I just want to wait and see what we have.”

In another sign of the growing focus on gun magazines, ’s House of Representatives on Monday narrowly passed a measure that would limit magazines to 15 rounds. Its backers in the Democrat-controlled chamber cited the shootings in Newtown and at an Aurora movie theater in July.
435 2013-02-19 “It’s incredible the Security Council doesn’t take a decision,” said Ms. del Ponte, who had been chief prosecutor for international tribunals on the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. A referral must be made urgently, she said, “because crimes are continuing, and the number of victims is increasing day to day. Justice must be done.”

The report released Monday is to be discussed in the Human Rights Council in March, when member nations appear likely to extend the commission’s mandate. Diplomats in Geneva point out that the panel is the only United Nations-mandated machinery shedding a spotlight on abuses, and that its reports provide the most comprehensive and factual account of how Syria’s conflict is being waged.

In their latest report, based on 445 interviews, the investigators said they had found credible evidence of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by both government and opposition forces in the six months to mid-January. The report cited accounts of massacres, summary executions, torture, attacks on civilians, sexual violence and abuses against children.

Pro-government forces committed massacres in August in Daraya, where more than 100 people, including women and children, reportedly died, and in Harak in the Dara’a governorate, where witnesses said more than 500 civilians had been killed.

Government forces involved in Harak included the Syrian Army as well as military and political intelligence units, the report said, noting that they may have been accompanied by members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. The panel said it was still investigating other reports of mass killings.

Drawing on the accounts of defectors and “insiders,” the report said government forces had deliberately targeted civilians to punish people in areas seen as supporting the opposition. Neighborhoods in Damascus have been destroyed by government forces, and bread lines in several towns have been targeted when the concentration of civilians would be at their highest.

“Indiscriminate and widespread shelling, the regular bombardment of cities, mass killing, indiscriminate firing on civilian targets, firing on civilian gatherings and a protracted campaign of shelling and sniping on civilian areas have characterized the conduct of the government,” the panel said.

Investigators also cited “credible admissions against their own interest” by witnesses of the mass killing of five members of one family whose execution was filmed and posted on the Internet. They said a member of the rebel Free Syrian Army had acknowledged that his brigade captured and executed five Alawites, members of the Shiite Muslim minority that provides the bedrock of support for President Bashar al-Assad.

The panel expressed particular concern over “an increase in acts of unrestrained violence” associated with the proliferation of armed groups that appeared to serve no strategic purpose but to foment sectarian tensions and spread terror among civilians. The report warned that “this trend risks becoming a malignant feature of the conflict.”

It also said that foreign intervention had helped radicalize the conflict by empowering Islamist militant groups such as the Al Nusra Front, “and even encouraged mainstream insurgents to join them owing to their superior logistical and operational capabilities.”

The report added that “regional and international actors hampered the prospects of a negotiated settlement owing to their divergent interests. The position of key international actors remains unchanged.”

Panel members said Monday that their ability to report on activities of the opposition was seriously hampered by what they called the Assad government’s persistent refusal to give its investigators access to Syria.

The panel said last year that it had already accumulated a “formidable and extraordinary body of evidence” against those responsible for war crimes, and it again said that it would provide the United Nations human rights office with the names of leaders who may be responsible for abuses, as well as the individuals and units that carried them out.

Release of the latest report came against a backdrop of what appeared to be part of a new public relations effort by President Assad to present himself as an empathetic leader who believes his enemies are losing the war, in interviews that seemed to ignore a string of tactical and logistical setbacks suffered by his side.

Last week insurgents claimed to have captured Syria’s largest hydropower dam, important oil fields in the northeast, an airfield full of usable warplanes and troves of other weapons, corroborating their claims with videos posted on the Internet. Syria’s state-run news media has said nothing of these claims.

An article published Monday by Al-Quds, a London-based pan-Arab daily newspaper, quoted Mr. Assad as telling a recent delegation of Jordanians to Damascus, “Those who oppose Bashar, seek to destroy Syria and talk about me forget an essential truth, which is: I am human, made of blood and flesh, at the end of the day.”

In a separate audience with visiting Lebanese politicians, reported by the pro-Assad Lebanese newspaper As-Safir, Mr. Assad was quoted as saying, “We are sure we will win, we are reassured by the political and military developments,” according to a translation of the article by Agence France-Presse.
436 2013-02-20 At a town hall in Tucson, Senator John McCain answered questions on immigration and border patrol from an angry crowd.
437 2013-02-20 The actress, best known for her role on television's "Glee," will join the Broadway production for eight weeks beginning May 16....
438 2013-02-20 It is time to give ourselves permission to think about why we make financial decisions and to do so without judgment....
439 2013-02-20 Officials still intend to place the unidentified remains of World Trade Center victims at the bedrock level of the National September 11 Memorial Museum, which was flooded during Hurricane Sandy....
440 2013-02-20 On Wednesday, Yahoo introduced a new site design. Gone are the cluttered ads and irrelevant content. In their place will be customizable, personalized content and new social features....
441 2013-02-20 What is Unit 61398 and who is the "Comment Crew"?...
442 2013-02-20 Cyma Zarghami, president of the Nickelodeon Group, said she preferred to wait until the cable channel had more information about how its audience used mobile devices. Research showed children preferred to play games and watch short clips on apps, rather than catch up on complete episodes. Nickelodeon already has individual branded games available as apps.

“TV Everywhere is a given. It’s not special anymore,” Ms. Zarghami said. “Being first wasn’t important to us. We took our time to combine these two ideas” of interactive games and snippets of shows.

A brief video instructs children to “grab an adult” to enter a password that shows they subscribe to Nickelodeon before gaining access to the last five episodes of series like “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles,” “Big Time Rush” and “Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness.” This fall, Nickelodeon will introduce a separate app for Nick Jr. intended to serve as an “interactive play date” for its preschool-age audience.

Nickelodeon’s strategy — based on extras rather than episodes — signals how Viacom may approach apps for its other cable channels, including MTV, Comedy Central and VH1. Until this week, Viacom had not introduced authenticated apps for its channels, unlike Time Warner’s HBO and its popular HBO Go app.

“This is a creative sandbox for kids but it’s also a creative sandbox for the company,” said Steve Youngwood, Nickelodeon’s executive vice president for digital.

The Nick app represents an evolution in Viacom’s thinking about its audience. Nickelodeon has long been a powerhouse in children’s programming, but its ratings suddenly plunged in 2011. Viacom in part blamed Nielsen for not counting children who streamed shows via “unmeasured platforms” like Netflix. (The company also conceded that it had aging series like “SpongeBob” and “iCarly”.)

Viewers who watch shows on the Nick app will not be counted in ratings data, but the cable channel can at least sell advertisements. Nickelodeon will introduce the app to marketers at its upfront next week in New York.

The introduction of the Nick app comes as the channel’s ratings are slowly climbing back after the unexpected plunge that started in 2011. A daily average of 2.9 million viewers ages 2 to 11 watched Nickelodeon this month, up 12 percent from February 2012, according to Nielsen.

Ms. Zarghami said the Nick app could help the channel develop new series and stars, based on which clips, actors and characters drew the most attention. Nickelodeon commissioned 12 short films for the app, including one called “Dance Party in a Port-A-Potty” that featured meerkats partying in a portable restroom. Nickelodeon has greenlighted five for the channel. “Our aim is to get more content faster,” Ms. Zarghami said.

Tablet use among children 11 years old and younger is projected to grow faster than almost any other age group. Half of households in the United States with children own a tablet and 70 percent have some sort of smart device, according to Nickelodeon’s research.

“The tablet has come of age particularly among our audience,” Mr. Youngwood said.

Nickelodeon has struck deals with eight cable or satellite providers including Time Warner Cable, Verizon FiOS, Cablevision and DirecTV to make the streaming feature of its Nick app available in nearly 50 million homes. The nonstreaming offerings will be available to viewers who do not subscribe to those companies.

Paul Verna, a senior analyst at eMarketer, said the authentication model could pose challenges for Viacom. He pointed to the media company’s dispute with DirecTV this last summer, which prompted the satellite provider to suspend Viacom’s channels.

“How do you explain to a little kid that your friend on Comcast can watch Nick Jr. and ‘iCarly’ on their iPad but you can’t?” Mr. Verna said.
443 2013-02-20 Calvin Pace agreed to a $42 million pact with the Jets before the 2008 season. A year later, Bart Scott arrived on a $48 million deal.

Once symbols of the Jets’ free-spending habits and an aggressive win-now approach, Pace and Scott are now casualties of a salary-cap crunch created, in part, by their contracts. The overhaul that engulfed the Jets’ front office and coaching staff this off-season on Tuesday progressed to their roster. John Idzik’s first significant personnel decisions as the general manager amounted to a huge, if fully anticipated, salary dump.

By releasing Pace and Scott, the safety and special-teams ace Eric Smith and offensive lineman Jason Smith, the Jets cleared about $31 million in cap space. The moves drew the Jets below the projected cap, roughly $121 million, and furnished Idzik with a measure of financial flexibility as he set about reshaping a roster lacking in depth and quality. The Jets also waived the backup tight end Josh Baker.

Idzik’s approach to player procurement will come into sharper focus in the coming weeks, with free agency, the draft and a looming contract showdown with his best player, cornerback Darrelle Revis. But before the Jets could add players, Idzik had to subtract. He began with the most obvious candidates, starting with Jason Smith, a reserve tackle who counted $12 million against the cap.

Pace never quite emerged as the consistent and relentless pass rusher the Jets expected when they signed him as part of a $140 million free-agency spree in 2008, but for four seasons, he and Scott were mainstays of their linebacking corps and a defense that propelled the team to consecutive appearances in the A.F.C. championship game.

The last two years, they failed to produce at a level commensurate with their salaries, and their declining performance and advancing age — both are 32 — increased the need for the Jets to infuse the position with younger, cheaper option like Demario Davis, their third-round pick in 2012 and Scott’s likely replacement at weakside linebacker.

Scott, the first player Rex Ryan recruited in free agency after becoming the Jets’ coach in 2009, will be remembered less for any particular play or decisive moment than for his brash, fiery personality that infuriated some opponents, amused others and, at times, caused a scene in the Jets’ locker room. He staged a news media boycott, criticized fans and threatened to punch a reporter. His 2012 season was a fight to stay relevant, a lumbering linebacker in a passing league. Toward the end, Scott, defiant but resigned, recognized his fate.
444 2013-02-20 “Life is going to go on,” said Jonathan D. Resnick during a tour of 199 Water Street, an office tower that his firm, Jack Resnick & Sons, built in 1984. The 35-story building reopened on Dec. 5, about five weeks after Hurricane Sandy poured eight million gallons of seawater into its basement. “We hope the storm is remembered as just a blip.”

But like other area landlords, Mr. Resnick isn’t taking any chances. Floodgates will be installed between the exterior columns of the building, to protect utilities like the heating and cooling systems, which will remain in the basement, he said. Other utilities have been relocated, like telecom equipment, which is now in an out-of-the-way area on the fourth floor alongside existing phone and computer lines.

But finding enough space for four new electrical switchboards, to replace the four destroyed by the storm, has been complicated.

The switchboards, which distribute electricity and are the size of magazine kiosks, require a few thousand square feet of floor area, so they will most likely cannibalize revenue-producing office space, Mr. Resnick said. Plus, the building is 94 percent occupied, meaning most of its space is accounted for.

“It would be very easy to say, ‘We’re going to move this here and that there,’ ” he added, “but it’s not a slam dunk.”

Nor will it come cheap. The cleanup and repairs, which will include an already planned renovation of the building’s black-granite lobby, is likely to cost $50 million by the time it is finished this summer, Mr. Resnick said.

Yet he feels the hefty investment is in many ways necessary if the building seeks full occupancy.

In January 2015, 325,000 square feet — out of 1.1 million square feet in the building — will become available when Wells Fargo gives up space it has had there for years but was subletting. That departure was planned before the hurricane, according to Mr. Resnick and a Wells Fargo spokesman.

Finding extra space for relocated equipment has been less of a headache at 80 Pine Street, a 41-story postwar office building at Water Street owned by the Rudin Management Company that reopened on Dec. 17.

During the peak of the storm, seawater surged into the building with such force that it smashed through a cinder block wall in the basement, trapping workers in the dark. One worker later had to be pulled to safety with a fire hose.

Rudin has relocated the building’s electrical switchboards and other equipment to the top level of an on-site parking garage, so they sit 20 feet above sea level, or eight feet above Sandy’s crest. The total cost for the moves and repairs will be about $35 million, according to William Rudin, the company’s chief executive.

The reconfiguration will also crimp income. Taking over part of the garage, which Rudin owns and operates, has led to the elimination of 70 of 180 parking spaces, said Mr. Rudin. But that was preferable to sacrificing office space in a building that’s 98 percent leased, he said. “We were very lucky,” Mr. Rudin added.

For all the rebuilding, Hurricane Sandy isn’t just a memory yet. On a recent afternoon, a trailer functioning as a “Mobile Boiler” was parked on Water Street. A cafe at William and Cedar Streets posted a sign saying it still can’t take credit cards. And dark windows lined the South Street Seaport neighborhood.

At least five office buildings south of Canal Street are still closed, according to brokers and tenants, including 111 Wall Street, 140 West Street, and 160 Water Street. Another still-dark address is 110 Wall Street, a 27-story tower owned by Rudin, which had to terminate the leases of its 20 tenants while the firm figures out how to rebuild, Mr. Rudin said. He said efforts were made to help relocate all the tenants and several went to other Rudin buildings around the city.

Yet that total is still a far cry from the 50 buildings that were out of service in the days after Sandy, according to a tally by Jones Lang LaSalle, the commercial brokerage firm.

The financial district’s promoters are also quick to point out that tenants continue to arrive, drawn by competitive pricing. Average annual asking rents in the last quarter of 2012 in Lower Manhattan were about $46 a square foot, according to a report from Cushman & Wakefield, the commercial brokerage firm. That contrasts with the $68 per square foot rents of Midtown South, which runs from about Canal Street to 42nd Street, the report said.

And flooding worries can seem secondary. In April, the Television Bureau of Advertising, a trade group, will move from Midtown to the 34-story Art Deco tower at 120 Wall Street, where it will take 9,000 square feet.

Steve Lanzano, the advertising bureau’s chief executive, said he chose the downtown location last year, before the storm slammed the city. There was some second-guessing about the firm’s decision, he said, since 120 Wall Street was inundated and was shuttered for several weeks.

But ultimately, the landlord, Silverstein Properties, impressed Mr. Lanzano with its response, which included moving utilities from the basement to a retail space on the mezzanine. “It made us very comfortable,” he said. “If the storm of the century comes again, we’ll be O.K.”

A Silverstein spokesman said that since the hurricane, no tenants had moved out of 120 Wall, where asking rents are in the $30- to $40-a-square-foot range.

Despite the remodeling in the financial district, many buildings remain vulnerable, says Ronald Shiffman, a professor at the Pratt Institute and a former member of the City Planning Commission.

For instance, nothing much has been done so far in terms of removing fragile elevator machinery from basements, said Mr. Shiffman, who advised on the downtown rebuilding effort after the Sept. 11 attacks.

And putting switchboards just a few feet above Sandy’s high-water mark may not be wise, he added. “The storm was bad, but it actually could have been worse,” Mr. Shiffman said. “What the landlords are doing will work for 10, 15, maybe 20 years, but they need to have longer-term outlook as well.”

Yet for John Wheeler, a commercial broker with Jones Lang LaSalle focused on downtown, the changes to the building stock in just a few months has been remarkable. And, “we’re seeing landlords who are proactively addressing questions these tenants have about more of these 100-year storms,” he said. “It’s a significant advancement from where we were before.”
445 2013-02-20 In an effort to contain that anger, Mr. Jebali, who also serves as the Renaissance Party’s secretary general, publicly defied his movement and said he was pushing ahead with a long-delayed cabinet reshuffle and replacing ministers tied to political parties with technocrats. The street violence calmed, but negotiations over the last week failed to achieve an agreement on what a new government would look like.

The prime minister and fellow leaders of the Renaissance Party tried to smooth over their differences, but the spat, along with the public anger, was a blow to a movement that had held itself up as an example to other Islamist groups in the region seeking to navigate mainstream politics. Last week, Abdelfattah Mourou, a founder of the Renaissance Party, criticized its leaders for making the political crisis worse.

In his speech, Mr. Jebali said he had made his proposal to “save the country and stop the violence.” A neutral government, “free from political fights,” would serve the people, he said, adding, “I am still convinced this is the best way.”

Najib Gharbi, a spokesman for the Renaissance Party, said it was not to blame for the latest impasse, adding that while he appreciated Mr. Jebali’s efforts, the party had a longstanding position that a political coalition was better than a government of technocrats.

“Politicians who fought for a long time and worked hard for the revolution are also qualified to be part of the government,” Mr. Gharbi said. “I guess Jebali doesn’t agree anymore.”

Even so, he said, the party intended to nominate Mr. Jebali to be the prime minister of a new government, if Mr. Jebali consented. Other analysts said the party was considering several other members as candidates, including the interior, justice and health ministers.

Radwan Masmoudi, who leads the Center for the Study of Islam and Democracy and is close to the Renaissance Party’s leaders, said an agreement to form a new government was “probably close” but faced several challenges. Among them, he said, is the Islamist group’s insistence on retaining key government portfolios, including the Interior Ministry. Opposition parties have singled out that ministry as sorely in need of reform.

The speech left Mr. Jebali’s position in his party unclear. Mr. Masmoudi said that while the speech had been “statesmanlike,” the prime minister was in danger of losing his base. “He can’t be a leader if he doesn’t have a political party behind him,” he said.

But Noomane Fehri, a member of Tunisia’s constituent assembly who belongs to a liberal opposition party, said he had found the speech refreshing.

“He did what he said he would do,” Mr. Fehri said. “He continued to be a man you can trust.”
446 2013-02-20 New York State once led the nation in advancing women’s rights. Gov. Andrew Cuomo wants to re-establish that pre-eminence with an omnibus agenda on women’s equality. The most important piece of that agenda would essentially enshrine in state law existing federal protections for abortion rights.

Antiquated language in the state’s abortion law bans the procedure after 24 weeks of pregnancy unless the woman’s life is at risk. Federal rulings also require an exception to protect a woman’s health. Mr. Cuomo’s proposal would bring New York into line with those standards.

This is important because complications severely affecting a woman’s health often arise later in pregnancy. Although New York’s law cannot be enforced because it is superseded by federal law, as a practical matter, some New York doctors fear prosecution and, as a result, some women are forced to leave the state to get the care they need. Mr. Cuomo’s proposal is a crucial move at a crucial time. A strong law would help inoculate New York’s abortion laws against future watering down of reproductive rights at the federal level.

Seven other states — California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Nevada and Washington — have already passed similar protections. In contrast, lawmakers in Mississippi, Arkansas, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wyoming have made state laws so restrictive that each of these states has just a single abortion provider. Some states could soon have no abortion services at all.

According to a report in The Times on Sunday, the Cuomo bill would shift the state’s abortion law from the criminal code to the health care laws where it belongs. It would also make it clearer that licensed health care practitioners as well as physicians could perform abortions.

Updating the abortion law would be only one section of Mr. Cuomo’s 10-part agenda on women’s rights. His proposal would provide new protections for pregnant workers and victims of domestic violence. It would ban job, housing and salary discrimination against women with children, who he says are “less likely to be recommended for hire and promoted.” These are all worthy changes.
447 2013-02-20 He knew he would have to manage France’s early pullout from Afghanistan, which did not please Washington or other NATO allies. But he did not expect to manage a war.

“I had always been the boss of regional councils, but not in a situation to decide a war,” he said. “I had never in my life been confronted with such a situation.” As a Breton, he said, “I come from very modest and local beginnings, from a region that has been excluded for a long time, and I have the tendency to be discreet and reserved, not to show too much.” He considers himself Mr. Hollande’s “good soldier.”

In the weeks since Jan. 11, when France went to war in Mali, Mr. Le Drian said, he has learned a lot about himself and those around him. He has had to go before the public, the Legislature and the news media to explain, justify and describe the war. He has also discovered in these weeks, he said, “that I have become stronger.” Being responsible for the lives of others at war “is not a burden, but a permanent tension,” he said. “I don’t see it as a burden, but as a duty. That’s a help.”

Mr. Le Drian, who in a public career of many decades sat on numerous defense committees, spoke aboard a small, elegant jet of the French fleet. He was returning from two days of an official visit in Qatar, the tiny emirate that has played such a large role in Libya and now in Syria, and that created the powerful cable channel Al Jazeera.

Mali was his topic, Mr. Le Drian said, as France looks for help in supporting African troops who are supposed to take over from Paris. But the Qataris were more interested in discussing Syria, and how to shift the balance of the long, bloody civil war against President Bashar al-Assad by arming the nonradical opposition.

The longer victory takes, he said the Qataris had told him, “the more the most radical groups are strengthened.” And the stability of Lebanon, another country once controlled by the French, remains of deep concern to both countries.

But obviously it is Mali, where French troops are doing nearly all the fighting, that preoccupies Mr. Le Drian. The effort has begun well, but it must end well, too, he said, unlike the chaos in Libya, where a weak central government cannot control regional militias and arms are flowing freely across borders, including to the Islamists in Mali.

The intervention in Libya did not finish properly, he said. “We can’t allow ourselves this in Mali.”

Two French soldiers have died so far — the first shot from the ground on the first day, and the second on Tuesday in a clash with Islamists in Mali’s northern mountains. But there have been long nights of anxiety, too. When the French sent 200 parachutists into Timbuktu, it was about 4:30 a.m. in Paris. Aides woke up Mr. Le Drian to tell him the news; he waited until 6 to call Mr. Hollande.

There are already concerns about “mission creep” — France wants to hand off as soon as possible to the West African regional group Ecowas and allies like Chad, whose troops, being more light-skinned like the Arabs and Tuaregs of Mali’s north, are more acceptable to residents there than the darker-skinned Malian Army. France wants a new United Nations Security Council resolution to rebadge the African force as blue-helmeted peacekeepers and has been pushing for new elections in Mali, now scheduled for July 7.

But the French are also waiting for European Union military trainers to help restore the broken Malian Army, a mission approved by Brussels only on Monday, and the collapsed state itself must be rebuilt. Part of that process must be a negotiated reconciliation between Bamako and Tuareg nationalists who had sided with the Islamists and must agree to give up their demand for independence in return for an undefined autonomy or federal state.

All this will take many months and require stability, Mr. Le Drian concedes, and while the French express hope that African forces will pursue the Islamists into the mountains and deserts of the vast north, it is highly likely that French special forces will have to continue to operate on their own and alongside the Africans, with the help of American surveillance drones.

One of the most shocking lessons for him from Mali, Mr. Le Drian said, was the lack of French surveillance drones, which he called “incomprehensible.” France has only two drones in theater, he said. “A country with aeronautical skills, that makes good airplanes and that did not anticipate what surveillance and intelligence will look like tomorrow — or even combat!” he said. France “did not anticipate and refused to make this choice — but this doesn’t date from today but from 5 or 10 years ago. I have asked that someone explain the story to me so I understand why we didn’t do it, since, really, we should have.”

Perhaps the problem was national pride and a refusal to buy American? “I’m trying to remedy this impasse and this pride,” he said. “It’s a real question for us.”

Similarly, he said, France lacks adequate air refueling capacity, for which again he thanks Washington, which after some hesitation agreed to provide refueling planes. As for air transport, France would always rely on its allies in NATO, he said. “That issue we finally fixed without too much trouble because we were supported by the British, the Americans, but also the Spanish, the Germans and the Canadians.”

But France must consider, he said, whether it can continue to rely on such burden-sharing, or strive for self-sufficiency — highly unlikely given austerity measures.

So the question arises, he agreed, for Europeans, too — will there be a real European Common Security and Defense Policy capable of acting separately from NATO, as France has always favored? After all, there is supposed to be a Eurocorps of rapid-reaction troops ready to fly at a moment’s notice, but no one ever calls on them.

In the end, Mr. Le Drian said, the future may simply look like Mali and Libya — a coalition of willing nations, using at least some NATO assets.

The new government has ordered a new study of military requirements in an age of lower spending; the last one was in 2008, under Mr. Sarkozy. “The principal question in the white paper is how to adapt defense to a financial crisis — defense is a matter of sovereignty, and so is the security of the public accounts,” he said. But some new investments “now seem to me inevitable, like intelligence and special forces.”

Mr. Le Drian accompanied Mr. Hollande to Mali two weeks ago to thank the troops and be thanked by the Malian government. In the plane, the two men laughed about a placard that read: “Merci Papa Hollande, Merci Tonton Le Drian” — “Thank you, Papa Hollande, thank you, Uncle Le Drian.”

It was a happy moment for a military rescue operation decided suddenly and with great risk. But it is an operation, Mr. Le Drian knows, that is far from over, and its ultimate success or failure will be laid firmly at his door.
448 2013-02-20 In 1977, when most Americans believed that women should take care of home and family, my mother did just that. Not by choice but out of necessity, she was also the achiever outside the home. My parents had divorced, and my mother was left as the sole breadwinner. This often required her working three jobs and a 20-hour workday.

It was not that her employers were insensitive to her plight; in fact, her day-job boss allowed her to take time off to come to my school performances, awards ceremonies and teacher meetings. It was that she was dealt a less than perfect hand and played it the best way she knew how — with determination, intelligence and brawn.

Yes, women have many more unstigmatized choices since Betty Friedan’s “Feminine Mystique”; yet most women since then have realized that having it all — full-time, fulfilling careers and healthy, well-functioning families, as Stephanie Coontz’s article purports is possible given fair play in politics and policies — is delusional.

There is indeed a steep price for motherhood, but there may also be a stiff penalty for remaining in the work force and forgoing motherhood. But these choices do not prove a stalled movement; rather, they testify to the necessary sacrifices of all worthwhile endeavors.

I am an 83-year-old graduate of a women’s college who found Betty Friedan’s book indeed life-changing. When the Harvard Business School students (all men) argued that women didn’t have to do, they could just be, we wives went to consciousness-raising groups and then on to graduate school.

Thanks to Ms. Friedan, we had happy marriages, children and grandchildren — and careers. Her work was monumental.

Someone needs to add the perspective of a woman like me, then a 32-year-old unhappy housewife, for whom Betty Friedan’s “Feminine Mystique” was inspirational.

In giving a name to the condition from which I suffered, above all Ms. Friedan showed me that the fault lay not in myself but in society. I was not alone; I was not a freak. I was not selfish to want to restart my interrupted education and develop my intellectual capacities.

The following year (when my youngest child entered first grade), I returned to college and ultimately achieved a Ph.D. and a career as an academic. Thank you, Betty Friedan.
449 2013-02-20 Mr. Mottola’s book is short, tight and conversational. Mr. Davis’s, because he’s had a longer and broader career, has more of the wide-angle sweep of American music in it. It’s easily the grainier and more sustaining of the two. Mr. Davis’s book also contains a big talk-show reveal that doesn’t seem, in 2013, so big at all: yep, he’s bisexual.

The question that lingers over both of these memoirs is this: Does it matter if singers write their own material? For the most part, Billie Holiday, Sinatra, Elvis, Streisand and Joplin did not. Mr. Davis and Mr. Mottola encouraged their nonsongwriting talent to think like entertainers, not like critics.

We can all agree about what Noël Coward called the extraordinary power of cheap music. But perhaps too many of the performers discussed at length in these books don’t seem like particularly complicated characters; they’re people whose work you may have a hard time caring a great deal about.

In Mr. Davis’s book, this means Mr. Manilow, Dionne Warwick and Kenny G. (He never worked on “Who Put the Bomp.”) About the Australian band Air Supply Mr. Davis delivers this fine nugget: the original lyrics to its hit “All Out of Love” went, “I’m all out of love/I want to arrest you.” In Mr. Mottola’s book these performers include Ms. Carey, as well as Celine Dion and Ricky Martin.

The roadsides of each book are littered with singers who didn’t take Mr. Davis’s or Mr. Mottola’s advice. They insisted on recording their own, lesser, material and saw their careers deflate, at least in pop terms: Melissa Manchester, Taylor Dayne, Toni Braxton, Curtis Stigers.

Mr. Davis, now 80, grew up in Brooklyn. He went to Harvard Law School and fell into the music business in 1960 after doing legal work for Columbia Records. At the time, he wasn’t even a music fan.

He was charismatic and ambitious, though, and he quickly rose to become president of Columbia. His coming of age occurred at the Monterey International Pop Festival in 1967, where he spied and later signed the young Joplin. She wanted to seal the deal by having sex. Mr. Davis declined. He writes here, “You don’t learn how to deal with a proposition like that in school.”

“The Soundtrack of My Life” is studded with pretty good moments. Mr. Davis told the young Bruce Springsteen that he should move around more onstage. When Mr. Davis invited Lou Reed along on a beach trip, Mr. Reed commented, “Clive, if I ever get a tan, my career would be over.”

He compares Whitney Houston’s cigarette smoking to “leaving a priceless Stradivarius out in the sun.” About the band Ace of Base, he says, “You can’t schedule a charisma implant.”

Mr. Davis made his mistakes. The Milli Vanilli debacle happened under his watch. When he had the chance to sign either the young Dwight Twilley or the young Tom Petty, he chose Mr. Twilley. He didn’t throttle Kenny G for performing a “duet” with Louis Armstrong on “What a Wonderful World.”

But he is equanimous about almost everyone and everything. Mr. Davis had a particularly close working relationship with Houston, and he tried to restrain her worst impulses. About Houston’s husband at the time, Bobby Brown, he writes, “I don’t believe Bobby caused Whitney’s problems, but the two of them brought out the worst in each other.”

Almost the only person who wrinkles his sense of ease is Kelly Clarkson, who never admitted he was right about “Since U Been Gone,” a song she didn’t want to record.

Mr. Mottola, 63, was born in the Bronx. He performed and cut some singles under the name T. D. Valentine before making his mark as the manager of Hall and Oates, John Mellencamp and Carly Simon.

His career at CBS Records and Sony was largely marked by his tempestuous marriage to Ms. Carey, who was more than two decades his junior, and by his breaking out the so-called Latin Explosion performers Gloria Estefan, Jennifer Lopez, Shakira and Mr. Martin.

He admits that it was “absolutely wrong and inappropriate” for him to get involved with Ms. Carey. He can’t help getting some writerly revenge. “By the way,” he says, less than chivalrously, “it was Mariah who asked me to marry her.”

In “Hitmaker” he recounts his battles with George Michael and Michael Jackson, who both saw their careers sliding. He’s a keen observer of boardroom intrigue. He notes: “When someone gets whacked, it’s always easy to point the finger at the guy who’s closest. Especially when his last name ends in a vowel.”

Mr. Mottola’s upbeat but essentially lightweight book is marred by canned testimonials, planted throughout, from the famous people he’s come to know. These make “Hitmaker” feel like an infomercial.

Each of these talented men senses that he’s led a charmed life. Both seem to agree with something that Mr. Davis says, about the day he was first summoned by Simon and Garfunkel to listen to tracks from “Bridge Over Troubled Water,” their final studio record: “I felt privileged to be in the room.”
450 2013-02-20 Grieving Hazaras, who had staged a symbolically powerful protest by sitting with the coffins of those killed in the attack, agreed after news of the security operation to bury their dead.

The two attacks have renewed public attention on Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, which has claimed responsibility for both attacks yet operates with startling impunity in Baluchistan Province. Its leader roams the country freely, preaching sectarian hatred.

Accusations that the powerful military has turned a blind eye to the group in Baluchistan, where human rights groups say it uses Sunni extremist militants to help quell a nationalist rebellion, have gained prominence since the latest attack.

In the Senate on Tuesday, Farhatullah Babar, a spokesman for President Asif Ali Zardari, said some extremists in Baluchistan had received “clandestine support” and pointedly noted that two Lashkar-e-Jhangvi leaders, whom he identified as Usman Kurd and Daood Badini, mysteriously escaped from jail in a military-controlled part of Quetta about four years ago.

Militancy experts say that Mr. Kurd, who is thought to lead Lashkar in Baluchistan, has masterminded much of the carnage in recent years.

Those criticisms were echoed by the Baluchistan governor, Zulfikar Ali Magsi, who on Monday accused the intelligence services of being “too scared” or “too clueless” to chase down the extremists.

Saturday’s attack caused a new eruption of anger from Pakistan’s Shiites, who constitute up to 20 percent of the population and who have been rattled by steadily escalating attacks at the hands of Sunni extremists in the past year or so.

Protesters blocked the main airports in Karachi, Islamabad and Lahore, while businesses remained closed across Punjab Province for Monday and part of Tuesday.

On Tuesday evening, thousands of young Shiites gathered at a major junction in Karachi opposite the mausoleum where the country’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah — his message of religious tolerance largely ignored these days — lies buried.

“The main problem is that the government is doing nothing against Lashkar-e-Jhangvi,” said Hussain Ali, 41, an accountant who had been protesting for two days.

His cousin’s husband was shot dead in a sectarian attack in Karachi just a week earlier, he added. “He was killed on his way back from work,” he said.

Moments later, a group of Shiite clerics, wearing long black cloaks and standing before a large portrait of the Iranian spiritual leader Ayatollah Khomenei, announced that the protest strike was over. Cheers erupted from the crowd.

The government has also attempted to quell Hazara anger by offering the equivalent of $10,000 to the family of every bombing victim; on Tuesday it also fired the provincial police chief and replaced him with Mushtaq Sukhera, a senior counterterrorism police officer from Punjab Province.

The military has strongly denied accusations of collusion with the killers, arguing that its forces are already thinly stretched across Baluchistan. Nonetheless, Pakistanis around the country have become increasingly alarmed at the strength of Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, which kills Shiites because it believes them to be Muslim heretics.

In Baluchistan Province, Lashkar concentrates on Hazaras, who immigrated from Afghanistan over a century ago and whose members have distinctive Central Asian physical features. The group operates freely from Mastung, a small town south of Quetta, from which most of the attacks are believed to emanate.

In Lahore, a spokesman for the Majlis-e-Wahdat ul Muslimeen, a Shiite lobbying group, said the handover of Quetta from civilian to military control was a central demand of the protesters.

“We want the army to maintain peace and stop the massacre of Shiites,” said the spokesman, Mazahar Shigri.
451 2013-02-20 Stocks rose on Tuesday, lifted by recent mergers and talk that more are imminent.

Reports that the retailers Office Depot and OfficeMax are discussing a merger came after big corporate deals for Heinz and Dell were announced in recent weeks. Some investors are betting that more deals could be on the way as buyers pay premium prices for publicly traded companies.

The Dow rose 53.91 points to close at 14,035.67, approaching a nominal record of 14,164 reached in October 2007.

“It seems that investors are more comfortable with taking risk right now,” said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank in Chicago. That’s despite the $1.2 trillion in automatic federal spending cuts that are scheduled to start March 1 unless Congress and the White House find a way to avoid them. Congress returns from vacation next week.

Previous budget battles in Washington have rattled financial markets. But this time, many investors seem unfazed by the prospect that Congress won’t stop the “sequester” from kicking in. One reason is that the cuts are spread across the board for a decade, instead of all at once.

“I think investors are actually comforted by it,” Ablin said. “It’s not ideal. But if Congress can’t do it when left to their own devices, this is the next best thing.”
452 2013-02-20 The United States does not import beef from any of the countries where the contaminated meat was found, according to the Agriculture Department. Nestlé U.S.A. uses beef from the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Australia, the company said.

Two refrigerated Nestlé pasta products, Buitoni Beef Ravioli and Beef Tortellini, are being taken off supermarket shelves in Italy and Spain immediately. In addition, Lasagnes à la Bolognaise Gourmandes, a frozen meat product made for caterers in France, will also be withdrawn and replaced with product made from 100 percent beef. None of those products are imported from Europe into the United States, Nestlé said.

The levels of horse DNA in the products were above the 1 percent threshold used by the British Food Standards Agency as an indicator of adulteration in testing being done by Britain’s food industry and therefore the products would be withdrawn, Nestlé said in a statement.

“There is no food safety issue, but the mislabeling of products means they fail to meet the very high standards consumers expect from us,” Nestlé added.

Nestlé knows well the importance of its brand image, having once been the object of a boycott after being involved in a controversy over the marketing of baby milk in developing countries.

Although the current horse meat crisis has been considered mainly an issue of fraud and mislabeling, evidence emerged last week that a powerful equine painkiller, phenylbutazone — or bute — may have entered the food chain.

Eight horses slaughtered for food in Britain tested positive for the drug. Six of those carcasses had already been exported to France for use in human food.

In Britain, food manufacturers have embarked on a huge program of food tests to try to stem a crisis of confidence in products originating in a bewilderingly complex supply chain.

Last Friday, the British Food Standards Agency released the results of 2,501 tests conducted on beef products by the British food industry, of which 29 contained more than 1 percent horse meat.

But just as that information was released, it emerged separately that food intended for school meals had also contained horse meat. Finger-pointing has erupted between politicians and supermarkets over responsibility.

The European Union has also announced an increase in food testing, although there are growing calls for more regulation at a European level. Though tough traceability rules for fresh beef products were introduced after the crisis over mad cow disease more than a decade ago, a similar regime is not in place for processed food.

“What has been discovered in recent days is large-scale fraud,” said Richard Seeber, the coordinator for the center-right group in the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee of the European Parliament. “This is a clear breach of current European food labeling rules. This is why the first thing we need is more controls and better enforcement of the existing rules.”

Glenis Willmott, the leader of the British Labour Party’s members of the European Parliament, said that the response of the European Union’s executive body, the European Commission, had been inadequate.

“The horse meat scandal should result in a Europe-wide comprehensive legislation on ‘origin labeling’ for all meat in processed foods, and a better E.U. enforcement procedure,” Ms. Willmott said.

There are no horse slaughterhouses operating in the United States, and no horse meat is imported for human consumption, making the chances that Americans are unintentionally eating horse meat fairly remote, a U.S.D.A. spokesman said.
453 2013-02-20 NEW DELHI — Nepal’s major political parties failed on Tuesday to complete an expected agreement to settle a years-long political standoff, after Maoists insisted that the accord include amnesty for past crimes.

The amnesty issue derailed a tentative deal reached on Monday to appoint as interim prime minister the chief justice of the country’s Supreme Court, Khil Raj Regmi, to lead Nepal until elections in June. Now it appears that the wrangling will continue indefinitely, worsening the paralysis of the country’s civic functions.

Nepal has been trying to establish a working representative democracy since 2008, when a constituent assembly was elected to replace the former monarchy. But the assembly has been unable to draw up a constitution or settle on when or how to hold further elections. Maoists, who fought a long civil war against the monarchy, now control the most important government posts, but the ethnic, caste, religious, ideological and regional differences that permeate Nepalese society have made even the most basic political agreements impossible.

Meanwhile, the country’s judiciary has been arresting former Maoist fighters from the bitter civil war, which cost at least 13,000 lives, prompting the Maoist party to call for amnesty and for a less punitive reconciliation process, such as a parliamentary committee that the party could influence.

“Amnesty is still under consideration,” said Devendra Poudel, adviser to the present Maoist prime minister, Baburam Bhattarai. “Instead of addressing one or two issues separately, why not deal with them all in the same package?”
454 2013-02-21 Apple on Thursday filed a patent for a watchlike device that could wrap around someone’s wrist. The gadget comes with a touch screen and can list recent phone calls and text messages....
455 2013-02-21 More than 109 million passengers last year moved through the airports operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, a total that was about 600,000 shy of the high set in 2007....
456 2013-02-21 Manager Joe Girardi said he wanted to get a look at a Yankees defense that has Curtis Granderson in left and Brett Gardner in center....
457 2013-02-21 Some free-market paradise....
458 2013-02-21 CNBC said Thursday it would buy the rights to the pioneering public television series from the investment firm Atalaya Capital Management for an undisclosed price....
459 2013-02-21 The hedge fund manager David Einhorn wants the company to roll out what he calls iPrefs, perpetual preferred shares as a way to deliver more cash to its shareholders....
460 2013-02-21 Major medical specialty groups recommended that doctors greatly reduce their use of 90 widely used but largely unnecessary tests and treatments....
461 2013-02-21 The sequester would scale back programs at the S.B.A. According to the administration, loan guarantees would be reduced by $902 million. And the agency told the Senate Appropriations Committee that cuts to its counseling programs would force the a...
462 2013-02-21 The off-season trades of Joe Johnson and Marvin Williams did not bring any notable players in return, but the Hawks are in nearly the same position they were last season when they made the playoffs....
463 2013-02-21 In recent weeks, a number of American companies have stepped forward to admit they have been the victims of hacking attacks, a departure from how companies used to keep these incidents secret, reports Nicole Perlroth in Thursday’s New York Times...
464 2013-02-21 Researchers delve into why some climate skeptics are quick to latch onto conspiracy theories rather than merely express doubts....
465 2013-02-21 What value do stadium, event and team names have to a community? Is there any reason not to sell them to the highest bidder?...
466 2013-02-21 India's recent economic slowdown has been attributed, in part, to lawmakers inability to pass legislation....
467 2013-02-21 In 2010, when Google alerted some users of Gmail — political activists, mostly — that it appeared Chinese hackers were trying to read their mail, such disclosures were a rarity. In its announcement, Google said that it was one of many — two dozen — companies that had been targeted by the same group. Google said it was making the announcement, in part, to encourage other companies to open up about the problem.

But of that group, only and reluctantly stepped forward, and neither provided much detail.

Twitter admitted that it had been hacked this month. Facebook and Apple followed suit two weeks later. Within hours after The Times published its account, The chimed in with a report that it, too, had been attacked by what it believed to be Chinese hackers. The followed.

Not everyone took advantage of the cover. Bloomberg, for example, has repeatedly denied that its systems were also breached by Chinese hackers, despite several sources that confirmed that its computers were infected with malware.

Computer security experts estimate that more than a thousand companies have been attacked recently. In 2011, security researchers at unearthed a vast online espionage campaign, called Operation Shady Rat, that found more than 70 organizations had been hit over a five-year period, many in the United States.

“I am convinced that every company in every conceivable industry with significant size and valuable intellectual property and trade secrets has been compromised (or will be shortly) with the great majority of the victims rarely discovering the intrusion or its impact,” Dmitri Alperovitch, then McAfee’s vice president for threat research, wrote in his findings.

“In fact,” said Mr. Alperovitch, now the chief technology officer at Crowdstrike, a security start-up, “I divide the entire set of Fortune Global 2000 firms into two categories: those that know they’ve been compromised and those that don’t yet know.”

Of that group, there are still few admissions. A majority of companies that have at one time or another been the subject of news reports of online attacks refuse to confirm them. The list includes the , , , , BP, , , the British energy giant BG Group, the steel maker and .

Like Google, some companies have stepped forward in the interest of increasing awareness and improving security within their respective industries, often to little avail. In 2009, , a major payment processing company, took the unusual step of disclosing a major data breach on its systems that potentially exposed millions of and debit card customers to fraud. It did so against the advice of its lawyers.

“Until then, most people tried to sweep breaches under the rug,” said Steve Elefant, then Heartland’s chief information officer. “We wanted to make sure that it didn’t happen to us again and didn’t want to sit back while the bad guys tried to pick us off one by one.”

Heartland helped set up the Payments Processors Information Sharing Council to share information about security threats and breaches within the industry. Again, the company’s lawyers thought it was a bad idea. “But we felt it was important.”

The effort did not stop its other members from sweeping their own breaches under the rug. Last year, , a major payment processor, did not disclose that it had been the victim of two major breaches that potentially affected millions of accounts, until the attacks were reported by a well-known security blogger. Even then, it did not offer details that other companies could use to fortify their systems. Last week, President Obama signed an executive order that encouraged increased information-sharing about online threats between the government and private companies. But compliance with the order is voluntary, a weakened alternative to an online security bill that stalled in Congress last year after the Chamber of Commerce, a lobbying group that itself was hacked, led an effort to block it, saying that the regulations would be too burdensome.

In Washington on Wednesday, several senior administration officials presented a new strategy for protecting American intellectual property by urging firms to step forward when attacked.

“There has been a reluctance by companies to come forward because of the concern about the impact on their shareholders or others,” said Lanny A. Breuer, the assistant attorney general in charge of the criminal division of the Justice Department.

In October 2011, the issued a new guidance that specifically outlined how publicly traded companies should disclose online attacks, but few disclosures have come because of it.

“Quite frankly, since then, there hasn’t been an abundance of reporting on cyberevents despite the fact that they are clearly happening,” said Jacob Olcott, a specialist in online risks who managed a Senate investigation into the disclosure practices.

The best hope, Mr. Olcott said, is that as investors start paying more attention to the threats, they will demand that companies disclose them. “I wouldn’t hold my breath,” Mr. Elefant said. “There are an awful lot of lawyers out there trying to keep companies from exposing that these breaches are happening. And they are happening.”
468 2013-02-21 Illinois’s Second Congressional District, which includes parts of Chicago’s South Side and southern suburbs, is the most recent focus of an effort by Mr. Bloomberg to invest some of his personal fortune into influencing the national political debate on issues like gun control, education and same-sex marriage. After forming the super PAC in October, Mr. Bloomberg used the group to spend around $10 million on candidates in the November elections, which he considered a “toe in the water,” according to Howard Wolfson, a deputy mayor in the Bloomberg administration.

The mayor’s message is that “there is a price to be paid for candidates that run with the support of the N.R.A. or run supporting their positions,” Mr. Wolfson said.

Now, in the early months of a nonelection year, that strategy has homed in on the special election here, where the spending by super PACs, a surprising sum for a single House race, has already shown signs of shifting the balance in a district Ms. Halvorson was once strongly favored to win.

In a series of mailers and three television advertisements that have filled the airwaves for the past month, Independence USA has barraged Ms. Halvorson for getting an “A” rating from the National Rifle Association in previous elections and for opposing certain gun control measures, including a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazine clips. The group’s latest spot also endorsed Robin Kelly, a former state representative, calling her a candidate who would “take on the N.R.A.”

Just days after the Bloomberg PAC’s endorsement, another candidate, Toi Hutchinson, dropped out of the race last weekend and threw her support behind Ms. Kelly.

Ms. Hutchinson, an Illinois state senator who was also criticized for getting a favorable rating from the N.R.A., was seen as competing with Ms. Kelly and Anthony Beale, a Chicago city councilman and another gun control advocate, for African-American voters in the black majority district.

Splitting the black vote, some leaders in the district believe, could allow Ms. Halvorson, the only white candidate out of 17 Democrats seeking the coveted Congressional seat, to win the nomination with less than 30 percent of the vote — primarily from suburbs.

It is in those areas that Ms. Halvorson is hoping the attention being paid to her stance on guns may help widen her base and attract more gun-rights supporters to the polls on Tuesday.

“I’ve said this is what’s important to me and this is what’s important to the district,” she said. “If it’s not, there are other candidates to vote for, but this is who I am.”

“Just because I want to have an honest discussion of how we deal with the entire culture of violence, I’m being attacked,” added Ms. Halvorson, who does support universal background checks for gun buyers. “To ban one more firearm, all that’s going to do is harm the law-abiding citizen.”

Forced into an awkward spot between not feeding the fire against her and keeping Second Amendment-supporting voters engaged, Ms. Halvorson has said that she has not sought support from any gun groups in this election, despite holding steadfast on her positions.

Still, the Illinois State Rifle Association started fighting back on her behalf on Wednesday, sending out a direct mailer to thousands of its members living in the district asking them to vote for Ms. Halvorson, according to Richard A. Pearson, the association’s executive director.

“We can’t let that go unanswered,” he said of the advertising campaign against her. His group had planned to endorse Ms. Halvorson in a news release on Thursday, but decided not to at the last minute, Mr. Pearson said, though he would not explain why.

Five Republican candidates also face one another in Tuesday’s primary, but whoever gets the Democratic nomination is almost sure to win the April 9 general election, given the district’s overwhelmingly Democratic makeup.

Ms. Halvorson, a former state legislator and one-term congresswoman who lost her seat in 2010, got some comparatively modest help from a Houston-based anti-incumbent super PAC when she challenged Mr. Jackson in the Democratic primary last year. Guns were not a major platform for either candidate in that race.

Mr. Jackson won re-election in November, then resigned his seat. He pleaded guilty on Wednesday to fraud for spending campaign funds on personal items.

Political analysts had expected that the three-month campaign before the special election would center on bringing more economic development to the district. But that issue has been largely overshadowed by the gun violence in Chicago that led to more than 500 homicides last year and at least 52 since the beginning of January.

Then came the deluge of advertisements against Ms. Halvorson.

“I think they’ve been very effective, simply because they can’t be matched,” said Dick Simpson, a political scientist at the University of Illinois at Chicago. “Time is running out, and it’s not clear she has enough money to change the topic.”
469 2013-02-21 A $500 million hole has opened in Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s proposed state budget because of changes in how Washington plans to reimburse the state for the care of people with developmental disabilities, the governor said on Wednesday.

The state has been negotiating with the federal government for several months over the state’s billing practices; federal officials have said that the state has overbilled Medicaid for the institutional care of people with disabilities.

At a news briefing to announce changes to his proposed budget, the governor said, “The federal government takes the position the state has been overbilling, so to speak, for many, many years, going back over a decade, and the budget is going to be adjusted to reflect that new rate.”

To offset the new shortfall, Mr. Cuomo said that he was proposing that the state cut $120 million from the budget of the Office for People with Development Disabilities, and an additional $380 million from Medicaid programs.

That could lead to more contentious budget negotiations. The governor introduced his budget plan last month. The state’s fiscal year ends on March 31, but the governor and lawmakers had hoped to finish their negotiations early. The $500 million cut covers only the coming fiscal year, but the federal government’s new reimbursement formula will have multiyear consequences.
470 2013-02-21 Members of Congress and have been working in earnest to deliver on their promise to overhaul this year. Mr. Obama would clearly prefer a bipartisan bill, and last week the Senate Judiciary Committee held its first hearing on possible changes in immigration law. News reports last weekend suggested that the White House would fashion its own bill should negotiations between Republican and Democratic supporters of reform collapse.

Yet, in all the talk of providing a path to citizenship for millions of undocumented workers while tightening border security, one important issue has, so far, received only passing mention: stronger protections for immigrant workers against exploitation and abuse. Such protections, essential to any reform plan, would help rid the system of bottom-feeding employers who hire and underpay and otherwise exploit cheap immigrant labor, dragging down wages and workplace standards for everyone.

Such abuses are easily visited on immigrant workers by unscrupulous employers who use the threat of deportation to force their victims into silence. This imbalance of power harms workers who toil in the shadows. But the system that recruits legal temporary workers is also a mess. In the event that an immigration overhaul greatly expands the number of guest workers — even hard-line Republicans have been talking about adding temporary visas in agriculture and in high-tech industries — it is crucial to avoid making the mess even bigger.

A new report by a coalition of labor, immigrant and human-rights groups has identified and examined “disturbingly common patterns” of abuse in America’s guest-worker programs. They are an alphabet-soup of visas with names like H-1B, H-2A, H-2B, J-1 and A-3, all having their own rules and little in common except, the report said, workers who are frequently victimized by “fraud, discrimination, severe economic coercion, retaliation, blacklisting and, in some cases, forced labor, indentured servitude, debt bondage and human trafficking.”

The abuses begin overseas, where workers pay recruiters steep fees and start their new lives in deep debt. Unable to leave abusive employers and with little access to the legal system, they suffer in silence. Those who do speak out are threatened, fired, deported, blacklisted. They have little opportunity to complain about unsafe working conditions, to sue for stolen wages or to assert their rights to overtime and time off.

Overhauling visa programs to ensure workers’ rights should be in the thick of the immigration discussion. For one thing, it’s a way to move past the deep divisions that have stalled reform. Labor unions have been wary of bills that include guest-worker programs because they don’t want the competition. But in a promising shift, the and have joined forces with an old adversary, the Chamber of Commerce, in the current push for reform. The unions recognize that deporting 11 million undocumented immigrants is a delusion, and that the benefits of legalizing them far outweigh keeping them outside the law.
471 2013-02-21 The Commerce Department estimated that the economy shrank slightly in the fourth quarter.

Consumer spending remained relatively strong last year, but may have weakened early this year after an increase in payroll taxes, part of a deal to avoid the worst of the fiscal cliff tax increases and to delay its spending cuts.

“Where are all the customers? And where’s their money?” a Wal-Mart executive wrote in a February e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News, bemoaning a sharp decline in sales. Wal-Mart sales accounted for more than 2 percent of domestic economic activity in recent years.

Many economists are particularly critical of the arbitrary nature of the cuts, arguing that Congress could reduce annual deficits by the same amount with far less economic damage by spreading the cuts across a broader range of programs, directing them at lesser priorities or giving government agencies more discretion in how they make them.

“There’s a better way to do this,” said Joel Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting company based in St. Louis. Still, he and others emphasized that the impact would most likely not be nearly as bad as the cost of the tax increases and spending cuts that had been scheduled to take effect Jan. 1.

“Even though it’s bad policy, the macro effects are small compared with going over the fiscal cliff,” he said. “That was a recession. This is a deceleration.”

The cumulative effect of the sequester and the tax deal struck in January might slash economic growth by as much as 1.25 percentage points — from a growth rate that otherwise might have been more than 3 percent — in 2013, economists estimate. Mr. Prakken predicts that the economy still would grow at about the same 2 percent annual pace it has managed in the years since the recession.

Sequestration would slash agencies’ “budget authority” by about $85 billion, but the Congressional Budget Office this month estimated that actual outlays would fall by only about $44 billion in the 2013 fiscal year, with the rest accruing over time. That is still about 1 percent of total federal spending to be squeezed out in a matter of months.

Many economists argue that the same cuts could be made with less pain by postponing some of them until later in the decade, when the economy is likely to be stronger. Many argue that growing spending on health care programs like Medicaid and Medicare is the real threat to the federal budget, not domestic spending on areas like education and support for poor families.

They also argue that macroeconomic estimates of the impact on growth probably understate the damage that will be caused by cutting spending indiscriminately.

“It’s the nature of the cuts that is most pernicious — across-the-board, without thought, cutting everything and anything including programs everyone thinks are good and effective,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics. “It’s impossible to calculate in terms of dollars and cents what you’re doing when you have these mindless cuts.”

The cuts would begin to take effect by March 1, and Congressional leaders appear increasingly resigned to let the deadline pass without action.

A broader deal is possible before a second deadline at the end of the month, when a budget deal is necessary to avoid a government shutdown. Any such deal could significantly reduce the economic impact of sequestration, which forecasters project will mostly fall in the second and third quarters.

In normal times the Federal Reserve could offset the impact of spending cuts by reducing interest rates. But these are not normal times. The Fed already is engaged in a vast effort to stimulate the economy, using monetary policy to suppress interest rates. The Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has warned repeatedly that such policy has limited power to offset additional cuts.

Some politicians are warning that agencies will need to take steps like furloughing air traffic controllers or shrinking early childhood programs.

“We are doing everything possible to limit the worst effects on D.O.D. personnel, but I regret that our flexibility within the law is extremely limited,” said Leon E. Panetta, the defense secretary, in a letter to his staff on Wednesday. “We have no legal authority to exempt civilian personnel funding from reductions. As a result, should sequestration occur and continue for a substantial period, D.O.D. will be forced to place the vast majority of its civilian work force on administrative furlough.”

While the cuts would take a modest toll on the overall economy, the pain would be concentrated in some areas, like the Washington suburbs that are home to many federal workers and government contractors.

“Sequestration would feel like a cold to most of the nation, but to Prince George’s County and the rest of the Washington metropolitan area, it would feel like a bad case of pneumonia,” Rushern L. Baker III, the executive of Prince George’s County in Maryland, said on Tuesday in a statement issued with the leaders of neighboring counties.
472 2013-02-21 A body was recovered in the bar area of the rubble of a popular Kansas City restaurant that exploded on Tuesday evening, officials said Wednesday. The identity had yet to be determined, the Kansas City fire chief, Paul Berardi, said during a news conference as he stood alongside Mayor Sly James. “Obviously, it is sad news,” Mr. James said. “We also can’t be sure, 100 percent, that we can account for every single person who may have been at JJ’s last night when the incident occurred.” The explosion at the restaurant, JJ’s, was caused by a broken gas main and left 15 people injured, three of whom remained in critical condition on Wednesday and one of whom was in serious condition. Investigators and the Fire Department were still sifting through the layers of broken glass, bricks and other debris, hoping to get as much as possible completed before an expected winter storm.
473 2013-02-21 Often, when family or friends asked the authorities, they were told their loved ones were not there or had not been taken.

In one of the more egregious episodes, the group documented more than 20 cases of abductions without explanation by Navy personnel in June and July 2011, some recorded on video by enraged family members. The Navy later acknowledged it had come into contact with several of the men but denied they were being held; all remain missing.

The Interior Ministry, which received the report Wednesday, declined to comment, but President Enrique Peña Nieto has said he would be more attentive to the victims of violence, who themselves are often divided over how Mexico should respond. The group urged the government to investigate the cases and establish documentation procedures. Documenting deaths and disappearances in the drug war has proved difficult, because police agencies, especially at the state level, are often weak or corrupt and thorough investigations are rare. In none of the 250 cases Human Rights Watch found have there been any convictions.

Mr. Calderón’s government had compiled a list of 25,000 people reported missing in the past six years, but government officials and human rights groups have said it is incomplete and flawed. Among other problems, the list fails to distinguish how many were eventually found or how many people left by choice, though Human Rights Watch said it nevertheless suggests the scale of the problem of disappearances. An Interior Ministry official told reporters Wednesday that the list would soon be released, though a version of it had been leaked to news organizations and a human rights group in December.

Tallying the dead at the hands of organized criminal groups has also been challenging, with inconsistent criteria to determine whether a homicide is related to the fight against and among organized crime and drug gangs. Nevertheless, Miguel Ángel Osorio Chong, the interior secretary, recently told a radio program that 70,000 people died in the drug war in the past six years, while acknowledging the information was incomplete.

Mr. Calderón, constitutionally limited to one, six-year term, stepped down Dec. 1 and is now a fellow at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government . His office did not respond to a request for comment.
474 2013-02-21 Credit: Erin Baiano for The New York Times
475 2013-02-21 Dr. David Colbert, a dermatologist who tends to the milky complexions of Naomi Watts and Rachel Weisz, and Tracie Martyn, the facialist to Kate Winslet, Jennifer Connelly and Rachel Zoe, fly out days in advance (both are based in the Flatiron district). They vie for celebrity clients with Los Angeles experts like Ole Henriksen, Kate Somerville and Michelle Peck, some having just returned home from New York Fashion Week.

Dr. Colbert, a six-year veteran of the Oscars circuit, said he’s renting a temporary office in Beverly Hills this year (he’ll also do home visits on request) and is in talks to set up a permanent medi-spa in Los Angeles. A month before the awards, his calendar was already booked solid with 75 appointments, he said, even though his 30-minute Triad Medical facial, which features microdermabrasion, laser toning and chemical peeling, starts at $800 a session.

“Over the years, you meet people,” he said. “The actors sort of all talk and know each other. It’s a multifaceted way to build your name.”

Ms. Martyn, who has strong fashion ties (Diane von Furstenberg and the Hollywood stylist Kate Young have both seen her), also finds the commute worthwhile. “It’s really widened my client base,” she said. Actors and actresses tend to book last minute for treatments like the Red Carpet facial (which starts at $450) but know where to find her; she has been traveling to Los Angeles for the last 10 years, 4 years of which she has been in a suite at Le Parc Suite hotel converted into a treatment room. She likes the location because it’s not one of the big hotels like the Four Seasons or Chateau Marmont, “where it’s just impossible to even drive up and get dropped off,” she said.

Like Dr. Colbert, Ms. Martyn dispenses skin care with New York efficiency. She anticipates about 30 one-hour appointments; along with her trademark facial for lymphatic drainage, she’ll perform a resculpting treatment on arms, rear ends, tummies and legs. “It’s about firming and lifting everything,” she said.

The local competition seems to go at a mellower pace. Ms. Somerville, who cares for the complexions of Amanda Seyfried, Helen Mirren and Kristen Bell, generally spends two to three hours on her famous clients because “they’re usually doing about three different treatments an appointment,” she said.

For example, many celebrities will book head-to-toe laser toning, light therapy and a White Room Facial (including extractions and exfoliation) six to eight weeks ahead, Ms. Somerville said. “We’ll come up with a game plan together,” she added, with each visit costing $300 to $1,500.

During red carpet season, she has 12 treatment rooms going at once with 13 women on staff working extended hours. She’ll put one of her top aestheticians on floating duties to cover extra bookings. V.I.P.’s have access to a phone line that goes directly to the spa manager for last-minute changes. “It’s a stressful time because no mistakes can happen,” she said.

Mr. Henriksen said that relieving anxiety is his specialty. “We do state-of-the-art treatments, but it’s also about relaxing and letting go,” he said. His spa is just off Sunset Boulevard, where, he said, his clients had included Charlize Theron, Mark Wahlberg, Kirk Douglas, Ellen DeGeneres and Ben Kingsley (for his “Gandhi” best-actor victory). He praised them for being “very disciplined” and taking care of their skin year-round. Around Oscar time, stress relief (massage, acupressure and reflexology) is more popular than his facials, he said.

But for some celebrities, according to Madonna’s longtime facialist, Ms. Peck, the most relaxing experience of all is lounging at home or in their hotel rooms. Ms. Peck, who is known for her oxygen facial, and her daughter, Tarin Graham, do not have office hours (their phone and e-mail contacts are discreetly passed around). They tote their tools and machines around. The treatments, which can also include microcurrents, hyaluronic acid and LEDs, last about two hours, Ms. Peck said, and start with the face but cover “the neck, body, whatever they need.”

And though many doctors are skeptical about what microcurrents and oxygen can really accomplish, Ms. Peck and the other facialists point out that at least there is instant gratification in an immediate glow.

“With surgery, things can go really wrong,” Ms. Martyn said of the other options. “Here, you’re actually left with your face.”
476 2013-02-21 Given the risks in moving ahead, federal officials said, the F.A.A. has insisted behind the scenes that Boeing needed to come up with changes to prevent failures at the same time as it proposed further steps to wall off problems with the batteries and vent any smoke or fire outside the planes.

Boeing officials said they had also hoped to make all the fixes at once rather than dividing them into temporary and longer-term changes. By delaying some changes, Boeing could have been exposed to more problems.

As a result, one big change under Boeing’s plan would be to redesign the batteries to place insulation inside and around each of the eight cells to minimize the risk that a short circuit or fire in one of the cells could spread to the others, as investigators have said occurred on the battery that caught fire in Boston on Jan. 7. Boeing might also adjust how tightly the batteries are packed.

Boeing would make other changes within the batteries to reduce the chance that vibrations, swelling or moisture could cause problems, industry officials said. Boeing has already been testing some of the changes. The plane maker believes it could rebuild the batteries by next month on the 50 jets that have been delivered to airlines. But federal officials are likely to move more slowly and demand more tests and assurances, and the final decision could rest with Mr. Huerta’s supervisors at the Transportation Department.

Federal officials said that if the fixes check out, the jets could start flying again by April. Boeing will also have to win back the confidence of the flying public.

Besides taking more steps to prevent short circuits from occurring, Boeing’s plan would enclose the battery within a sturdier metal container and create tubes to vent any hazardous materials outside the plane. It would add systems to monitor the activity inside each cell instead of just the battery as a whole.

Industry officials said there is enough space in the electronics bay to expand the container and add the vent tubes.

Until now, regulators have focused on the need to pin down the cause of the battery problems. But investigators, now weeks into their work, have been able to find only limited clues in the charred remains of the batteries in the Boston and Japan incidents.

The lithium-ion batteries weigh less but provide more energy than conventional batteries, and the 787s make greater use of them than other planes. The stakes are substantial for Boeing, which will have to pay penalties to some of the airlines that have been unable to use them. Boeing also cannot deliver more of the planes while they are grounded.

The company has orders for 800 additional planes. The jets rely as well on lightweight carbon composites and more efficient engines.

Boeing awarded the contract for the batteries to GS Yuasa, a Japanese firm, in 2005, and it won approval from the F.A.A. to use the batteries in 2007. Concerned about fires with smaller lithium-ion batteries in cellphones and laptops, the agency placed special conditions on Boeing’s use of the batteries that required containment and venting measures that have proved inadequate.

Advances in research have contributed to a better understanding of the risks since then. But Boeing, which was consumed with problems with other parts that delayed the introduction of the 787s by several years, did not significantly update the battery designs before it began delivering the planes in 2011. So Boeing’s plan to fix the problems also amounts to a belated incorporation of what has been learned about how to handle the risks.
477 2013-02-21 “We view Mr. Bernanke as being firmly in charge of the committee, and very dovish indeed,” Mr. Shepherdson wrote in a note to clients. He said he expected the Fed’s asset purchases to continue at the current pace for the rest of the year.

While officials pushing for an earlier end to asset purchases do not have nearly enough votes on the 12-member committee to force a change in policy, they could reduce the impact of the Fed’s efforts by convincing investors that purchases are even slightly more likely to end sooner.

Historically, it is often true that outspoken opposition has produced a moderation in Fed policy, because the committee prefers to operate by consensus. But Mr. Bernanke in recent years has demonstrated that he can and will maintain majority support in the face of persistent dissent.

His hand is strengthened by the fact that some Fed officials want to do still more to stimulate the economy. Narayana Kocherlakota, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, has said that the Fed should hold short-term interest rates near zero at least until the unemployment rate falls below 5.5 percent. The Fed has said that it intends to hold rates near zero at least until unemployment falls below 6.5 percent. The rate in January was 7.9 percent.

The Fed could also be fortified in its current policies if Congress continues to cut spending. Another round of across-the-board cuts is scheduled to take effect March 1. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the cuts would reduce growth by 0.6 percentage points this year, and employment by about 750,000 jobs.

There is little internal support for increasing the pace of securities purchases, but the account says that some officials raised the possibility of maintaining a portion of the Fed’s investment portfolio for a longer period as the economy recovers.

The theory, which also underpins the Fed’s plan to suppress interest rates for several more years, is that the Fed cannot do much more now, but it can compensate by maintaining its efforts for longer than it otherwise would. Holding onto the assets longer would maintain downward pressure on interest rates.

The account said the committee planned a review of the asset purchase policy at its next scheduled meeting on March 19 and 20.

The meeting account shows Fed officials generally expected a slow improvement in economic conditions this year, and were not overly concerned that the economy had not expanded, or expanded only modestly, in the final months of 2012. But they do not expect the economy to expand fast enough to significantly reduce unemployment.

The account also indicated that “a number” of officials are concerned that the economy is suffering permanent damage, partly because people unemployed for long periods are losing their skills, which could impede growth for years to come.

The Fed’s vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, said in a speech this month that inflation remained low and steady, while unemployment remained stubbornly high. As a result, she said, “it is entirely appropriate for progress in attaining maximum employment to take center stage in determining the committee’s policy stance.”

But some Fed officials have expressed growing unease that, even if inflation remained under control, asset purchases might disrupt financial markets. One concern is that low interest rates will encourage excessive risk-taking, inflating new asset bubbles that will inevitably pop. The Fed’s purchases also may disrupt the normal operations of financial markets by constraining the supply of safe assets.

A Fed governor, Jeremy C. Stein, said this month that he saw “a fairly significant pattern of reaching-for-yield behavior emerging in corporate credit,” referring to a rise in the sale of new junk bonds, or high-risk corporate debt.

Mr. Stein said he did not see any reason for an immediate change in Fed policy, but Esther L. George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, cited similar concerns in opposing the current policy at the January meeting.
478 2013-02-21 Two Tibetan teenagers killed themselves by self-immolation on Tuesday to protest Chinese rule in Tibet, according to reports on Wednesday by a Tibet advocacy group and Radio Free Asia. The two were among the youngest Tibetans to kill themselves in protest, and the act was a rare instance in which Tibetans committed self-immolation together.

The teenagers were identified as Rinchen, 17, who went by only one name, and Sonam Dargye, 18. They had been elementary school classmates in Sichuan Province, in western China, according to Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government. They killed themselves in Ngaba Prefecture, or Aba in Chinese, which has a large Tibetan population and has been at the epicenter of the self-immolation protests.

At least 104 Tibetans have self-immolated since 2009 in protests against China. Since a widespread Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule in 2008, tensions between Tibetans and Chinese officials have been high across the Tibetan plateau, and officials have deployed large numbers of security forces, mostly ethnic Han, who rule China, in the crucial areas of the region.

Twenty of the self-immolators have been 18 or younger, according to statistics compiled by the International Campaign for Tibet, an advocacy group based in Washington.

Free Tibet, an advocacy group based in London, said the two teenagers who killed themselves on Tuesday had died at the scene of their self-immolation at about 9:30 p.m., and that their families had retrieved the bodies.

On Sunday, a Tibetan man, Namlha Tsering, 49, set himself on fire in the main street of Labrang, an important monastery town in Gansu Province. A photograph released by Tibet advocacy groups shows a man aflame and sitting in the street. Another photo shows security troops in riot gear marching in a street in Labrang, known as Xiahe in Chinese. The reports said the man was from a nomadic area.
479 2013-02-21 Prominent stocks in a range of sectors including the homebuilder Toll Brothers, the fertilizer maker CF Industries and the oil and gas producer Devon Energy, booked sharp losses after disappointing earnings and outlooks.

A slide in the commodity sector also weighed on stocks. Spot gold dropped to the lowest level since July. Benchmark industrial metal copper fell to a one-month low, and crude oil futures in the United States shed more than $2 a barrel.

The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 108.13 points, or 0.77 percent, to 13,927.54 at the close. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 18.99 points, or 1.24 percent, to 1,511.95. The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 49.19 points, or 1.53 percent, to end at 3,164.41.

For the benchmark S.& P. 500-stock index, the day’s decline was the largest since Nov. 14.

The Fed has used the bond purchasing program since 2008 to stimulate the economy. The policy, which involves expanding the Fed’s balance sheet to buy bonds, has been credited with pushing money into the stock market. How an end of easing would affect markets is not known.

Still, the S.& P. 500 has risen about 6 percent this year. Many analysts have been expecting the market to ease after the Dow and the S.& P. came close to highs.

Energy companies’ shares were among the weakest on Wednesday, hurt by disappointing results in the sector and a 2 percent drop in crude oil prices. The Energy Select Sector SPDR, an exchange-traded fund, fell 2.1 percent.

Newfield Exploration fell 9.3 percent to $24.75 while Devon Energy dropped 6.6 percent to $56.57. Both companies posted fourth-quarter losses, with Devon hurt as it wrote down the value by $896 million because of weak natural gas prices.

Early Wednesday, unconfirmed rumors that a troubled hedge fund was selling assets added some downward pressure to the market. The rumors appeared to be unfounded.

“I heard the chatter about a hedge fund liquidating things today but how big, I don’t know. Certainly, it sparks concern,” said Michael James, senior trader at Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles.

Housing shares also declined, pressured by weaker-than-expected results at Toll Brothers and a drop in groundbreaking to build homes, also known as housing starts, in January.

Toll Brothers’ stock fell 9.1 percent to $33.56, but is up about 4 percent this year, building on a jump of nearly 60 percent in 2012. The Dow Jones U.S. Home Construction index lost 6.7 percent.

“Valuations appear a bit high at these levels, and if I was in a name that had seen a huge run, I’d want to take some chips off the table,” said Matthew D. McCormick, money manager at Bahl & Gaynor in Cincinnati.

Shares of OfficeMax fell 7 percent to $12.09 while Office Depot slid 16.7 percent to $4.18 as the companies announced a $1.2 billion merger agreement. The shares had surged in Tuesday’s session after a source said a deal would be announced.

A rival, Staples, fell 7.2 percent to $13.60 and ranked as one of the S.& P.’s biggest decliners.

Interest rates were lower. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 9929/32, and the yield fell to 2.01 percent from 2.03 percent late Tuesday.
480 2013-02-21 Clint Walker’s company, New Evolution Military Ordnance, became one of the newest entrants in the business within the last couple of years, joining a roster of companies that included Montana Rifle, McGowen Precision Barrels and SI Defense.

Mr. Walker, who had been an editor of trade magazines covering video equipment, said Montana Rifle was “doing literally tens of thousands of barrels” for large gunmaking companies back East. “They have to slow down and stop what they are doing to help us out,” he said. “And they’ve done that. They said: ‘You guys are local. You’re family.’ ”

“That is a large part of the success of this area,” Mr. Walker added.

To provide trained hands for companies like these, Flathead Valley Community College started a course in gunsmithing last summer. Students learn everything from hollowing out a barrel to checkering a stock — carving fine crosshatched indentations behind the trigger both for decoration and to create a solid grip.

Jane A. Karas, a former New Yorker who is the college’s president, said the program “focuses on craftsmanship that maintains the historic values” of the area. Her colleague Susan Burch, who worked with a transplanted Oklahoma gunsmith, Brandon Miller, to teach the course, added, “You’re looking at the intersection of art and the outdoors.”

Homicides with guns are relatively rare in the area. There have been three in Kalispell, a city of 20,000 people, out of six murders total in the past 12 years, said Roger Nasset, the local police chief. His officers are never surprised to find a gun inside a car they stop for a traffic violation — and seldom bother to discuss it, much less confiscate it. Montana’s laws on gun possession are among the least restrictive in the nation.

Guns are not permitted in schoolrooms, but the weapons have been used to raise money for education. Last fall, Stillwater Christian School received more than $20,000 when its parent-teacher organization held a raffle for a locally made semiautomatic AR-15 rifle donated by Mr. Walker, a parent of two young students there.

“When we did the fund-raiser, it didn’t cross my mind, ‘Wow, we’re donating an assault rifle to a school for a fund-raiser,’ ” he said. “It was just, ‘This is one of the No. 1-selling rifles in America.’ ”

Butch Hurlbert, whose daughter and teenage granddaughter were murdered with a gun near Kalispell on Dec. 25, 2010, blames the killer — his daughter’s former boyfriend — and the police, not the gun. Having a gun, he said, “is pretty much just a normal thing.”

“My granddaughter that was murdered, she had her own .270” hunting rifle, Mr. Hurlbert added. “She was hunting for what would have been her third year. She got two bucks. Mounted the horns herself.”

Certainly Kalispell has not been impervious to changes brought by people who do not own guns and come for the scenery, the skiing, the hiking and the community cohesion. But most of the local debates about controlling guns pit gun owners and Second Amendment supporters against one another.

Since a gunman killed 26 people in December at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., the columns of two local news outlets, The Flathead Beacon and The Daily Inter Lake, have been filled with debate over gun control.

A guest column in The Beacon by Bob Brown, a Republican and former State Senate president, called on gun owners to take back the National Rifle Association, which, he said, has been “hijacked and radicalized.”

Online comments were almost evenly divided between those who agreed and those who excoriated Mr. Brown. The opposing views were distilled in this comment: “As long as the American people are able to arm themselves properly there will never be a ‘cultural revolution’ that takes 60 million lives like that in China. A disarmed man is no man, he is a slave to his oppressors.”

Semiautomatic assault rifles are selling well right now. Mr. Walker at New Evolution Military Ordnance owns several of his own.

When three men tried to steal his truck a few months ago, he said, he scared them off with his wife’s handgun; he had left his assault rifles in the garage. But, he said, “If I had to defend myself and my family, there’s no question I would choose my assault rifle. No question I’d want a 30-round magazine.”

Mr. Walker added, “In a defensive situation, not every bullet is going to find its target.”

For Lee Helgeland, 65, a high-end gunsmith who, like his friend Mr. Fisher, lives deep in the country, the rise of assault weapons has been a problematic development, but an understandable one given the widespread admiration for all things military.

“We grew up with gun safety pounded into our heads when we were kids,” said Mr. Helgeland, who moved to the area from Idaho, where he was a sales manager at a large food business. “It’s a problem — the misuse of firearms — without a solution.”

“There is a great distance between the world of the guns I make and the criminal element using the semiautomatics and the Saturday night specials,” he said, adding, “The urban attitude, the attitude of the antigun people, is based on unfamiliarity with the use of firearms in this part of the world.”
481 2013-02-22 Volkswagen says it “is redefining what is technically feasible in the automotive industry.”...
482 2013-02-22 A hedge fund manager argues that A.I.G. stock is poised to soar, largely because he thinks the company will start manipulating earnings to make itself look good....
483 2013-02-22 A federal judge ordered Apple to halt collecting shareholder votes on a proposal to change some of its corporate charter, handing a victory to the hedge fund manager David Einhorn....
484 2013-02-22 Prosecutors, shifting strategy, are building a new model for Wall Street cases. | Morgan Stanley is striving to coordinate two departments often at odds. | Andrew Ross Sorkin says Steven L. Rattner’s reputation, once sullied, has acquired a new ...
485 2013-02-22 In a groundbreaking move, K&L Gates, one of the country’s largest law firms, disclosed its financial results online, as clients are asking more questions about the financial state of the firms they employ....
486 2013-02-22 Five new postage stamps feature American muscle cars of the 1960s and ’70s....
487 2013-02-22 The company announced that three dancers – Adrian Danchig-Waring, Chase Finlay and Ask la Cour – become principal dancers, and eight members of the corps de ballet are now soloists....
488 2013-02-22 Adults with untreated depression who received the shingles vaccine mounted a relatively weak immune response compared with their healthy age-matched peers, or to those taking antidepressants....
489 2013-02-22 The Times’s Marcus Mabry and Lydia Polgreen in Pretoria, South Africa, report on developments in the Oscar Pistorius case.
490 2013-02-22 I wasn’t hard enough on those guys....
491 2013-02-22 Going private may allow the company to slash costs, which preserves cash. But management may also feel liberated to spend more on initiatives, which could deplete cash initially....
492 2013-02-22 G.E. continues to invest in India and business will grow, Jeffrey R. Immelt predicts....
493 2013-02-22 Pat Derby, a former animal trainer for television shows like “Lassie” and “Flipper” who became a crusader against animal exploitation in entertainment and founded of one of the largest privately operated wildlife sanctuaries in the United States, died last Friday at her home in San Andreas, Calif. She was 69.

The cause was cancer, said Ed Stewart, her companion and only immediate survivor.

Ms. Derby was among the first animal rights advocates to champion performing animals, especially exotic species like elephants, apes, monkeys, lions and tigers. Though trainable, those animals have never been fully domesticated, and often end up abandoned or ill-treated once their usefulness as performers expires, she contended.

In 1984, Ms. Derby and Mr. Stewart founded the Performing Animals Welfare Society (PAWS) and opened their first sanctuary on 30 acres in Galt, Calif., outside Sacramento, which was the first in the United States equipped to care for elephants. In 2002 they opened a second, more sprawling sanctuary called Ark 2000 in San Andreas, about 40 miles away.

Covering 2,300 acres, Ark 2000 has become a sort of retirement community for more than 100 exotic animals, most of them former film or circus performers, survivors of roadside zoos and former pets whose owners could no longer handle them. The facility is supported by private and corporate donations and a membership list said to number 33,000.

Among the animals there is an elephant, Maggie, who developed arthritis and became depressed after spending several years, mainly indoors because of the weather, at the Alaska Zoo in Anchorage. Two bears at the sanctuary — a grizzly bear named Tuffy and a Kodiak bear named Manfried — were featured in the 1994 film “Legends of the Fall,” set in Montana. They had been sold after the filming and were rescued from a poorly ventilated horse trailer during a Southern California heat wave.
494 2013-02-22 Five of the United States luge team’s sleds fell out the back of a team truck near Easton, Pa., and the team is seeking the public’s help to find them. The state police said a man in a black truck was seen picking up the sleds and driving off with them. The training sleds cost $400 to $600 each. “I truly don’t believe that anyone maliciously stole it,” said Gordy Sheer, the team marketing director, who was driving.
495 2013-02-22 General Allen had been caught up in the scandal that led to the resignation of David H. Petraeus as the director of the C.I.A., although last month the Pentagon officially cleared him of misconduct after an investigation into his exchange of e-mails with Jill Kelley, a Tampa, Fla., woman who was also a friend of Mr. Petraeus’s.

The general’s observations on Wednesday came at a dinner given in his honor by the Institute for the Study of War, a nongovernmental research organization.

With his wife, Kathy, in attendance, General Allen said that the day before he had reviewed his tour with Mr. Obama. He offered a generally upbeat view of the war.

“I told him that in my mind the Afghan campaign is on track,” he said.

General Allen insisted that Afghan troops had made progress in taking the lead in the fighting. American and allied forces, he said, were making the transition from a combat role to a support role and had closed more than 500 bases.

He said that the insurgents’ use of sanctuaries inside Pakistan to prepare for attacks in Afghanistan remained the “principal operational threat” but added that there were opportunities for Afghanistan and Pakistan to cooperate.

He acknowledged that numerous hurdles remain, including the pervasive unease many Afghans feel about neighboring states, their economy, the durability of the international commitment and their own government’s ability to make good on its many promises to fight corruption.

“Uncertainty is perhaps one of the great challenges that the Afghans face about the future,” he said.

General Allen steered clear of one of the most important uncertainties of all — how many forces the United States and its allies are willing to keep in Afghanistan and for how long. Mr. Obama has not yet decided how many troops to keep in the country after 2014, when the Afghans are to assume full responsibility for their own security. That decision will have a major bearing on the degree to which the United States and its allies can advise and support Afghan forces, and how effective the Afghan forces can be in the field.

The general suggested that one way the United States and its allies could assess what has been accomplished is the election in Afghanistan set for 2014.

“In so many ways, the outcome of that election will be how the international community will have judged all that we have done,” General Allen said. “It will be the means by which the Afghan people judge whether democracy can really take root in this country.”
496 2013-02-22 Mr. de Blasio, clearly annoyed, called the timing of Ms. Quinn’s announcement “a stunning coincidence.”

“How convenient!” he said to reporters.

But the day’s most biting words came from Mr. Bloomberg — directed not at Mr. de Blasio but at Ms. Quinn, the mayor’s longtime political ally. Upon learning about her plans to cap fines against street vendors, Mr. Bloomberg erupted with dismay, calling it “one of the stupider things I’ve ever heard.”

The mayor vowed, without prompting, to veto the Quinn legislation, should it pass in the Council. “The public should understand exactly what this bill is about: It is not to protect the public; it is to protect the vendors,” he said. “It doesn’t make any sense.”

It felt, to many, like the first official day of the campaign for the mayor’s office, a race that will be cast, at times, as a referendum on whether the Bloomberg years benefited the entire city, or just those in Manhattan.

Mr. de Blasio, who is positioning himself as a left-leaning candidate in the Democratic primary, has long argued that the city was unfairly balancing its budget by extracting a growing number of fines from businesses.

On Thursday, Mr. de Blasio said that after fighting City Hall for months to open its books, he had obtained data that proved he was right. Over the past three years, he said the data showed, violations found by the city’s Department of Consumer Affairs spiked 153 percent, to 24,176, from 9,545; inspections by the health department rose 56 percent, to 98,176, from 62,945; and revenue from fines imposed by both departments nearly doubled.

The fines are issued to businesses for a range of violations, some big, some small: failing to refrigerate food in a restaurant at the proper temperature, for example, and failing to properly advertise return policies.

Mr. de Blasio’s report, “Borough Bias,” found something else: over all, the city inspects and fines businesses outside Manhattan at a disproportionately high rate. The Consumer Affairs Department, for instance, had fined business in the Laurelton section of Queens about six times as often as those in the rest of the city, given the number of businesses in the neighborhood. It conducted inspections in the Morrissania section of the Bronx at three times the rate of the city average.

“We talk openly about sexism or racism; this is boroughism,” Mr. de Blasio said, apparently coining a new phrase. “This is clear bias according to borough.”

The mayor’s office did not immediately challenge Mr. de Blasio’s findings or methodology, saying it was still reviewing his report. Privately, City Hall aides suggested that Mr. de Blasio had selected favorable data from the thousands of pages they had provided. The Bloomberg administration turned over information from six agencies; Mr. de Blasio focused on two of them.

Even as he chastised the Bloomberg administration, over and over, Mr. de Blasio took pains to link the aggressive inspection and fining policy to Ms. Quinn, saying that she had failed to rein in the practices as speaker.

He and his staff seemed surprised that Ms. Quinn chose Thursday to outline legislation lowering the maximum fines for street vendors, now $1,000, by half.

Ms. Quinn’s office typically announces agendas the day before a Council meeting. In this case, the notice arrived six days early. But a spokesman for Ms. Quinn, Jamie McShane, said the speaker’s office had been contemplating a Thursday announcement for about a week.

Outside City Hall, Mr. de Blasio’s news conference about overburdened small businesses competed, for both attention and volume, with a rival event a few dozen feet away held by the mayor, to promote the prototype of a clean-energy-fueled food truck.

Mr. Bloomberg was joined by a titan of not-so-small business: T. Boone Pickens, the billionaire energy magnate.
497 2013-02-22 Decades of academic research show that a financial transaction tax would harm Main Street, not Wall Street, and hardly raise the revenue that proponents claim that it would. The United States, Sweden and Japan have had similar fees in the past and repealed them because the tax hurt average investors, reduced savings and made it harder for America’s job creators to grow.

Highly liquid markets allow retail investors to get the best price and pay dramatically lower transaction costs when they buy and sell stocks and bonds, fueling the capital needs of businesses to expand and create jobs.

Proponents and opponents of the financial transaction tax agree that it would double trading costs, reduce the number of financial transactions by at least 50 percent, and reduce the liquidity that benefits investors and businesses.

The wisdom of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson in repealing this job-killing tax still holds true today.
498 2013-02-22 THE average price of gasoline in the United States, $3.78 on Thursday, has been steadily climbing for more than a month and is approaching the three previous post-recession peaks, in May 2011 and in April and September of last year.

But if our goal is to get Americans to drive less and use more fuel-efficient vehicles, and to reduce air pollution and the emission of greenhouse gases, gas prices need to be even higher. The current federal gasoline tax, 18.4 cents a gallon, has been essentially stable since 1993; in inflation-adjusted terms, it’s fallen by 40 percent since then.

Politicians of both parties understandably fear that raising the gas tax would enrage voters. It certainly wouldn’t make lives easier for struggling families. But the gasoline tax is a tool of energy and transportation policy, not social policy, like the minimum wage.

Instead of penalizing gasoline use, however, the Obama administration chose a familiar and politically easier path: raising fuel-efficiency standards for cars and light trucks. The White House said last year that the gas savings would be comparable to lowering the price of gasoline by $1 a gallon by 2025. But it will have no effect on the 230 million passenger vehicles now on the road.

Greater efficiency packs less of a psychological punch because consumers pay more only when they buy a new car. In contrast, motorists are reminded regularly of the price at the pump. But the new fuel-efficiency standards are far less efficient than raising gasoline prices.

In a paper published online this week in the journal Energy Economics, I and other scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology estimate that the new standards will cost the economy on the whole — for the same reduction in gas use — at least six times more than a federal gas tax of roughly 45 cents per dollar of gasoline. That is because a gas tax provides immediate, direct incentives for drivers to reduce gasoline use, while the efficiency standards must squeeze the reduction out of new vehicles only. The new standards also encourage more driving, not less.
499 2013-02-22 Web sites that feature vestiges of a bygone New York seem bewitched by the sign. Flickr.com is flecked with photographs by enchanted amateurs, taken from the front, back and side, at sunrise and at sunset, from atop the platform of the subway station at Smith and Ninth Streets, through barbed wire.

The recent rumor of the sign’s demise stirred enormous Internet buzz. Gothamist and other Web sites took the trouble of doggedly locating a representative of the current owner of the sign’s building, Regal Home Collection, a manufacturer of window treatments. (The Kentile floor tile company has long been defunct.) The representative, Brian Kanarek, confirmed in an interview that the rumor was not true and suggested that the landlord was fond of the sign.

“It’s imposing,” Mr. Kanarek said. “It makes a statement, and it’s a relic from a bygone era. This is one of the last ones.”

A building tenant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to offend the landlord, said he had learned from a cousin of the landlord that someone had, in fact, offered a rent of thousands of dollars a month to put up giant billboards in place of the Kentile sign, but that the landlord “did not want the headache.”

The sign, according to the Municipal Art Society of New York — which joined with the organization City Lore in designating it among the “Census of Places That Matter” — has been around since the middle of the past century. It was then that Kentile Floors, a company that started out in 1898 and was named after a founder, Arthur Kennedy, put up a two-story plant on Second Avenue and Ninth Street near the Gowanus Canal. According to the blog New York Neon, the sign was crafted by the White Way Neon Sign Company.

The late 1940s and ’50s were a heady time for the Kentile company because the troops who had returned from World War II were starting families and needed flooring for their new suburban ranches and colonial-style homes. Magazine advertisements promised people could save money by installing the vinyl and asbestos tiles themselves.

The tiles were “grease proof,” would not scuff and were “a dream to clean.” By the 1960s, Kentile was doing so well it employed 400 people, according to the Municipal Art Society.

But then — and perhaps this is the sign’s implicit message about the hubris that often accompanies ambitious ventures — asbestos became synonymous with lung poison, and a raft of lawsuits followed. Kentile tried to phase out the use of asbestos, but the legal bills proved insurmountable, and the humbled company filed for bankruptcy in 1992, closing a few years later.

The sign lived on. It has its own Facebook page. Bob Bland, a fashion designer, created a T-shirt that displays the Kentile sign, which she calls “funky and beautiful.” And the clothing company Brooklyn Industries printed T-shirts that paid homage to the sign with the words “Brooklyn Industries” styled to look like the Kentile sign. The T-shirts sold out, said Teddy Vuong, a company designer.

“We wanted to highlight a visually iconic piece of Brooklyn that wasn’t very well known outside of Brooklyn,” he said, “a recognizable piece of Brooklyn that was esoteric enough to be our own little secret.”

Jeremiah Moss, who operates the blog Vanishing New York, says the sign is a darling of hipsters. “They love irony, but they also love the authentic, probably because they don’t have a lot of authenticity themselves,” he said.

Ashley Hildreth, 28, director of the Gowanus Print Lab, a workplace for freelance screen printers, including Ms. McCarthy, suggested the sign carried a slyly political message. By enduring in a still-industrial neighborhood, she said, it reminds people that places like Williamsburg are being gobbled up by expensive high-rise condominiums, “and the people who made the neighborhood what it was can’t live there anymore.”

Today, the plain brick 400,000-square-foot building beneath the sign is honeycombed with small factories and businesses. The city’s Landmarks Preservation Commission would probably not designate the sign alone a protected landmark because that would force the owner to maintain a sign that may have nothing to do with the reason the building is there, Elisabeth de Bourbon, a commission spokeswoman, said.

Many Brooklynites would hate to see the sign disappear. Melanie Penella, 30, said she moved to Brooklyn from Youngstown, Ohio, where her grandfather was president of a steel mill, after she became beguiled by a Kentile photograph on the Internet.

“When I got here and saw the sign, I said, ‘Oh, my God, I’m in Brooklyn,’ ” she said. “It’s kind of like the line from the Joni Mitchell song: ‘They paved paradise and put up a parking lot.’ That sign is sort of paradise, and people want to hang on to it.”
500 2013-02-22 Protecting New Mexican chile peppers has been a tough battle, in part because not every legislator buys into the idea that the right way to do it is to create more rules. The state, hobbled by a sluggish economic recovery, has also found it difficult to find money to finance new programs.

Representative Martinez’s bill passed unanimously in the House Agriculture and Water Resources Committee last month. Then, on Wednesday, it was shelved by an 8-to-7 vote in the House Judiciary Committee after a spirited debate over whether it might be too burdensome for small growers. On Thursday, though, there was already talk that the bill could be resurrected after the committee’s chairwoman, Representative Gail Chasey, a Democrat, said, “It is not necessarily dead.” An identical bill has already been introduced in the Senate. Washington State trademarked its apples in 1961 and Virginia trademarked its peanuts in 2006. In the late 1980s, under stiff competition from states like Texas and California, Georgia wrote into law exactly what type of seeds and soil would yield its sweet Vidalia onions. A year later, the federal government endorsed the same parameters and the brand was certified in 1990.

Wendy Brannen, executive director of the Vidalia Onion Committee, which handles marketing and research on behalf of growers and packers of Vidalia onions, said that more than protecting the crop, “the State of Georgia worked hard to build the Vidalia brand.”

New Mexico has opted for a modest and incremental approach. Its 2011 law gave inspectors from the state’s Agriculture Department the ability to seek court injunctions against companies that falsely advertise their chile peppers as being from New Mexico by allowing them to inspect stores and audit companies’ sales books. Last July, the department began requiring a certificate of authenticity to accompany chile peppers from the field to the point of sale or processing plant. Katie Goetz, the department’s spokeswoman, said the most obvious violations found so far have been in red chile pods sold in plastic bags that feature the words “New Mexico chile,” as well as “Hecho en Mexico” or “Made in Mexico.”

Under the same bill, Mr. Martinez proposed going after out-of-state chile peppers sold under brands bearing names of cities, counties and other New Mexico localities known for their chile production, like “Hatch chile,” named after the southern village that hosts a huge chile festival every year. Its main targets, however, are big chain stores, which he said may not be as diligent as roadside vegetable stands about checking the origin of the products they offer.

“Maintaining our brand is important,” Representative Martinez said, even if for a declining industry. In 2011, chile peppers were harvested along 9,500 acres of land. Nearly a decade earlier in 1992, harvested fields covered more than 34,000 acres, according to the New Mexico Chile Association.

Mr. Marquez said a chile pepper harvester makes about $90 a day in New Mexico and about $20 in Mexico, which results in a big discrepancy in their sale prices. Still, he went on, “We’re so proud of it, we’re willing to pay a premium for New Mexico chile.”

The question, however, is whether the average customer can taste the difference in chile peppers that come from this place or that.

Yes, Mr. Marquez said, “if you’re comparing chile from New Mexico and chile from Colorado.” But, he conceded, “30 miles south of the border, in Mexico, they’re growing chile that is very similar to ours and the vast majority of people probably couldn’t tell them apart.”
501 2013-02-22 Very much in the style of the day this appealingly casual, slightly disheveled exhibition suggests that the sorcerer’s apprentices spent the afternoon conjuring and then knocked off early, before quite cleaning up. The sorcerer here is the German alchemist Sigmar Polke (1941-2010), represented by two photographs whose mysterious signs of disorder and decay may have been inspirational to the apprentices. These are the young artists Lucas Knipscher and Win McCarthy, who collaborated in this arrangement of paintings, sculptures, photographs and other odds and ends.

For example, the little piles of detritus seemingly ready for the dustpan that are actually part of Mr. McCarthy’s aggregate of plaster, plastic, clay, wood and tempera hopefully titled “Things Are Coming Together.” “Broken Sculpture With Reclining Sock,” another McCarthy work, features a sock resting, like a slightly burnt offering, on a T-shape of smooth blue-tinted plaster held up by four hairpin iron legs. Otherwise, raw clay seems to be his go-to material, in both sculpture and works on paper.

Mr. Knipscher, who is slightly more restrained, plasters ikat fabric to canvas in a way that recalls Polke, and also takes photographs of high-end shower fixtures that he prints using exhausted developing fluid; their refined, penumbral eroticism evokes the drawings of both Ingres and Hans Bellmer. He also contributes three pairs of life-size clownish feet on the ceiling, with long pendulums dangling down to the ground. They weigh almost nothing and add to the array without quite adding up.

The artists’ collaborations seems most succinct: two sculptures, each consisting of a burning candle held aloft by a long length of wire twisting down from the ceiling so that the unchecked drippings form a little wax stalagmite below. In one of them titled “Candle in No Wind,” the wax falls on a chunk of Mr. McCarthy’s clay and is framed by two lengths of ikat-wrapped wood, courtesy of Mr. Knipscher, nestled in the window.

By and large the individual works tend to be overshadowed by the show’s winsome totality and counterintuitive beauty, but some are nonetheless quite promising.
502 2013-02-22 The sitters for the most beautiful show of new portrait photography so far this season are horses, specifically the team of Army horses used to pull caissons in military funerals at Arlington National Cemetery. Charlotte Dumas has photographed them after their workday is over, when they are back in the stable, settling down for the night.

Seen under soft light in shadowy stalls they have an archaic, monumental beauty, enhanced by their marble-white coats. Yet seated on the stable floor, their legs folded under them, they look unexpectedly vulnerable, like trusting children. And Ms. Dumas brings us in close enough to see tender details: the light-colored lashes on great dark eyes; the exposed stretch of a bare, bent neck revealing delicate patterns of musculature and veining.

The most moving element in the show is the short video she shot of the horses gradually nodding off, eyes fluttering, heads starting to droop. In a startling image, one horse rolls back onto its side, as if suddenly pushed, as it falls into deep sleep.

In the past Ms. Dumas has photographed wolves and stray dogs, and, in 2011, the search-and-rescue dogs who worked at ground zero. These equine pictures, commissioned by the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, may be her best work yet, classic examples of the portrait genre, and distillations of a deep interspecies connection.
503 2013-02-22 The rise of the massive open online course, or MOOC, has given curious minds an outlet for learning despite time, space or financial constraints. But for many, including the Miser, nothing quite beats the real-time, physical presence of a mentor and peers. This weekend downtown Manhattan will host several symposiums that are free and open to the public, though reservations are required.

At the New School “The Feminine Mystique at 50,” celebrating the publication of Betty Friedan’s seminal book, will feature, among others, the biographer Susan Ware, who will give the keynote speech on Friday night and moderate a discussion on Saturday afternoon. Reservations: mystiqueat50.eventbrite.com.

“Aftertaste: The Atmosphere of Objects,” organized by the School of Constructed Environments at Parsons, the New School for Design, examines the art of interior design from a theoretical perspective. “Object Histories,” the 1:30 p.m. session on Saturday, features the architect and novelist Peter Wheelwright. Reservations: sce.parsons.edu.
504 2013-02-22 In an effort to avert the bitter and public feuding between business and labor organizations that helped kill a broad overhaul in 2007, representatives of the two groups released a statement on Thursday outlining shared goals designed to show that at least for now, they could reach a basic level of compromise.

In the statement, signed by Thomas J. Donohue, president of the , and , president of the , the groups called for a visa system that would let businesses meet their demand for lower-skilled workers, while offering protections for American workers.

The statement called for the creation of a government bureau that would use “real-world data about labor markets and demographics” to fashion a guest worker program — an idea that the Chamber had until recently opposed. The statement also described “a new kind of worker visa program that does not keep all workers in a permanent temporary status” — language that seems to imply, at least generally, the possibility of a pathway to legalization or even  citizenship for some guest workers.

The groups articulated three general goals: the assurance that American workers would have “a first crack at available jobs”; a new visa program for lower-skilled workers that would be adjusted to reflect the changing needs of businesses as the economy shrinks and expands; and greater transparency in determining the market need for temporary workers.

Traditionally, labor unions have rejected the idea of a guest worker program for lower-skilled workers, which they fear could take jobs away from American workers and depress wages. Business leaders have lobbied for a guest worker program, arguing that they need low-skilled labor for jobs — in agriculture, for instance — that American workers cannot or will not do. (A leaked draft of the president’s immigration proposal said nothing about a guest worker program, perhaps a tacit acknowledgment that the White House was looking to labor and business leaders to forge their own agreement on the issue.)
505 2013-02-22 In prepared remarks for a panel to discuss the report on Thursday, Richard Zeiger, chief deputy superintendent of public instruction for the California Department of Education, pointed out that one in four students in California is an English-language learner, the highest proportion in the country. He said that in addition to the state’s demographic challenges, the schools had been hampered by “a sustained disinvestment in public education, made all the more severe by the Great Recession.”

California’s struggles were not confined to Hispanic students. Over all, the state’s fourth and eighth graders underperformed the national average in reading, math and science. One bright spot in the state came from gains shown by black students in fourth-grade reading and math scores over two decades.

The report examined data from the five largest states — which together enroll close to 40 percent of public school students in the country — across a range of factors, including the poverty status of students and improvements in test scores over two decades.

Jack Buckley, commissioner of the National Center for Education Statistics, which compiled the report, said there was no “consistent pattern among these states,” adding, “each state seems to have areas where it shines and others where they lag behind its counterparts.”

Florida led the five states in improving fourth- and eighth-grade reading scores between 1992 and 2011, although average reading scores among the state’s eighth graders just reached the national average in 2011. Florida’s fourth graders also led the five largest states in gains in math scores, while eighth graders still scored below the national average in 2011.

These results “validate the efforts of Florida teachers and the focus the state has put on academic achievement in a state that is as diverse as this,” Tony Bennett, the newly appointed commissioner of the Florida Department of Education, said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Bennett also acknowledged that while the state had outperformed other large states in pushing achievement among Hispanic and black students, white students either trailed their peers in the rest of the country or were just at the national average. “People look at these almost as a diagnosis, and I don’t see it that way,” he said. “I see this much more in terms of a checkup and where we have to go from here.”

Texas showed the strongest advances in eighth-grade math scores since 1990, and was the only state among the five whose eighth-grade math and science scores were above the national average. In a statement, Michael L. Williams, commissioner of the Texas Education Agency, said the results “speak to an emphasis Texas has placed on a critical core subject.”

In New York, fourth graders scored above the national average in reading in 2011. Eighth-grade scores were close to the national average but showed very little progress since 1998. Both fourth and eighth graders in New York lagged behind the national average on math tests.

Ken Slentz, deputy commissioner for P-12 education at the New York Department of Education, said the percentage of children reaching proficiency in either math or reading was “unacceptably low.”

New York students’ scores appeared to be influenced in particular by whether they were enrolled in city or suburban schools. In eighth-grade reading, for example, the percentage of urban students who were proficient was 26 percent, compared with 43 percent of suburban children.

“The exposure that our urban children have to high levels of learning versus typical suburban students — there are marked differences,” Mr. Slentz said. “Whether it’s access to public libraries, to well-developed after-school programs, there is a difference between what the suburban kids have at their fingertips versus what urban kids have.”
506 2013-02-22 Wall Street lost ground for a second day on Thursday after weak economic reports, reflecting continued investor concern about the Federal Reserve’s resolve to keep bolstering the economy.

Signaling that the labor market remains in a slow recovery, the government said more people applied for unemployment benefits last week. The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose to the highest in six weeks.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 46.92 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 13,880.62.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 9.53 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,502.42, setting it on a path for its first weekly loss of the year. The Nasdaq composite index lost 32.92 points, or 1 percent, to 3,131.49.

The stock market indexes have climbed this year to the highest levels since the financial crisis, but Wall Street may be ready to retreat, said Kim Caughey Forrest, senior analyst with Fort Pitt Capital Group, a portfolio management firm.

”I think the market has gotten ahead of itself,” she said. She said fourth-quarter earnings had generally met expectations, but only after those expectations were reduced because of dire projections companies made in November and December.
507 2013-02-23 Zack Wheeler, a 22-year-old right-hander, threw two strong innings in a 5-3 victory against the Washington Nationals....
508 2013-02-23 Go to next slide
509 2013-02-23 The Bagger shares her picks in every race, including the hard-to-call ones like original screenplay and animated short....
510 2013-02-23 Thursday’s overtime loss to the Islanders ended Montreal’s five-game winning streak, but the Canadiens entered the weekend tied for the lead in the N.H.L.’s Eastern Conference....
511 2013-02-23 Sheryl Sandberg’s “Lean In” movement has already inspired many debates, including the role of government in helping achieve equality. Add your voice....
512 2013-02-23 The Islamist party that leads Tunisia’s constituent assembly nominated Ali Laarayedh, a former political prisoner who now runs the ministry overseeing the police, as the new prime minister. The assassination this month of a leftist opposition leader set off protests against the Islamist-led government. Many blamed the governing party, Ennahda, for failing to prevent the killing, in part by failing to crack down on more hard-line Islamist groups. In response, Prime Minister  Hamadi Jebali of Ennahda called for the replacement of the coalition government with a cabinet of technocrats. He resigned when his party overruled him. Some Tunisians fault Mr. Laarayedh, the interior minister, for failing to protect the assassinated opposition leader, Chokri Belaid, or to apprehend his killers. Mr. Laarayehd endured more than a decade of imprisonment and torture under Tunisia’s former dictator. He is considered among the least conservative members of his party, which is less conservative than most other Islamist parties in the region. President Moncef Marzouki has asked him to form a cabinet. It must be submitted for final approval by the constituent assembly, where the Islamists hold a plurality but not the majority of the seats.
513 2013-02-23 Dr. Ivers, however, while noting the “causality” of epidemic disease is complex, says that no other reasonable hypothesis for Haiti’s cholera has been put forth.

What makes her comments especially striking is that her organization’s co-founder and chief strategist, Dr. Paul Farmer, served as the United Nations’ deputy special envoy for Haiti for the past three years and was appointed by Mr. Ban in December to lead the very anticholera initiative that she found lacking.

Dr. Farmer declined to comment, but a spokeswoman for Partners in Health said Dr. Ivers’s statements represented the group’s concerns about the 10-year, $2.2 billion anticholera initiative that he was supposed to advise.

The ambitious initiative is intended to upgrade Haiti’s abysmal water and sanitation infrastructure while increasing cholera prevention and treatment efforts, including the expansion of a small cholera vaccination campaign that Partners in Health and a Haitian health care group, Gheskio, undertook last year.

Donors have pledged $215 million. The United Nations said it would contribute $23.5 million — 1 percent of the initiative’s cost, Dr. Ivers said.

In contrast, she said, this year’s budget for the United Nations peacekeeping mission, $648 million, “could more than fund the entire cholera elimination initiative for two years.”

Expressing his “deep sorrow and solidarity with the many Haitian families who lost loved ones in this terrible epidemic,” Nigel Fisher, the new head of the peacekeeping mission, nonetheless said that the United Nations had “mobilized resolutely to combat the disease.” It spent some $118 million on cholera before the initiative was announced, officials have said.

Mr. Ban, through his spokesman, also expressed “his profound sympathy” while announcing on Thursday that the legal claim had been rejected.

Mario Joseph, lead lawyer for the cholera victims, said, “While these sympathies are welcome, they will not stop cholera’s killing or ensure that survivors can go on living after losing breadwinners to cholera.”

The demand, filed in an internal United Nations claims unit, had sought $100,000 for each bereaved family and $50,000 for each cholera survivor.

Mr. Joseph described the United Nations’ terse rejection of a claim filed over a year ago as “disgraceful,” and he and his American colleagues at the Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti said they would file a lawsuit in Haiti or abroad.

Though the death rate from cholera has declined significantly since the epidemic initially devastated Haiti, the disease is still coursing through the country. National statistics show a spike of reported cases in December 2012 over that same month in 2011 — 11,220 compared with 8,205.

“The U.N. will not pay,” said a headline Friday on the Web site of Haiti’s Le Nouvelliste newspaper.
514 2013-02-23 “It was an effort to sort of draw them out of the woodwork,” Ms. Roll said. “Women are more detail-oriented, more organized, there’s less drinking. We have those who have been injured, those who have been attacked, maybe sexually attacked. There’s a certain comfort coming in knowing there’s security there. Somebody like that isn’t going to walk into an all-male post. It’s never going to happen. At least now they feel like there’s a go-to place.” (The post is named for two World War II veterans who joined the V.F.W. in 1978, the year the organization began to admit women as members.)

Many of the women in the post said in interviews that they would not have joined one that was monopolized by men. And while most contended they still had a deep connection to the bonds of the military at large, they said the same stark contrasts between men and women existed whether on a military base overseas or around the dinner table.

At a monthly post meeting on a recent Sunday, 10 women and 1 man gathered in the suburb of Tonawanda at the borrowed space of another veterans’ group. Post 12097 has no permanent location.

With a gavel and laptop, the post’s commander, Beth Maddigan, an Army reservist who served with Ms. Roll in Oman, led the meeting. Topics veered from the contents of monthly mail to coming volunteer events for other veterans. The two children of one of the members sat at a table and drew on notebook paper while the group discussed plans for outdoor get-togethers when the weather warmed.

“I just need to let my husband know that he’ll be the one cooking,” said Delcey Pulvino, the post’s senior vice commander, to a burst of laughter. A few moments later, as the conversation suddenly shifted to her son entering the Army soon, she teared up, and her comrades rushed to comfort her.

Many V.F.W. members from World War II and the Korean War at dozens of posts in western New York are dying, and the organization is searching for ways to bolster membership to reflect the modern military.

As soldiers return home after two long wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and with a recent announcement by the Obama administration that it would support women on the front lines of combat — a role that many female military personnel say has been a reality for years — the members of Post 12097 believe that more women and younger veterans may be attracted to the V.F.W.

Bob Clark, 67, the post’s junior vice commander, is frequently the only man to attend meetings. After serving in Vietnam and Iraq as a medic, he joined various V.F.W. posts across the country, all of which were made up solely of men. But when his wife and daughter joined Post 12097 in 2010, after separate tours in Iraq, he decided to do so as well.

“This is an indication of the changing of the guards,” he said of the post’s predominantly female membership. “It’s a gradual maturation process of the military. There’s young families starting out in the V.F.W. just as they did after World War II. We’ve turned full circle.”

Ms. Law, the national spokeswoman, said that while membership numbers were being sustained, as Vietnam veterans take the place of members of the World War II and Korean War eras, the organization will now turn to the country’s younger military personnel, many of whom are women, to fill in the gaps.

“Women are joining, and they’re joining at a rapid pace,” Ms. Law said. “And that’s something the V.F.W. needs.”
515 2013-02-23 After the meeting, federal officials said Boeing would be allowed to conduct a series of test flights to see how the fixes work and to fine-tune its proposals.

Boeing officials say that even though the causes of the battery episodes have not been determined, they have identified the most likely ways in which the new lithium-ion batteries failed. They now want the F.A.A. to approve changes meant to virtually eliminate the odds of future cases and to protect the plane and its passengers if a problem does arise.

In that sense, the meeting on Friday was also aimed at expanding the company’s emphasis from engineering work to the political arena. Besides evaluating the merits of its proposals, Mr. Huerta and the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, might have to make difficult decisions about how well the fixes minimize the safety risk. Mr. LaHood said last month that the planes “won’t fly until we’re one thousand percent sure they are safe to fly.”

But battery and aviation-safety experts say that it could be hard to meet that standard if the causes of the recent episodes are not totally clear. And the F.A.A. often has to walk a delicate line in balancing its role in promoting aviation as well as ensuring safety.

Engineers at the agency have worked closely with Boeing in developing the possible fixes, and their general support for the concept was crucial in enabling the company to bring those proposals to Mr. Huerta and Mr. Porcari.

But Peter Goelz, a former managing director of the National Transportation Safety Board, an independent board that is investigating the battery problems, said: “These kinds of things always raise the basic question: Is the F.A.A. really a participant or a regulator in this, and how does it play the role of regulator when the only way to get to a solution is by being a partner? It’s always a fine line.”

Mr. Goelz and other former safety officials said Boeing’s proposals were on the right track. But some battery experts said they would like to hear more details about how Boeing would keep the batteries from overheating before judging how well the plans would work.

Boeing has delivered 50 787s so far to eight airlines. The company has much riding on the innovative planes. They are the first commercial jets to be built mostly out of lightweight composite materials that reduce fuel costs. Boeing has orders for 800 more of these planes, nicknamed the Dreamliner.

Investigators at the safety board said a battery that ignited on a 787 parked at Logan Airport in Boston in January had suffered thermal runaway, a chemical reaction that leads the battery to overact. They said the problem started in one of the eight cells in the batteries and spread to the others.

On Friday, Boeing proposed adding insulation between the cells to minimize the risk of a short-circuit cascading through most or all of them.

The company also proposed to add systems to monitor the temperature and activity inside each cell. It would enclose the batteries in sturdier steel boxes to contain any fire, and it would create tubes to vent hazardous gases outside the plane.

Boeing said the redesigned batteries would fit in the same space. After the meeting, it also said in a statement that it was “encouraged by the progress being made toward resolving the issue and returning the 787 to flight for our customers and their passengers around the world.”
516 2013-02-23 A man confronting the teenagers who bumped into him on a subway train soon found himself in a fight with his assailants, one of whom said she was on her way to get a sonogram....
517 2013-02-23 The Week in Pictures From Business for Feb. 22
518 2013-02-23 If you paid for it, you should be able to read it. For publicly financed science research, the Obama administration agrees.

In a memorandum issued on Friday, John P. Holdren, science adviser to President Obama, called for scientific papers that report the results of federally financed research to become freely accessible within a year or so after publication. The findings are typically published in scientific journals, many of which are open only to paying subscribers.

The new policy would apply to federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy and the Department of Agriculture, that finance more than $100 million a year of research. The agencies have six months to submit plans for how they would carry out the new policy.

The hope is that broad access to scientific results will encourage faster progress on research and will let anyone apply the knowledge for technological advances.

“We have seen, over the last 15 years, in the era of the Internet, that the more widely available a publication is, the more likely it is to be cited and the more likely it is to be used in patent applications,” said Myron Gutmann, an assistant director at the National Science Foundation.
519 2013-02-23 The United States luge team’s sleds that fell off a truck were found by the side of a road in eastern Pennsylvania. A man spotted the training sleds on the roadside and held on to them for safekeeping. After he learned from news media reports that they belonged to USA Luge, he contacted the state police.
520 2013-02-23 Federal prosecutors are investigating Johnson & Johnson’s practices in marketing a line of hip replacements recalled in 2010 because many had to be replaced within a few years — part of a string of more than 30 product recalls by the company in the last three and a half years. The United States attorney’s office in Massachusetts and the civil division of the Justice Department last August sent Johnson & Johnson an “informal request” for information about its ASR hip replacements, the company reported in a regulatory filing on Friday. The company’s annual report to the Securities and Exchange Commission states that the government has asked for additional documents from a Johnson & Johnson unit, DePuy Synthes, and two related subsidiaries. The company turned over the documents and is cooperating fully with investigators, the filing states.
521 2013-02-23 The Indian drug maker Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals announced Friday that it has started making a generic version of Lipitor again, saying that it was fixing the problems that led it to halt production of the anti-cholesterol drug after glass particles were discovered in pills.

Ranbaxy recalled more than 40 lots of the drug in November because of the glass particles, which were about the size of a grain of sand. The problem was later traced to a cracked glass lining in a mixing tank at one of the company’s plants in India.

In a statement, the company said it had been working with the Food and Drug Administration and “implemented multiple corrective and preventative actions” related to the contamination problem. It said it was confident in the safety of its drugs.

The recalls involved the 10-, 20- and 40-milligram doses of the drug, and did not affect drugs sold outside of the United States.

F.D.A. officials said in November that the chances of harm to patients were “extremely low,” and the recall applied only to pharmacies, which were instructed to return the affected pills. Consumers who already had the contaminated pills were advised to continue taking them unless a doctor advised against it.

Since then, some consumers have sued Ranbaxy, claiming they suffered loose stools, stomach discomfort and other problems after ingesting the drug. One patient claimed it caused internal bleeding and holes in her stomach. Ranbaxy has said the complaints are not credible and, apart from the woman who suffered internal bleeding, said the problems were similar to common side effects of the drug.
522 2013-02-23 VATICAN CITY — One of the most popular attractions of the Vatican Museums, Michelangelo’s Sistine Chapel, will be closed to the public over the next few weeks, as cardinals gather there to elect the successor of Pope Benedict XVI. But visitors will be able to find some artistic consolation by lingering in the rooms that Raphael painted in the second-floor apartment of the Pontifical palace used by Pope Julius II (and his successors until the mid-16th century), their 30-year restoration now finally complete.

Raphael, an artist and an architect, was summoned to Rome in 1508, and the four frescoed rooms where the pope conducted his business were a prized commission. The rooms were originally decorated during the reigns of Popes Alexander VI (1492-1503) and Pius III (whose papacy lasted less than a month in 1503), by renowned Renaissance artists like Piero della Francesca, Luca Signorelli and Bramantino. Julius II brought in other luminaries to complete the work before deciding to give Raphael carte blanche to start fresh.

The restoration campaign brought new insights into how Raphael worked, including how he transferred his drawings from a nearly nine-yard-wide cartoon onto the walls, the methods he used to apply plaster, how quickly he painted and the organization of his workshop. One example: A recipe Raphael invented to copy the stucco of antiquity that he saw on an underground visit to Nero’s palace buried under the Colle Oppio in Rome.“Raphael was a very adventurous artist, and continually experimented, so from this point of view these frescoes are more unique than Michelangelo’s,” said Prof. Arnold Nesselrath, delegate for the scientific department and laboratories of the Vatican Museums, and the only member of the original restoration team still involved.

The restoration also provided some clues to understanding more mundane aspects of the period. Some beans found inside a small hole in the fresco of the “Fire in the Borgo,” painted from 1514 to 1517, suggests that it didn’t take long for these legumes, indigenous to the Americas and imported by Columbus some 20 years earlier, to become part of the common man’s diet in Europe.

“Sadly, they were cooked,” making it impossible to replant them and replicate their taste, Professor Nesselrath said Thursday, during a preview tour of the frescoes, whose official inauguration has been postponed because of the unexpected conclave next month.

Begun in 1982, the restoration was carried out one fresco at a time so that visitors could continue to see Raphael’s famed works.
523 2013-02-23 Most of the casualties in Damascus were caused by an especially powerful bomb near the headquarters of President Assad’s Baath Party and the Russian Embassy, which were both damaged, according to Russian news reports and witnesses contacted in the capital. SANA reported that a hospital and neighboring schools were also damaged.

No group has taken responsibility for the Damascus bombings, but the government has said they were carried out by terrorists, its generic description for the alliance of armed rebels seeking to oust Mr. Assad. The National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, the main Syrian group for the opposition, which was meeting in Cairo at the time, condemned the bombings, as did its Western supporters, including the United States.

Victoria Nuland, a State Department spokeswoman, told reporters on Thursday that the United States denounced such bombings as “indiscriminate acts of violence against civilians or against diplomatic facilities.” The attacks violate international law, she said, adding that “perpetrators on all sides have to be held accountable.”

Nonetheless, the bombings appeared to create a new source of diplomatic friction between the United States and Russia, which has supported the Syrian government during the conflict and has rejected any proposed solution that would force Mr. Assad to relinquish power.

Russia’s mission to the United Nations accused the United States of blocking its attempt to seek approval of a Security Council statement that would have condemned the Damascus bombings as terrorism. The United States mission denied the Russian accusation, saying it had requested only that the Russian statement include a paragraph that also condemned the Syrian government’s “continued, indiscriminate use of heavy weaponry against civilians.”

In a statement posted online Friday, Erin Pelton, a spokeswoman for the United States mission, said, “Unfortunately, if predictably, Russia rejected the U.S.-suggested language as ‘totally unacceptable’ and withdrew its draft statement.”

Other insurgency-related violence was reported by the Syrian Observatory and activists elsewhere in Syria on Friday, including random sniping attacks in the north-central city of Raqqa that killed four people during an antigovernment demonstration, and seven people killed near a mosque in Dara’a, the southern city where the anti-Assad uprising first began in March 2011.

The Local Coordination Committees, a network of anti-Assad activists, reported that fighters with the Free Syrian Army and other groups had taken control of at least two military facilities in the suburbs of Deir al-Zour, an eastern city that has been a battleground for many months. The report, which could not be corroborated, also claimed that rebels had gained control of a missile facility in Deir al-Zour that was formerly the site of a partly built nuclear reactor bombed by Israeli warplanes in 2007. Syria disclosed the existence of the missile facility four years ago at a technical meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency.

Activists reached via Skype also reported what they described as rival demonstrations in the city of Kafr Nabl in northern Idlib Province, a rebel-held area, between a group calling for the establishment of an Islamic caliphate and a group seeking a secular state. The demonstrations appeared to reflect the influence of militant Islamist groups like the Al Nusra Front, which have been welcomed by some in the Syrian opposition for their brave fighting skills but are regarded warily by others. The United States has been reluctant to provide weapons to the Syrian insurgency partly because it considers Al Nusra a terrorist group, with links to Al Qaeda militants in neighboring Iraq.

In Idlib, what appeared to be a deepening sectarian divide caused by the conflict has taken the form of retaliatory kidnappings between rival Shiite and Sunni villages in recent weeks. The Syrian Observatory reported on Thursday, however, that scores of hostages had been released.

In Cairo, the Syrian opposition coalition concluded its two-day meeting Friday with an announcement that it would convene again in Istanbul on March 2 and begin forming a provisional government by naming a prime minister. Members hope that such a government can begin providing services in rebel-controlled territories and help prepare for a transition, predicated on the assumption that Mr. Assad leaves power.

The coalition also pulled back from recent statements by its leader, Sheik Ahmad Moaz al-Khatib, who had said he was open to talks with members of Mr. Assad’s government about a political solution to end the conflict.

“Bashar al-Assad and the security and military leadership responsible for the state of Syria today must step down and be considered outside this political process,” the coalition said in a statement after the meeting. “They cannot be part of any political solution for Syria and must be held accountable for their crimes.”
524 2013-02-23 “The stock market is the same place it was in 2000 with double the earnings,” said Todd M. Morgan, senior managing director at Bel Air Investment Advisors. “Stocks are set to outperform bonds over the next three to five years.”

This may very well be true, but most people still think fearfully about stocks. What would it take to get more people to buy stocks? And by this, I don’t mean going all in as investors did in the late 1990s, but creating some semblance of a balanced portfolio.

Mr. Morgan and other advisers said that investors are being misled by talk about near-record levels for the Dow Jones and Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index today. When adjusted for inflation, the levels approached earlier this year are not true highs. A new high for the Dow, for example, would be around 15,600.

What is more telling are the earnings and dividends of companies. Niall J. Gannon, executive director of wealth management at the Gannon Group at Morgan Stanley, calculated that the dividends on S.& P. 500 stocks were $15.97 in 2000 and $31.25 in 2012. Earnings per share were $56 in 2000 and $101 in 2012. In other words, two major measures of a stock’s attractiveness have doubled in the last 12 years, but the index has not kept pace.

“A big mirage is going on in investors’ minds,” Mr. Gannon said. “They think stocks are expensive because they’ve used index levels as the measure.”

And investors aren’t confident that stocks will continue to rise, given the volatility in recent years. They may well fall in the short term, but over the next few years they are more likely to give investors a better return than bonds. Mr. Gannon pointed to an earnings yield on the S.& P. 500 of around 7 percent.

But these are rational arguments for individual companies. They do not account for concerns that the actions of the Federal Reserve have skewed stock prices, another rational fear.

Michael Sonnenfeldt, the founder of Tiger 21, an investment club whose members each have at least $10 million to invest, said the feeling from the group’s annual conference was that the 14,000 level on the Dow was worrisome because it could be the result of all the money the Federal Reserve has put into the system and not based on company fundamentals.

The group, he said, was also worried that the Federal Reserve, having kept interest rates artificially low for so long, could have created a situation where investors suddenly demand higher interest rates at a government bond auction. A crisis like that could lead to deflation, and not inflation — where stocks are considered a hedge.

What’s telling is that Tiger 21 members reported increasing their allocation to equities by 3 percentage points in the last six months. “It’s not a stampede,” he said. “The focus has been on dividend-paying stocks, not growth stocks or tech stocks.”

For people with far less than $10 million to invest, the catalyst to buy stocks will probably be losing money in the bonds they own. “Over the last three years, you’ve lost out not being in stocks,” said Bernie Williams, vice president of discretionary money management at USAA Investments. “But you still made money in bonds. From that perspective, investors are not really feeling the pain.”

There is an alternative view, of course, that says the unwillingness of people to invest in stocks now is completely normal and that what happened in the 1990s with stocks and in the 2000s with real estate were anomalies, at least for average investors.

“The alternative to investing or saving is spending today and that is always infinitely more pleasurable,” said Don Phillips, president of investment research at Morningstar. “Throughout the ’80s and ’90s, you had this amazing bull market and it gave you this immediate gratification that usually only spending gives you. Now we’ve been through a more realistic period, and people realize that is not always the case. The reward is deferred, and there may be severe losses.”

Mr. Phillips noted that if people were able to pick a winning stock 55 or 60 percent of the time, they would be remarkably successful. But in spending money on something they want today, their success rate is automatically 100 percent.

“I think for a mature American adult, investing should be an expectation,” Mr. Phillips said. “So much of the discussion around the recent tax increases is that investing is something only the 1 percent does. That fuels this mind-set that makes investing seem unrealistic for most people.”

Greg B. Davies, head of behavioral finance at Barclays Wealth and Investment Management, said people could persuade themselves to increase their allocation to equities by joining investment clubs where the group, in theory, would be better at making a decision that was painful. People could also slowly buy the stocks they want, a process called dollar-cost averaging.

“The classical economics position on all of this is that it is irrational and you should ignore it,” Mr. Davies said. “That’s not very helpful advice. We do have an emotional response.”

He said he would instead encourage average investors to forget about maximizing their risk-adjusted returns and aim for their “best anxiety-adjusted returns.”

For those with more fortitude, the simplest solution is to take the long view — as in 10 or 20 years, which is a lot of delayed gratification.

“Whenever you’re having a discussion like this, time horizon is a key consideration,” said Bill Stromberg, head of global equities at T. Rowe Price. “Most investors have been conditioned to think the next six to 12 months out. It’s too hard for anyone to predict what’s going to happen then.”

And while no one I spoke with expected stocks to return to double-digit returns year after year, a simple argument could be made for a return based on a dividend of 2 percent and earnings growth of 5 to 6 percent.

“That’s not a home run for anyone, but it’s better than you get in bonds,” Mr. Stromberg said.

It is entirely possible that stocks will lose value across the board this year or the stocks you pick will fall significantly. But that is why every adviser stresses diversification and a long view. What matters is how a portfolio’s returns look in a decade or two, not tomorrow.
525 2013-02-24 Warby Parker, a start-up whose retro-style eyeglasses have been selling mostly through word of mouth, has been selective about its investors as it seeks to improve its profile....
526 2013-02-24 All sides seem to agree that the Voting Rights Act did a lot to make elections fairer. But is there evidence today that the law is still needed? In 2006, Congress thought that it was. But critics say its approach to voter protection, based on race and 1960s dynamics, no longer makes sense. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments on the question, in Shelby County v. Holder.

What are the signs that the Voting Rights Act could be phased out, or perhaps expanded?
527 2013-02-24 An initiative to raise awareness and encourage prosecution of those who target journalists....
528 2013-02-24 Go to next slide
529 2013-02-24 In some of his strongest public remarks about the reported Chinese-sponsored cyber attacks on American companies and government agencies, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee said that the situation was “as bad as I’ve ever seen it...
530 2013-02-24 Governors in both parties warned of the potentially damaging consequences if President Obama and Congress do not agree on a plan before Friday to avoid deep spending cuts....
531 2013-02-24 The Mets’ Pedro Feliciano will be sidelined for two weeks while doctors determine the cause of some irregularity in his heart, General Manager Sandy Alderson said....
532 2013-02-24 The euro makes all the difference....
533 2013-02-24 Scenes from the Milan Fashion Week photo diary of Filippo Mutani....
534 2013-02-24 The couple met in Jerusalem in January 2011 at a party of a mutual friend. Ms. Kweskin, who was born and raised in Charlotte, had moved there in August 2010, shortly after she graduated from law school. Mr. Weiss, who was raised in Margate, N.J., had moved there shortly after his high school graduation in 2003. He served in the Israeli Defense Forces for a year before attending the university. They met at a house party with other Americans.

“She was new,” Mr. Weiss said. “She had this radiance about her.”

“There was a spark, and he was very animated and charming,” Ms. Kweskin said. “But I felt like, he’s just another guy like I always meet. From New Jersey and working in finance.”

Still, they enjoyed talking. They both loved Broadway musicals and made “soft” plans to see a show together someday. Mr. Weiss got Ms. Kweskin’s number from a mutual friend and texted her a few days later asking if she would like to get together. She said no. And so it went for several months. He would ask her out, and she would decline. “I did think he was intriguing,” Ms. Kweskin said. “I just wasn’t in the frame of mind.”

In August 2011, at a wedding of a mutual friend, they reconnected and had a wonderful time. Something felt different, but Ms. Kweskin still kept him in the friend category. Over the Jewish holidays, they saw each other quite a bit, and their friendship deepened. They talked every day.

“If he were at the party or social event or Shabbat meal, I was always a little bit happier,” Ms. Kweskin said. “There was a light in the room, but I still didn’t connect it to dating.”

In November, Mr. Weiss lost patience. He suggested they start officially dating. Again, she said no. “I told her I thought she was making a huge mistake,” Mr. Weiss said.

The next day, she called him. He did not pick up, but texted: “Sorry, on a date. Call you later.”

“I was devastated,” Ms. Kweskin said. She asked if they could meet for dinner the next night. He said yes.

To this day, Ms. Kweskin is embarrassed at the unromantic declaration that followed, but it was the best she could do. “Listen, Yoni, I don’t want to date you, but I don’t want you dating anyone else,” she recalled saying over dinner.

Mr. Weiss laughed. He wasn’t on a date the night before. He was bluffing.
535 2013-02-24 Although Princess Cristina is not part of the investigation, Mr. Torres also indicated in his testimony that she had been involved in the running of the foundation with her husband, either directly or through her royal secretary, Carlos García Revenga.

Judge Castro has not yet determined whether prosecutors have enough evidence to charge Mr. Urdangarin, Mr. Torres and others involved in the foundation.

The police on Saturday blocked off the courthouse in Palma, Majorca, and the surrounding streets to keep jeering protesters far from Mr. Urdangarin.

Virginia López Negrete, a lawyer who attended the hearing as a third party in the case, said, “Nothing that he said today has convinced me of his innocence — quite the contrary — nor has he provided anything to refute all the evidence that has been building up as court documents.” Ms. López Negrete was there on behalf of Manos Limpias, or Clean Hands, an association that is urging the judiciary to pursue dozens of corruption cases.

The scandals have also landed on the doorstep of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, who is dealing with an investigation into how his party’s former treasurer, Luis Bárcenas, amassed millions in secret Swiss bank accounts and whether Mr. Bárcenas ran a parallel fund to make illegal payments to senior politicians.

Mr. Bárcenas, Mr. Rajoy and other party leaders have denied any wrongdoing, but the allegations have angered Spaniards, who are struggling with austerity cuts imposed by Mr. Rajoy’s government. On Saturday, thousands of protesters in Madrid shouted slogans like “Your envelopes, my spending cuts!”

Speaking by phone from Palma after the court session, Ms. López Negrete, the lawyer from the Clean Hands association, said a “very nervous” Mr. Urdangarin had refused to answer many of the prosecutors’ questions. He denied any wrongdoing in connection with his foundation, adding that his associates had handled its day-to-day management, she said. Mr. Urdangarin also said he had never had any offshore bank accounts, and denied claims that he had a business meeting with regional politicians from Valencia in the king’s Zarzuela palace, as alleged by Mr. Torres, his former associate.

In other testimony on Saturday, Mr. García Revenga, the royal secretary, said the king was unaware that he and the princess had been members of the board of Nóos, roles that were more symbolic than executive, he suggested, according to Ms. López Negrete. Mr. García Revenga said that he joined the board as a “personal favor” to Mr. Urdangarin and that he and the princess were not involved in decision-making, Ms. López Negrete said. But Mr. García Revenga was presented in court with copies of e-mails suggesting that he helped organize business meetings for Nóos, Ms. López Negrete said.

Mr. Urdangarin’s lawyers, however, asked the court to exclude the e-mails suggesting that the king and the royal household had monitored Mr. Urdangarin’s activities long before the royal palace had publicly acknowledged. The lawyers raised questions about the authenticity of those e-mails and other documents provided by Mr. Torres.
536 2013-02-24 Among the early signs are that economically cyclical sectors, like financial stocks in the MSCI EAFE index of foreign equities, have been outperforming defensive areas like health care and consumer staples since December.

Part of this can be attributed to the growing clarity about the state of the global economy, money managers say. It is not so much that the economy is booming, but that some of the greatest potential dangers seem to have receded.

Most prominently, concerns about a euro zone breakup have abated since Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, declared that the bank would do “whatever it takes” to save the euro. Ever since that announcement, in late July, European equities have been in rally mode.

“In the international markets, you saw the removal of major tail risks last year, particularly in Europe,” said Jason A. White, a portfolio specialist at T. Rowe Price.

Meanwhile, fears over China’s slowdown seemed to subside at the end of last year on signs that the world’s second largest economy was finally beginning to re-accelerate. In November, government data showed that industrial output and retail sales in China grew much faster than expected, bolstering the bullish case for Chinese and emerging-market stocks. Since then, the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index has soared nearly 20 percent.

The improving global economy, though, isn’t the only reason risk-taking may be re-emerging.

Money managers note that fear over Europe’s debt crisis has been driving investors into defensive-oriented stocks overseas for several years. This is particularly true for shares of consumer companies that manufacture staples like food and household products that continue to be in demand regardless of the health of the economy.

“In an environment where returns for the equity markets were quite poor, you saw very decent returns in those staples,” said Harry Hartford, president of Causeway Capital Management. As a result, though, “consumer staples outside the U.S. looks pretty fully priced,” he said.

Take Diageo. Shares of the British spirits maker, which has sales in about 180 countries, have climbed more than 26 percent a year for the last three years. That means Diageo shares now trade at a price/earnings ratio of more than 18, based on forecast profits. By comparison, the average P/E for MSCI EAFE stocks is less than 14.

Unilever, the packaged food and household goods company, is another example. In 2008, amid the global financial crisis, the stock was trading at around 11 times earnings. Today, Unilever’s P/E ratio stands at 17 times earnings.

“A lot of the defensive industries had big runs, so valuations got extended,” said W. George Greig, head of international investing for the asset manager William Blair & Company. As a consequence, he said, “some investors are starting to say that the defensive stocks aren’t as defensive as they thought.”

NOT all money managers are convinced that the worst of the economic storm is behind us. “We know that after a financial crisis, it takes a long time to recover,” said Simon Hallett, chief investment officer for the asset manager Harding Loevner. “We think a conservative approach is still appropriate — there are still an awful lot of things that can go wrong.”

Mr. Greig said investors were not seeking economically sensitive stocks out of a newfound sense of euphoria. “This is not a venturesome ‘risk on’ mind-set,” he said. Rather, investors are reluctantly seeking out cyclically oriented stocks because their valuations are so low that they now look compelling, and there may be better values in areas that had been considered riskier.
537 2013-02-24 The project’s director is Luigi Fieni, 39, an Italian who first came to work here after graduating from an art conservation program in Rome. Mr. Fieni and other Westerners have trained local residents to work on the art, creating a 35-member team that includes 20 women and one monk (though there was initial reluctance from local men to tolerate the women’s participation).

There are three major religious buildings in Lo Manthang. Two of them are monasteries, and one is a temple traditionally used for ceremonies by the royal family. Their thick, red walls rise among alleyways that wind past whitewashed mud-brick homes. An 80-year-old king and his family reside in a palace in the town center. The town was founded in the 14th century, and the oldest religious buildings date to the 15th century.

Much of the Tibetan art here reflects a Newari influence, which comes from the Katmandu Valley. Centuries ago, Newari artisans were welcomed by some Tibetan rulers, especially those who followed the Sakya branch of Tibetan Buddhism, which is common throughout Mustang.

The art project began in 1999 with the cleaning of murals in Thubchen Monastery, after an initial round of architectural reconstruction. Then the painters moved on to Jampa Temple, where the dark main chamber has a towering statue of Maitreya, the future Buddha.

The walls on the first floor are adorned with remarkably detailed mandalas, a form of geometric art considered a representation of the cosmos. Here, Mr. Fieni decided to deviate from the initial approach taken at Thubchen. He wanted his team, rather than do purely restoration, to paint sections of the walls where an original mural had disappeared or been destroyed.

The painters would then try to recreate those pictures based on tradition and on what had been painted elsewhere in the chamber. Mr. Fieni also consulted with monks to ask what pictures they wanted on the walls. In 2010, the team returned to Thubchen to adopt the new approach and paint large sections.

“Call this painting, not restoration or conservation,” Mr. Fieni said. He added that this method helped restore the living nature of the artwork, as opposed to what he called the Western “colonialism” approach of preserving the old above all else.

“When we arrived, we started working following the Westerners’ theories of conservation,” Mr. Fieni said. “Then, while working and living within the community, I changed my point of view, and I decided to follow the needs of the culture I was working for. So I decided to start reconstructing the missing areas.”

Once taught how to paint, local residents decide how they want to decorate the monasteries, Mr. Fieni said.

“All the other conservation projects I’ve seen are Westerners doing the artwork, locals fetching clay,” he said. “This is the first one where we train the locals.”

There were challenges. Painters in higher castes initially did not want artists in lower castes sitting on the scaffolding above them. And there were religious beliefs to accommodate. At the buildings, an abbot used a mirror to absorb the spirits of the gods in the statues and murals before the painting began; after the project is completed, the abbot is expected to release the spirits from the mirror so they can return.

Mr. Fieni’s approach to restoring the temples and monasteries has been contested. Christian Luczanits, a senior curator at the Rubin Museum of Art in New York, which displays Himalayan art, said he blanched at what he saw when he traveled to Mustang in 2010 and 2012. Mr. Luczanits said that sufficient scholarship had not been done into the original paintings. Now, because of the new painting, any scholar wanting to study the originals must look at photographs rather than rely on what is present in the temple, he said.

“The temple now after restoration cannot be understood anymore without the previous documentation,” Mr. Luczanits said in an interview.

Last year, he made his opinion known at a contentious meeting at the palace in Lo Manthang. Among those present were Mr. Fieni, an abbot, the prince of Mustang and representatives of the American Himalayan Foundation, which gives financial support to many development projects in Mustang. (The foundation’s president, Erica Stone, said the total being spent on the building renovations in Lo Manthang alone was $2.58 million. An additional $768,000 had been spent for restoring the town wall and constructing drainage.)

There was vigorous debate, and the royal family and the abbot both backed Mr. Fieni. The ceremonial prince, Jigme Singi Palbar Bista, said in an interview that the buildings “are renovated very well.”

Thoroughly painting Thubchen Monastery would take another three to four years, but the project’s budget will run out this year. Mr. Fieni estimated there was a total of about 3,660 square feet of wall space to paint.

He said he was thinking about moving on to restoration projects in India or Myanmar with some of the painters he had trained here. In 2006 and 2007, he took five of them to work with him at a Tibetan monastery in Sichuan Province, in western China, a project that was never completed because the Chinese authorities shut down access to the area after a Tibetan uprising in 2008.
538 2013-02-24 This small Mediterranean nation goes to the polls at a moment of rising uncertainty and apprehension. Nicos Anastasiades, the leader of the conservative party Democratic Rally, is expected to best Stavros Malas, who is backed by AKEL, the Communist party.

Mr. Anastasiades comes from the same conservative bloc in Europe, the European People’s Party, as Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Ms. Merkel came here for a party conference in January and met with Mr. Anastasiades at that time.

But on the subject that preoccupies many Cypriots, the anticipated bailout, the difference between the two candidates may be slim. Mr. Malas has called for a softening of the harshest austerity measures but otherwise has promised to stay the course with the sort of budget-slashing measures advocated by Germany that have led to deep recessions in other European countries.

“Fundamentally, the average Cypriot and even the average politician realizes this model being imposed by Germany all over Europe is flawed,” said Bambos Papageorgiou, who is a member of the Cypriot Parliament’s finance committee from AKEL and who used to work in the London derivatives market. “But our situation is such that we can’t avoid negotiating.”

Cyprus has known its share of adversity. The island has been divided since the Turkish Army invaded the northern part of the island in 1974. United Nations peacekeepers still patrol the buffer zone, which runs through the center of the capital, Nicosia.

Graffiti written in black spray paint near one of the blue and white guard posts at the edge of the zone on the Greek side reads “Troika Go Home.”

Cyprus has been unable to raise money in international bond markets for a year and has been kept afloat only by a loan of $3.5 billion from the Russian government. That allowed it to put off the final reckoning, which is now coming due.

In absolute terms, the bailout of Cyprus under discussion is quite small compared with the cost of keeping Greece afloat, around $22 billion compared with roughly $327 billion. But German politicians have balked at what they see as a bailout for Russian oligarchs and money launderers, who they say keep their money in Cypriot banks.

Cyprus signed a memorandum of understanding with the troika in November, cutting salaries for government workers by up to 15 percent. Additionally, public pension payments were pared back by as much as 10 percent, and the value-added tax will rise. Both sides decided to wait until a new government was in place to complete the bailout.

In the meantime, Cyprus’s economy shrank by roughly 2.3 percent last year, according to preliminary estimates by the government statistics office, driving the unemployment rate up to 14.7 percent by the end of the year.

Though frustrated, European voters have tended to hold their noses and vote for pro-bailout candidates, as they did in Greece last year when Antonis Samaras eked out a victory over Alexis Tsipras’s radical-left Syriza. But political analysts wonder how long their patience will hold as austerity measures punish the most indebted countries and their pared-back spending pulls down even the Continent’s healthier economies.

And there is little hope for a rapid recovery. The European Commission said Friday that the economy of the euro zone would shrink 0.3 percent in 2013. The commission also forecast that Cyprus’s economy would shrink 3.5 percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014.

Marios Mavrides, a member of Parliament with Democratic Rally and a professor of economics at the European University Cyprus, predicted that as the deep budget cuts mandated by the troika began to bite, recession would last all the way into 2015.

“We need to go through a deep recession. There’s no other way,” Mr. Mavrides said. “The banking system is virtually hanging from a single thread.”

The mood is especially pessimistic among young Cypriots. “I don’t see any future for the young generation,” said Marios Georgiou, 30, a sales representative in Nicosia, who said he was saving money to emigrate, possibly to Australia or Canada.

In the meantime, property developers have started placing their hopes on Asian investors. The highway between Limassol and the resort town of Paphos is lined with billboards advertising property in Chinese characters. Christos Charalambous said that his employer, Kleanthis Savva Developers, had several dozen clients from China.

“We hope that this year things will turn around. Last year was the worst that I can remember in the real estate business,” said Mr. Charalambous, who has worked in the industry for a decade. “If 2013 is worse than 2012, many businesses will default.”

There is hope on the horizon, in the form of substantial natural gas reserves discovered in the waters between Cyprus and Israel. Recalling the difficult period four decades ago after Turkey invaded, Andreas Christou, Limassol’s mayor, said he remained optimistic. “We shall find a way to survive,” he said.
539 2013-02-24 “But I don’t think about it,” Price said. “I just don’t. That’s not why I play the game. I love the game. I’ve loved it since I was 2 years old. I enjoy being a part of an environment like this and doing stuff the way that we do stuff. It’s the right way.”

The Rays have averaged nearly 92 victories a season since 2008, when they won the A.L. pennant with Price on the mound. He had been drafted first over all the previous June, and when he visited Tropicana Field, he received bags of free merchandise, only to learn that the trinkets would soon be obsolete. The next season, he was told, the team would drop its black-and-green color scheme and no longer be known as the Devil Rays.

It was Price’s introduction to an organization in which nothing stays the same — except a relentlessly creative operating philosophy. In 10 tries, the Devil Rays had only losing seasons. In five tries, the Rays have known only winning. To sustain that streak, they have traded several top starters, including Scott Kazmir, Matt Garza and, this winter, James Shields.

“There’s nothing we do where we’re not thinking about the future and how to extend our talent runway, to have the requisite depth to put us in position to have success in the American League East,” General Manager Andrew Friedman said.

“So we’re consumed by that. We’re driven by that.”

The Rays have kept some stars until they reached free agency, including outfielders Carl Crawford and B. J. Upton. They could always do the same with Price, whose rights they retain through 2015. But the trade of Shields, who actually had more innings and strikeouts than Price last season, came with two years left on his deal and netted an impressive return.

The Rays sent Shields and another starter, Wade Davis, to the Kansas City Royals for a prospect package that included two pitchers and outfielder Wil Myers, Baseball America’s minor league player of the year. Rays players understood the move.

“I get it,” starter Matt Moore said. “It’s part of the game. This isn’t Little League, where you get to play with your friends all the way up. I’m just grateful he was my teammate.”

Shields, 31, had been with the organization for 13 years, including 7 in the majors. He was a leader on the staff, a role that now falls mainly to Price, who enthusiastically fills it.

Each inning a fellow starter comes off the mound, Manager Joe Maddon said, Price is the first to greet him in the dugout. When a teammate throws live batting practice, Price stands behind the cage, encouraging him. Price invites teammates to his home to play video games, and his French bulldog, Astro, is the clubhouse mascot.

“Stuff like that, that goes so far,” Maddon said. “Those kinds of things are impactful. I don’t know exactly how much, but I know it’s great.”

Mostly, of course, Price leads with his left arm. According to Fangraphs, his average fastball last season was 95.5 miles per hour, best among major league starters. Yet he continued to grow as a pitcher, using the fastball less often and baffling hitters by throwing off-speed pitches nearly 40 percent of the time. He held opponents to a puny .276 slugging percentage with runners in scoring position.

The result was a 20-5 record and an A.L.-best 2.56 earned run average, and the Rays rewarded him with a one-year contract for a little more than $10 million, avoiding salary arbitration. Price said there were no active discussions on a long-term deal, but he has no plans to take a discount. An economics major at Vanderbilt, he has a strong grasp of the marketplace.

“As major league players, we’re a brotherhood,” Price said. “We have to look out for other guys that are coming along, the next King Felix or the next C. C. Sabathia or Justin Verlander. Those guys are putting their work in now, whether they’re in the minor leagues or still in high school.

“If we sign a lesser deal, or whatever the case is, it affects everybody, not just you. That’s something you want to take into consideration, because people have obviously paved the way for us to make the money that we’ve been making. We’re very fortunate, and we’re very grateful.”

Friedman said that it was obvious that Price deserved a “very substantial contract,” and that the team would continue to evaluate his status. For now, he said, it makes most sense to concentrate on this season, and that seems fine with Price.

Price said he rarely thought about the business side of baseball until 2010, his first full year in the majors. He had signed for $8.5 million out of college, but teammates never held it against him. The hazing at his first training camp, he said, was harmless fun — Troy Percival slapped a sticker of himself on the hood of Price’s BMW, and Price drove around with it for a week.

The high jinks never seem to end around the Rays, a loose team with few rules. On the clubhouse bulletin board Friday, someone superimposed Maddon’s likeness into a photo of Peyton and Eli Manning, poking fun at the manager’s prowess as a small-college quarterback. Around the corner, the giant head of a wild boar hung from the locker of outfielder Luke Scott, who killed it with a spear.

Price said he had always liked being on the Rays — the proximity to his Nashville home, the diversity of the roster, the chance to win. But he does not discount the possibility he might even be traded this season.

“Whether I spend the rest of my career here, whether I spend a half-year here, a year or more, I cherish this time — because I know it’s invaluable, what we have going on here,” he said. “You can’t say enough about what this organization has done for me, how they’ve all taken me in.”

Soon enough, they may have to let him go, an outcome that might be necessary, even if neither side really wants it to happen. Price can appreciate the resourcefulness of the front office, even if it means he must leave someday to keep the talent runway moving.

“You can’t knock it,” he said, “because what they’ve done has worked.”
540 2013-02-24 For a two-part series on “This American Life,” I spent five months beginning in August with two social workers at Harper High School in Englewood, an impoverished neighborhood on Chicago’s South Side. The previous school year, Harper had lost eight current and former students to gun violence — and 21 others were shot and wounded.

On the first day of school, when I met the social workers, Crystal Winfield Smith and Anita Stewart, they were dragging, unsure whether they could make it through another school year. Just two months earlier, in June, a 16-year-old sophomore, Shakaki Asphy, whom they had been very close to, was gunned down while standing on the porch of an abandoned building talking with a friend. That friend, Thomas, had already witnessed a number of other shootings, including one at age 10 when, at a party, the birthday girl, who was also 10, was hit by a stray bullet.

I sat in the social workers’ office when Thomas told Ms. Stewart and Ms. Winfield Smith that he wanted to hurt someone. At first I thought it was tough guy talk, but then I realized he was trying — the best he could — to be honest about some feelings he had, feelings that scared him. “You’ve got kids walking around who just are on guard with everything and everyone,” Ms. Winfield Smith told me. “It’s almost like you don’t have a moment to rest.”

Harper’s school psychologist, Elizabeth Stranzl, told me of one 16-year-old boy whose friend was gunned down in front of him, in the morning on the way to school. The boy, who had been doing well at school, began to drift. When walking through the neighborhood he’d have hallucinations, imagining that he was seeing his dead friend, imagining ways that he might have protected him. He became disconnected from friends and from school. His affect became flattened. “You could see the transformation,” Ms. Stranzl said. “He was present, but he wasn’t. He just felt defeated.” She worried he was getting more active in the streets.

In December, the Department of Justice released a little-noticed report that suggested that children exposed to community violence might turn to violence themselves as “a source of power, prestige, security, or even belongingness.” The report went on to recommend that these children should be treated by professionals. At Hadiya Pendleton’s school, the principal said that over the Christmas holidays two students were shot and injured. If their experiences were at all typical, they were undoubtedly treated at a hospital emergency room and then released without any referral for counseling.

In Philadelphia, there’s a remarkable, albeit small, program, Healing Hurt People, a collaboration of Drexel University’s College of Medicine and School of Public Health, which scours two emergency rooms in the city for young men and teens who have been shot and pulls them in for counseling. When the program’s founder, Ted Corbin, was an emergency room doctor in Washington, D.C., he saw how shooting victims were treated and then sent back out on the streets, where, if they didn’t do injury to themselves, they’d most likely injure someone else. “If you don’t peel back some of the layers,” Mr. Corbin told me, “you don’t know how to stop that recycling of people.”

AS Dr. Corbin and his colleagues began to work with shooting victims in Philadelphia, they saw clear symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. I visited the program last summer and met one young man who had night terrors so real that his girlfriend feared for her safety. Another young man told me that whenever he passes the spot where he was shot, he thinks he sees himself on the ground writhing in pain, and he approaches the specter to assure himself that he’ll be O.K. Another who was shot and paralyzed in an argument over a pair of sunglasses said that whenever he thinks about revenge or gets angry, which is often, he has incapacitating phantom pains in his legs. Two of the young men I spoke to had attempted suicide. Virtually all spoke of feeling alone, of not trusting anyone. And all admitted to drinking or smoking marijuana to keep the memories at bay, though, as they often discovered, the effect could be just the opposite.

Dr. Corbin told me that the young men he and his colleagues encounter hesitate to share their experiences because they fear they’ll be blamed. He also told me of a 13-year-old boy who was shot in the hand in a case of mistaken identity. At school, no adult asked what had happened to him, and he didn’t want to tell any of his teachers because he felt ashamed. He felt that they’d think he’d done something to deserve it. “We try to let them know they’re not crazy for feeling these things,” Dr. Corbin told me.

The violence also profoundly affects those working on the front lines, like Harper’s social workers. Not long ago, Anita Stewart told me that she has a recurring dream about Shakaki, the young girl who was murdered last June, in which she grapples with how to tell Shakaki that she’s been killed. After Ms. Stewart told me about this dream, she said, more to herself than to me, “No, you need to accept it, she’s dead.”

As Tim O’Brien says, it gets in your bones. In the wake of Hadiya Pendleton’s shooting, we’ve talked about stiffer gun control laws, about better policing, about providing mentoring and after-school programs, all of which are essential. But missing from this conversation is any acknowledgment that the violence eats away at one’s soul — whether you’re a direct victim, a witness or, like Anita Stewart, simply a friend of the deceased. Most suffer silently. By themselves. Somewhere along the way, we need to focus on those left behind in our cities whose very character and sense of future have been altered by what they’ve experienced on the streets.
541 2013-02-24 Whether the cuts — which include phasing out the departments of physical education and visual arts and also the journalism program, and suspending admission to graduate programs in economics and Spanish — disproportionately affect racial minorities is in dispute at the university, where minority members make up 31 percent of the student body.

Certain programs that focused on or made recruiting minority members a priority have been shifted to other departments or eliminated, but university officials say the impact will not be as drastic as protesters believe.

Savings will be reinvested in other departments, including neurosciences, studies of contemporary China and new media studies.

Such academic realignment is starting to happen at liberal arts colleges around the country, said Phil Kleweno, a consultant at Bain & Company who specializes in higher education.

“Not every school can excel in every subject,” he said. “Given where we are financially, these are wise decisions for many universities to make.”

In an interview on Friday, Dr. Wagner said neither the cuts nor his self-described gaffe in Emory Magazine was intended to hurt what he described as a vibrant multicultural environment at the college.

The president’s misstep was only the latest episode in what one Emory administrator called “quite a challenging year” for the private university.

Although still listed as the 20th best university in the nation in U.S. News and World Report’s latest ranking, Emory admitted in August that it had intentionally sent incorrect test scores to the magazine and the Department of Education for more than a decade.

The university has also grappled over whether to allow Chick-fil-A, whose conservative Christian owners have donated large amounts of money to organizations opposed to same-sex marriage, to operate on campus.

And in October, Dr. Wagner officially apologized to Jewish dental students who had been failed, harassed or both under John E. Buhler’s tenure as dean of the dental school from 1948 to 1961.

Many saw the apology for that chapter in Emory’s history, when as many as 65 percent of Jewish students had to redo course work or were failed, as a healing move in keeping with the culture of the university, which has devoted years to studying its own racial history, both good and bad.

The school, which is 177 years old, was named for John Emory, a Methodist bishop who owned slaves. Although many of its leaders favored segregated education, the school decided in 1962 to sue the state for the right to enroll students regardless of race.

More recently, the school dealt with a fraternity that flew a Confederate flag and an anthropology professor who used a racial epithet in class. But it also houses significant collections of African-American historical artifacts and literature, including what is thought to be the nation’s most complete database documenting American slave trade routes.

“Emory is a community that airs its laundry,” Dr. Wagner said in the interview, calling that a strength and a demonstration of its ability to evolve with its student body.

“We’ve had several wounds this year,” he said. “This one,” he added, referring to the magazine column, “is a particularly painful wound for me because it was self-inflicted.”

Jovonna Jones, 19, the president of the Black Student Alliance at Emory, said she had forgiven Dr. Wagner for his transgression.

“As an African-American woman who has gone to predominately white institutions since middle school, I’ve had lots of incidents like this,” she said. “It’s hard to be shocked anymore.”

People keep asking her if she thinks the university president is a racist, Ms. Jones said.

“I don’t think that’s the real question,” she said. “The important question is: What does it mean to embrace and value a diverse student body? What are the values of the school?”

Leslie Harris, a history professor and the director of a series of campus events that for five years examined issues of race at Emory, said she was more troubled by the intellectual holes in Dr. Wagner’s argument.

In his column, Dr. Wagner used the Congressional fight over the national debt to muse on the importance of compromise, which he called a tool for noble achievement. “The constitutional compromise about slavery, for instance, facilitated the achievement of what both sides of the debate really aspired to — a new nation,” he wrote.

That is a deep misunderstanding of history, Dr. Harris said.

“The three-fifths compromise is one of the greatest failed compromises in U.S. history,” she said. “Its goal was to keep the union together, but the Civil War broke out anyway.”

To members of the S.C.L.C., whose records are housed at Emory’s Manuscript, Archives, and Rare Book Library, the protesters at the reception were a welcome sign.

“I love it,” said Brenda Davenport, who has served as the national volunteer and youth organizer for the S.C.L.C. “Where else would you want protesters to show up but at something that is about the value of protesting?”
542 2013-02-24 Sandberg may have caught the to change the world from , or come by it genetically. She writes that her mother, at age 11, responded to a rabbi’s sermon on tikkun olam, the Jewish concept of repairing the world, by “grabbing a tin can and knocking on doors to support civil rights workers in the South.”

The charmed Sandberg is no Queen Bee. Unlike some other women who reach the top, she does not pull up the ladder, or jungle gym, as she prefers to think of it, behind her. Many women found it inspiring when she said in “Makers” that she left work at 5:30 to go home to her kids, even while they acknowledged that you might have to be Sheryl Sandberg to get away with that.

Sandberg, who worked at the Treasury Department for her mentor, , and at before going to Facebook, started a group called the Women of Silicon Valley to listen to celebrity speakers and swap stories.

She knows there is slow evolution or even erosion in women’s progress in some areas, and that many younger women don’t want to be called feminists. Professional women often take their husbands’ last names these days without a thought.

Her book is chockablock with good tips and insights, if a bit discouraging at times. She urges women in salary negotiations to smile frequently and use the word “we” instead of “I.” And she encourages employers and women to talk upfront about plans for children, which employers may fear is lawsuit fodder.

She seems to think she can remedy social paradigms with a new kind of club — a combo gabfest, session and corporate pep talk. (Where’s the yoga?)

Sandberg has been recruiting corporations to join her Lean In Foundation, which will create the Lean In Community and Lean In Circles, which are, as The Times’s Jodi Kantor wrote, like “consciousness-raising groups of yore.” The circles will entail 8 to 12 peers who will meet monthly and use “education modules” to learn the skills to pursue equality. (Like how used bus modules.) The debut assignment is a video on how to command more authority by altering how you speak and sit.

Women are encouraged to send in stories about leaning in, but no sad sacks allowed: “Share a positive ending about what you learned from the experience,” says the instructional material for Lean In Circles. And no truants: “Don’t invite flakes.”

That leaves me leaning out.

Sandberg has already gotten some flak from women who think that her attitude is too elitist and that she is too prone to blame women for failing to get ahead. (Not everyone has and volunteering to baby-sit, and Zuckerberg offering a shoulder to cry on.) Noting that her Facebook page for “Lean In” looks more like an ego wall with “deep thoughts,” critics argue that her unique perch as a mogul with the world’s best husband to boot makes her tone-deaf to the problems average women face as they struggle to make ends meet in a rough economy, while taking care of kids, aging parents and housework.

Sandberg describes taking her kids to a business conference last year and realizing en route that her daughter had . But the good news was that she was on the private jet.

Sandberg may mean well, and she may be setting up a run for national office. But she doesn’t understand the difference between a social movement and a social network marketing campaign. Just because digital technology makes connecting possible doesn’t mean you’re actually reaching people.

People come to a social movement from the bottom up, not the top down. Sandberg has co-opted the vocabulary and romance of a social movement not to sell a cause, but herself.

She says she’s using marketing for the purpose of social idealism. But she’s actually using social idealism for the purpose of marketing.
543 2013-02-24 Rob Sass evaluates five notable sales from the Bruce Weiner collection....
544 2013-02-24 In the February issue of Self magazine, Mr. Rosante and his moves are featured in a “Body by Hotties” workout, though one woman at a January session affectionately (if less flatteringly) called him “the bearded bohemian clown.”

Mr. Rosante, who is married to his high school girlfriend, Kate Rosante, 33, is the kind of guy who admits with no trace of embarrassment that he first hit the gym as a 13-year-old inspired by Marky Mark, a k a the actor Mark Wahlberg in his Calvin Klein underwear model days. (In college, Mr. Rosante moved on to Olympic sprinter Michael Johnson’s high-intensity-interval-training philosophies, which is where he has stayed. He has no formal exercise qualifications.)

Mr. Rosante’s avalanche of instructions and encouragement, all yelled above a hip-hop playlist, are about one part Mister Rogers, five parts rapper — so expletive-filled that exactly one sentence can be printed unedited here: “I’m resisting the urge to tickle some of you right now,” he said, after directing students to lift their arms over their heads.

His class, a Lululemon-free zone, attracts a wider range of body types, and more men, than most group fitness classes.

“The way he pushes you, in 45 minutes I think you get an hour and a half worth of workout,” said Kosta Zenelis, 35, a trader at a hedge fund. Mr. Zenelis said he used to go to group fitness classes once a week only because his girlfriend loves them; he now attends Mr. Rosante’s workout more frequently than she does.

Richard Fleming, a 27-year-old lawyer who also frequents the group cycling gym SoulCycle, savors the People’s Bootcamp atmosphere as much as the sweat. Some clientele at boutique gyms want “the latest ‘it’ or ‘posh’ workout and expect a massage and smoothie after every class or attend only because their favorite celebrity was spotted in class,” he said. “Here, people come to work, to do it at an affordable price, and to be in that positive environment without all the frills that some places use to attract people.”

Mr. Fleming also appreciates the lack of hoop-jumping required to secure a spot. “I don’t have to be at my computer exactly at noon on a Monday,” he said, referring to SoulCycle’s booking policy.

Mr. Rosante, whose day job is producing reality TV shows like “Hardcore Pawn” and “Ice Road Truckers,” is quick to both bring up and reject the idea that his pay-what-you-can “revolution” (his word) was born of media savvy. “It’s not an angle,” he said. “If I decided to start a boot camp and charge $60, I would make it successful. Period. Because that would be my goal. But that’s just not what this is about for me.”

He did not mention that he often adds free classes exclusively for regulars. “Why? Because I love you!” reads an e-mailed invitation to two “extra little sumpin’ sumpin’ ” classes. Work colleagues say that before he started the boot camp, he frequently volunteered to train them free, though Mr. Rosante shrugged off the description, calling the sessions “working out with a friend.” (In Mr. Rosante’s world, everyone is a friend or about to become one.)

“He really embodies what he preaches at the boot camp,” said Samantha Trolice, 23, a colleague who approached him for fitness and health advice after spotting him “making awesomely healthy smoothies every day” and with a bowl of fresh fruit on his desk, the way some people have candy dishes.

After every class, he sends an e-mail with the subject line, “You’re awesome.” It does not ask recipients to sign up for another class or to like him on Facebook. Instead it acknowledges that free hours are scarce. It closes with him saying: “You chose to spend one of them with us last night. Just wanted to say thanks for that.”
545 2013-02-24 Lynch, 67, has the plain-spoken demeanor of an old cowboy actor, a posture that masks a lifelong fear of public speaking. When his quietness got uncomfortable, Kaplan announced the start of a short meditation. For 10 minutes, the soundproofed room was dead silent. When it was over, Lynch stood up, refreshed. “So, do you guys have any questions?” he asked.

Kat Dennings’s boyfriend raised his hand and asked how he started meditation. Lynch made a funny face — he has answered this question a hundred times, all over the world. “I started here in Los Angeles on July 1, around 11 o’clock in the morning, a beautiful Saturday sunny day in 1973.” The group laughed at his exactness. “It was just yesterday,” he said softly. He continued: “I always tell the same story. were over with Maharishi in and lots of people were getting hip to Transcendental Meditation and different kinds of meditation, and I thought it was real baloney.” There was a knowing murmur — those in the audience had once had their doubts, too. “I thought I would become a raisin-and-nut eater, and I just wanted to work. And then all of a sudden, I heard this phrase, ‘True happiness is not out there, true happiness lies within.’ And this phrase had a ring of truth.”

Lynch brightened proudly. “You just got to stay regular in your meditation,” he eventually said. “It’s the transcendent that does everything good for us human beings. You get a key that opens the door to that with Transcendental Meditation as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi.”

Over the past few decades, David Lynch’s babbling dwarfs, ominous red curtains and just-around-the-corner episodes of hideous violence have become shorthand for a generation of art-house filmmaking. “Wild at Heart,” and his hit TV series received critical acclaim. And somewhere along the way, Lynch’s fringe vision of reality became a marketable brand. He directed commercials — with flickering light and his signature unease — for Calvin Klein and Dior. He has lent his name to several products, from Lynch edition bottles of Dom Pérignon to the David Lynch Signature Cup Organic Coffee company. He recently released a discordant musical album — “Crazy Clown Time” — and has produced a number of others. For decades he has exhibited paintings and drawings and photographs around the world. He designed a nightclub, Silencio (a reference to the theater in “Mulholland Drive”), in . Every night, people line up outside with hopes of experiencing something Lynchian, a phrase that once defined as that which “refers to a particular kind of irony where the very macabre and the very mundane combine in such a way as to reveal the former’s containment within the latter.”

What Lynch has not been doing, though, is making movies. Since “Mulholland Drive” was released in 2001, Lynch seems to have turned his focus almost entirely away from shadowy underworlds and toward spreading the word about Transcendental Meditation. In 2003, he told a group of reporters that he was part of a project to build “peace palaces” all around the world, where thousands of practitioners would live, eat, sleep and meditate around the clock. And during the last decade, Lynch has traveled the world, telling all who will listen about transcending to a unified field of being. In the meantime, he has only released one feature film.

Whether his tireless work for T.M. has prevented him from focusing on his directorial work or whether the peaceful world he now inhabits has become his higher calling remains unclear. But in 2011, the independent film director told the blog Indiewire that he thought Lynch had given up on movies entirely. “Lynch doesn’t even want to make films anymore,” he said. “I’ve talked to him about it, O.K.? I can tell when he talks about it.” And then, rhetorically: “I’m a lunatic, and he’s pushing Transcendental Meditation.”

Watching Lynch stand in front of a giant movie screen, preaching in his singsong frontier voice about how meditation could transform all that ails, it seemed as if might be right. Lynch told someone in the audience that the decision to meditate should be an easy one: “If you had a choice to vomit all day or feel healthy and strong, it would be kind of obvious.” Then he cackled, and it occurred to me then that, despite the lack of dwarfs or talking animals in the screening room, Lynch might be up to something else too. Trying to create world peace through meditation might simply be the most Lynchian thing that Lynch has ever done.

From the moment that Maharishi Mahesh Yogi arrived at the Honolulu airport in 1958, wearing robes, his ambition was to make Transcendental Meditation a global practice. He had been traveling across India for a few years, spreading the notion that meditation wasn’t just for monks and yogis but instead could be simplified for the masses. He would soon seize on a generation of young people’s desires to recreate the nirvana of hallucinogenic drugs and to live meaningful lives. In 1967, the Beatles met Maharishi, and he quickly became their spiritual adviser. Life magazine declared 1968 “the Year of the Guru,” with photographs of Maharishi. By 1977, a Gallup poll reported that 4 percent of Americans said they practiced T.M.

But then things got murky, and questions about the cult of personality grew. The Beatles left Maharishi’s ashram in a huff. Maharishi intensified his focus on a “world plan” to create peace through what he called the “Maharishi Effect,” in which 1 percent of the square root of the world population would meditate and radiate positivity. By the late 1970s, he had told his followers that they should practice more advanced, and more expensive, meditation techniques that took about two hours a day and could result in superhuman powers — the strength of an elephant and the ability to levitate.

By the 1980s, only a devout base remained dedicated to the world plan, and many of them settled in a small community in a corner of southern . , who worked for the Maharishi at the time, told me, “I started to be uncomfortable with what I sensed was a cultish atmosphere around Maharishi.” Soon, Maharishi stopped making public appearances, spending his time in an isolated compound in the . He named a Lebanese neuroscientist as his successor, giving him the ceremonial name and title Majaraja Adiraj Rajaraam, the First Ruler of the Global Country of World Peace. He had given him his weight in gold.

Far away, in , David Lynch drank, made money, married a number of women and directed violent and dark movies. Still, he loved meditating. On set, he would leave each day to go spend time alone in his trailer, “diving within.” Then, in 2001, Lynch heard about a rare opportunity: the Enlightenment Course. Maharishi, who had barely been seen in public for years, was offering devotees the chance to pay about a million dollars to spend a month with him in the Netherlands.

When Lynch arrived at the compound in Vlodrop, in June 2002, he had hopes that the $1 million fee — a significant investment for him — would allow him to spend a month at his master’s knee, basking in the glow of his enlightened consciousness. He was disappointed when he was told that Maharishi would not physically attend the meetings but instead would communicate with the small group of devoted benefactors via a teleconference system from his room upstairs. But it didn’t matter — like all things Maharishi did, Lynch says, his absence made sense. “When I play it back in my mind, he was right there,” he said. “It’s a strange thing. He was right above us but came through the television. But it was as if there was no television. And that’s the way it was.”

At the end of the Enlightenment Course, Lynch made his way back to Los Angeles as a changed man. “Everyone I saw was like a hero to me, trying to do the best they can, live life,” he said. “I was just in the strangest place. I’d pass through these different airports, and I’d look at the people, and I’d just love, love, loved the people.” I asked him if he still had the same feeling. “Yeah,” he said, looking away from me. “But the thing is, you could very easily sit under a tree. But if I heard that before I started — that you might want to sit under a tree, I’d stay away from that ’cause I want to work. You see what I mean? It gives you that feeling that you could sit under a tree, but it also gives you the feeling you could just go work.”

Could he have ended up sitting under a tree? I asked.

Lynch did feel a new sense of mission. “It was important for me to say something to the people, whether they listened or not, about my personal experience,” he said. Though he had long been fairly private about his love of T.M., Lynch started announcing his support of not only meditation but of Maharishi’s agenda for world change. This zeal didn’t go unnoticed by the leaders of Maharishi’s organization. In 2005, and Bob Roth, who spent decades working for Maharishi, suggested that Lynch start a foundation dedicated to helping troubled children through meditation. Lynch quickly expanded on the idea: he wanted to raise $7 billion to spread T.M. “I just remember him taking this idea and going two or three ideas beyond what we had in mind,” Hagelin said.

A year after the inception of the David Lynch Foundation for Consciousness-Based Education and World Peace, Lynch’s life began to change more visibly. He filed for divorce from Mary Sweeney, his third wife, longtime collaborator and the mother of his 14-year-old son. Not long after, Lynch was engaged to Emily Stofle, an unknown actress decades younger. When asked why he married so many times, he told this magazine: “We live in the field of relativity. Things change.” In 2006, Lynch released his first film in five years, which grossed a meager $4 million. The Times called it a “savagely uncompromised” piece of art; others panned it as alienating nonsense.

Regardless, it would be his last movie to date. Lynch set out on a two-year global speaking tour that took him to more than 30 countries to talk to mostly college-age audiences about meditation, creativity and peace. Lynch’s of public speaking was such that he occasionally pretaped acceptance speeches when honored with an award and stood silently at the microphone as the recorder played his voice. But on the global speaking tour, in front of audiences of hundreds, sometimes even thousands, he cracked jokes and told personal stories of his own transformation.

Then, in February 2008, Maharishi died. In the weeks before his death, the guru acknowledged Lynch’s birthday in a group teleconference — a special honor. “It was a celebration taking place long-distance over ,” Hagelin said. “Maharishi was so intent on participating and hearing, and he took great satisfaction. Even then Maharishi saw with David the great potential to meet many people, to fulfill Maharishi’s vision of alleviating the problems of the world.”

On a 100-degree morning last summer, I was with Lynch in the back of a stretch limousine for a long, slow ride down Mulholland Drive. The narrow two-lane road, which runs along the top of the Hollywood Hills, separates the multimillion-dollar canyon homes of Los Angeles from the sprawl of split-levels that make up the San Fernando Valley. Tacking between suburban and glamorous, the road itself is broken down, potholed and in places overgrown with desert flower bushes. It always feels a little lonely.

There was an unspoken logic to us being up there. It was during the making of “Mulholland Drive,” which opens on a shot of a stretch limo lurching down the road, that Lynch began his transformation from iconoclastic director with a public-speaking phobia to global public evangelist for meditation and peace. On that summer morning, Lynch was a bit grouchy. (He was on a cleanse.) He squinted, watching the road as if we were braving a blizzard.

As the car hummed along and we relived his spiritual journey, I asked Lynch what he really believed. Did he see Transcendental Meditation as simply a technique for relaxation, perfect for young Hollywood actresses, or rather as an all-encompassing way of life, as Maharishi had encouraged — one with peace palaces and an army of meditators fomenting world peace? Lynch paused, and then spoke for more than five minutes, explaining that T.M. was the answer for all seeking true inner happiness. He ended with this thought: “Things like traumatic and tension and sorrow and depression and hate and bitter, selfish anger and fear start to lift away. And that’s a huge sense of freedom when that heavy weight of negativity begins to lift. So it’s like gold flowing in from within and garbage going out. The things in life that used to almost kill you, stress you, depress you, make you sad, make you afraid — they have less and less power. It’s like you’re building up a flak jacket of protection. You’re starting to glow with this from within.”

Lynch looked over at me scribbling on my notepad. When I finished, there was a pause, and I laughed — what could I say after all that? I had asked if T.M. was something he believed could be compartmentalized, like doing or avoiding dairy. Lynch chuckled, but it seemed as if it was because he felt that he’d just given the definitive answer to all questions that might follow from me or from the universe for that matter.

I should say here that Lynch was not explaining transcendence to a neophyte. I got my first T.M. mantra when I was 3 years old, and for as long as I can remember, meditation and Maharishi were the basis for everything I did growing up. I was 5 when my family moved to Fairfield, the small town in Iowa where Maharishi and his followers bought a bankrupt college and established a community. Most of my early education took place at the Maharishi School of the Age of Enlightenment, where our curriculum was interwoven with our guru’s philosophy. His photograph hung on nearly every wall of my school and home. We wore crisp conservative uniforms and meditated twice a day in our classrooms. Those meditations were graded.

I still meditate. For 20 minutes or more, twice a day, I’m able to step back from the news scroll of thoughts and be truly quiet. I use T.M. to deal with anxiety and fatigue and to stave off occasional despair. But that’s because, in my head, I’ve managed to excise the weird flotsam of spirituality that engulfed T.M. for the first part of my life. Now, for me, it is something very simple, like doing yoga or avoiding dairy. Objectively speaking, meditation has been shown to decrease the incidence of heart attacks and strokes and increase longevity. The and the Department of Defense commissioned studies to determine whether T.M. can help veterans alleviate . Thanks to the David Lynch foundation, low-performing public schools have instituted “Quiet Time,” an elective 10 minutes, twice a day, during which students meditate, with some encouraging results.

Lynch seemed unsatisfied with my limited appreciation for the possibility of T.M. “Now, Claire,” Lynch said, leaning forward and staring into my eyes. “When I first met you, I felt that you had doubts. Is that a real feeling?” By doubts, Lynch was talking about T.M. as a worldview and the belief that Maharishi was an enlightened guru. He was talking about the T.M. organization’s $7 billion plan to create world peace. He seemed to want me to understand that transcending would change everything, for everyone. I had doubts.

As the sunlight streamed through the tinted windows, my mind turned to Laura Harring, the red-lipped heroine of “Mulholland Drive,” and the way Lynch used this road as a portal into an underworld where monsters and dwarfs await by the nearest stalk of bougainvillea. Where had transcending taken Lynch? Had T.M. stripped him of the subversive weirdness that made him such a powerful artist? Had he allowed himself, on some level, to sit under a tree? Then, before I had a moment to consider the notion, he was nudging me, laughing. “Wave to them! Wave to them!” He rolled down his window and waved gaily to a Hollywood tour bus across the street, full of passengers frantically taking photographs of our limo. Lynch beamed. It was hard to see the macabre in the mundane.

As he rolled up his window, I asked him about the rewards of immersing himself in advocacy and philanthropy. Did they outweigh those he felt as an artist? He snapped at me — saying that this was all just a thing that happened and that his real focus was his wife, his children and his work. Lynch said he was just waiting for a movie idea to come to him. Then he quickly switched to the quantum mechanics of transcendence, and my mind wandered to what Abel Ferrara said. It must be hard to come up with an idea for a movie when you believe that you have the power to change people’s lives and maybe even the world.

The office of the David Lynch Foundation for Consciousness-Based Education and World Peace in New York is filled with young adults, many of whom grew up practicing Transcendental Meditation. Since Lynch started spreading the good news about T.M., the number of people learning the technique has increased tenfold. Close to Lynch’s heart are those suffering from PTSD, it seems, but it is in his own industry that he has made a more visible impact. Roth, who runs the foundation, spends much of his time flying around the world as well as initiating a long list of public figures: , , , Katy Perry, , Candy Crowley, Soledad O’Brien, and ’s grandchildren.

Russell Brand, the British comedian, often accompanies Lynch as an M.C. at the foundation’s star-studded fund-raisers in New York and Los Angeles. , , and , who meditated without much fanfare for decades, have filmed testimonials to help Lynch reach his $7 billion goal. Paul McCartney and sang together for the first time in years at a Lynch fund-raiser at in 2009. recently dedicated an entire show to T.M. As did Dr. .

Despite the totality of the vision he laid out in the limo, one thing that is abundantly clear inside the foundation’s office is that the Lynch brand of Transcendental Meditation is vibrant and uncomplicated and unburdened by T.M.’s more controversial past. It is no longer, as Brand often says, “for weird, old hippies.” Nor is it only for committed devotees willing to spend their lives meditating in rural Iowa. Maharishi’s visage was nowhere to be seen.

Maharishi, in fact, seems to have disappeared from the conversation entirely. Many of those I interviewed, who learned T.M. through Lynch’s foundation, compared the practice to going to the gym. Kevin Law, a former music-industry executive who has been invited to join the foundation’s board, told me that he was inspired by the fact that people like and the billionaire hedge-fund manager Ray Dalio were very public that T.M. had changed their lives. “These masters of the universe,” he said, “all from different backgrounds, all have one thing in common and it’s Transcendental Meditation.” Law said that for him, T.M. is more like working out. When I asked him about his sense of Maharishi, he said, “I know shockingly little about him because it’s not important.”

This reminded me of a conversation I had with Lynch along Mulholland Drive. I asked him why he went from someone who would talk only to friends and family about meditation to someone who was spending his life on the road, promoting a cause. At the time, he shrugged and demurred that he had simply been asked. Now, in the clean and well-lighted office of the David Lynch foundation, I wondered if this, in fact, was the reason he was asked. Was this simplified version of T.M., based in an office with Oriental rugs and pictures of Seinfeld, in keeping with Maharishi’s dying wish? Or was it a creation of Lynchian proportions?

A few months later, I reached Lynch by phone at his hotel room in Paris. Bob Roth had told me that Lynch said he was working on a new script and that it was typically dark. When I asked Lynch about this, he paused, annoyed. “Bobby’s got a big mouth,” he said. I asked him if the script was influenced by his work with T.M., and he said no, absolutely not. This will be a David Lynch picture, he said, adding, “I think people would probably recognize it.”

During our time together, I heard audiences ask Lynch over and over how he could create disturbing movies while dipping into a field of pure bliss. He had universally assured them that it was no problem: he has been meditating for years, and it actually helps him be more creative, to come up with better, more visceral stories. But when I pointed out that it had been more than six years since his last film, Lynch demurred. He was just a tool, he told me, in some larger, transcendent plan. “Mother Nature is very, very happy when people stop suffering and move things forward in a beautiful way,” Lynch said. “That makes me feel good. I’m just the messenger. I’m just telling them what Maharishi told me.”
546 2013-02-24 I envy Frank Ocean’s eloquent writing skills and his ability to express his emotions in such a raw form. He is a lyrical genius, and I will be the first in line for his book. Thumbs up to Jeff Himmelman for such an insightful, well-written and thought-provoking piece. It’s nice when a journalist can capture the many facets of his subject. EDUARDO LEON-ANGULO, San Francisco, posted on nytimes.com

Despite what appears to be a very unfruitful interview from a very solitary man, this article helped answer a lot of the questions I had about Frank Ocean as a person after listening incessantly to “Channel Orange” these past few months. Well done. CALEB GILBERT, Washington, posted on nytimes.com

The author wrote that the R&B and hip-hop world Ocean straddles is hypermasculine. While traditional hip-hop very much is, R&B is more a descendant of blues-pop-soul acts like Stevie Wonder, James Brown, Prince and Michael Jackson, who weren’t conventionally macho. It’s a gross oversimplification of the genre and of Ocean’s influences to lump him in with hypermasculine artists, even if that magnifies the impact of his Tumblr post, in which he implied that he was gay. Let’s measure his accomplishments in the proper context. OZINBROOK, New York, posted on nytimes.com



WHY CAN SOME KIDS HANDLE PRESSURE WHILE OTHERS FALL APART?

Now I know why I always start late on projects: by unconsciously raising my stress level as the deadline looms closer, I raise my dopamine level and actually do come up with better solutions. A.V., Boston, posted on nytimes.com

The problem with standardized tests is that we don’t learn what we did wrong or why it was wrong. When the score is more important than comprehension, it encourages cheating. School is where we are supposed to learn. ANDREA L. ALTERMAN, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com
547 2013-02-25 No matter what the investigators conclude, the college acted properly and in the spirit of academic freedom....
548 2013-02-25 Mary Jo White, who has been nominated to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission, is tentatively scheduled to appear the week of March 11 before the Senate Banking Committee, which oversees the agency and other financial regulators....
549 2013-02-25 A federal judge on Monday ordered Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, to reimburse the bank for some legal expenses connected to his insider trading case....
550 2013-02-25 The Anti-Defamation League and the Simon Wiesenthal Center have issued complaints about some of the jokes in the Oscars telecast, though it’s worth remembering that jokes about religion aren’t new at the Oscars....
551 2013-02-25 The litigation challenging the orderly liquidation authority under the Dodd-Frank Act proceeds from the faulty notion that Chapter 11 bankruptcy provides a one-size-fits-all solution,...
552 2013-02-25 The Copyright Alert System, a program of escalating warnings against people suspected of online copyright infringement, is going into effect more than a year and a half after the plan was announced....
553 2013-02-25 The idea of paying for things with a phone is still foreign to most people, but now Visa and Samsung Electronics are working together to make mobile payments easier....
554 2013-02-25 A new policy at Yahoo requiring that people work in the office strikes some people as behind the curve, though the company says it will improve collaboration and momentum....
555 2013-02-25 Doremus New York, part of the Doremus division of the Omnicom Group, hired three employees. They are Cori Lundy, account supervisor; Melissa Medeiros, marketing analyst, a new post; and Rose Weng, management supervisor, also a new post.

Robyn Freye joined Digitaria, San Diego, part of the JWT division of WPP, in a new post, vice president for marketing. She had been director for business development at Pereira & O’Dell, San Francisco, part of Grupo ABC.

Bob Girolamo joined ePrize, Pleasant Ridge, Mich., in a new post, managing director for its mobile customer relationship management division, overseeing a team based in the company’s Chicago office. He had been a general manager at CoolSavings.com.

Allison Gollust joined the New York office of Turner Broadcasting System, part of Time Warner, as senior vice president for communications at CNN Worldwide, overseeing publicity and public relations teams in Atlanta, Los Angeles, New York and Washington. The hiring of Ms. Gollust, who had most recently been communications director for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, reunites her with Jeff Zucker, president at CNN Worldwide, with whom she worked when he was at “Today,” NBC and NBCUniversal.

Hearst Ventures, New York, made a minority equity investment — estimated at $30 million for a 20 percent stake — in Science Inc., Santa Monica, Calif., which creates digital businesses and helps them to grow. Recent initiatives by Science Inc. included Dollar Shave Club. Hearst Ventures is part of the Hearst Entertainment and Syndication unit of the Hearst Corporation.

Lionsgate, Santa Monica, Calif., consolidated its media planning and buying assignment for its Lionsgate and Summit Entertainment studios, with spending estimated at $250 million, at the Mindshare division of GroupM, which is owned by WPP. Mindshare has handled the media duties for Summit before Summit was acquired by Lionsgate; the media duties for Lionsgate had been handled by Initiative, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. A review for the consolidated assignment involved three media agencies: Initiative, Mindshare and Horizon Media.

Sarah Mark and Alex Van Wagner joined Hero Marketing, San Francisco, in new posts. Ms. Mark becomes client strategy director; she had most recently been a consultant. Mr. Van Wagner becomes senior client strategy manager; he had been a client manager at Rauxa.

MarketSense, Burr Ridge, Ill., and its sibling company, MarketEffect, have been combined to form the Mx Group.

Jordi Martinez joined the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as a creative director. He had been the head of the Dam Armada unit of the Amsterdam office of Wieden & Kennedy.

Tim Mayer joined TruEffect, Westminster, Colo., in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had been vice president for marketing at ShopAtHome.

Kassie Means, publisher and chief revenue officer at Country Living, New York, part of the Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation, was named publisher and chief revenue officer at a sibling magazine, Woman’s Day. She succeeds Ginger Sutton, who left to pursue other opportunities, the company said. Ms. Means will continue to oversee Country Living until a successor is named.

Benjamin Moore & Company, Montvale, N.J., owned by Berkshire Hathaway, named the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle its creative account as well as its media planning and buying account. Spending was estimated at $15 million. The accounts had previously been handled by another Interpublic agency, Mullen, Boston.

Rodrigo Morales joined the Los Angeles office of the Wasserman Media Group, in a new post, vice president of global media for Latin America. He had been commercial director at Chivas USA, the Major League Soccer team based in Carson, Calif.

Eric Petrosinelli, senior vice president and partner at the GroupM Entertainment and Sports unit of GroupM, part of WPP, was promoted to managing partner at MEC Access, the entertainment and sports partnerships division of MEC, which is a unit of GroupM. He succeeds Jennifer Hageney, who joined GroupM Entertainment and Sports to work on rights management.

Pfizer Consumer Health, part of Pfizer, New York, added Leo Burnett Worldwide, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe, to its global agency roster. Burnett will work on introducing in 2014 an over-the-counter version of the prescription drug Nexium. Spending has not been determined.

Chris Polos joined Simulmedia, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for operations. He had been vice president and general manager for media at VeriFone.

Speakeasy Spirits, Nashville, chose Iostudio, Washington and Nashville, as the first agency of record for Whisper Creek Tennessee Sipping Cream. Spending has not been determined. Iostudio had previously designed and distribution the first marketing promotion for Whisper Creek, a newspaper named The Sipping Times.

Colin Turney, senior vice president and managing partner at iCrossing, based in the Dallas office, was named chief client officer, a post that had long been vacant. ICrossing is part of the Hearst Corporation.

Laurence Velkoff joined DDB New York as a brand planning director. He succeeds Mike Medeiros, who left to join McCann Erickson New York as executive strategy director. Mr. Velkoff had most recently been planning director on the Wendy’s account at Publicis Kaplan Thaler, New York. DDB New York is part of the DDB Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group. McCann Erickson New York is part of the McCann Erickson Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. Publicis Kaplan Thaler is part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe.
556 2013-02-25 This summer, Williamstown Theater Festival will present a revival of “Animal Crackers,” the Marx Brothers farce, and a new musical based on “The Bridges of Madison County,” the best-selling Robert James Waller romance novel....
557 2013-02-25 New England’s electricity shortage is rooted in disincentives for gas-fired generators to invest in pipeline capacity, experts say....
558 2013-02-25 NBC’s ratings are the lowest of any broadcast network; brands are perturbed by Twitter hackings; and who won at the Oscars, and what they wore....
559 2013-02-25 The budget talks continue. Gas prices hit record highs. And someone raises $1.5 million on Kickstarter. Do you think it’s evil to recline in an airline seat?...
560 2013-02-25 Douglas Tompkins, the founder of Esprit and The North Face and now an ardent conservationist, has some radical notions — and millions of acres in South America....
561 2013-02-25 Analysis of the 2013 Academy Awards with A. O. Scott and David Carr.
562 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott and David Carr on the surprising win of “Django Unchained” in the original screenplay category at the 2013 Academy Awards.
563 2013-02-25 A.O. Scott and David Carr discuss what result might add excitement to the 2013 Academy Awards broadcast.
564 2013-02-25 Melena Ryzik from The Carpetbagger blog calls A. O. Scott and David Carr from the 2013 Academy Awards.
565 2013-02-25 The fashion reporter Eric Wilson stops by to discuss red carpet style at the 2013 Academy Awards with A. O. Scott and David Carr.
566 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott and David Carr discuss misogyny in Seth MacFarlane's jokes during the 2013 Academy Awards.
567 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott: "We always get crabby about the Oscars, so let's try being upbeat."
568 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott and David Carr discuss the merits of “Argo” versus “Lincoln” for the best picture category at the 2013 Academy Awards.
569 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott and David Carr talk about how "Life of Pi" won two awards at the beginning of the 2013 Academy Awards.
570 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott and David Carr talk about the qualities of a good speech during the 2013 Academy Awards.
571 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott and David Carr discuss Seth MacFarlane's opening act with Manohla Dargis, who called in from Hollywood during the 2013 Academy Awards.
572 2013-02-25 A. O. Scott and David Carr establish a bet over who of them will pick the most Oscar winners.
573 2013-02-25 Kissing has been part of major Bollywood films for decades, author says....
574 2013-02-25 In short, he was the Knicks’ most effective offensive player.

“He did a little bit of everything,” Coach Mike Woodson said. “That’s what we’ll need him to do.”

Since his debut on Jan. 1 after off-season knee surgery, there has been some inconsistency in Stoudemire’s play. It is understandable. He missed 30 games and has had to transition to a less prominent role on the team he once starred on. He is no longer a starter. He is not even the first player off the bench.

But instead of griping about being relegated to a supporting role, Stoudemire has seemed to embrace it. He said Sunday that the reduction in minutes (he has yet to play more than 29) had eased the burden on his legs.

“I feel strong in every aspect,” Stoudemire said. “I think the limited minutes of 30 is great for me so far. It’s really keeping me fresh, and I feel great.”

The trade-off is a sleeker, more confident offensive force, one whose post game has developed considerably since he entered the league as a dunk-happy phenom drafted out of high school.

His tools are ample, and they are certainly helping the Knicks’ bench production. In 23 games, he is averaging 13.7 points. Based on production over 48 minutes, Stoudemire was ninth in the N.B.A. among bench players in scoring average (27.9) entering Sunday.

“He’s worked on his post game,” point guard Raymond Felton said. “He can face up, put the ball on the floor against the four; he’s quicker, sometimes much stronger, more athletic. And he can step out and hit the jumper. Everything’s just starting to come together.”

Asked whether he might better serve the Knicks in the starting lineup, which he has yet to crack this season after starting every game of his career since his rookie season in 2002-3, Stoudemire indicated he had no problem serving as a role player on a winning team.

“I’m down with whatever the coaching staff needs me to do to answer the call,” Stoudemire said. “Whatever it takes.”

Defensively, he has still been prone to some struggles, like his ugly third quarter against Toronto on Friday, when he was a culprit in several defensive breakdowns. He had an easier time Sunday, finishing with a plus-10 point differential.

On offense, he either scored or drew a foul just about every time he touched the ball. The Sixers had no defensive solution to stop him in the post.

“I feel like those moves are now natural — I practice every single day on those moves,” Stoudemire said. “I feel great going into the post.”

As Philadelphia began to creep back in the game late in the fourth, Stoudemire served another role: cheerleader. With a towel around his neck and his warm-up suit on, he watched from the bench as the Knicks’ starters preserved the game without him. His work was already done.
575 2013-02-25 Mr. Evans always could. He would bring over his giant-sized toolbox and invariably find a way to fix the problem.

One time he was worried Mom might fall walking down the basement stairs and, on his own initiative, installed a handrail for her.

When I’d hear about these things, I’d tell Mom she needed to pay Mr. Evans. “It’s taken care of,” she’d say. “I baked him a nice apple pie.”

“An apple pie? He was here for two hours.”

During visits home, I’d thank Mr. Evans and apologize for imposing.

“Your mother’s a wonderful lady,” he’d say. “We always look forward to one of Mrs. Winerip’s apple pies.”

Turned out it wasn’t just Mr. Evans. Several people around the neighborhood were being compensated with one of Mrs. Winerip’s apple pies.

Like my mother, I’ve settled into a community — where we’ve lived now for 30 years. We know many people, and they know us.

About a month ago, I got an email from one of my 22-year-old twin sons from Santiago, Chile, where he was traveling after his college graduation.

In our day, if the phone rang in the middle of the night a chill went up your back; today, if your children e-mail you instead of texting and write in complete sentences, you get that same chill.

“My debit card was stolen,” he wrote, a remarkable development, considering he’d arrived from New York just two hours before. He said that he needed to call the international toll free number on the back of the card, but didn’t know the number, having lost the card.

The next day I got another e-mail from him with more complete sentences. He’d reported the loss, but by then, the thief had run up $3,700 in bills.

We’d assumed the bank’s credit card insurance would cover it, but the woman from the toll free number said no, since my son couldn’t prove fraud.

“There’s no proof that your son didn’t take it,” the toll-free woman said.

As a final resort, I tried my local branch bank, though I wasn’t very hopeful. We’re talking about one of the biggest banks in the world with 5,000 branches; 16,000 ATM’s; 240,000 employees.

The woman helping me has a son who went to high school with my oldest.

She got on the phone for quite a while and spoke with some credit card administrator in an office who-knows-where, but had no luck. “They’re a known respected family in our community,” she told them. “They’re not that kind of people.”

After she hung up she said the decision could be appealed and she would call me the next day.

Three days went by and I hadn’t heard, so I went back to the branch and saw the woman who’d been helping me. “I’m so sorry I didn’t call you back,” she said. “I’ve been out sick.”

And then she said, “We got the $3,700 back in the account.”

The assistant manager and manager — I’d been smiling hello to them for years, but didn’t know their names — had worked on it for several hours.

Like Jimmy Stewart in “It’s a Wonderful Life,” I was very moved by the people at the bank. I wanted to show my gratitude, but didn’t know how and then I thought of something. I went to one of our local restaurants and got $50 gift certificates for the three women.

I returned to the branch and handed them to the first bank officer I saw. He looked startled, but I didn’t want to explain, I was too embarrassed, and hurried out. It felt good to do something good for good people, even if the $150 I’d spent was a pittance compared to the $3700 they’d saved me. But I do believe it is the thought that counts, which, of course, is the secret ingredient in Mrs. Winerip’s apple pie.
576 2013-02-25 ¶Del Monte Foods, San Francisco, named Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Creative unit of Havas, as agency of record for its Milk-Bone brand of dog products, which had been handled by the San Francisco office of DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spending has not been determined. The assignment will be handled from the New York office of Arnold.

¶Boehringer Ingelheim, Ridgefield, Conn., selected República, Miami, as its first cross-cultural advertising agency of record, handling assignments aimed at multicultural consumer groups like Hispanics. Billings were not disclosed.

¶Lynn Branigan joined Advertising Women of New York as executive director. She succeeds Liz Schroeder, who retired, the organization said. Ms. Branigan had most recently been events director and consultant at the NYC Media Lab and before that held posts like vice president for marketing at the Online Publishers Association and vice president for marketing at Washington Post Digital.

¶Interpublic Group of Companies, New York, is increasing its quarterly dividend to 7.5 cents a share, from 6 cents, payable on March 25 to shareholders of record on March 11. Interpublic had been paying the 6-cent dividend since it resumed paying a dividend in the first quarter of 2011 after suspending it for nine years. Interpublic also said that it would begin a program to repurchase up to $300 million of its common stock, separate from a program that was announced last year.

¶George Lois, the advertising executive, art director and author, will receive the 2013 Clio Lifetime Achievement Award during the 54th annual Clio Awards ceremony, to be held in New York on May 15. The Clio Awards are part of Guggenheim Digital Media.
577 2013-02-25 The companies and the F.D.A. said the reactions occurred within 30 minutes of patients receiving their first dose by intravenous administration. No problems have been reported with subsequent doses, which are given once a month. Still, the companies and the F.D.A. advised that Omontys use be discontinued even by patients who have already had more than one dose.

The big question is whether this will cause the drug to be withdrawn from the market. It is possible that doctors can act to avert or lessen allergic reactions on the first dose. It is also possible the problems are confined to certain dialysis centers.

A spokeswoman for Affymax said executives would not comment further until a conference call for securities analysts on Monday morning. Omontys is the only marketed product for Affymax, which is based in Palo Alto, Calif., and licensed commercialization rights to Takeda, Japan’s largest pharmaceutical company.

Reports of severe allergic reactions have been accumulating, and the Omontys label warns of them, as does the Epogen label.

This month, Fresenius Medical Care North America, the nation’s largest dialysis provider, halted a pilot program testing Omontys, in part because of these allergic reactions. The company said in a memorandum that it had treated 18,000 patients with the drug and would now analyze the data.

“To date, we have seen infrequent allergic reactions in our patient population receiving their first dose of Omontys,” said the Feb. 13 memo by Fresenius’s chief medical officer and its associate chief medical officer. They recommended that patients already taking Omontys continue and said dialysis centers could also put new patients on it.

The memo was made public in a regulatory filing by Affymax.

Sales of Omontys for the nine months it was on the market were $34.6 million, compared with $1.5 billion for Epogen. Still, Affymax executives have said Omontys was gaining momentum because of its less-frequent dosing, lower cost and the desire of some dialysis center owners for an alternative to Amgen.

Dr. Daniel W. Coyne, a kidney specialist at Washington University in St. Louis, said that unless the problem was because of contamination, “this could easily lead to withdrawal of drug approval.” He said that “two in 10,000 deaths on first exposure is unacceptable, compared to nothing like this” with Epogen.

Dr. Ajay K. Singh, a kidney specialist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, said that the recall should result in “minimal disruption” because centers could use Epogen or another Amgen drug, Aranesp. But he said it might be hard for Affymax and Takeda, which is based in Osaka, to show the safety of their drug without a huge study.

Amgen’s Epogen is a synthetic version of the human protein erythropoietin, or EPO, which stimulates the body to produce oxygen-carrying red blood cells. Omontys is not EPO, but binds to the same receptor in the body.

Sales of Amgen’s Epogen have been declining because of changing financial incentives for dialysis clinics and because of safety concerns, particularly those related to blood clots and heart attacks. EPO has also become known for secretly being used by athletes like Lance Armstrong.

The next competition to Epogen could come from Roche’s Mircera, a form of EPO, in mid-2014. Biosimilars, or near-generic forms of Epogen, could reach the market after Amgen’s last patent expires in 2015.
578 2013-02-25 Those episodes raised questions about the security of social media passwords and the ease of gaining access to brand-name accounts. Logging on to Twitter is the same process for a company as for a consumer, requiring just a user name and one password.

Twitter, like Facebook, has steadily introduced a number of paid advertising options, raising the stakes for advertisers. Brands that pay to advertise on Twitter are assigned a sales representative to help them manage their accounts, but they are not given any more layers of security than those for a typical user.

Ian Schafer, the founder and chief executive of Deep Focus, a digital advertising company that also fielded a few phone calls from clients concerned about the Burger King attack, argued that Twitter bore some responsibility.

“I think Twitter needs to step up its game in providing better security,” Mr. Schafer said. In a memo to his staff about such attacks, he called on social networks like Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest “and anyone else serious about having brands on their platform” to “invest time in better understanding how brands operate day to day.”

“It’s also time for these platforms to use their influence to shape security standards on the Web,” he wrote.

The risk for Twitter is in offending potential business partners as the company tries to build its advertising dollars, which make up the bulk of its revenue. In 2012, the company grew more than 100 percent, earning $288.3 million in global advertising revenue, according to eMarketer.

On Wednesday, it introduced a product that would allow advertisers to create and manage ads through third parties like HootSuite, Adobe and Salesforce.com. Advertising is estimated to account for more than 90 percent of the company’s revenue.

“This is not something we take lightly,” said Jim Prosser, a Twitter spokesman, in an interview last month. (The company declined to comment on the Burger King hacking, saying it did not discuss specific accounts.) Mr. Prosser said Twitter had manual and automatic controls in place to identify malicious content and fake accounts, but acknowledged that the practice was more art than science.

Mr. Prosser said Twitter had taken an active role in combating the biggest sources of malicious content.

Last year, the company sued those responsible for five of the most-used spamming tools on the site. “With this suit, we’re going straight to the source,” it said in a statement. “We hope the suit acts as a deterrent to other spammers, demonstrating the strength of our commitment to keep them off Twitter.”

But security experts say, and the recent hacks of Burger King, Jeep and other brands have demonstrated, that Twitter could do more.

“Twitter and other social media accounts are like catnip for script kiddies, hacktivists and serious cybercriminals alike,” said Mark Risher, chief executive at Impermium, a Silicon Valley start-up that aims to clean up social networks. “Because of their deliberately easy access and liberal content policies, accounts on these networks prove irresistibly tempting.”

In Jeep’s case, hackers replaced the brand’s thumbnail image with a Cadillac emblem. (Jeep is a division of Chrysler and Cadillac is a division of General Motors.) The background images on Jeep’s Twitter page were replaced by a photo of men in a car branded with McDonald’s logos, and nonsensical posts began to flow into the account’s news feed.

Prominent hacking — or “social media meltdowns,” as Mr. Holmes of HootSuite calls them — can mean an increase in sales leads for HootSuite’s social media management products. (Neither Jeep nor Burger King is a HootSuite client.) But the attacks raised questions about how easy it is for accounts to be compromised on Twitter and what brands can do to prevent future attacks.

“If you’re a competing brand to Burger King, you’re immediately going to be thinking about how to protect your brand and how you can prevent this from happening to you,” Mr. Holmes said. When Burger King was hacked, the company worked with Twitter to suspend the account temporarily while it fixed the problem.

The hackers themselves can be much more agile. In December, Anonymous, the loose collective of hackers, broke into Westboro Baptist Church members’ Twitter accounts and, in some cases, released information like the members’ home addresses and telephone numbers, as well as the locations of the hotel rooms where the church was said to be coordinating the protests it is known for.

In response, Twitter suspended the account of @YourAnonNews, one of the primary accounts associated with Anonymous. But almost immediately, the hackers set up a backup Twitter account, @YANBackUp, until the original one was reinstated. When it was, the account not only emerged unscathed, but had added 100,000 followers.
579 2013-02-25 In addition, the proposal signals the first agreement among states and the federal government on two other crucial issues: a rough plan for how the states would divide any settlement money, and how the settlement would balance fines and penalties against BP.

In any deal, BP would want to pay penalties as opposed to fines, because penalty payments, like those that cover damages to natural resources, are tax-deductible, while payments for fines, like those for Clean Water Act violations, are not.

The first phase of the trial, which was expected to last three months under Judge Carl J. Barbier of Federal District Court in New Orleans, will determine whether BP or its contractors were “grossly negligent” in causing the accident, which killed 11 workers and soiled hundreds of miles of beaches from Louisiana to Florida. The accident occurred when a drilling rig leased by BP, the Deepwater Horizon, exploded, causing an estimated four million barrels of oil to spill.

If Judge Barbier were to find BP grossly negligent, the company could face fines of up to $17.6 billion under the Clean Water Act. If the company and its contractors were found to have acted “negligently,” a less-severe standard, the per-barrel fines would be only one-quarter of that, or some $4 billion. The higher fine would also require that Judge Barbier agree with the government that four million barrels of oil spilled into the gulf. BP says the estimate is exaggerated.

In time, the company will also be assessed penalties under a separate federal statute, for environmental damages and remediation costs. Estimates of those penalties range widely, from $5 billion to $20 billion, with some projections estimating current costs and higher ones reflecting potential future effects on the gulf, lawyers said.

One reason for the states’ difficulty in shaping an offer has been their disagreement over how the money would be paid. Some states, like Florida, prefer to see the company pay more in economic damages because those would give the states greater flexibility in spending the payouts. Payments for pollution-related penalties typically must be used for environmental purposes.

There are strong reasons for all sides to reach a deal. Blaine LeCesne, a law professor at Loyola University New Orleans, said payments could flow faster, and it would be costly to proceed with a trial only to have it interrupted by a settlement or partial settlement later. A settlement would also avert future appeals. For BP, a settlement could avert months of bad publicity coming out of a trial that could include embarrassing testimony and documents retelling the story of the accident.

But Mr. LeCesne added that progress had been slow because “there are too many diverse claimants with varying interests and varying litigation perspectives.”

Left unresolved by the current settlement proposal are claims by the affected Gulf Coast states against BP for economic damages, which could account for billions of dollars more.

As part of the trial that started Monday, Transocean, the owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon rig, and Halliburton, which was responsible for pouring the cement plugs in the well, also face possible civil penalties.

The fallout from the spill has dealt a punishing blow to BP, forcing it to divest valuable oil and gas fields around the world over the last three years to set aside $42 billion in payments. It has already spent more than $14 billion on spill response and cleanup, and nearly $10 billion in payments to affected local governments, businesses and individuals.

BP pleaded guilty last year to 14 criminal charges, including manslaughter; admitted negligence in misreading important tests before the blowout; and agreed to pay $4.5 billion in fines and other penalties. The Justice Department has also filed criminal charges against four BP employees.

Last February, a trial to resolve claims against BP by individuals and businesses affected by the spill was delayed by Judge Barbier on the eve of trial because of settlement talks. BP subsequently agreed to create a fund now valued at $8.5 billion to settle those claims. However, numerous individuals and businesses chose not to participate and are also parties to the trial that started Monday.
580 2013-02-25 “Everybody is looking for some type of pullback,” said Timothy M. Ghriskey, chief investment officer at the Solaris Group. “It’s what the chatter is out there from traders.”

The shift in opinion has extended to smaller investors. A poll of individual investors found last week that bearish sentiment had risen above the historical average for the first time this year. Those saving for retirement who were pouring money into stock mutual funds through January have dialed it back to a trickle.

The political agreement early in the year to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff seemed to remove one of the last major weights that had been dragging down the economy, opening up the possibility of faster growth. But that compromise did not avert a two percentage point increase in the payroll tax, which is already being blamed for the slowdown in consumer spending that Wal-Mart Stores reported last week.

At the same time, Congress decided at the beginning of the year to delay the automatic budget cuts, known as sequestration, until March 1 rather than cancel them altogether. The spirit of political compromise seemed to be in the air, but Democrats and Republicans are showing no signs now of coming together to avert a $44 billion reduction in federal spending in 2013. Economists have said the cuts could hold back economic growth by half a percentage point this year.

In presenting their financial results for the last three months of 2012, American companies have also been reining in expectations that profits will remain at the elevated levels of last few years.

Seventy-nine companies in the S.& P. 500 index have warned in their quarterly earnings presentations that their future profits will be lower than analysts expect, while only 19 have said profits will be better than expected, according to Thomson Reuters. This has led analysts to lower their expectations for profits in the current quarter.

Many strategists say these hurdles for the economy are likely to be temporary, while the type of existential crises that weighed on stock prices for the last few years have largely dissipated.

James O’Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, said that he was prepared for economic data to show signs of a slight slowdown over the next few months. But he said that the recovery in housing prices looked set to continue at the same time that companies are putting more money into hiring new employees.

“The recovery still looks pretty secure,” Mr. O’Sullivan said.

Even if the markets do begin to take off again, the Federal Reserve is likely to serve as an impediment to any big upward moves. The central bank has said that when the economy assumes a steadier footing, it will stop the bond buying programs that have pushed markets up since the financial crisis.

One hint of what could happen came last week, when the Fed released minutes from its January meeting, indicating that its members were growing more divided on how long the stimulus program should continue. That news led to the biggest one-day market decline of the year. By the end of the week, though, Fed officials were emphasizing that the bond buying was not likely to stop anytime soon.

There is an outspoken contingent in the investing community that believes the Fed’s actions will bring their own problems, encouraging a bubble in riskier assets that will end in another financial crisis. The Fed has discounted those worries, and the consensus among strategists is that a slow but steady recovery is under way.

“There are things to be worried about out there,” Mr. Ghriskey said, “but to us, the outlook for the U.S. is favorable with short-term blips.”
581 2013-02-25 A Western official said late on Sunday that a commission of Afghan and coalition officials would be announced in the next few days to investigate the claims.

The Afghan officials said that without information from the coalition, they could provide few specifics about who was accused or which units they worked with.

A statement from the presidential palace suggested that abuses might have been committed by American troops, and not just by Afghans working alongside them. But in interviews after the announcement, Afghan officials indicated that the Afghans were the main suspects, and that the Americans were seen as enabling the abuses rather than perpetrating them.

Throughout the war, the United States military and the C.I.A. have organized and trained clandestine militias. A number still operate, and remain beyond the knowledge or control of the Afghan government. Aimal Faizi, the spokesman for Mr. Karzai, said it was time for foreign forces to hand over control of the “parallel structures,” as he called them, to the government.

Much of the work done by American Special Operations forces in Afghanistan or anywhere else is highly classified, and information about it is closely guarded. A senior American military officer, for instance, said he did not know whether such forces were based in Maidan Wardak or were based elsewhere and were flown in for missions.

Afghan officials are, for the most part, told even less, and many in the Karzai administration no longer wish to allow Americans to continue “running roughshod all around our country,” said a person who is close to Mr. Karzai.

As additional evidence of that sentiment, the person close to Mr. Karzai, who asked not to be identified because he was discussing internal deliberations, cited an order issued earlier this month by Mr. Karzai sharply curtailing the circumstances in which Afghan forces could call in coalition airstrikes.

That order, however, simply brought Afghan forces into line with the rules that coalition troops have followed since last year. Neither Afghan nor foreign military commanders believe its impact will be far-reaching.

It will probably be harder to assess the effects of the ban decreed on Sunday, and the competing views on the matter illustrate just how far apart Afghan and coalition officials are when it comes to charting a course for the war.

With the withdrawal of American forces picking up pace, most of the coalition’s conventional forces in eastern Afghanistan, including in Maidan Wardak, have shifted into advisory roles. Among coalition troops, offensive operations are increasingly becoming the sole purview of the Special Operations forces.

United States officials, in fact, are planning to rely heavily on the elite troops to continue hunting members of Al Qaeda and other international militants in Afghanistan after the NATO mission here ends in 2014.

Afghans have expressed far less enthusiasm about foreign forces, either conventional or Special Operations troops, continuing to operate in Afghanistan for years to come. “The international forces, they are also factors in insecurity and instability — it’s not only the insurgency,” said Mr. Faizi, the presidential spokesman.

As for concerns that the new ban could reduce pressure on the Taliban, Mr. Faizi said that the Afghan Army and the police would “certainly be able to handle this work.”

He said the security situation in Maidan Wardak had not improved in years, even after the Special Operations forces stepped up their activity there, mostly focused on killing or capturing Taliban field commanders and other high-ranking insurgents. Those operations have failed to reduce the violence, Mr. Faizi said, and now “local people are blaming the U.S. Special Forces for every incident that is taking place there.”

“It is better to make the Special Forces withdraw from the province, and let the local people understand that they are facing only Afghan forces,” he continued. “That will bring clarity to the situation.”

The provincial government in Maidan Wardak expressed support for the ban. “There have been lots of complaints from the local people about misconduct, mistreatment, beating, taking away, torturing and killing of civilians by Special Forces and their Afghan associates,” said Attaullah Khogyani, a spokesman for the provincial government.

He cited a raid on a village on Feb. 13, when American troops and Afghans working with them detained a veterinary student. “His dead body was found three days later in the area under a bridge,” Mr. Khogyani said, prompting protests against foreigners.

Mr. Faizi said that villagers in Maidan Wardak had reported a number of similar episodes in recent months, including the disappearance of nine men in a single raid. “People from the province, elders from villages, have come to Kabul so many times, and they have brought photographs and videos of their family members who have been tortured,” he said.

Afghan officials have provided the coalition with pictures and videos of the men thought responsible for the abuses, he said. They appeared to be Afghan, but could be Afghan-American.

Mr. Faizi said that when the government first approached the coalition about the allegations, coalition officers seemed ready to cooperate, but their position soon shifted. Coalition officers said the men in question had disappeared or had never worked with American forces. The officers questioned whether there had been any killings or torture, and if so, whether anyone tied to the Americans was responsible.

Mr. Faizi said the Afghan government simply wanted to investigate, and was open to the possibility that the perpetrators had no connection to the coalition. But that would raise another question: “Let’s imagine that the U.S. Special Forces are not involved,” Mr. Faizi said. “Then how come they have not once heard about this? How come they do not know who is doing this?”

Violence continued in the country on Sunday, with three Taliban car bombers striking in separate attacks, including two in Logar Province just east of Maidan Wardak. Two security guards and a police officer were killed as well as the three bombers. Five other people were wounded.

A fourth bombing was foiled on Sunday when Afghan intelligence agents in Kabul shot a man in a sport utility vehicle packed with explosives, said Gen. Mohammed Ayoub Salangi, Kabul’s police chief.
582 2013-02-26 Yahoo, which caused a controversy when it issued a policy banning employees from working remotely, tried to distance itself from the broader conversation about workplace flexibility....
583 2013-02-26 Mary Jo White, President Obama’s choice to lead the agency, is telling Congress she can avoid conflicts of interest despite her Wall Street clients....
584 2013-02-26 Review the discussion....
585 2013-02-26 Charges totaling $165 million, including a hefty write-down related to the underperforming movie “Rise of the Guardians,” resulted in a fourth-quarter loss for DreamWorks Animation....
586 2013-02-26 Post your experiments with carbonators like the SodaStream and the SodaSparkle....
587 2013-02-26 Progress Kentucky, a group working to unseat the senator, sent out an offensive tweet targeting his wife....
588 2013-02-26 Big City Book Club: This evening, from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. Eastern time, we will be discussing “The Group,” Mary McCarthy’s 1963 novel about an octet of Vassar graduates set loose on New York and the world....
589 2013-02-26 M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber will make his annual preseason address and take questions from the media in an online forum Wednesday....
590 2013-02-26 The world’s largest maker of semiconductors has released its own version of an open source database designed for Big Data analysis, meant for easy use by mainstream companies....
591 2013-02-26 They also consider ways to get a big software project back on track....
592 2013-02-26 Apple has agreed to reimburse parents whose children purchased virtual goods in mobile apps without the parents’ knowledge....
593 2013-02-26 The singer canceled an appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live” because he considers the other guests, stars of the reality series “Duck Dynasty,” to be “animal serial killers.”...
594 2013-02-26 David Einhorn’s victory against Apple in Federal District Court in Manhattan – over a shareholder proposal – may be more of a win for the technology giant....
595 2013-02-26 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
596 2013-02-26 In a video on YouTube, restaurant workers stacking dishes, shaking drinks, chopping onions and plating burritos take a moment to lip-sync and dance along to the 1959 Motown hit “Money (That’s What I Want).”...
597 2013-02-26 Highlights of the speech made by the railways minister in New Delhi on Tuesday....
598 2013-02-26 New “bio toilets” and wi-fi among improvements pending for India’s railways....
599 2013-02-26 Examining the long-term impacts of terrorism, from the recent blasts to the 2007 explosions....
600 2013-02-26 University officials defended the additional lump-sum payment, which was not required by his original employment contract, citing Mr. Lew’s role in addressing some of the university’s major problems at the time.

While severance payments are not unheard-of among universities, they are more typical when executives of long standing are ushered out. They can also be required by employment contracts, like the $1.2 million that Pennsylvania State University’s former president, Graham B. Spanier, received when he departed amid a child sexual abuse scandal in the football program.

But Mr. Lew’s exit was amicable. The revelations about his pay are not the first to raise questions about how tax-exempt, nonprofit groups in the state shower largess on their top officials.

Less than a year after Mr. Lew went to Citigroup, the company agreed to pay $2 million as part of a settlement reached with the attorney general at the time, Andrew M. Cuomo, over Citigroup’s role as a preferred lender to students at N.Y.U. and other colleges. The case focused, in part, on what were basically kickbacks being paid by preferred lenders to universities; N.Y.U. paid $1.4 million to reimburse students as part of the same settlement.

The university chose Citigroup as a preferred lender during Mr. Lew’s tenure, a subject that has arisen during questions to Mr. Lew from Senate Republicans.

“I do not recall having any conversations with Citigroup officials regarding Citigroup’s selection or actions as a preferred lender for N.Y.U. students,” Mr. Lew told senators. “Also, I do not believe that I approved the selection of Citigroup as a preferred lender for N.Y.U. students.”

Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican and member of the Finance Committee, has a history of scrutinizing how nonprofit groups spend money.

“Mr. Lew’s track record of getting well paid by taxpayer-supported institutions raises questions about his regard for who pays the bills,” Mr. Grassley said in a statement on Monday. “The problem of colleges that always seem to find money for the executive suite even as they raise tuition is not unique to New York University.

“However, New York University is among the most expensive, has a well-funded endowment, and has high student debt loads. It should explain how its generous treatment of Mr. Lew and other executives is necessary to its educational mission.”

An administration official working on Mr. Lew’s confirmation said, “Mr. Lew reported all income earned from his position at N.Y.U. on his tax returns and paid all taxes due.”

In a statement on Monday, John Beckman, a spokesman for N.Y.U., said: “It is not uncommon for large organizations to make payments to senior officials on their departure, as happened in this instance.”

The spokesman added that Mr. Lew “was instrumental in resolving the structural budget deficit N.Y.U. faced when he arrived, putting in place our current budgeting process, addressing N.Y.U.’s deferred maintenance backlog and — in collaboration with other senior colleagues — addressing the complex challenges of unwinding N.Y.U. Medical Center’s merger with Mount Sinai Medical Center.”

“It’s pretty unusual to get severance payment upon a voluntary departure,” said Daniel Boyer, a senior consultant at Marts & Lundy, which advises higher education organizations. “There are long-serving presidents, whether it’s at a big Ivy, that will get severance upon retirement. But that’s different from voluntarily leaving to get a ton of money anyway.”

John J. McGowan Jr., a partner at the Cleveland firm BakerHostetler who specializes in employee benefit plans, offered a similar assessment.

“Why are they doing that when he’s moving on to bigger and better things?” he said. “It’s the type of thing that might raise eyebrows.”
601 2013-02-26 Two Tibetan monks have died in separate self-immolation protests in Tibetan regions of western China since Sunday, according to reports on Monday by two Tibet advocacy groups. Phagmo Dundrup, in his early 20s, set himself on fire at the Chachung Monastery in Qinghai Province on Sunday, according to a report by International Campaign for Tibet, a group based in Washington. On Monday, Tsesung Kyab, in his late 20s, set himself on fire outside the main temple of Shitsang Gonsar Monastery in Gansu Province. He was a relative of Pema Dorjee, 23, who carried out a similar protest at the same monastery last year. Since 2009, at least 106 Tibetans have set themselves on fire to protest Chinese rule in Tibet. Most have died.
602 2013-02-26 Over the years, from behind bars, Mr. Perkins collected three sworn statements from people who said they had evidence that Mr. Jones was the actual killer. Their basic contention was that Mr. Jones had taken a bloody pair of orange pants to a dry cleaner the day after the killing.

Though Mr. Perkins obtained the last statement in 2002, he did not ask a federal judge to throw out his conviction until 2008. The judge refused, saying it had been filed too late and that, in any event, the statements were just an elaboration of a claim the jury had rejected — that Mr. Perkins “was being framed by the prosecution’s lead witness, who himself was responsible for the murder.”

The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, reversed the part of the ruling concerning the deadline and ordered the trial judge to take another look at the evidence.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said he had “some difficulty understanding what the Sixth Circuit was doing.”

“The most that is suggested by the affidavits is that Jones was a participant in this murder, not that Perkins was not responsible for the murder,” he said.

He added that Mr. Perkins should lose for two reasons.

“First, you don’t really have evidence of actual innocence,” Justice Alito said. “Second, you weren’t diligent.”

John J. Bursch, Michigan’s solicitor general, said it was unfair to make prosecutors respond to the new evidence after so much time had elapsed.

“We all know that as time passes evidence deteriorates, whether it’s because of death or illness or simply forgetfulness,” he said. “I certainly can’t remember what I was doing 10 years ago today.”

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. asked why Mr. Perkins had waited so long to go to court.

“One, he was looking for counsel to assist him,” Mr. Readler said of his client. “Two, he continued to look for evidence. Three, he didn’t have access to his legal papers. Many of his legal papers were lost in a prison riot.”

Mr. Bursch urged the justices not to credit that last reason. “Defendant Perkins incited the prison riot,” he said.

Justice Alito said there were practical reasons not to relax the deadline in the case, McQuiggin v. Perkins, No. 12-126.

“If you took a poll of all of the prisoners in Michigan, how many of them do you think would say they are actually innocent?” he asked. He answered his own question: “A lot.”

He added he thought it unlikely that Congress would have “intended to create an exemption that broad, so that anybody who claims to be actually innocent” could take advantage of it.

The court on Monday also declined to hear a case concerning racially charged remarks at trial by a federal prosecutor in Texas. Justice Sonia Sotomayor, in an opinion joined by Justice Stephen G. Breyer, wrote that the decision not to hear the case, Calhoun v. United States, No. 12-6142, had been correct, as the defendant’s lawyer had not objected to the remarks.

She wrote separately, she said, to dispel any doubt about the Supreme Court’s tolerance of such comments.

A question in the case was whether the defendant, Bongani C. Calhoun, had been aware that his companions were planning to buy drugs. The prosecutor said the circumstances should have made that plain to Mr. Calhoun.

“You’ve got African-Americans, you’ve got Hispanics, you’ve got a bag full of money,” he said. “Doesn’t that tell you — a light bulb doesn’t go off in your head and say, ‘This is a drug deal’?”

Justice Sotomayor wrote that this statement “was pernicious in its attempt to substitute racial stereotype for evidence, and racial prejudice for reason.”

“I hope,” she wrote, “never to see a case like this again.”
603 2013-02-26 The price of air in Manhattan apparently knows no bounds.

The developers William L. and Arthur W. Zeckendorf are paying a record $600 per square foot this week for unused development rights, sometimes called air rights, so that they can add floors to a planned ultraluxury tower on 60th Street in the old Silk Stocking District, according to real estate executives.

The prior record for the cost of air rights was set only last fall when another developer snapped up rights from an adjacent parcel in Chelsea for $500 a square foot for a planned tower at 21st Street and 11th Avenue.

Now the Zeckendorf brothers are topping that number by paying more than $40 million for 70,000 square feet of air rights from Christ Church, at the northwest corner of Park Avenue and 60th Street. Prices for the 30 apartments in the new 51-story building are expected to fetch upward of $8,000 a square foot, which would be $48 million for a 6,000-square-foot apartment.

“They’re building what I call a Viagra building: a tall slender tower with great views at a great location,” said Robert I. Shapiro, a real estate broker who specializes in these kind of deals. “What difference does it make if you pay $100 more per square foot if you’re selling condos at over $4,000 a square foot? But there aren’t many sites where you can do this.”

Height matters, especially in an era when Russian oligarchs, Arab princes and South American billionaires are snapping up apartments for tens of millions of dollars in New York, which is considered a relatively safe haven for their capital.
604 2013-02-26 Lowe’s said Monday that cleanup efforts after Hurricane Sandy and its new pricing strategy helped the home improvement retailer’s fourth-quarter earnings surpass Wall Street expectations.

The results are a sign that people are beginning to feel better about spending money on their homes as the housing market slowly recovers.

Lowe’s chief executive, Robert A. Niblock, said the company was seeing a pickup in spending even in areas of the country hit hardest by the housing slump, like Florida, Arizona and California.

“Rising home values have given homeowners additional confidence in spending on their homes,” Mr. Niblock said in an interview.

Lowe’s net income fell 11 percent from the previous year’s quarter, which included an extra week of revenue. Its earnings forecast for the year was below expectations but its revenue projection beat the consensus.

Lowe’s has revamped its pricing structure, offering what it says are permanent low prices on many items across the store instead of fleeting discounts. It has also focused on hiring more workers and improving its inventory.
605 2013-02-26 By age 14, Emily Dickinson had assembled a prodigious herbarium, a well-labeled collection of pressed flowers and plants. At the time, this was a voguish hobby. “Most all the girls are making one,” she wrote in a letter to a friend in 1845.

That delightful tidbit, dispensed in a presentation at the big annual conference of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Boston last week, was one of myriad tantalizing facts, discoveries and revelations at the exhaustive five-day event.

The theme of the conference was the “beauty and benefits of science” — which sounds like a cosmetics commercial, until you sit in on a session like “The Herbarium as Muse” and hear Maura C. Flannery, a biology professor at St. John’s University in New York, describe the inspiration artists have gleaned from botanical cuttings and the utility of these collections today. “Herbaria are becoming more valuable because their specimens are often old enough to aid in documenting climate change and environmental degradation,” she said. In other words: art, beauty and science meld and benefit us all. A nice thought.

Speakers at the A.A.A.S. conference talked up the importance of financial support for basic research, and last week the private sector stepped up in a splashy way: four Internet entrepreneurs awarded $3 million each to 11 researchers in medicine and biology. As The New York Times reported, the awards — each more than double the purse of a Nobel Prize — went for work in such fields as genetics, stem cells and cancer. Yuri Milner, a Russian entrepreneur and philanthropist, set up the new prizes along with Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Sergey Brin of Google and Anne Wojcicki of 23andMe (who is married to Mr. Brin). Mr. Milner had already delivered a pleasant shock to the physics world by doling out equivalent prizes to outstanding physicists last year.

For people who think that doctors may be a bit too quick to order up another test, some validation: the American Board of Internal Medicine Foundation came forward with a list of 90 tests and treatments that it called overused or unnecessary. Some of the procedures are common ones prescribed for big groups of patients. For instance, the doctors said that women ages 30 to 65 who aren’t at high risk for cervical cancer don’t need an annual Pap test, and that people who have sore throats, bronchitis and other common respiratory problems shouldn’t be given antibiotics.

“This new discovery raises the specter that the universe is jampacked, like jelly beans in a jar, with planets even smaller than Earth,” the astronomer Geoff Marcy, an éminence grise of planet hunting, told The Associated Press at the news that NASA’s Kepler telescope had spied the tiniest planet ever found outside our solar system. About the same size as our Moon — roughly one-third the size of Earth — Kepler-37b has no water, no atmosphere and a surface temperature of more than 800 degrees Fahrenheit, but it was the wee size of the planet that got astronomers excited, as it stretched the imagination about what’s out there. Thomas Barclay of the NASA Ames Research Center in Northern California gets credit for the discovery.
606 2013-02-26 “They had a conversation that could have saved 11 lives, saved the gulf, saved the people of the gulf from catastrophe,” Mr. Underhill said.

If federal and state officials are successful in proving gross negligence against BP in its handling of the spill, the fines against the company will be four times as high as under a lower standard of liability, negligence.

BP’s lawyer, Robert C. Brock, defended the company’s design of the well and denied that the company had been grossly negligent. He characterized the drilling of a well as a team effort in which the company and its contractors — Halliburton and Transocean, who also are defendants — all needed to take responsibility.

“Everyone on the rig is empowered to say stop the job,” Mr. Brock said. “There were no dictators in this group.”

The settlement proposal would cap the amount of fines that BP might pay for violations of the Clean Water Act to $6 billion, significantly less that it might face if the trial proceeds. The proposal would allow BP to pay an additional $9 billion to resolve environmental penalties related to the spill, an alternative that would lessen the impact on the company’s tax liabilities. The environmental penalties, under separate laws, are tax deductible, while fines like those imposed under the Clean Water Act are not.

The remaining $1 billion would be put in a fund for unanticipated environmental damages from the spill.

One lawyer, who was briefed on the settlement talks, said on Monday that discussions were still under way. Another lawyer, also briefed on the efforts, said that a number of people who were scheduled to appear as trial witnesses have been told that their testimony might not be needed.

The frequently intense opening arguments in court on Monday, however, outlined an extravagance of errors.

Several referred to one Halliburton technician who missed important signs that the well was on the verge of blowing out when he took a 10-minute cigarette break during a safety test. In one of the e-mail exchanges between two BP workers discussing problems with the well, one of the two wrote that he had to leave for a dance class and would get back to him.

Transocean employees came up with a theory they called “the bladder effect” to explain a failed 11th-hour test showing pressure building in a drill pipe that otherwise should have stopped all operations and averted the blowout.

But it was BP that was the central focus of the day’s proceedings.

Lawyers for the Justice Department, two gulf states and private plaintiffs mounted scathing attacks on the company for ignoring multiple signs of problems on the rig in routine maintenance of safety tests and equipment.

In several hours of arguments, they noted numerous errors by BP in managing a high-pressure well. The company had decided to employ single-walled drill pipe, which provided inferior barriers to leaks, and it decided that it was not necessary to circulate drilling mud, a method intended to strengthen cement, before installing a seal on the well.

They reminded the court that BP had decided against conducting a cement bond test, which is an acoustics test that could have identified the gas that leached into the piping during the well-cementing process.

And finally, using information that has previously been described in numerous government and private reports since the accident, they said BP had ignored the results of a failed pressure test shortly before the well blew out.

Mr. Brock, representing BP, said the well design followed industry standards.

“There were a number of mistakes and misjudgments that were made by BP, Transocean and Halliburton,” he said. He argued that Transocean was responsible for maintenance and operations of the rig it owned, and Halliburton was responsible for designing and testing the cement to seal the well.

Lawyers for both Transocean and Halliburton said that their companies were following BP’s lead, and that it was BP that was overwhelmingly responsible for the accident.

This is the first trial phase of a two-part case. The second phase is intended to determine how much oil was actually spilled. The federal government estimates that more than four million barrels of oil spilled from the Macondo well, covering birds with tarry crude and extending a slick across nearly 30,000 square miles of the gulf.

BP says the government’s estimate is at least 20 percent too high.

Last November, BP agreed to pay $4.5 billion in fines and other penalties and pleaded guilty to 14 criminal charges related to the accident. It has also paid out $9 billion in a partial settlement with businesses, individuals and local governments. The company has set aside $42 billion for payouts, largely by selling $38 billion of global oil and gas assets.

Four of its employees face criminal charges of manslaughter and obstruction of justice or are accused of making false statements related to how much oil was escaping the well.

The government and Transocean have already come to a $1 billion civil settlement, and the rig company will pay an additional $400 million criminal penalty. Halliburton has not settled yet and says that it has no liability under contracts signed with BP, but it may yet be held liable for punitive damages or civil penalties under the Clean Water Act.
607 2013-02-26 “I think that with the Lumia 520, Nokia is really going to take the Windows 8 operating system to a much bigger, mass market,” said Pete Cunningham, an analyst at Canalys, a research firm in Reading, England. “I would expect their volumes of Lumia shipments to now start increasing slowly, but they still have a way to go.”

Nokia lost its position as the top seller of cellphones to Samsung Electronics last year. Nokia’s market share slipped to 17.9 percent from 24 percent during 2012, according to the market research firm IDC. Samsung’s share grew to 23 percent and Apple ended the year in third place at 9.9 percent, followed by ZTE, with 3.6 percent, and Huawei, with 3.3 percent.

The new handsets, which the company introduced at the Mobile World Congress industry trade show in Barcelona, reinforced Nokia’s strategy of aiming at the lowest-priced but fastest-growing segment of the market. The Nokia 105, the company’s new basic, entry-level phone, will sell for 15 euros, about $20. “Nokia is targeting the right end of the market with new, inexpensive phones,” said Francisco Jeronimo, an analyst with IDC in London. “This is where the growth is.”

In 2012, the global market for cellphones that cost $250 or less grew by 99 percent from 2011, and accounted for more than half of all cellphones sold worldwide, according to IDC.

The upper-end segment of smartphones costing more than $250 grew by only 23 percent during the same period. Nokia, the global market leader in smartphones as late as 2007 before Apple produced its first iPhone, has done poorly in the upper segment of smartphones. It trailed the likes of BlackBerry, LG and Motorola with a roughly 4 percent market share in the fourth quarter, according to IDC. Huawei, No. 3, and ZTE, No. 5, each sold more than twice as many smartphones as Nokia.

This year, for the first time, more consumers around the world will buy a smartphone than a simple, basic cellphone, according to IDC.

Mr. Elop said Nokia was committed to making some of Lumia’s unique features, like digital lenses that allow users to enhance their own photos, available throughout the entire Lumia lineup, instead of reserving the most advanced features for the most expensive handsets.

The Nokia-Microsoft alliance that was announced two years ago, Mr. Elop said, is gaining momentum. He dismissed the possibility that the company would eventually abandon its software partnership with Microsoft and adopt another operating system, like the Android system made by Google.

“There’s no doubt in my mind that that was the right decision,” Mr. Elop said about choosing Microsoft. The alliance with Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has set Nokia apart from handset makers relying on Android, Mr. Elop said, preserving an identity and edge for Nokia and its products.

With the Lumia line of smartphones expanding, Nokia can increasingly sell Microsoft phones to businesses, which may already be reliant on Microsoft Windows and e-mail services in their operations, Mr. Elop said.

“Being able to bring those all together, I think, is a very powerful force,” he said. “And it’s something that’s just beginning.”

Nokia sold 4.4 million Lumia smartphones in the fourth quarter, up from 2.9 million in the third quarter. Mr. Elop declined to say how Lumia sales had developed in the first two months of the year. But he suggested that the three new handsets introduced over the last three months would help sustain sales momentum.
608 2013-02-27 In the aftermath of deadly explosions in Syria’s largest city, apparently caused by government missile strikes on neighborhoods in rebel hands, survivors described the devastation....
609 2013-02-27 At the heart of the proposal is a deal under which about 450 former partners agreed to return a portion of their pay, raising about $72 million for creditors....
610 2013-02-27 With J.C. Penney’s awful fourth-quarter results, William A. Ackman has once more found success in retail investments elusive....
611 2013-02-27 Intel will invest $152 million in Brazil, which has made increasing the country’s software output a priority....
612 2013-02-27 ICE has released several hundred people from its detention centers....
613 2013-02-27 Target and Best Buy are fighting the phenomenon of showrooming, in which customers browse for television sets and other products in stores and then buy them online for less....
614 2013-02-27 If anyone spots a 7-foot Italian sausage wandering around Milwaukee, please alert Cedarburg, Wis., police, because they have been looking for him for more than a week....
615 2013-02-27 In the last week, Chinese-speaking Internet users and amateur hackers have added further proof to a security report that tied a prolific Chinese hacking group to China’s People’s Liberation Army....
616 2013-02-27 In recognition of America Saves Week, we put together a toolbox of activities and related readings to help students learn essential lessons about personal finance....
617 2013-02-27 Users of the online money management site Mint can again use the service to monitor their Nordstrom accounts....
618 2013-02-27 If you prefer your jeans black and your hair messy, Richard Hell may be the most important musician you’ve never heard of....
619 2013-02-27 DreamWorks suffered an earnings loss and talked about staff cuts; a heartwarming YouTube video of a pig rescuing a goat that was fodder for many news outlets was faked; and “American Idol” tries to close the feedback loop on TV hashtags....
620 2013-02-27 A fresh look at China’s energy mix sees some progress on carbon dioxide, but a long path ahead....
621 2013-02-27 Mary Jo White, the S.E.C. nominee, is trying to quell concerns about potential conflicts of interest. | The Deal Professor examines risks of a financial transactions tax. | The head of JPMorgan Chase vowed to address the bank’s practice with Int...
622 2013-02-27 A Brooklyn woman said she was held captive for three years in Pakistan by relatives who threatened to kill her if she did not marry a Pakistani man. After the marriage, she escaped with the help of the American Embassy last month and came to a secret location in the United States, away from her father, who had ordered the union, she said.

But her father, the authorities said, was not ready to let her leave the family.

In calls recorded secretly by federal authorities, the father, Mohammad Ajmal Choudhry, told the daughter, Amina Ajmal, 22, that if she did not return to their home in Brooklyn, he would arrange for members of her family in Pakistan to be killed, the authorities said.

On Monday, the Pakistani police and news media reported that two relatives of Ms. Ajmal’s had been fatally shot, and that another had been severely injured.

The bizarre story was contained in a criminal complaint that was unsealed Tuesday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. Mr. Choudhry, 60, a cabdriver, was arrested outside his home on Monday and charged with communicating threats and filing false immigration documents.

At Mr. Choudhry’s first court appearance, on Tuesday, he was ordered held without bail. A prosecutor, Sam Nitze, said there were reports from the Pakistani police that the mother of one victim had identified Mr. Choudhry’s brother as the shooter.
623 2013-02-27 Re “Old and Rich? Less Help for You” (Op-Ed, Feb. 20):

Yuval Levin has it exactly backward; means-testing Social Security and Medicare is the worst possible plan.

Social Security is our most successful antipoverty program, more successful than any welfare grants. Medicare is our most successful medical care program, more successful than Medicaid. In each instance the program available without means-testing works better, without stigma and with general approval and political support. Means-testing turns applicants into potentially fraudulent beggars for charity.

The problems of Social Security can be fixed with a few tax and benefit tweaks. The problems of Medicare are serious, but they are the problems of our entire health care system and will need the same solutions.

Entitlements without means-testing unite us into one country. Means-testing divides us into rich and poor, each resenting the other. Our tax system is a much more effective mechanism to deal with disparities in wealth and income.

Yuval Levin pinpoints the crux of Social Security’s sustainability problem: the program is a safety net that ensnares everyone, including those who don’t need it.
624 2013-02-27 The ballistic missile strikes felled entire buildings in destruction that stands out even after months of fighting, according to Human Rights Watch. Its researchers visited all four sites, in residential areas, and found no evidence of military targets nearby, making the attacks a violation of international law, the organization said.

A resident of Ard al-Hamra, one of the neighborhoods hit, said he had just left his brother’s house after evening tea on Friday when “the sky was lit up by a tremendous flash and all air was sucked away.”

He ran back to find that “my brother’s house was gone,” he told Human Rights Watch. “We managed to find my five young nieces and nephews, aged between 3 and 17 years old. They were all dead under the rubble. We still have not found my brother. When will somebody stop this madness?”

As the death toll from the Syrian conflict exceeds 70,000, according to United Nations estimates, and the destruction of major cities continues unabated, fears are mounting that the conflict will spread throughout the region.

Jeffrey D. Feltman, the United Nations’ top political official, told the Security Council during a Middle East briefing, “The destructive military spiral churns more forcefully each day and threatens to pull its neighbors, most notably and worrisomely Lebanon, into its vortex.”

Lebanon, torn apart by political disagreements over Syria and longstanding sectarian divides exacerbated by the increasingly sectarian killing in Syria, last week became the country hosting the largest number of Syrian refugees, even though it is Syria’s smallest and most politically vulnerable neighbor.

“Even tentative steps to dialogue are struggling to take root,” Mr. Feltman said, referring to offers of negotiations issued — with caveats and conditions — by both the Syrian opposition and government in recent days. “Regrettably, the warring parties remain locked in military logic which is bound to bring more death and destruction.”

Before a meeting in Rome on Thursday of the opposition’s international backers, the main opposition group remains under pressure to further unify and organize itself — in part to make sure there is someone for the government to meet with should talks become possible.

The opposition group, the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, has said that on Saturday it will select a prime minister to run an interim government to be established in rebel-held areas of northern Syria. But the group has set and missed such deadlines in the past, and members say there is no consensus yet on who should fill the post.

Even if a prime minister is appointed and empowered to negotiate with the Syrian government, it is unclear if talks will take place. The government of President Bashar al-Assad, backed by Russia, has long insisted that Mr. Assad be part of the process, while the opposition coalition, backed by the United States, declares that he cannot be.

Seeking to resolve that impasse, Mr. Kerry had his first meeting as secretary of state with Mr. Lavrov of Russia on Tuesday in Berlin.

The meeting covered the range of American-Russian issues, from economic relations to adoption of Russian orphans. But more than half of the session was devoted to the situation in Syria.

Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Kerry’s predecessor as secretary of state, believed she had worked out an agreement with the Russians in Geneva in June that would have established the framework for negotiations on a political transition to a post-Assad government. But the Russians interpreted the agreement differently, saying that the understanding that Mr. Assad should leave power could not be a precondition for the talks.

Mr. Kerry, who has said he has new ideas on how to advance diplomacy on Syria, has been looking for a way to secure Russian backing for a transition.

“It was a really serious and hard-working session,” said Victoria Nuland, the State Department’s spokeswoman. Much of the discussion, she said, “focused on Syria and how we can work together to implement the Geneva agreement.”

Mr. Lavrov told Russian news agencies after the meeting that Russia would try to establish the conditions for initiating “a dialogue between the government and the opposition.”
625 2013-02-27 A human rights group on Tuesday accused Sri Lankan security forces of continuing to use torture, rape and other forms of sexual violence against people suspected of being Tamil Tiger rebels and their supporters, nearly four years after the end of the civil war. Human Rights Watch said that although the war ended in 2009, politically motivated sexual violence against suspects in custody continues. It called for an international investigation into the practice. A military spokesman, Brig. Ruwan Wanigasooriya, rejected the allegations, saying they lacked credibility.
626 2013-02-27 Mr. McKay testified for more than an hour at the end of the day and will continue on Wednesday. He told the court that there were risks involved with drilling both in deep waters and in shallow waters, but that a blowout could be more difficult to control, and therefore more damaging, in deep waters. There was little, if anything, in his comments that diverged from what BP executives have said in the past.

After the April 2010 spill, internal BP documents showed that the company had struggled with a loss of “well control” in March, after several weeks of problems on the rig. And for months before that, it had been concerned about the well casing and the blowout preventer, which are considered critical pieces in the chain of events that led to the disaster.

On June 22, 2009, for example, BP engineers expressed concerns that the metal casing the company wanted to use might collapse under high pressure.

“This would certainly be a worst-case scenario,” Mark E. Hafle, a senior drilling engineer at BP, warned in an internal report. “However, I have seen it happen so know it can occur.”

Early in his testimony, Mr. McKay shifted and appeared uncomfortable on the witness stand. He acknowledged that he had never read a textbook on safety system engineering before or after the accident, or a safety report written by a BP consultant who testified earlier in the day.

Mr. McKay was the second witness to appear in a multiphase trial that will determine who was responsible for the accident, whether they were grossly negligent and how much oil was spilled. He followed Robert Bea, a professor emeritus of engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, and former safety systems consultant for BP, who largely blamed the company’s culture for the accident.

“It’s a culture of every dollar counts,” Dr. Bea said. “It’s a classic failure of management and leadership.”

The Federal District Court trial in New Orleans is bundling suits brought by the Justice Department, state governments, private businesses and individual claimants against BP and several of its contractors. Decisions on culpability and damages could be a year or more away, but they are likely to have profound effects on environmental law and on the viability of BP as a major oil company with global ambitions.

Under the Clean Water Act, fines against BP could range from $1,100 for every barrel spilled through simple negligence to as much as $4,300 a barrel if the company were found to have been grossly negligent. The federal government has estimated that about four million barrels of oil were spilled, meaning liabilities of as much as $4.4 billion to $17.2 billion. BP has claimed that the amount spilled was at most 3.1 million barrels.
627 2013-02-27 Mr. Gelb said prices this year were “raised dramatically,” by about 10 percent. “We did not feel it was as successful as it might have been,” he said of the increase.

He also blamed falling attendance on a “cannibalization” of the audience by the Met’s high-definition movie theater broadcasts. Attendance this season is projected to be, on average, 81 percent of capacity, compared with 84 percent last season. Ticket revenue is projected to be $4 million less than last season’s $94.4 million; canceled performances caused by Hurricane Sandy are responsible for half that shortfall, with the rest attributed to a donor’s reduced support for rush tickets.

The Met also released details of next year’s program. It includes six productions new to the house, among them Borodin’s “Prince Igor,” which was last heard at the Met in 1917 and is famous for its Polovtsian Dances; Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene Onegin,” starring Ms. Netrebko as Tatiana, her first Russian role at the house since her debut there in Prokofiev’s “War and Peace” in 2002; an English-language “Die Fledermaus,” with freshly written lyrics by Jeremy Sams; and Massenet’s “Werther,” with Jonas Kaufmann in the title role.

Deborah Warner will direct “Onegin” in her Met debut. The cast includes Mariusz Kwiecien and Piotr Beczala, Met regulars. Marina Poplavskaya will take over for Ms. Netrebko later in the run. Valery Gergiev, who used to hold the title of principal guest conductor at the Met, will conduct. He last appeared there in the 2010-11 season. The first performance will be the opening-night gala on Sept. 23.

Dmitri Tcherniakov will also direct his first opera at the Met with “Prince Igor.” The production, Mr. Gelb said, would strip away the usual medieval pageantry and send Igor on a “psychological journey.”

“Die Fledermaus” will open on New Year’s Eve, a return to an opera world tradition. Mr. Sams, who also wrote the text for the Met’s Baroque pastiche opera “The Enchanted Island,” will direct “Die Fledermaus.” His lyrics will follow the story but will be written from scratch; Douglas Carter Beane, a Broadway playwright, has written the dialogue.

“It’s an operetta,” Mr. Gelb said. “You can take liberties. You wouldn’t do it with Wagner.”

The Met’s abbreviated English-language holiday production of “The Magic Flute” has been entrusted to Ms. Glover, who a Met spokesman said would be only the third woman to conduct a Met opera, and the first since 1998, when Simone Young led Offenbach’s “Contes d’Hoffmann.” The first female conductor at the Met, Sarah Caldwell, made her debut with Verdi’s “Traviata” in 1976.

As previously announced, next season’s premieres  will include Nico Muhly’s opera “Two Boys,” a Met commission about duplicity and identity on the Internet. The opera has been “fleshed out,” Mr. Gelb said, since its run at the English National Opera in 2011.

The other new production is the first of Verdi’s “Falstaff” since Franco Zeffirelli’s oft-revived 1964 version. Directed by Robert Carsen, it will be the first of the three operas led next season by Mr. Levine, who has not conducted at the Met since May 2011 because of health problems. His first foray before an orchestra comes on May 19, when he leads the Met musicians in a concert at Carnegie Hall.

Mr. Levine is also conducting revivals of Mozart’s “Così Fan Tutte” and Berg’s “Wozzeck,” with two veteran stars taking on the main roles in “Wozzeck” for the first time: Deborah Voigt and Thomas Hampson.

Mr. Levine, who announced his comeback in October, has been recuperating from damage to his spinal cord and from back surgery and is beginning to walk again, he said, “laboriously and slowly.”

“I’m just always doing better,” he said in an interview. “I’m making progress in the therapy all the time. The nerve return in this kind of thing is slow.”

Mr. Levine said he expected that the very act of conducting an orchestra would help him get better.

“I came from having no idea when or if I’d be going back to work, and now I’m able to do this,” he added. “The time is nearly here.”
628 2013-02-27 The pontifical villas of Castel Gandolfo cover a triangle-shaped swath of the town, totaling about 135 acres. A working farm provides produce — fruits and vegetables, oil, eggs and dairy products — to the pope’s kitchens, both here and in Vatican City. Though the villas are under pontifical jurisdiction and high walls and secure gates bar entry to outsiders, there is considerable interaction with the town.

“Formally we are two states, but in fact it’s all one community,” said the mayor, Milvia Monachesi, noting that a number of its 9,000 residents work for the papal villas.

The pope’s current butler is from Castel Gandolfo. He replaced Paolo Gabriele, the manservant convicted of leaking confidential Vatican documents, an episode that weighed heavily on the final year of Benedict’s pontificate. Sentenced to 18 months in prison in October, Mr. Gabriele was later pardoned by the pope.

Townspeople of a certain age still recall the protection given by Pope Pius XII after Allied troops landed in Anzio in 1944 and the area became an open war zone. Some 12,000 people found refuge in the pontifical villas. “Around here there are many people named Pio or Pia, Eugenio or Eugenia,” in honor of Eugenio Pacelli, who became Pius XII, said Pier Paolo Turoli, an administrator of the Pontifical Villas at Castel Gandolfo.

Like other towns in the Alban hills, Castel Gandolfo is a popular weekend destination for Romans escaping the capital’s chaos. “But when the pope is here, it becomes the center of the world,” Ms. Monachesi said, with a surge in pilgrims, tourists and the occasional head of state. “We’re small, but we’re also very international.”

It was natural, residents say, for Benedict to want to return to “a place that he loved,” the mayor said. A plaque outside city hall quotes the pope’s own 2011 endorsement: “... Here I find everything. Mountains, a lake, and I can even see the sea ... And good people.”

The pope will arrive here by helicopter on Thursday afternoon, and will address the members of the diocese of Albano from the apostolic palace in the square in the final hours of his pontificate, which will end precisely at 8 p.m.

“Symbolically, at that time we will see the gates of the palace close, and the Swiss Guards will make their departure,” the Rev. Federico Lombardi, the Vatican spokesman, said at a news briefing on Tuesday, speaking of the armed forces that have served as papal bodyguards since 1506. The Vatican police will take over the protection of the former pontiff.

The pope will reside in his summer apartment here with his two secretaries and four memores, the laywomen of the community Memores Domini who care for him, said Saverio Petrillo, the director of the Pontifical Villas of Castel Gandolfo. The intimate setting “allows for a more familial life,” he said.

Benedict will have access to landscaped gardens built over the ruins of the sprawling villa used as a summer residence by the Emperor Domitian, who ruled in the first century. “Castel Gandolfo is one place where the pope can find privacy,” Mr. Turoli said. “And it’s our job to ensure that he has a restful stay here.”

Anna Maria Vici Torrigiani, whose shop here makes cassocks and church decorations, presented the pope last year with an icon of the Virgin Mary against a background that depicts Lake Albano and Castel Gandolfo.

“I am hoping that he will take the icon with him when he goes into the convent in the Vatican,” she said. “Given he won’t be able to see the world anymore, I hope he will bring a bit of Castel Gandolfo with him.”
629 2013-02-27 The call, also circulated by e-mail, carried the names of 121 backers, including several who said they lived in Hong Kong or Macau.

The petition was the latest display of the demands for political change confronting China’s new leadership. Several people who signed it said they hoped to press Mr. Xi and his colleagues to live up to vows of greater respect for the rule of law and citizens’ rights that Mr. Xi and other officials have made since he became Communist Party leader in November, when Mr. Hu retired from that post.

“This has become increasingly important because on the one hand violations of rights have become so common, while on the other hand citizens’ awareness of their rights has risen sharply,” said Cui Weiping, a translator and essayist in Beijing who signed the petition. “This proposal is really quite mild,” said Ms. Cui, who formerly taught at the Beijing Film Academy. “I see this as giving the government a chance to show that it is willing to make improvements.”

Since Mr. Xi came to power, Chinese advocates of political liberalization have urged the Communist Party to abide by the Constitution, which in theory offers some protection of free speech and other rights. Some reform advocates see some signs of hope in the government’s vow to overhaul “re-education through labor,” which is used to jail citizens without trials, and some point to Mr. Xi’s own promises of greater official accountability.

“Any organization or individual must act within the scope of the Constitution and the laws,” Mr. Xi said Saturday at a meeting of the Communist Party’s 25-member Politburo, the official Xinhua news agency reported.

Mr. Xi has, however, also said that the top-down, one-party rule must remain sacrosanct, and the drafters of the petition took care not to challenge the party directly, instead calling on it to live up to past vows to respect citizens’ rights.

“This is an important moment when the new leadership has expressed its commitment to rule of law, and we want those words to be acted on,” said He Weifang, a professor of law at Peking University and a prominent advocate of political liberalization, who confirmed he signed the petition.

But the Chinese government appears reluctant to ratify the treaty, despite saying over many years that it was preparing to do so, said Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher in Hong Kong for Human Rights Watch.

The Chinese government signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 1998, but ratification by the legislature would bring greater international scrutiny through a monitoring committee, Mr. Bequelin said.

The covenant came into force in 1976, and 167 states are party to it. Yet even North Korea has acceded to the treaty, with no discernible improvement in its harsh treatment of its people, Mr. Bequelin said.

“What is at stake in ratification for the Chinese government is not so much the international legal obligations that would come, but rather the domestic pressures to live up to its own promises,” he said.
630 2013-02-27 The federal order was not the first setback for Fung Wah, the best known of the Chinatown bus lines. The company agreed to spot inspections of its fleet in 2006, after one of its buses rolled over on a highway exit ramp in Massachusetts. In early January, a Fung Wah bus struck and injured two pedestrians near the Manhattan Bridge.

Until now, though, Fung Wah has attracted less attention from regulators than many of the other discount bus lines that pick up passengers curbside in Chinatown and other New York City neighborhoods.

On Tuesday, the buses the company was using were not emblazoned with the Fung Wah name; their sides were either white or bore the name of the Brooklyn charter company, Omega Express. A man who identified himself as the president of Omega declined repeatedly to discuss his company’s involvement.

The federal order came after the Public Utilities Department in Massachusetts said it found that several Fung Wah buses had structural deficiencies, including frame cracks near their axles and engine cradles. They said they had also detected shoddy attempts at repairs, like incomplete or failed welds.

The department’s chairwoman, Ann G. Berwick, wrote a letter dated Feb. 22 to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration requesting that officials declare Fung Wah an “imminent hazard” and order it to cease operations.

Even those customers who were aware of the regulatory action said that the $15 fare would outweigh any potential safety concerns.

“My mother had sent me a text this morning to be careful,” said Grace Mateo, 30, an artist who was waiting at Boston South Station’s Gate 25 for a bus back to New York after a weekend visit. “We were, like, O.K., we’ve got to get home; we already paid for this.”

Ms. Mateo said she planned to keep taking the Fung Wah as long as the company continued to operate as the least costly option. “It would definitely be a hit to the wallet to have to take anything else,” Ms. Mateo said. “A lot of them are really expensive.”

A standard one-way bus fare from New York to Boston on an established bus line would typically cost $35.

Back in New York, when a substitute bus pulled up around the corner on Bowery to take on Fung Wah passengers, the Police Department made the company’s day a little worse. An officer parked his bike in front of the bus and filled out a ticket for parking in a no-standing zone.

After he jammed the orange summons under the windshield wiper, he explained that the fine would be $115. Or about one-fifth of the fares Fung Wah had just collected.
631 2013-02-27 The New York Aquarium in Brooklyn, which was closed after being inundated by the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy in the fall, will partly reopen in the late spring.

The Wildlife Conservation Society, which runs the aquarium in Coney Island, said Tuesday that about half of the aquarium would soon be open to the public, including exhibits in the Main Hall and the outdoor area of Sea Cliffs, which features walrus, sea lions, harbor seals and penguins.

“We know that all efforts to reopen the New York Aquarium are vital to the rebirth of Coney Island,” Cristian Samper, the society’s president, said in a statement. “This partial reopening will ensure that the aquarium can help all of New York City experience a strong comeback from the devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy.”

The society, which also operates the Bronx Zoo, said it would soon announce an exact date for the reopening. Officials said the cost of reconstructing the aquarium would be about $65 million.

The storm surge jumped the Coney Island Boardwalk on the evening of Oct. 29, pouring into the five buildings on the 14-acre complex. The floodwaters cascaded down the stairs of the buildings, filling up basements with 10 to 15 feet of water, and flooded the ground floors with two to three feet.

For days, aquarium officials were uncertain whether they would need to evacuate the entire collection of 12,000 fish and marine mammals to other aquariums on the East Coast. The floodwaters had knocked out the aquarium’s electrical transformers and damaged its electrical distribution system and mechanical equipment. And it undermined the pumps and motors that operate critical life support systems for the fish.
632 2013-02-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
633 2013-02-28 Goaltender Rick DiPietro, waived last week by the Islanders, said in a television interview that he had battled depression over his inability to live up to expectations....
634 2013-02-28 Over the last few years both auction houses have begun giving some of its biggest sellers a percentage of the buyer’s premium as an incentive to get their business, a practice which has cut into their profits....
635 2013-02-28 One day after Turkey’s prime minister told a U.N. forum the world should consider Islamophobia a crime against humanity, “just like Zionism or anti-Semitism or fascism,” his Israeli counterpart lashed back....
636 2013-02-28 Wednesday night’s third-season premiere of A&E’s hit reality series was the most-watched nonfiction show on cable television so far this year....
637 2013-02-28 Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia introduced a bill that would require the government to establish mechanisms for people to use their Internet browsers to tell advertising networks, data brokers and others that they do not want to be...
638 2013-02-28 The company, which acquired EMI’s recorded music division in a $1.9 billion deal approved by European regulators last year, announced on Wednesday that it had sold EMI’s share of the long-running pop compilation series “Now That’s What I C...
639 2013-02-28 “Mistaken For Strangers,” a documentary about the Brooklyn (by way of Cincinnati) rock group the National, will open the Tribeca Film Festival in April. It is directed by Tom Berninger, the younger brother of the band’s frontman, Matt Bernin...
640 2013-02-28 A woman leaves a tulip-shape light on her son’s grave; a man is charged with stealing brass cemetery fixtures, but he says he did not steal the light....
641 2013-02-28 See one Language Arts teacher’s use of “Avalanche” to help his students think about the future of storytelling, why it matters and how they can use the techniques to tell their own stories. And if you’ve used “Avalanche,” let us know....
642 2013-02-28 A summary of what’s on today’s editorial page....
643 2013-02-28 Speaking at the SuperReturn conference in Berlin, big investors like Henry R. Kravis and J. Christopher Flowers offered differing views about the region, as Europe’s economies struggle....
644 2013-02-28 Javier Vazquez will not pitch for Puerto Rico in the World Baseball Classic because of discomfort in his knee and may miss another major league season. Vazquez, 36, last pitched in the majors in 2011, when he compiled a 13-11 record and a 3.69 earned run average for the Marlins.
645 2013-02-28 TOKYO — Boeing on Thursday presented the Japanese government with its plan to address battery problems on its new 787 Dreamliner, stressing that added protections against possible battery fires and overheating are more than enough to allow its planes back in the air.

Japanese investigators, however, have maintained that there is still not enough evidence to show that the batteries themselves are the cause of fires, and that a shock could have caused them to overheat. That could complicate Boeing’s efforts to get regulators around the world to approve their fixes, because they focus only on containing any problems that might arise in the batteries.

The Japanese assertions have put Japan’s transport safety board at odds with American investigators, who have said publicly that there was no such surge in electrical current from outside the battery. The lithium-ion batteries on the 787 are made by GS Yuasa of Japan.

Raymond L. Conner, the chief executive of Boeing’s commercial airplane division, who is in Tokyo for talks with Japanese government officials, airliners and suppliers, gave a public apology for the problems with the 787 and said that he was confident that the battery fixes were a “permanent” solution that ensured the batteries would not be a danger going forward.

“What we did today was to discuss these solutions that we are looking at that could be final solutions,” Mr. Connor told reporters after meeting with the Japanese transport minister, Akihiro Ota.

“We feel this solution takes into account any possible event that could occur,” he said, “any causal factor that could cause an event, and we are very confident that we have a fix that will be permanent and allow us to continue to use the technology.”
646 2013-02-28 “Ms. Merkel cannot ignore this,” said Gero Neugebauer, a political scientist at Berlin’s Free University. “She will have to react.”

Adding to the pressure here, last month the lower house of Parliament in France approved a bill to legalize same-sex marriage in spite of significant opposition from religious leaders. The Senate is expected to pass the legislation in early April. France and Germany, neighbors, partners and the two most influential countries in the European Union, often measure themselves against each other.

Germany recognized civil unions for gay and lesbian couples in 2001 but they still lack many of the rights and benefits of their straight counterparts.

Gay rights issues put Ms. Merkel in a particularly tight spot with her political allies. The Christian Social Union, the sister party in conservative, Catholic Bavaria, is even more reluctant to grant additional rights to gay people. The pro-business Free Democrats, a party with a historic libertarian streak, has been looking for a winning issue to reinvigorate it after a series of electoral setbacks.

Over the weekend, several leading Christian Democrats announced that they would support legislation to provide the same tax benefits to gays in civil unions as they do to heterosexual partners, an apparent shift in policy that annoyed the party’s socially conservative wing. Indeed, just last December the Christian Democrats rejected a similar proposal.

But legal experts expect the influential Constitutional Court to issue a ruling this summer that would provide those benefits. As a result of the “clear tendency in the decisions of the Federal Constitutional Court, we should move as quickly as possible to implement the necessary constitutional right of equality,” Michael Grosse-Brömer, the Christian Democrats’ parliamentary whip, told the daily Süddeutsche Zeitung last weekend.

The policy shift by the Christian Democrats was quickly criticized by opposition politicians, who accused them of pandering to voters. The news could also put Ms. Merkel in an awkward position between a socially liberal populace, which she is keen to please before elections in September, and her religious conservative Christian Democrats.

Ms. Merkel, a tactical politician who is not averse to changing her party’s stance on issues important to the public if she thinks it will win votes, has in the past embraced center-left policies on a minimum wage and on ending mandatory military conscription, and she could very well do the same with gay rights. But if she tilts too far, conservative voters could stay home in September.

“She is oriented toward maintaining her power,” Mr. Neugebauer said.
647 2013-02-28 Although experts said intentional poisonings of show dogs were extremely rare, such stories have long circulated inside the cloistered and heated world of canine competitions. Poisoning allegations at Westminster date to 1895, when eight dogs were poisoned the morning before the competition. “Jealousy believed the motive,” a front-page headline in read.

Robert Chaffin, Cruz’s handler, accompanied Cruz to New York for the Westminster competition and spent nearly every minute of the trip by his side, paying close attention to anything the dog tried to eat. He said he believed that extreme animal rights activists, who have called dog shows and purebred competitions inhumane, might have been responsible.

“Unfortunately, dog shows have been plagued by some of these people for years,” Chaffin said. “I’ve heard horror stories about other people’s dogs having their setups tampered with, being poisoned, but I never thought it would come to me.”

Chaffin made clear that he had uncovered no evidence that Cruz had been deliberately poisoned, and he acknowledged that it was possible that the dog had accidentally swallowed poison. But he was far from comfortable calling the case closed.

Chaffin said he remembered a stranger at the Westminster show who glared at him and made a disapproving remark about Cruz’s vocal cords having been removed to quiet his bark, a process known as debarking.

“It would have been easy for someone to throw something in his cage,” Chaffin said.

Lynette Blue, one of Cruz’s owners, said she called the shortly after Cruz died but had not heard back. A police spokeswoman was not able to immediately confirm that she called.

Blue said she was still considering whether to take further action.

Animal rights groups have clashed with dog show exhibitors before, taking issue with the breeding of purebred dogs, and rescue practices, the very existence of dog shows and a plethora of legislation nationwide related to dog ownership.

In recent years, the organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has sent representatives to the Westminster show to try to break into the exhibition ring and distribute leaflets near the venue, said Ingrid Newkirk, the group’s founder and president.

While she repeated her opposition to the Westminster show on Wednesday, Newkirk adamantly said that her organization had nothing to do with Cruz’s death.

“PETA does not sanction that,” she said. “It’s so scurrilous; it’s so low to even suggest it.”

In a relatively short career, Cruz soared into the top rankings for Samoyeds, and while he did not trot away with a prize at Westminster, his owners said he had a promising career ahead of him.

“We have been devastated and in shock,” Blue said. “This is one of the most painful experiences of my life.”

On Feb. 16, after Cruz began , Chaffin took him to Animal Critical Care and Emergency Services in Lakewood, where he was hooked up to an intravenous drip and received oxygen.

Within a few hours, he was dead.

Experts said there were several possibilities to explain the rapid decline.

One was that Cruz may have had an undiagnosed, rare genetic disorder, like . But Cruz had no history of trauma or such blood disorders in his bloodline, Blue said.

Poisoning, whether intentional or not, seemed the most likely explanation. Blue declined for Cruz to have a necropsy because she was confident that he swallowed poison, she said.

Veterinarians said his symptoms resembled those of dogs who had ingested mouse and rat poisons, which usually take three to five days to cause physical symptoms in a dog. That would mean Cruz would probably have ingested any poison while he was in New York.

Molly Comiskey, the veterinarian who treated Cruz, said: “Dogs are dogs. It’s not anyone’s fault. They eat stuff; they get into things; they make bad decisions.”

Chaffin, Cruz’s handler, said it would have been difficult for Cruz to accidentally eat poison. He said he carefully checked every corner of the room he and Cruz shared in the New Yorker Hotel, specifically looking for rat poison. He said he found the room, and the hotel’s accommodations for dogs over all, to be safe.

Ann Peterson, the hotel’s president and general manager, said that the hotel did not use harmful and that it even set up an area inside the hotel to give canine guests a safe place to exercise.

“I couldn’t imagine it happening here,” she said.

As Cruz’s owners accepted condolences from well-wishers in the show community and beyond in recent days, Blue said she could not stop from speculating about what happened to her beloved dog.

“It’s devastating,” Blue said. “We keep thinking of the various scenarios, and it’s starting to feel like something we may never know.”
648 2013-02-28 Cargill executives said they were idling the plant and not permanently closing it, and it could reopen if the drought breaks and the cattle herd rebounds, a process that would take years.

Other towns and cities in Texas have been affected by the drought, including those limiting residential water usage. But none have been as hurt on such a widespread, and traumatic, scale as Plainview. Nine days after the plant closed on Feb. 1, a 16-year-old girl attempted suicide, after her mother, a former plant worker, told her they might move. The girl swallowed 34 sleeping pills because she did not want to leave her boyfriend, according to the police report.

One recent afternoon, Louis Torres, 52, pulled a U-Haul truck up to his house, where stacks of boxes crowded the porch and the living room. Mr. Torres was leaving the town where he had lived all his life, and he would be driving more than five hours to a new house and a new job at a Cargill plant in Dodge City, Kan.

In this one move, Plainview was losing 13 children and adults in the extended Torres family, including Mr. Torres, his wife, his 21-year-old daughter and his son-in-law, all of whom worked at Cargill and were offered jobs in Dodge City. His son, Jessie, 32, was staying behind: he worked at the plant, but he has not been called to Dodge City.

“I didn’t want to leave my town, but there ain’t nothing here for us,” said Mr. Torres, a trainer who worked at the plant for 33 years. “God opened the door right there for me and said, ‘Here, for all of your family, go.’ ”

Amid the bustle of the move, somebody asked if they could take the mailbox. Mr. Torres fought back tears, as did his youngest daughter, Julie, 11. She was wearing a purple tiara, a gift from her teacher on her last day of school. “They said goodbye and they gave me a ton of hugs,” Julie said of her classmates.

In the two weeks following Cargill’s announcement on Jan. 17 that the plant would close, about 20 students whose parents worked at the plant left the school district, a number that has steadily climbed since then.

Ronald Miller, the recently retired schools superintendent, said that nearly 1,000 of the district’s 5,700 students had at least one parent at Cargill, and that if half of those 1,000 students left, the district would lose more than $2 million in state and local financing. He said closing a school or laying off teachers were options on the table.

“We don’t know how long it’s going to take for the full effect to kick in,” said the mayor, Wendell Dunlap. “I think with 2,000 people laid off, there’s no way that many people can find work around here. We’re going to lose population. We’re going to have businesses that are going to have a hard time making it.”

A Cargill spokesman, Michael Martin, said 2,098 workers were laid off, in addition to more than 200 people who worked at the plant for other companies and agencies providing sanitation and other services. Of the Cargill employees, about 400 expressed an interest in relocating, Mr. Martin said.

Droughts, unlike hurricanes or tornadoes, are slow-motion disasters with indirect effects, and as a result some in town are skeptical it is to blame, believing other issues were involved. The weather itself has fueled disbelief: West Texas was hit with a winter storm that shut the Lubbock airport on Monday.

Mr. Martin said that the company idled the plant primarily because of the drought and the tight cattle supply. The day the plant closed, federal officials released new data showing the number of cattle in Texas at its lowest point since 1967.

“We would have preferred to have not had to idle any beef plant, but we cannot process cattle that do not exist,” Mr. Martin said in a statement.

Plainview gets its name from the West Texas topography — flat, big-sky country surrounded by acres of cotton. It is a slow-paced town that cherishes its old-fashioned feel — its hometown hero is the sausage king Jimmy Dean — and its place in the top cattle-producing state in the country. Fiberglass statues of cattle peek out from the downtown rooftops and sidewalks.

The majority of the Cargill workers lived in Plainview, and many of them wore cowboy boots and drove pickup trucks, but it was not a man’s world (“I was the first girl to start dropping heads in second shift,” said one of Mr. Torres’s daughters, Lynda, 26). Their ties to Plainview, and the plant, ran deep.

Cruz Castillo, 65, was laid off after working in maintenance at the plant for 42 years. He helped build the plant in 1971 when it was under different ownership, and he worries about finding new health insurance for his wife, who has diabetes. The day he lost his job, so did his son, his brother and two of his nephews. He will stay in Plainview, but he thinks his son might eventually move.

Every Saturday morning, a group of residents and laid-off workers gather outside the plant to walk four miles around the perimeter. They do it not as a protest, and not strictly for the exercise. They encircle the plant with prayers.

“It’s going to have to be a miracle,” said Manuel Balderas, a police captain who organizes the walks. “That’s what we’re praying for.”
649 2013-02-28 Gay rights have quickly emerged in Germany as a campaign issue in this parliamentary election year, with Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservative Christian Democrats struggling to catch up to changing attitudes among voters on issues like gay marriage and adoption. The debate here was given new impetus by a decision this month by the Federal Constitutional Court, which ruled that gays and lesbians should be allowed to adopt children already adopted by their partners. The next battle, over tax benefits for civil unions, has already begun. The issue is particularly contentious for Ms. Merkel’s party, which has tried to balance a conservative, traditional family-values approach favored by the party’s older voters with a desire to appeal to younger voters who support gay rights in greater numbers.
650 2013-02-28 The vote meant that for the moment at least, the Senate returned to its traditional role of affording the president deference in selecting his cabinet. Historically, the Treasury secretary position has been an easy one for presidents to fill, with nominees typically receiving unanimous support from the Senate.

Mr. Obama’s previous Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, was a notable exception. After disclosures that Mr. Geithner was delinquent in paying some taxes, many Republicans objected. He was confirmed by a 60-to-34 vote.

Some Republicans who voted for Mr. Lew spoke of the need to give the president flexibility to name his own cabinet even if they ultimately disagreed with a nominee’s politics.

“My vote in favor of Mr. Lew comes with no small amount of reservation, and I don’t fault any of my colleagues for choosing to vote against him,” said Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee. “I hope he and the president take note that I am bending over backwards to display deference.”

Though Mr. Hagel’s nomination was stymied as he faced criticism over past statements on Israel and Iran and stumbled over questions in his confirmation hearing, Mr. Lew faced few objections. Other than questions that arose from an unusual $685,000 severance payment he received after he left New York University for a job at Citigroup, the confirmation process was relatively smooth.

One particularly vocal objection on Wednesday came from one of the Senate’s most liberal members, Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont.

“We need a secretary of the Treasury who does not come from Wall Street but is prepared to stand up to the enormous power of Wall Street,” Mr. Sanders said from the Senate floor. “Do I believe that Jack Lew is that person? No, I do not.”

Still, even though the Senate approved Mr. Lew, he received far fewer votes than other Treasury secretary nominees. With the exception of Mr. Geithner, Senate records show that the last nominee to receive fewer than 92 “yes” votes was George P. Shultz, Richard Nixon’s pick in 1972.

Mr. Obama faces another possible battle over a high-level nominee in the coming days as the Senate is set to start considering John Brennan, the White House’s choice as director of central intelligence.
651 2013-02-28 When Ryan Foster and Anne Maxwell Foster expressed interest in buying an industrial-style loft in Dumbo, even their real estate agent was surprised. “She was, like: ‘Are you sure you like this place? It’s very Brooklyn,’ ” Ms. Maxwell Foster recalled.

That’s because Ms. Maxwell Foster is an owner of Tilton Fenwick, an interior design firm known for its fresh take on a traditional aesthetic. She likes tufted upholstery in brightly colored fabrics, vividly patterned wallpaper and other touches that create a sense of comfort and continuity. And the apartment was the antithesis of that: a newly constructed space with all the drawbacks you might expect (laminate countertops with exposed plywood edges, utility-grade lighting) and not much warmth or personality. It didn’t seem like a good fit.

But Ms. Maxwell Foster, 30, and her business partner, Suysel dePedro Cunningham, 36, saw potential. They loved the big windows and the view of Manhattan, Ms. dePedro Cunningham said. “The things that we didn’t like about the space, like finishes,” she added, “were easily fixed.”

True, Ms. Maxwell Foster said, she “might be the most traditional person who lives in Dumbo.” But her husband was enthusiastic about the neighborhood — in part, he said, because “I couldn’t remove my finance cap.”

A credit trader at a hedge fund, Mr. Foster, 31, was convinced the area was on the rise. “I felt very strongly about the investment aspect of the property,” he said. “For me, that was the big factor.”
652 2013-02-28 A colorful renovation to soften the rough edges....
653 2013-02-28 Beginning at 9 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays — as several signs on the platforms can attest — the station’s Madison Avenue exits are closed. But an interior gate often remained open about an hour longer, laying the trap that led riders to the escalator, the turnstiles, the gate and, after a few moments of deliberation, the decision: Jump the turnstile to seek another exit? Call for help? Or, for those without unlimited-ride MetroCards, spend a second fare, not to enter the subway system, but to escape it?

First, the explanation. The top level of the station is owned by private companies, whose personnel control the street-level gates. On two recent nights, the gates were closed at or around 9 p.m. The gate on the platform is operated by Metropolitan Transportation Authority workers, who say their shift schedules usually summon them to the station around 9:45 or 10.

“I don’t know why they make the schedule like this,” one worker, Daniel Martinez, said as he locked the gate last Thursday evening. He began his evening at the station at 53rd Street and Lexington Avenue at 9 p.m., he said, and needed to perform several errands there before walking toward Madison Avenue.

“For those 30, 45 minutes,” Mr. Martinez said, “I’m saying to myself, ‘How many times have people gone up and come back down?’ ”

On that night, and another, 48 hours earlier, the answer was about 20. Some paused for minutes at the turnstiles, contemplating a moral calculus that, according to transit officials, appears to be unique to 53rd Street.

Over the course of two weeknights, about half of the riders hurdled over or ducked under the turnstiles. Several cajoled fellow passengers, who had not yet left the subway system, to push the emergency gate open. And the rest swiped their MetroCards, though for some, like Ms. Lingley, the possession of an unlimited-ride card eased the pain.

Many travelers chafed, quite reasonably, at being approached by an inquisitive stranger moments after realizing they were cornered. Adam Alicea, 23, was among several who called the station “an easy spot to rob someone.”

But a few offered to talk through their decisions.

One rider, Anthony Thavar, first insisted he would go over the turnstile, then grew paranoid about a possible police effort to root out fare beaters. (He repeatedly asked those near him if they were officers.)

“I’m not going to jump for $2,” he said finally.

He swiped his card. “Insufficient fare,” the machine read. He walked a few steps to the emergency gate, pushed it in vain, then returned to the turnstile. Without a word, he dashed underneath. He did not appear to regret his choice.

“Jumping turnstiles, what’s up!” he shouted gleefully as the escalator carried him away.

In his wake, two Spanish tourists fumbled for quarters beside two MetroCard vending machines, neither of which was accepting credit cards last week. They reached $1.75, before one dug into her pocket, grimacing, for a $10 bill.

For longtime riders, the episode can rattle years of hard-won confidence. New Yorkers are supposed to know their subways. They know which car will deliver them to the base of the desired exit at their stop. They know to leave 15 minutes of travel-time cushion on weekends. So how can the most fundamental of underground acts — leaving — beguile them so?

“The escalators are on,” Julia Tang, 34, said, still incredulous as she considered her options from the wrong side of the turnstile. “It’s got to be open.”

Days after being informed of the station’s quirk, the authority said Tuesday that it had arranged to have the building owners keep the street-level entrances open until 9:45 p.m. It also planned to rewrite station signs to reflect the change.

Asked if the authority could condone the turnstile jumping that preceded the shift, Charles Seaton, an agency spokesman, said, “I cannot, and I will not.”

But a brief survey of local experts on ethical matters yielded a unanimous result: There is no shame in jumping, given the circumstances. Jason Shelowitz, the artist whose guerrilla “subway etiquette” campaign in 2010 urged riders to keep loud music, nail-clipping and groping off the rails, said any potential ticket would be “an easy one to talk your way out of” with an officer.

Jonathan Haidt, a professor of business ethics at the New York University Stern School of Business, said, “The ethical move is clearly to jump the turnstile.”

“They are not trying to steal service,” he added. “They are simply trying to exit a system that they paid once to enter.”

But Mr. Martinez, the station worker, issued perhaps the most decisive verdict, moments after completing his sweep near the roll-down gates, to ensure that no stragglers remained.

What, he was asked, should riders do before he or a colleague arrived the next night?

“Just go under,” he said, marching across the platform. “You’re better off.”
654 2013-02-28 A central provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 may be in peril, judging by tough questions from the Supreme Court’s more conservative members....
655 2013-02-28 GENEVA — At least three people were killed in a shooting at a Swiss factory on Wednesday, the police said, adding that the gunman was among the dead. The episode was the second mass shooting in Switzerland this year.

The shooting occurred at about 9 a.m. in the canteen of a Kronospan wood processing factory in the town of Menznau, about 14 miles west of Lucerne, the police said in a statement. A spokesman for the police in Lucerne said that the gunman was a 42-year-old employee of the factory, but he gave no further details. The police said that the gunman was among those dead but that he was not shot by the police.

Seven people were injured in the shooting, the police said. The helicopter rescue service RGA said it evacuated four seriously injured people to hospital, the Swiss news agency SDA reported.

Mass shootings are uncommon in Switzerland, but the shooting in Menznau was the second such episode in two months, and it could revive debate on gun control in Switzerland, where it is estimated that there are between two and three million guns in circulation among the country’s population of eight million people.

In January, a mentally ill man, armed with a hunting rifle and an early-20th-century army carbine, shot and killed three women and wounded two men in the southern Swiss village of Daillon. That shooting renewed calls for stricter gun controls, ranging from setting up a central registry of weapons to ending the tradition that allows people who perform military service to keep army-issue weapons at home.
656 2013-02-28 HONG KONG — Relatives of nine Hong Kong residents who were killed in a fatal balloon accident in Egypt were headed to Cairo on Wednesday to claim the bodies, a day after the balloon exploded into a fireball while preparing to land.

The five women and four men from Hong Kong who died in the accident on Tuesday were part of a group that was on a 10-day visit to Egypt, and they were taking the balloon for a tour over the ancient temples of Luxor when it burst into flames, killing 19 people in all.

Immigration officers from Hong Kong have been dispatched to travel with the families of the victims to Cairo, where the bodies have been transported to four hospitals.

The Hong Kong travel agency that handled the trip to Luxor, Kuoni Travel, said Wednesday that it was arranging for the six other members of the tour who chose not to participate in the balloon trip to leave Egypt and return to Hong Kong, and five will return to Hong Kong Friday.

The disaster unfolded in just minutes as the pilot was pulling a rope to stabilize the balloon when a gas hose ripped and a fire started, security officials said. Besides the nine people from Hong Kong who were killed, four Japanese, two French, two Britons, a Hungarian and an Egyptian also died.