1 2009-10-01 Mike Mergen for The New York Times
2 2009-10-01 The Texas-based alternative asset manager said Thursday that it had acquired some assets of Northwater Capital Management....
3 2009-10-01 Robert J. McCann, the former head of Merrill Lynch's wealth management unit, has settled his lawsuit over his contract, freeing him to take another job in financial services, perhaps with UBS....
4 2009-10-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
5 2009-10-01 While much has been written about the role that long-work hours play in medical mistakes, less is known about the toll of stress, depression and burnout, writes Dr. Pauline Chen....
6 2009-10-01 The London Stock Exchange said Thursday that it was in exclusive talks to link with the pan-European alternative trading system Turquoise in an attempt to regain market share and expand abroad....
7 2009-10-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
8 2009-10-01 It is the first hotel in Barcelona with direct access to the beach....
9 2009-10-01 The finances of the Valentino fashion house will withstand the economic crisis, according to a partner in Permira, the private equity fund that owns the group. But current market conditions mean the investor will be sticking around longer than pla...
10 2009-10-01 Nadia Zonis, the author of "City Walks With Dogs: New York," responds to readers....
11 2009-10-01 Monologue | Aired Wednesday night on NBC: President Obama and Oprah Winfrey are going to Copenhagen together this week to push for Chicago to host the 2016 Olympics. The bad news is while they're gone the country's going to be run by Joe Biden and...
12 2009-10-01 There has to be some way to distinguish big businesses from, uh, ... not big businesses....
13 2009-10-01 Switzerland's two global banks UBS and Credit Suisse may face tighter regulation than other domestic and international competitors, the country's banking regulator Finma said in a strategy paper....
14 2009-10-01 A handful of top Russian business figures have created a Master of Business Administration program that tackles the issues they faced themselves: bribery, relentless bureaucracy and imperfect laws....
15 2009-10-01 Under guidelines from the Swiss government, health insurers offer basic plans on a not-for-profit basis — although the companies can make a profit on supplemental coverage. The mandatory basic policies offer a range of annual out-of-pocket deductibles of 500 to 2,500 Swiss francs, or $490 to $2,450, with the premiums falling as deductibles rise.

Healthy singles in their 20s and 30s or young families — the kind of people who in the United States might be tempted to risk going without coverage — typically choose low-premium, high-deductible policies in Switzerland. Meanwhile, Swiss senior citizens and families favor the more expensive, low-deductible option, according to Yves Seydoux, a spokesman for Groupe Mutuel, one of the country’s big insurers.

On average, a typical Zurich adult pays premiums of 350 to 400 Swiss francs a month for a basic policy, while a family of four pays 1,200 to 1,500 Swiss francs a month, said Mr. Seydoux.

Although the basic comprehensive plans must be offered on a nonprofit basis, health insurers are permitted to earn a profit on supplemental plans to cover dental care and extras like greater choice among hospitals and more private in-patient accommodations.

At the same time, to combat rising premiums, Swiss insurers are increasingly offering managed care plans, limiting doctor choice in exchange for customers who want lower premiums.
16 2009-10-01 The National Hockey League season starts Thursday, but a dispute threatens to keep DirecTV subscribers from watching the games televised by Versus. If there is no resolution, an opening-night doubleheader (Washington at Boston and San Jose at Colorado) will not be seen on DirecTV, and the Rangers-Devils game Monday night will be blacked out.

DirecTV, a satellite operator, pulled Versus from its lineup at midnight Aug. 31 when the two sides could not agree on a request for higher fees by Versus and DirecTV’s plan to change the way it distributes Versus.

“They’re looking for us to pay 20 percent more in total dollars,” said Derek Chang, DirecTV’s executive vice president for content, strategy and development. He said Versus had also sought to expand its availability beyond what DirecTV’s Choice Extra package provides. Versus was included in DirecTV’s Choice Extra package until Aug. 31.

“We’re looking for packaging flexibility,” Chang said. “What they’re asking for isn’t normal, by any means.”

But Versus says that DirecTV wants to slash its availability from 14 million subscribers to 8 million.
17 2009-10-01 And did you hear the Democrats complaining about that? Well, yes, actually quite a bit. Still.

No American president has gone to lobby for the Olympics before. But then no American president had gone on the show before. No president had ever made a speech in Cairo before. No president had ever been called a liar by a U.S. representative during a speech to Congress. No president had ever been accused of “following Marxist theory” by Andy Williams, the pop singer we haven’t heard from since “Moon River” was in vogue.

There was a time when no head of state would even consider running off to beg members of the unpredictable, quirky and occasionally bribable Olympics committee for their votes. But these days, you can’t beat them off with a stick. The president of , who is popularly known as “Lula” is there, as is the prime minister of , who is popularly known as “the new guy.”

The city of is the fourth contender for the 2016 Summer Games, reportedly trailing behind Chicago, and . So is just sending the king, who is popularly known as

There are downsides to Obama’s decision to race off to Copenhagen, none of them involving failure to make the country safe.

One is that it might actually not make sense for Chicago to spend tons of money to win the right to stuff the city with new places to throw a javelin.

Chicagoans seem about evenly divided on whether hosting the Olympics would actually be a good thing, although they are overwhelmingly certain beyond a shadow of a doubt that they do not want to be on the hook for cost overruns. Which their City Council, nonetheless, voted unanimously to guarantee.

But the White House is full of people who love Chicago and want to see it shine on a world stage. You can just hear them telling each other that it’s easy to come up with reasons not to try, but where did that ever get anyone? Seize the day! Beat Rio!

“I’m going after you in Copenhagen,” told the wife of the Brazilian president.

This was said in good humor at the G-20 summit in , a well-known venue for joshing.

What if Obama goes to Denmark and Chicago loses anyway? Let’s hope the White House has been guaranteed that the fix is in. If you’re going to waste the administrative momentum on a big gamble, it really ought to be to slow or to reform Wall Street, not to make sure the 2016 triathlon champion wins his medal in .

The worst downside about Obama’s trip to Denmark is that even though the Republicans’ complaints are spurious, he did say the other day that he couldn’t go because he was too busy “making real the promise of quality, affordable health care for every American.”

His new confidence that it’s all right to leave suggests that maybe the president feels as though the promise got real when the Senate Finance Committee began pummeling a bill into exactly the shape desired by lawmakers who represent large and representative states like and and .

If so, this whole scenario is very depressing. I prefer to think that Obama suddenly agreed to go to Denmark not because Chicago couldn’t win without him, but because he just needed a short break from thinking about .
18 2009-10-01 When A. J. Burnett took the mound Tuesday night, his goal was to reassure the Yankees that he would be all right when the playoffs begin. When Joba Chamberlain did the same Wednesday night, it was more of an audition. After the way he pitched, he is not likely to get a callback soon.

Chamberlain had a strong outing against Boston in his previous start, but he struggled with his command Wednesday and could not make it out of the fourth inning in a 4-3 loss to the Kansas City Royals, one of the worst offensive teams in the American League.

So if the Yankees had any thought of choosing the shorter of the two A.L. division series and going with four starters, that choice seems far too risky now.

It is now even more likely than ever that the Yankees will go with the series that has an extra day off and use only three starters, meaning Chamberlain will either need to reclaim his old role as a dominating reliever, or sit out the first round.

Chamberlain said that if it would help the team advance, he would settle for doing domestic chores.

“If they want me to fold towels, I’ll fold towels,” he said. “I don’t really care. I’ll do anything to win on this team.”

This was his final chance to make a good impression before the Yankees make their roster choices heading into the playoffs, but Chamberlain allowed three runs, seven hits and walked four. He threw 91 pitches in only three and two-thirds innings.
19 2009-10-01 Under the new rules, for example, drillers would be required to disclose the chemical fluids used for each well. Buffer zones would be created around reservoirs and aqueducts in the watershed. Wells drilled within a 1,000-foot corridor of underground tunnels that carry drinking water to New York City would require special approval, and in some cases, state inspectors would have to be present during some phases of operations.

The proposals will be open for public comment until Nov. 30, said Yancey Roy, a spokesman for the agency. State regulators will release their final report sometime next year, which will open the door for drilling permits to be issued.

Some critics of drilling said that they recognized that the regulators had made an effort to address some of their concerns and that drillers would have to comply with more stringent rules in New York than in other parts of the country. Still, they expressed some dissatisfaction.

“We need to have a zero-risk policy here, and it is not appropriate to allow drilling in such a unique and extraordinarily valuable resource,” said Kate Sinding, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “The record in other states is so abysmal, and it doesn’t take much to do better than other states.”

About 8.5 percent of the Marcellus Shale within the state of New York is located under the New York City watershed, Ms. Sinding said.

The Manhattan Borough President, Scott M. Stringer, said the protections outlined did not go far enough and could expose the city to billions of dollars of expenses if it needed to invest in water filtration plants to counter contamination.

“A buffer zone is not a ban,” he said. “Quite frankly, a lot of these are half-baked measures that put the watershed at risk.”

Mr. Stringer said that he was asking that the public comment period be extended to at least 90 days and that he had secured a commitment from both Mr. Paterson and the state environmental department’s commissioner, Pete Grannis, that a hearing on the proposed rules would be held in New York City.

Geologists have long known about the Marcellus Shale and its abundant gas reserves, but until recently there was no way to extract the fuel in an economical way.

That changed several years ago when operators figured out a way to merge two technologies: horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing. Because wells have been drilled horizontally, sometimes for miles, operators can now gain access to pockets of gas that would have been unreachable. High-pressure water mixed with chemicals is then injected into the wells to break the shale and allow natural gas to flow out.

Some geologists estimate that the Marcellus basin holds an estimated 500 trillion cubic feet of gas, of which 50 trillion cubic feet could be recovered. That would be enough to meet the nation’s needs for about two years.

There are already about 13,000 active oil and gas wells in New York, about half of them already using hydraulic fracturing. In drilling through shale, a great deal more water is needed to crack the rocks. While a conventional well requires using about 80,000 to 100,000 gallons of water, shale rocks require anywhere between three million to five million gallons per well.
20 2009-10-01 On Wednesday, the Transportation secretary, , called the broader phenomenon of distracted driving a “deadly epidemic” at a meeting on the issue in . Real estate brokers, pharmaceutical sales people, entrepreneurs, marketers and others say they have little choice but to transform their cars into cubicles. In this merciless economy, they say, they have to make every minute count, and respond instantly to opportunities and challenges.

And they argue that the convenience of constant contact — and the chance to tick off items from an endless to-do list while driving — far outweigh what they think are slim chances that it could lead to a wreck.

For white-collar employees, pressures to multitask are largely self-imposed. For blue-collar workers, the demands to stay connected while driving are often imposed by their bosses.

Truckers, plumbers, delivery drivers and others are tethered to dispatchers with an array of productivity devices, including on-board computers that send instructions about the next job and keep tabs on drivers’ locations. Such devices can require continual attention — distracting drivers who are steering the biggest vehicles on American roads.

The compulsion to work while driving often trumps clear evidence that such activity is dangerous. Studies show that someone who talks on the phone while driving is four times more likely to crash, even using a hands-free headset, than someone who is simply driving. The risks are even greater when sending .

For all the perceived benefits of multitasking behind the wheel — like staying a step ahead of competitors — the dangers have begun to take their toll on companies, leading some to ban the practice by employees.

Some families of victims killed in collisions with a multitasking worker have successfully sued the driver’s employer for tens of millions of dollars.

Researchers say there is another reason to question the benefits of working behind the wheel: a growing body of research shows that splitting attention between activities like working and driving often leads to distracted conversations and bad decisions.

“There is an illusion of productivity,” said David E. Meyer, a professor of at the . “It’s actually counterproductive.”

“To the extent that someone is focused on driving, the quality of work product is diminished,” he added. “To the extent someone is focused on work and not driving, there’s a risk of crashing and burning. Something’s got to give.”

Potash, a large public fertilizer and chemical company, never told managers like Mr. Dekok, or regional salesmen like Rob Hudson, that they needed to multitask while driving.

But given that both men drive an average of 150 miles each day visiting feed mills and other customers, their cars inevitably became rolling offices, the place where they call clients, plan meetings and make hotel reservations.

“I’d be on my cellphone, writing notes in my planner, driving with my knee, and with a sandwich in my lap,” Mr. Hudson said. He felt he could not ignore his phone, he said, because he never knew which call or e-mail message would be one he could not miss.

“For the clients, a lot of times it’s an urgent request for a delivery,” he said. “In the animal feed business, they never stop eating. It’s not like that can wait until tomorrow.”

Plenty of other workers feel similar pressures. IDC, a market research firm, estimated last year that there were 111 million mobile workers in the , including all manner of people who do work outside an office, whether in a car, café, or airport lounge. And in a 2007 survey, IDC found that 70 percent of owners of BlackBerrys and other smartphones used their device in a car at least once a week. (The survey did not specify whether the phone users were drivers or passengers, but 80 percent of people typically drive alone).

“It’s a seconds-count economy,” said Sean Ryan, an analyst at IDC.

Mr. Ryan feels the pressure. He schedules work calls to make his own 45-minute commute — from to Framingham, Mass. — more productive.

At stop lights, he checks texts and e-mail messages. He does not want to miss something important, but he also sees the practice as a time saver. “I might as well get a quick e-mail taken care of, or at least delete spam,” he said. “When I get to the office, I’ve saved 15 to 20 minutes of work.”

David Vered, 53, chief executive of Pacific Yogurt Partners, which operates Golden frozen yogurt stores in the San Francisco Bay Area and helps manage other stores around the state, sometimes does not wait for stop lights to check his e-mail.

He has trained employees to send concise messages so that he can read them while driving on the highway as he visits stores.

“With the BlackBerry, you can hold it up over the steering wheel,” he said. “I just hit ‘open’ and see what the issue is.”

On his lengthy commutes, he occasionally schedules calls with lawyers to do lease negotiations, or with contractors to discuss construction of a new retail outlet.

But his phone can also ring with an urgent problem, like a broken frozen-yogurt machine. Mr. Vered’s workers need to know what to do. If he delays, he said, they might be paralyzed, time and money.

“I respond to them as rapidly as possible,” he said. “I don’t like holding people up. And I’m not just holding them up: I’m paying them. I want them to be as effective as possible.”

Studies show that drivers who send text or e-mail typically take their eyes off the road for an average of five seconds.

But Mr. Vered said he was vigilant about safety. Besides, he said, he never reads e-mail on his bigger laptop computer, which he keeps on a desk he has installed on the passenger seat of his small S.U.V.

“That’s dangerous because you have to shift the field of vision away from the road,” he added.

Mr. Vered said he was an adept multitasker.

“I’m in a zone,” he said. He uses a Bluetooth cellphone device attached to his ear so he can keep both hands on the wheel unless he is dialing or reading a text. “I’ve done it my whole life, so I know how to multitask,” he added.

As his own boss, Mr. Vered can choose whether to multitask while driving.

But other employees, particularly blue-collar workers, do not have that luxury. Many employers deploy an array of devices to stay connected with their drivers at all times.

“When someone’s toilet overflows, they call a bunch of plumbers — the first plumber there wins,” said Brian Edds, a marketing director for Xora, a company based in Mountain View, Calif.

Xora’s software lets workers using mobile phones receive dispatch and navigation directions, deal with payroll, fill out invoices and otherwise manage their work as if they were sitting at a desk.

IDC, the research firm, estimates companies spent $850 million last year for such software from Xora and its competitors, and estimated the market size would double in five years. The software has been installed on the phones of millions of electricians, service technicians, home health care workers, sales people, plumbers and others — at companies like , , and , and the city of .

In the past, Mr. Edds said, a mobile worker might have had to scribble down directions from a dispatcher.

“Now he gets sent the information in an organized manner, so he can click on the address, and get the best route, so he gets to a job very fast,” he said.

Stephen R. Poppe, chief information officer for Roto-Rooter, said that when employees turned on their device, it warned them not to use it while driving. But employees can bypass the warning, and Mr. Poppe conceded the company cannot stop them from doing so,

“It’s like telling your daughter, ‘Don’t talk while driving,’ ” he said. “She answers, ‘Sure, Dad.’ ”

The company also needs quick responses from its plumbers.

“We want to know right this minute if they’re going to take that job or not, or we’ll assign the job to someone else,” he said. “We’ll know within 60 seconds.”

Mr. Edds said that Xora software included a standard warning screen urging users not to use it while driving. But he acknowledged that it could be ignored — and often was.

“Like the warning screens on in-dash navigation systems, most users treat them as a speed bump on their way to do what they want to do,” he said.

And sometimes a computer in the driver’s seat can be a deadly distraction.

Jered Noe was driving a Coca-Cola delivery truck on a quiet stretch of two-lane highway in Seminole County, Okla., two Novembers ago.

Samantha Dawn Earnest, with her three children, Jason, 7; Dakota, 5; and Hailey, 4; was driving along the same road in the other direction in her green 1999 .

In the back seat, Jason and Dakota talked about decorating the walls of their shared room. Jason favored pictures of dinosaurs. Dakota preferred horses.

As Ms. Earnest crested a hill, the delivery truck swerved into her car, spun it around and sent it careening across the highway. Jason died on impact.

Ms. Earnest, stunned and bleeding, saw the truck driver walking toward her.

“I said, ‘Why, why, why?’ ” she recalled screaming at him. “He told me, ‘I just took my eyes off the road for a second because I was looking at my computer.’ ”

“I went into a mad rage,” she said. “If he’d said he’d fallen asleep, maybe I’d have understood. But using a computer?”

Mr. Noe, 24, received a suspended sentence for negligent homicide, a misdemeanor, and the Earnest family sued Mr. Noe’s employer, the ADA Coca-Cola Bottling Company.

The company settled, and the terms of the agreement are confidential. ADA did not respond to requests for comment.

Lawyers and expert witnesses in cases involving multitasking drivers say such lawsuits are common.

Last year, reached a settlement to pay $5.2 million because of a 2006 accident in which an employee on a phone hit another driver, whose arm had to be amputated.

Katherine McArthur, a lawyer in , Ga., who sued International Paper in that case, said the company permitted employees to use a cellphone while driving if it had a hands-free headset. (This remains the company policy, according to International Paper).

But Ms. McArthur said that several studies show that drivers using headsets face the same likelihood of crashing as someone holding the phone to their ear. That risk has been compared to driving at the legal limit for intoxication.

“What I’m arguing in these cases is that these companies are authorizing something as bad as drunk driving and that they knew about the research or should have known,” she said. Ms. McArthur said that companies should expect more such lawsuits.

“They’re the deep pockets,” she said. Some may pay before an accident even happens. executives say that when setting premiums the industry has started to consider whether companies have policies on cellphone use.

There might be another reason for drivers to reconsider working behind the wheel: a growing body of studies suggest that such work may be less valuable than many people assume.

The reason, researchers say, is that the brain can effectively perform only one difficult task at a time.

Mr. Meyer, the professor, found that when someone tried to multitask, important neural regions must switch back and forth, taking time and creating inefficiencies.

That can be particularly dangerous, of course, when a driver suddenly feels the tires slipping on an icy road in the middle of a phone call. But that 2001 study, and numerous others, also show that multitasking motorists can pay another price — in the quality of their work.

In 2006, for instance, researchers at , , used brain imaging to show that multitaskers were less effective learners.

According to that research, a person focused on a single task remembers what he has learned using the hippocampus, a part of the brain critical to storing and recalling information.

But when that person multitasks — like trying to learn something new while driving — the brain relies more on the striatum, a part of the brain used more for learning motor skills.

The researchers concluded, “Don’t multitask while you are trying to learn something new you hope to remember.”

“The brain is fundamentally built to unitask,” said Clifford Nass, a communications professor at Stanford, where he is also a co-director of a new automotive research laboratory.

That limitation can put drivers at a disadvantage if they are negotiating with someone who, say, is in an office and less distracted.

Driving, Mr. Nass said, the parts of the brain that make it more difficult to appreciate nuances of a conversation. “A person is much more manipulatable when they’re behind the wheel,” he said.

Mr. Nass said that the counterproductive effects can linger after the ride. Research shows that the brains of heavy multitaskers can become so accustomed to hopping from task to task that they have trouble focusing on longer, more in-depth ones.

Some companies have weighed several factors — including the safety risks and the cost of potential lawsuits — and banned employees from doing work on their phones behind the wheel. (In a survey taken in August of its 13,000 member companies, the National Safety Council found 469 with such bans.)

Some corporations that have imposed the bans have found that productivity has not suffered.

AMEC, an international engineering and project management company, banned its 9,000 North American workers, starting in 2005, from talking on the phone while driving — a decision the company made after executives heard about a fatal accident caused by a driver talking on a cellphone.

AMEC surveyed its workers a year later, asking them to respond anonymously to encourage candor, and 95 percent said their productivity had not been affected.

In 2004, started asking the same question after it became concerned about the safety of its 90,000 workers and 100,000 contract workers, who drove up to 1.5 million miles each day, said Michael Henderek, the company’s safety executive at the time. The company wanted to know what a ban would do to the bottom line.

“Exxon Mobil is a corporation in which 50 percent of employees are engineers,” said Mr. Henderek. “It’s driven by data.”

The company determined that research equating the dangers of behind-the-wheel multitasking with drunken driving was reliable. So in early 2004, Exxon Mobil ran a pilot project, restricting some employees from using the phone while driving. It found no loss in productivity, and quickly imposed a ban for all workers and contractors.

“To not act was irresponsible,” Mr. Henderek said. “The risk to employees was much greater than any marginal benefit of the productivity you get.”

Exxon Mobil was particularly concerned about its big fuel trucks.

“The last thing you want to have,” Mr. Henderek said, “is an incident between the fuel fleet and the community.”

Last March, Potash’s chief executive, William J. Doyle, attended a conference in that focused on safety in the fertilizer industry.

He was particularly moved by a harrowing speech — not about chemical safety, but distracted driving. Before day’s end, Mr. Doyle had sent an e-mail message to several Potash executives telling them the company needed to change its policy.

“It said, ‘We have to get a cellphone policy in place. We can’t subject people to this anymore,’ ” John Hunt, Potash’s executive in charge of safety, health and environment, recalled.

On April 1, Potash banned its 5,000 workers from using their phones while driving, telling them they could be fired if they broke the rule. “There’s always an extra 15 or 30 minutes where someone can pull the car over to place a call. Nothing is that critical,” Mr. Hunt said, explaining the policy.

Mr. Dekok, the manager, was skeptical. But his grudging acceptance vanished when he heard a speech by David Teater, an executive with the National Safety Council, which has made a cause of eliminating driver distraction.

This year, as part of that, the group began an effort to get corporations representing one million workers to ban their employees from using cellphones while driving.

At the invitation of Potash, Mr. Teater, 53, a former college football player with an easygoing manner, recently gave company workers and their families a version of the stump speech he has given dozens of times.

Over 40 minutes, Mr. Teater detailed the increased risks drivers face when multitasking. He talked about cognitive distraction and the need for stronger laws. He thanked Potash for being a leader and urged the audience to tell others to rethink their priorities.

“We don’t need our phones as much as we think we do,” he said.

Then Mr. Teater, his audience already rapt, showed pictures on a projector of people who had been killed by multitasking drivers.

The last photo he showed was of a 12-year-old blond boy, smiling — it was Joe Teater, Mr. Teater’s son.

On Day in 2004, a driver talking on a cellphone on her way to church hit the Teaters’ car, killing Joe and injuring his mother, who was driving. (After his son’s death, Mr. Teater worked 18 months for a company that is developing technology that can prevent a driver from using a cellphone while the car is in motion, and he still owns shares in the company.)

Many of the Potash employees teared up as Mr. Teater concluded. They thanked him, and said they would change their behavior and urge friends and family to do the same.

Mr. Hudson, the Potash salesman, still wishes there could be some compromise on the policy. He acknowledged that he has had more than a few scary moments in the past when he’s “swerved off the beaten path” while multitasking. But he still feels drive time should be productive.

“You’d think we could have some leeway on the highway — when you’re on open road and you’re wide awake,” he said. “It’s a little over the top to have a 100 percent ban. But then, where do you draw the line?”

For Mr. Dekok, the line is now clear. If he is driving and the phone rings, he lets it go to voicemail. He knows every rest stop on his routes, and which ones have good cellular and Wi-Fi service.

He does not drive more than 30 miles without stopping to respond to messages. And he delegates more authority to subordinates so they can deal with problems when he is on the road.

Business is just as urgent as it always has been, but he has a new view of the calculus.

“After you go cold turkey, and get rid of the cellphone when you drive, you see other people’s behavior,” he said. “It’s like getting sober and realizing everyone else is still drunk.”
21 2009-10-01 For now, Binghamton appears to be retaining Broadus, whose contract was extended through 2014 after he guided the Bearcats to their first N.C.A.A. tournament berth last season. Broadus, who has about $1 million left on his contract, did not return a phone message Wednesday night.

But the university’s swift action in dismissing six players, Thirer’s resignation and the bleak outlook for the team this season do not appear to bode well for the embattled coach. The team has only seven scholarship players who are eligible and no point guard, and the leading returning scorer averaged less than 5 points a game last season.

Norris, the interim athletic director, said Wednesday night by telephone that he had some “sorting out to do” before he could comment. When asked specifically about Broadus’s future, he declined comment.

“Don’t read into that one way or another,” Norris said.

There is also the lingering issue of accusations against the athletic department made by Sally Dear, an adjunct lecturer, who said in an interview in February that she was pressured by the athletic department to change basketball players’ grades. The university dismissed her Tuesday, citing the “uncertain fiscal environment” and “strategic reprioritization of resources across the university.”

Dear said this week that colleagues had told her they had changed grades for athletes.

Nancy L. Zimpher, the chancellor of the State University of New York system, which includes Binghamton, said Dear’s February accusations had been investigated.

“Earlier this year, concerns were raised that academic integrity may have been impacted at Binghamton as a result of activity in the athletic department,” Zimpher said. “A careful review was conducted at that time at Binghamton, and I have been assured by President DeFleur that this was not the case.”

Dear said no one spoke with her during the investigation. “How can they conduct an investigation if one of the principal people involved has not been talked to?” she said.

Thirer, who did not return a phone call Wednesday night, is being reassigned to the office of the provost to work on projects related to undergraduate transfers.

He had been athletic director since 1989 and oversaw the transition of Binghamton’s athletics from Division III to Division I in 2001. He hired Broadus in March 2007.

When Thirer learned from a reporter that Broadus had previously recruited from a Philadelphia high school that gained the reputation for being a diploma mill, he promised nothing similar would take place at Binghamton.

“Binghamton has never engaged in that type of behavior,” he said. “If there’s a history of that, it certainly won’t be the case here. I can guarantee that. We just don’t want to win that badly.”

Since Broadus came, there have been three arrests of players, including Mayben’s, and the recruiting of several transfer players who had academic or legal problems. Miladin Kovacevic, whom Broadus did not recruit, was accused of beating a student into a coma and fled to his native Serbia. Malik Alvin, whom Broadus brought in, was charged with stealing condoms.

As problems mounted, Thirer insisted that the university was not sacrificing its integrity to win. He did not address the recent problems in a statement Wednesday.

“My commitment to the ideals of Binghamton University and to the intercollegiate program remains steadfast,” he said.
22 2009-10-01 The CIT Group is planning to introduce a huge debt exchange offer to its bondholders while also preparing a potential bankruptcy filing, people with direct knowledge of the talks said on Wednesday.

CIT, a major lender to small and midsize businesses nationwide, plans to ask bondholders to exchange their current holdings for new debt and equity, these people said. The offer would be introduced within days and would run for about 20 business days. The company faces a Thursday deadline to present a comprehensive restructuring plan.

At the same time, CIT will also ask bondholders to pledge their support for a prepackaged bankruptcy — one that has the support of virtually all a company’s creditors — in case the exchange offer fails to get enough participation, these people said.

The plan foresees CIT in Chapter 11 protection for 30 to 45 days. When the company fought for survival this summer, it faced the prospects of what restructuring professionals call a free-fall bankruptcy, one done with little preplanning and which could have lasted for years.

Soliciting votes for a prepackaged bankruptcy, which can be imposed upon holdout creditors, alongside the exchange offer is meant to serve as a cudgel to recalcitrant bondholders. A previous debt-exchange offer this summer garnered barely enough participation to succeed, but it was not accompanied by the threat of an impending bankruptcy filing.
23 2009-10-01 By many measures, the Swiss are healthier than Americans, and surveys indicate that Swiss people are generally happy with their system. Switzerland, moreover, provides high-quality care at costs well below what the United States spends per person. Swiss insurance companies offer the mandatory basic plan on a not-for-profit basis, although they are permitted to earn a profit on supplemental plans.

And yet, as a potential model for the United States, the Swiss health care system involves some important trade-offs that American consumers, insurers and health care providers might find hard to swallow.

The Swiss government does not “ration care” — that populist bogeyman in the American debate — but it does keep down overall spending by regulating drug prices and fees for lab tests and medical devices. It also requires patients to share some costs — at a higher level than in the United States — so they have an incentive to avoid unnecessary treatments. And some doctors grumble that cost controls are making it harder these days for a physician to make a franc.

The Swiss government also provides direct cash subsidies to people if health insurance equals more than 8 percent of personal income, and about 35 to 40 percent of households get some form of subsidy. In some cases, employers contribute part of the insurance premium, but, unlike in the United States, they do not receive a tax break for it. (All the health care proposals in Congress would provide a subsidy to moderate-income Americans.)

Unlike the United States, where the Medicare program for the elderly costs taxpayers about $500 billion a year, Switzerland has no special break for older Swiss people beyond the general subsidy.

“Switzerland’s health care system is different from virtually every other country in the world,” said Regina Herzlinger, a Harvard Business School professor who has studied the Swiss approach extensively.

“What I like about it is that it’s got universal coverage, it’s customer driven, and there are no intermediaries shopping on people’s behalf,” she added. “And there’s no waiting lists or rationing.”

Since being made mandatory in 1996, the Swiss system has become a popular model for experts seeking alternatives to government-run health care. Indeed, it has attracted some unlikely American admirers, like Bill O’Reilly, the Fox News talk show host. And it has lured some members of Congress on fact-finding trips here to seek ideas for overhauling the United States system.

The Swiss approach is also popular with patients like Frieda Burgstaller, 72, who says she likes the freedom of choice and access that the private system provides. “If the doctor says it has to be done, it’s done,” said Mrs. Burgstaller. “You don’t wait. And it’s covered.”

While many patients seem content, the burdens fall more heavily on doctors, especially general practitioners and pediatricians.

Dr. Gerlinde Schurter, Mrs. Burgstaller’s physician, says she feels squeezed by government regulators and insurance companies that have fought to hold down costs — most recently with a 15 percent cut in lab fees that forced her five-member group to lay off its principal technician.

Dr. Schurter also fears a so-called blue letter, a warning from an insurance company that she is prescribing too many drugs or expensive procedures.

If doctors cannot justify their treatments, they can be forced to repay insurers for a portion of the medical services prescribed. And while prescriptions are covered, the government has insisted that consumers fork over a 20 percent co-payment if they want brand-name drugs, rather than 10 percent for generics.

Similarly, the government health office also lowered reimbursements across the board for medical devices in 2006.

These are among the reasons health care costs consume 10.8 percent of gross domestic product in Switzerland, compared with 16 percent in the United States, the highest level of spending among industrial countries, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

Still, along with lower costs and the freedom to choose doctors come bigger bills for individual patients. On average, out-of-pocket payments come to $1,350 annually. That is the highest among the 30 countries tracked by the O.E.C.D. and well above the $890 average for the United States, which comes in second.

Then there are the hefty prices of the insurance policies themselves, which can top 14,000 Swiss francs a year for a family of four in Zurich, or about $13,600. That is roughly comparable to the national average annual premium for a family policy under employer-sponsored group plans in the United States, but in high-cost American cities the figure can be much higher.

Direct comparisons are hard to make, however, because in the American system, employers and employees share the cost of premiums, which are also exempt from individual and corporate income taxes.

Nevertheless, Swiss citizens relish the lack of bureaucracy, especially compared with systems in Britain and Germany, even if their doctors grumble.

As in the United States, practitioners typically are paid on a fee-for-service basis, rather than on salary. But they make less than their American counterparts. According to the O.E.C.D., specialists in Switzerland earn three times more than the nation’s average wage, compared with 5.6 times for American specialists. General practitioners in Switzerland make 2.7 times more than the average wage, versus 3.7 in the United States.

That is partly because the Swiss health insurers are not shy about using their muscle with physicians.

Pius Gyger, director of health economics and health policy at Helsana, the country’s biggest insurer, cannot suppress a smile when asked about the effectiveness of the so-called blue letters.

“If there’s something strange, we knock at the doctor’s door,” he said. “For doctors, it’s an incentive to treat economically, but often perceived as a threat.”

He estimates that only about 3 percent of doctors get the letters and that fewer than 1 percent actually have to return money. Still, Mr. Gyger said, “it’s an easy exercise for us and it has an effect.”

Despite pressure on general practitioners, hospital physicians like Edouard Battegay at the University of Zurich say universal coverage also lowers costs by reducing emergency room visits.

Indeed, his E.R. is as quiet and efficient as a Swiss watch, and he still expresses amazement at what he saw when he worked briefly in Seattle.

“I’ve seen things in the U.S. that I’ve never seen here; it was a state of disaster,” he said. “Chronic disease management is better here. If you don’t treat hypertension, you treat strokes. Not treating patients is expensive.”

And even Dr. Schurter — who says her income has been flat for the last five years — praises the virtues of the Swiss system for patients struck by catastrophe.

When her daughter was found to have leukemia seven years ago, “I never worried for a second how and if she’d get treatment and if it would be paid for,” she said. “All was granted as naturally as the air we breathe.”
24 2009-10-01 In a telephone interview from Copenhagen, Reedie said, “People from the bid cities are not beating you on the head when you come out of the lift, but the process is certainly under way.”

On Friday, each of the four bid cities will make a final 70-minute presentation to the 106 I.O.C. delegates eligible to vote. They will cast their choice electronically — and secretly. Delegates from countries with a city in the competition may not vote until after that city’s bid is eliminated.

If no city receives a majority of the votes in the first round, the city with fewest votes is eliminated. Bid watchers predicted that this vote would require the full three rounds. In the last I.O.C. vote, for the 2012 Games, London beat Paris by a 54-50 margin. In this race, Chicago and Rio de Janeiro are considered the front-runners in the field with Madrid and Tokyo.

“You can feel the electricity in the air,” said Patrick G. Ryan, Chicago’s bid leader, according to the pool report. “You can feel the competition in the air.”

The bid teams are meeting continually to review their standing among the various I.O.C. delegates who may be undecided — or, in some cases, swayed from their current choice.

The highest-profile members of each team — like the heads of state in Copenhagen from all four bids — are assigned to speak with those delegates.

Reedie, who helped obtain the 2012 Summer Games for London, knows the process well. He was part of the team lobbying alongside Prime Minister Tony Blair, whose last-minute efforts are thought to have made the difference in the voting.

“We decided four years ago that it’s probably not a good idea for heads of state to ask for votes, so I don’t think anyone will be doing that,” Reedie said of the top leaders heading to Denmark, including presidents, a king, a prince and a prime minister. “They just need to be supportive of the candidate city. That’s enough. Everybody understands why Mrs. Obama’s here.”

If Reedie does have a favorite this time around, he is not saying.

“The favorite is the last person you spoke to,” he said. “They can be that influential.”
25 2009-10-01 PHOENIX (AP) — A federal bankruptcy court judge has rejected both bids to buy the Phoenix Coyotes.

Judge Redfield T. Baum turned down the offers of the Canadian billionaire James L. Balsillie and the N.H.L. in a 31-page ruling Wednesday.

Balsillie’s bid was rejected outright, but Baum left an opportunity for the N.H.L. to buy the team if it amended its offer in order to treat Jerry Moyes, the Coyotes’ owner, and Wayne Gretzky, who resigned as coach Tuesday, more fairly.

“In hockey parlance, the court is passing the puck to the N.H.L. who can decide to take another shot at the sale net or it can pass off the puck,” Baum wrote.

The N.H.L. deputy commissioner, Bill Daly, issued a statement saying the league was “pleased that the bankruptcy court has confirmed the league’s rights to select its owners and the location of its franchises.”

“We are reviewing the opinion and considering how we can best address the court’s concerns regarding our offer to purchase the Coyotes,” Daly said. “It remains our goal to secure the long-term stability of the Coyotes in Glendale.”
26 2009-10-01 Nike announced Wednesday that it would resign from the board of the United States Chamber of Commerce, becoming the latest company to break with the group over climate policy.

Nike said, however, that it would remain a member of the chamber, unlike three large utilities — Pacific Gas and Electric, PNM Resources and Exelon — which recently announced plans to pull out.

The chamber has been under fire for its outspoken resistance to potential carbon regulation from the Environmental Protection Agency or from Congress.

Thomas J. Donohue, the chamber’s chief executive, said in a statement this week that the chamber “continues to support strong federal legislation and a binding international agreement to reduce carbon emissions and address climate change.”
27 2009-10-01 He added, “The less support the candidates have, the less they can do to solve the problems.”

The United States has stepped up sanctions in stages in an effort to press the de facto government of Roberto Micheletti to negotiate with Mr. Zelaya. After initially suspending military aid and then some economic aid, the United States said in early September that it would revoke visas to members of the de facto government and their supporters.

When Mr. Facussé arrived in Miami on Sept. 12, immigration officials told him that he was no longer welcome. The United States Embassy declined to say which other business leaders had had their visas revoked.

Mr. Facussé and other leaders have proposed that after an accord is reached, troops or police officers from other countries in the hemisphere will keep the peace and an interim multiparty government will take charge. Mr. Zelaya would face trial, but he would not serve prison time if convicted; instead, he would be sentenced to house arrest.

Nelson Ávila, an economic adviser to Mr. Zelaya, said the “plan was born dead.”

“The dialogue is based on the presumption of guilt of President Zelaya, and legally that does not exist,” he said.

There are other signs that the coalition of politicians, businessmen and the military that supported the coup is feeling pressure from the international community. On Monday, the political parties forced Mr. Micheletti to back away from a decree suspending civil liberties.

The main presidential candidates have already tried to jump-start the negotiations, traveling to Costa Rica to meet with the country’s president, Óscar Arias, who has tried to mediate peace talks. Mr. Arias’s proposal, known as the San José Accord, calls for restoring Mr. Zelaya as president, but sharply curtailing his powers. The plan would provide a full amnesty to both sides.

Last week the presidential candidates met with Mr. Zelaya, who secretly returned to Honduras on Sept. 21 and has taken refuge in the Brazilian Embassy.

Mr. Facussé said that Mr. Micheletti agreed to consider his plan after he suggested that Mr. Micheletti step down as leader of the de facto government and be named congressman for life.

Mr. Facussé was clearly dissatisfied with the efforts of other countries to mediate the crisis here. “Because of the bad image the military created, everybody interfered, and we ended up with the San José Accord,” he said.

One of the de facto government’s main supporters in Washington, Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, has announced plans to visit Tegucigalpa on Friday. One Congressional staff member said Mr. DeMint hoped to meet with members of the de facto government and other Hondurans. Other staff members said he intended to encourage Mr. Micheletti and his supporters to resist.
28 2009-10-01 At first, the museum (Page & Turnbull are the architects) seems to be precisely what it promises to be: a family institution designed to undo anything negative and celebrate the man. The lobby is really a large gallery given over to displays of Disney’s many awards, certificates and statuettes. They include Harvard’s honorary degree and the special Oscar designed for “Snow White” in 1938, but also minutiae like a plaque presented to Disney in 1959 during “National Want-Ad Week” commemorating the ad he answered in 1920 seeking a “first class man” to do “cartoon and wash drawings.”

But the impulse to put the rest of the family attic on display is resisted, and as overseen by the founding executive director, Richard Benefield (who had been deputy director of the Harvard University Art Museums), the Disney Museum is far from being an air-brushed portrait. While there are no hints of the domestic tensions described, for example, in Neal Gabler’s fine recent biography, and while there is much more to understand about the arc of Disney’s life and the frustrations of his final decades, his imagination was so capacious, his ambition so disciplined and his achievements so vital to the evolution of American entertainment media that he seems a natural force. The family movies on display show, at the very least, Disney’s childlike sense of play, particularly with his two young daughters.

Disney’s drive, the museum demonstrates, was relentless. Having mastered the basics of animation in the ’20s, Disney kept pushing at the possibilities. (The exhibition design, by Rockwell Group, helps provide a basic education in animation’s history.) In one of his earliest achievements, “Alice’s Wonderland,” a young girl visits an animation studio and falls asleep, dreaming herself into the cartoon world, mixing fantasy and reality, a vision Disney must have shared. Small screens show clips of Disney’s Alice cartoons, framing them within larger drawings, amplifying the playfulness.

Disney entered a new era with his first sound cartoon, “Steamboat Willie,” the third starring Mickey Mouse. We take it for granted now, but at the time the work meant selecting an expensive technology, developing a technique for coordinating music and image, and convincing distributors the cost was worth it. Nothing about it was easy: one wall contains an array of 348 enlargements of drawings from that cartoon; they constitute less than a minute of action.

And there were other challenges. Disney’s first company went bankrupt. His second, created with his brother Roy, was nearly destroyed by a jealous rival who lured away staff members and took over one of Walt’s early cartoon characters, Oswald the Lucky Rabbit.

Out of that debacle grew the idea of Mickey Mouse, an insouciant creature whose pluck and autonomy must have been appealing in the wake of disappointments (those traits also found resonance with the temper of the times). A wall of display cases features Mickey memorabilia that will make collectors drool; it also shows how quickly Disney had figured out how to merchandise his characters, transforming the film business.

But if Disney had not been interested in character and story, this might have led to just an early onset of today’s merchandising fever. He was constantly running out of money, not because he was profligate but because he was a compulsive idealist, straining for something beyond the reach of common cartoons.

By the time he created his first feature-length work, “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,” he had transformed the very notion of animation. Disney insisted that cartoons literally animate their world, bring it so thoroughly to life that even inanimate objects would react to events. He pushed his staff to strain for realism (and sponsored drawing classes in his studios). But he was interested in something more than reality: even tables and trees would display character.

One of the most fascinating objects here is an enormous notebook created by Herman Schultheis, a technician in the camera-effects department in the late ’30s, in which he documented how images were produced in “Pinocchio” and “Fantasia.” Next to it, an animated display of the book responds to touch, so you can almost feel the creators’ imagination at work as they transmute real objects into fantastical washes of color.

The museum goes on to describe the animators’ strike of 1941, which so shocked Disney that after World War II, he became an eager witness for the House Un-American Activities Committee; the displays deftly present interviews with workers on both sides of the picket lines.

Other exhibits cover the war years, postwar live-action movies (like “20,000 Leagues Under the Sea”), nature films and, finally, in an annex to the original Presidio Building, a gallery in which Disney’s own toy train is on display — one he rode around his property — along with a model of his original plans for Disneyland.

In that final gallery, the pace is quick, the detail slight. In barely the space it took to define the beginning of Disney’s animation revolution, we hear about his television work in the 1950s (like “Zorro” and “The Mickey Mouse Club”), the years of continuing films, both flops and hits, and Disney’s final fantasies of an urban utopia to be constructed just beyond Disney World in Florida; it was never built.

There is much to admire here (space is also devoted to Disney’s creations for the 1964-65 New York World’s Fair and to the movie “Mary Poppins”), but it becomes clear that while his energy and imagination remained intact until his death from lung cancer at 65, the trajectory he mapped out in the ’30s in animation was left for others to explore.

He was a pioneer in packaging and synergy, but nothing else was to break artistic ground the way those early films did, and no animated movie ever got Disney’s full attention again. He was preoccupied with other things. It is as if a cartoon character had broken out of all celluloid constraints and decided to test its fantasies in the real world — Alice returning from Wonderland. Those efforts had mixed results, but it was an exceptional ride.
29 2009-10-01 While the amount of technology packed into Rubik’s TouchCube is impressive, the big question remains: Would you want to spend more than a few minutes with it before tossing the $150 puzzle through a window?

In stores Oct. 18 from Techno Source USA, this is the second electronic edition of the famous puzzle from Techno Source, following last year’s Rubik’s Revolution. Rather than physically twisting the interlocked mechanical cubes patented by Erno Rubik in 1977, you swipe your finger against one of the cube’s capacitive sides to “flip” the colors. There are no moving parts; instead, the multicolor LEDs change color with a flipping sound emitted from an internal speaker, while an accelerometer keeps track of which side is up.

The onboard computer provides hints, or can solve itself. When it is not being used, the cube sits in a charging cradle and lights up, making an ideal night light for a puzzle fanatic. WARREN BUCKLEITNER
30 2009-10-01 But the duties come at a particularly difficult time for the global solar power industry. Many panel manufacturers are losing money because of fierce competition from ever-expanding production in China and a worldwide downturn that has driven down prices. Raising prices now to cover past tariffs will be hard because the market is glutted with panels; prices have fallen a fifth since early this year.

The decision is legally binding on most solar panels imported into the United States. But virtually no one in the industry became aware of it until the last few weeks, Meanwhile, unpaid duties piled up, along with penalties that are likely to double the cost.

The United States exported almost as much solar panel equipment as it imported in the first seven months of this year — $605 million in imports and $555 million in exports, according to Commerce Department data.

The Solar Energy Industries Association, a coalition of domestic and foreign companies whose board chairman is an executive from Suntech, China’s biggest solar panel maker, argues that American tariffs on solar panels could lead other countries to impose tariffs on American exports.

The customs decision is dividing the industry between importers and companies that produce solar equipment in the United States. And with China accounting for a rising share of American imports, the tariff could become a sticking point in bilateral trade relations already troubled by the dispute over tires, autos and chicken parts.

Some Chinese solar panel manufacturers are already planning to move final assembly of solar modules to plants in the United States, a step that could allow them to avoid the duty someday, said Rhone Resch, the chief executive and president of the industry association.

The duty generally applies to solar panels that provide power to a residential, commercial or industrial electrical system; small solar panels imported with built-in light bulbs are already counted as electric lights and are subject to a tariff of 3.9 percent.

Lawyers are critical of the industry for not spotting the problem sooner.

“It is somewhat unusual for an industry to take as long as eight months to become aware of a customs ruling that affects it,” said Mel Schwechter, a partner at Dewey & Leboeuf in Washington and a former president of the Customs and International Trade Bar Association.

Customs decisions, even for a single importer, are made public on the agency’s Web site and on commercial Web sites, said Mr. Schwechter, who is not advising any of the participants in the dispute.

Mr. Resch said the growing industry lacked the resources to constantly track tax and regulatory decisions.

Duties will be doubled if customs officials determine that companies have been negligent in not paying them earlier.

Importers might also be liable for duties on all solar panels brought into the United States in the five years before the ruling if customs officials decide that the companies were guilty of “material misstatement or omission” for failing to notice sooner that solar panels had evolved to the point that they no longer met duty-free rules.

The association plans to challenge the classification of the panels as generators in court, Mr. Resch said.

But before starting what could be lengthy litigation, the safest strategy for each importer, according to trade lawyers, is to pay immediately the duties and accrued penalties for shipments received since January, and to start paying the duty going forward.

“We’re taking this very seriously — it has a large financial impact in the United States and it has global ramifications,” Mr. Resch said.

Top officials at Customs and Border Protection, the agency that succeeded the Customs Service, could overrule the technical specialists who determined that the sophisticated panels should be treated like electric generators. Such a move would extend duty-free treatment to the latest solar panels. But that would mainly benefit Chinese producers, whose share of the market has surged in the last two years.

It would also reduce the incentive for companies to manufacture panels in the United States — a politically touchy decision at a time when American cities have been vying for panel factories even as the industry is shifting production to China.

Importers, a mixture of foreign and American manufacturers and distributors, are liable for duties and penalties, not consumers who bought imported panels in recent years.

Imports account for almost half of the solar panels sold in the United States.

Customs issued its ruling on Jan. 9, less than two weeks before President Obama took office. The ruling said that a panel from Trina Solar of China was really a generator because it was equipped with a diode that allows electric current to pass around areas of the panel that are shaded. The diodes have become standard on solar panels, and are effectively required to meet American safety standards.

Javier Muniz, the chief executive of GES USA, said through a spokeswoman that GES solicited the customs opinion last winter for a project that did not end up being built. GES did not tell other companies about the ruling, he added.

Even Trina Solar, the Chinese panel maker, became aware of the decision only “in recent weeks,” a Trina spokesman said. Industry leaders have stayed very quiet about the customs decision in the last few weeks while holding emergency meetings to decide on a legal strategy.

Unlike many large overseas manufacturers, Trina still exports directly from China to independent distributors in the United States. Trina does not have a American subsidiary to import the panels and handle the customs paperwork.

“Trina Solar is currently classified as an exporter and is not liable for the duty arising from these regulations,” said Terry Wang, the company’s chief financial officer.

Suntech said that it was aware of the customs decision and was looking into it.

Mr. Resch estimated that the duty would cost the industry $70 million this year, and there would be more tariffs in the years to come.

That calculation assumes the industry will be found negligent for not paying the duty on panels imported since January and will be assessed the doubled duty. It assumes the industry will not be found liable for shipments in the preceding five years.
31 2009-10-01 Ms. Jackson described the proposal as a common-sense rule tailored to apply to only the largest facilities — those that emit at least 25,000 tons of carbon dioxide a year — which are responsible for nearly 70 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States.

The rule would not, as critics contend, cover “every cow and Dunkin’ Donuts,” Ms. Jackson said.

The move was timed to come on the same day that two Democratic senators, John F. Kerry of Massachusetts and Barbara Boxer of California, introduced global warming and energy legislation that faces a steep climb to passage this year.

The prospect of E.P.A. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions has generated fear and deep divisions within American industry. Some major utilities, oil companies and other heavy emitters are working closely with Congress to ensure that a climate bill would circumvent E.P.A. regulation by substituting a market-based cap-and-trade system. Others, led by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers, have worked against legislation and threatened to sue if the E.P.A. tries to impose controls on emissions of heat-trapping gases.

Ms. Jackson said the proposed rule had been written to exempt small businesses, farms, large office buildings and other relatively small sources of carbon dioxide emissions. But under the rule proposed Wednesday, the E.P.A. would assume authority for the greenhouse gas emissions of 14,000 coal-burning power plants, refineries and big industrial complexes that produce most of the nation’s greenhouse gas pollution.

The proposal will go through several months of drafting and public comment and faces likely litigation from industry and perhaps from environmentalists or citizen groups.

A typical coal-burning power plant emits several million tons of carbon dioxide a year. The 25,000-ton limit is comparable to the emissions from burning 131 rail cars of coal or the annual energy use of about 2,200 homes, according to the Environmental Defense Fund.

Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma and an opponent of global warming legislation, called the proposed rule “a backdoor energy tax” that circumvents Congress and violates the terms of the Clean Air Act.

Scott Segal, a utility lobbyist with the law firm Bracewell & Giuliani in Washington, said the rule should not be used to rush Congress into passing a poorly drafted bill.

But he also said that the proposal “strengthens the president’s negotiating hand in Copenhagen.”

“Even if the Senate does not act,” Mr. Segal said, “he can legitimately say to other nations, ‘We are taking action on a unilateral basis. What are you doing?’ ”

The proposal, long anticipated and highly controversial, is the government’s first step toward regulating greenhouse gases from stationary sources. The E.P.A. has already proposed an ambitious program to restrict such emissions from cars and trucks. The agency published the proposed vehicle emission rule this month; it is expected to take effect next spring.

Ms. Jackson’s proposal would require facilities emitting at least 25,000 tons of carbon dioxide and five other pollutants a year to obtain construction and operating permits. The other gases are methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride.

The threshold is 100 times higher than that required for other types of pollutants like sulfur dioxide that have more acute health and environmental effects.

Ms. Jackson said that while the proposed rule would affect about 14,000 large sources of carbon dioxide, most were already subject to clean-air permitting requirements because they emit other pollutants.

By raising the standard to 25,000 tons, the new rule exempts millions of smaller sources of carbon dioxide emissions like bakeries, soft drink bottlers, dry cleaners and hospitals.

Industry groups reacted quickly, challenging the E.P.A.’s authority to use the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gases and questioning Ms. Jackson’s power to lower the threshold for regulation.

Charles T. Drevna, president of the National Petrochemical & Refiners Association, said that the emission of greenhouse gases was a global problem and that it was pointless to regulate only some sources.

“This proposal incorrectly assumes that one industry’s greenhouse gas emissions are worse than another’s,” Mr. Drevna said. “E.P.A. lacks the legal authority to categorically exempt sources that exceed the Clean Air Act’s major source threshold from permitting requirements, and this creates a troubling precedent for any agency actions in the future.”

Supporters of the plan said that it was carefully written to affect only the biggest emitters.

“This is a common-sense step toward a cleaner, better world,” said Emily Figdor, federal global warming project director for Environment America.
32 2009-10-01 American Express said Wednesday it would eliminate monthly fees on its popular gift cards, a move that is likely to pressure its competitors to do the same.

The company’s decision, which takes effect immediately, goes further than legislation Congress enacted in the spring that would limit, but not eliminate, monthly fees on gift cards.

Alpesh Chokshi, president of American Express’s Global Prepaid unit, said gift cards were popular, but consumers often complained about the monthly fee that ate away at their balance. There were no monthly fees in the first year, but on the 13th month, American Express began charging $2 a month.

Mr. Chokshi said eliminating the monthly fee was now possible because the gift card business had enough scale to remain profitable without the fees. The company will continue to make money from the purchase charge, which ranges from $2.95 to $6.95, as well as from its share of transaction fees each time the card is swiped.

Linda Sherry, director of national priorities for Consumer Action, said the decision was a big deal to cardholders who don’t want to spend their gift cards right away.
33 2009-10-01 The citation ended a six-year campaign by Alpha Troop’s former commander, John Poindexter, to win recognition for the rescue mission. The quest began, Mr. Poindexter said, after he read a history of the war in which a veteran complained that Alpha Troop soldiers had not received any medals. “It was an epiphany,” Mr. Poindexter said. “I felt I had to right a wrong.”

He began a drive to petition the Army for individual awards and a unit citation, organizing a team of assistants to gather after-action reports, casualty records, photographs and first-person accounts.

Eventually, Mr. Poindexter, a businessman from Texas, compiled a four-inch-thick dossier that he sent to the Army. He also self-published a glossy book titled “The Anonymous Battle,” based on an account of the mission he had written 30 years before.

The documentation helped the troop win not only the presidential citation but also individual medals for 14 members.

The process of reconstructing the battle, however, did more than garner awards. Several veterans say that after Mr. Poindexter contacted them, their interest in Vietnam was revived. Some began looking up Army friends they had not talked to in decades. Others began attending 11th Cavalry reunions for the first time.

Romeo Martin, for example, said that for 33 years, he did not talk about the war, even to his wife. But Mr. Martin, 60, a mailman near Hartford, said reading Mr. Poindexter’s manuscript “got my juices going.”

He located his old tank commander and rekindled their friendship. Another troop member contacted him and they started attending reunions together. “They helped me a lot,” he said. “I was in a shell. There are guys who still are in their shells.”

Pasqual Gutierrez, 60, recalled that when he returned from the war, his East Los Angeles neighborhood was torn by civil rights and antiwar protests. It was, Mr. Gutierrez said, as if the soldiers were “re-entering society through the back door.”

“There wasn’t any hoopla and there wasn’t any fanfare,” he said.

Mr. Gutierrez became a successful architect, a part owner of a firm with 10 branches in California. But others from Alpha Troop did not fare so well. One died of a drug overdose, and several others received diagnoses of post-traumatic stress syndrome.

“The war took a deep, deep toll on them,” Mr. Gutierrez said. “Even to this day, it is held up as the bad example.”

Partly for that reason, Mr. Gutierrez initially refused to contribute to Mr. Poindexter’s book. But after prodding, he wrote a detailed recollection of the battle. And at Mr. Martin’s invitation, he started attending reunions.

“A little network started brewing,” he said. “It was amazing to see these guys and realize we had this experience in life that’s unmatchable.”

For the veterans at the reunion, the battle was mostly a haze of adrenaline-fueled chaos. It began with a call for help. An airborne company had stumbled onto a sprawling North Vietnamese bunker complex near the Cambodian border. The Americans were nearly surrounded and dense jungle had made evacuation by helicopter impossible. Come dark, they seemed sure to be overrun.

“I had no options, no where to retreat,” said George Hobson, the commander of that beleaguered unit, Charlie Company.

But Mr. Poindexter, then a 25-year-old captain, volunteered to bring Charlie Company out. The night before, a mortar round had accidentally exploded inside one of his troop’s vehicles, killing several men and keeping soldiers up all night. But by that afternoon, Alpha Troop was on its Sheridan tanks and armored personnel carriers, breaking brush so thick that drivers could barely see vehicles in front of them.

A firefight ensued when they reached Charlie Company. American planes tried to help, but nearly hit them with a bomb. North Vietnamese would pop out of bunkers, only to be driven back by machine-gun fire. At dusk, the Americans, realizing night would favor the enemy, loaded up the dead, the wounded and the exhausted, and withdrew.

The casualty count was never clearly recorded, but Mr. Poindexter estimates that, including the mortar accident, seven men died and about 70 were wounded in the battle and its prelude.

Mr. Hobson says he believes Charlie Company would have been “wiped out” if Alpha Troop had not arrived when it did. But at the time, it was just another day in Vietnam. Weeks later, Alpha Troop joined the invasion of Cambodia. And the battle became a footnote to history — or less.

One troop member, August Whitlock, recalled that when he left Vietnam, the soldier processing his papers asked if he had been in any major battles. When Mr. Whitlock mentioned the rescue mission, the soldier scanned a list.

No, the soldier told him, there was no such battle on that date.
34 2009-10-01 The Chevron Corporation said Wednesday that its vice chairman, John S. Watson, would become chairman and chief executive when David J. O’Reilly retires from those positions at the end of this year.

Mr. O’Reilly, 62, will retire from the company and its board on Dec. 31 after a 41-year career, including 10 years as chairman and chief executive.

Mr. Watson, 52, will be succeeded by George L. Kirkland, 59, as vice chairman, Chevron said. Mr. Kirkland will continue to oversee exploration and production of oil and natural gas.

Mr. Watson, a 29-year Chevron veteran, was elevated to second in command in April. As vice chairman, he oversees areas like strategic planning and government affairs.

He earned a bachelor’s degree in agricultural economics from the University of California, Davis, and a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Chicago. He has sought to shed unprofitable refineries and focus on oil and gas assets that Mr. O’Reilly amassed through acquisitions and deepwater exploration.

Shares of Chevron, which is based in San Ramon, Calif., fell 59 cents, to $70.32 in trading Wednesday.
35 2009-10-01 Nike announced Wednesday that it would resign from the board of the United States Chamber of Commerce, becoming the latest company to break with the group over climate policy.      Nike said, however, that it would remain a member of the chamber, ...
36 2009-10-01 SCHNEEWEISS--Samuel. Henry Street Settlement mourns the passing of our Honorary Board member, Samuel Schneeweiss, who served on the Settlement's board for 57 years. We extend our deepest condolences to his family....
37 2009-10-01 SCHNEEWEISS--Sam, on September 28th, 2009. Born on the Lower East Side, he lived in Manhattan for 90 years. He practiced law with his respected partners for over 50 years; he was married to the love of his life, Pauline, whom he survived. We miss ...
38 2009-10-01 Still, the Constitution offers some protections. In August, the International Crisis Group, a nongovernmental organization based in Brussels that seeks to prevent and resolve deadly conflicts, issued a report recommending that opposition groups take part in the election. It said that although the new Constitution “entrenches military power,” the changes at least established “shared political spaces — the legislatures and perhaps the cabinet — where cooperation could be fostered.”

And internationally, some policies toward Myanmar, formerly Burma, are shifting.

Last week, the Obama administration announced that it would engage the junta directly, while keeping sanctions in place. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton called for the unconditional release of political prisoners, including Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, and “credible, democratic reform.”

Mr. Win Tin said, “If the direct engagement of the U.S. will result in the release of all political prisoners and in a revision of the 2008 Constitution, then dialogue could begin between us and the junta, and we would consider running in the election.”

Mr. Win Tin — warm, razor-sharp and clearly determined — said the reason the junta released him, shortly before his prison sentence was completed, might have been to split the party. He admitted that “we are having some arguments about whether we are going to participate in the elections or not,” but insisted that there was “no conflict within the party now.”

Mr. Win Tin worked as a journalist and became secretary of the newly formed National League for Democracy before being jailed for three years in 1989. In 1991, he was given 10 more years for his involvement in popular uprisings in 1988 that were crushed by the military. In 1996, he was given seven more years for sending the United Nations a petition about abuses in Myanmar’s prisons. Much of the time, he was in solitary confinement.

“I could not bow down to them,” he said. “No, I could not do it. I wrote poems to keep myself from going crazy. I did mathematics with chalk on the floor.”

He added: “From time to time, they ask you to sign a statement that you are not going to do politics and that you will abide by the law and so on and so forth. I refused.”

When all his upper teeth were bashed out, he was 61. The guards refused to let him get dentures for eight years, leaving him to gum his food.

Last month, Mr. Win Tin was briefly detained after he wrote an opinion article that appeared in The Washington Post, criticizing the military junta and its plans for the election next year.

“I think they are trying to intimidate me, to stop me from appearing in the foreign media,” he said.

During the interview, on a cousin’s leafy porch in suburban Yangon, formerly Rangoon, government spies openly watched and took photographs from outside the gate.

Never married, Mr. Win Tin talks fondly of his adopted daughter, who lives in Sydney, Australia, after gaining political asylum 15 years ago. He has not seen her since.

Accustomed to a spare prison diet, he has one meal early in the day and a bit of fruit in the evening.

“I don’t want to be a burden on anyone,” he said.

Since his release, Mr. Win Tin has tried to reinvigorate the leadership of the National League for Democracy by stepping up the frequency of meetings and lobbying overseas governments. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi remains popular, despite her long years of detention, but the party has been crippled by the arrests of hundreds of younger members, Mr. Win Tin said.

“We have some young men, but they are followed and sent to jail all the time,” he said. “Sometimes, they go to the pagoda just for praying. They are followed and charged with something and sentenced.” Many are tortured, he said.

In one kind of torture, called “riding the motorcycle,” the subject is made to bend the knees, stand on tiptoe with sharp nails under the heels and make the sound of a revving engine. When the subject can no longer maintain the tiptoe stance, the nails penetrate the foot.

All but one of Mr. Win Tin’s eight colleagues on the party’s central executive committee are older than he is. The committee president and chairman, U Aung Shwe, is 92, and so infirm that he has not visited party headquarters for months. The party secretary, U Lwin, 87, is bedridden and paralyzed. The youngster in the group, U Khin Maung Swe, is in his mid-60s.

Despite the challenges his party faces, Mr. Win Tin remains optimistic.

“We expect democracy can happen anytime,” he said, recalling the country’s postcolonial democracy period from 1948 to 1962. “But sometimes, you have to sacrifice everything for a long, long time. It might extend for more than your life span.”
39 2009-10-02 Ariel Kaminer takes us on an exploration of three normally inaccessible locations that are part of the coming Open House New York Weekend.
40 2009-10-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
41 2009-10-02 A police dog that was among the first responders to the Sept. 11 World Trade Center attack died last Sunday....
42 2009-10-02 In early 2008, there was a small band of people arguing that we were in a recession. But the conventional wisdom -- including at the Fed -- was that the employment numbers said otherwise.Now we know the job numbers then being reported were complet...
43 2009-10-02 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has spent $65 million so far on his campaign for a third term, shattering his record of $46 million at this point in his 2005 campaign....
44 2009-10-02 The weather is getting colder and the stakes are getting higher in college football....
45 2009-10-02 A new online dating service called Gelato wants to match users based on their social profiles around the Web....
46 2009-10-02 Taking Questions: Nadia Zonis, the author of "City Walks With Dogs: New York," responds to readers....
47 2009-10-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
48 2009-10-02 Is the idea of flexible work a contradiction in a down economy?...
49 2009-10-02 The Deal Professor dissects the potentially problematic issues in Xerox's agreement to buy Affiliated Computer Services -- and they aren't the ones cited by a recently filed shareholder lawsuit....
50 2009-10-02 Responding to reader comments....
51 2009-10-02 The Senate and House climate bills differ on the question of what regulatory bodies would oversee carbon-trading and agricultural offsets....
52 2009-10-02 DotEarth weighs the prospects for a presidential appearance at the United Nations conference on climate change in Copenhagen this December....
53 2009-10-02 Bank of America says its board has authorized a $713 million dividend payment on preferred stock issued to the Treasury Department as part of the government's bank rescue program last year....
54 2009-10-02 Sometimes poor health results in a closer relationship with our pets....
55 2009-10-02 Grab a fur blanket and make yourself cozy -- the fall design issue of T hits newsstands this weekend. In it, you will find plenty of ways to indulge your nesting instincts, from the latest in shaggy chic by designers like Fernando and Humberto Cam...
56 2009-10-02 Since the recession began in December 2007, the economy has had a net loss of about 5.2 percent of its nonfarm payroll jobs, a higher percentage than in any previous recession of the last several decades....
57 2009-10-02 Experts offer reasons why Obama will, and won't, return to Copenhagen for climate talks....
58 2009-10-02 Results for Thursday, Oct. 1....
59 2009-10-02 Will President Obama return to Denmark for the climate change meetings?...
60 2009-10-02 Health insurance industry groups have fought regulations to pay out at least 70 percent of the premiums they collect in the form of health benefits, an economist writes....
61 2009-10-02 Germany's plan to give tax breaks to venture capital firms got a thumbs down from the European Commission on Thursday....
62 2009-10-02 New name-tagging features come to Google's photo-management site....
63 2009-10-02 A senior U.S. lawmaker released draft legislation Thursday that would open hedge funds to wider scrutiny....
64 2009-10-02 When it comes to paying for takeovers, stock is the new cash. Some 36 percent of this year's acquisitions involved at least some stock, the highest proportion in eight years....
65 2009-10-02 Asia's stock markets headed lower on Friday in the wake of a steep drop on Wall Street as a fusillade of data reports indicated that the U.S. economy's initial bounce from the bottom could be leveling off....
66 2009-10-02 This should not be considered an acceptable outlook. For one thing, it implies an enormous amount of suffering over the next few years. Moreover, unemployment that remains that high, that long, will cast long shadows over America’s future.

Anyone who thinks that we’re doing enough to create jobs should read a new report from John Irons of the , which describes the “scarring” that’s likely to result from sustained high unemployment. Among other things, Mr. Irons points out that sustained unemployment on the scale now being predicted would lead to a huge rise in child poverty — and that there’s overwhelming evidence that children who grow up in poverty are alarmingly likely to lead blighted lives.

These human costs should be our main concern, but the dollars and cents implications are also dire. Projections by the , for example, imply that over the period from 2010 to 2013 — that is, not counting the losses we’ve already suffered — the “output gap,” the difference between the amount the economy could have produced and the amount it actually produces, will be more than $2 trillion. That’s trillions of dollars of productive potential going to waste.

Wait. It gets worse. A new report from the shows that the kind of recession we’ve had, a recession caused by a , often leads to long-term damage to a country’s growth prospects. “The path of output tends to be depressed substantially and persistently following banking crises.”

The same report, however, suggests that this isn’t inevitable: “We find that a stronger short-term fiscal policy response” — by which they mean a temporary increase in government spending — “is significantly associated with smaller medium-term output losses.”

So we should be doing much more than we are to promote economic recovery, not just because it would reduce our current pain, but also because it would improve our long-run prospects.

But can we afford to do more — to provide more aid to beleaguered state governments and the unemployed, to spend more on infrastructure, to provide credits to employers who create jobs? Yes, we can.

The conventional wisdom is that trying to help the economy now produces short-term gain at the expense of long-term pain. But as I’ve just pointed out, from the point of view of the nation as a whole that’s not at all how it works. The slump is doing long-term damage to our economy and society, and mitigating that slump will lead to a better future.

What is true is that spending more on recovery and reconstruction would worsen the government’s own fiscal position. But even there, conventional wisdom greatly overstates the case. The true fiscal costs of supporting the economy are surprisingly small.

You see, spending money now means a stronger economy, both in the short run and in the long run. And a stronger economy means more revenues, which offset a large fraction of the upfront cost. Back-of-the-envelope calculations suggest that the offset falls short of 100 percent, so that fiscal stimulus isn’t a complete free lunch. But it costs far less than you’d think from listening to what passes for informed discussion.

Look, I know more stimulus is a hard sell politically. But it’s urgently needed. The question shouldn’t be whether we can afford to do more to promote recovery. It should be whether we can afford not to. And the answer is no.
67 2009-10-02 The CIT Group formally unveiled its restructuring plan late Thursday, giving its bondholders the choice of either a series of exchange offers or a potential prepackaged bankruptcy filing.

The plan, which was approved by CIT’s board on Thursday night, is meant to significantly reduce about $30 billion of the troubled lender’s unsecured debt. By simultaneously soliciting votes for a prepackaged bankruptcy alongside the debt exchange offers, the company is hoping to scare enough bondholders into supporting the out-of-court restructuring effort.

CIT, a major lender to small and midsize businesses nationwide, did not release exact terms of the exchange offers, but said that bondholders who tendered their holdings would receive either new bonds backed by company assets or preferred stock. The new debt would also delay CIT’s bond maturity dates, easing pressure on the company.

CIT said the exchange offers will expire on Oct. 29.

People briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition they not be identified, said existing CIT shareholders would likely be wiped out through the restructuring, with control of the company’s equity being largely handed over to its creditors.

The restructuring plan was developed in consultation with a group of major bondholders who provided CIT with $3 billion in rescue financing this summer. That group, calling itself the steering committee of CIT bondholders, represents about $10 billion of the company’s $30 billion in unsecured debt. It has pledged to support either the exchange offers or the prepackaged bankruptcy plan.

CIT has also sought $4 billion to $6 billion in secured financing for other capital requirements, likely from the steering committee of its bondholders, according to a person briefed on the matter.

Should the company file for bankruptcy, the money could be used for debtor-in-possession financing to sustain the lender through its Chapter 11 case, which CIT expects would last 30 to 45 days, according to people briefed on the matter.
68 2009-10-02 The American Academy of Actuaries said on Thursday that it had settled a lawsuit with Bruce D. Schobel, a Social Security expert it had ousted just as he was to become its president.

The settlement calls for the academy to pay Mr. Schobel $600,000, according to a copy posted on the body’s Web site. In exchange, Mr. Schobel agreed to drop all claims against the academy and not seek its presidency — or any other official position — for two years. Both sides expressly denied any wrongdoing.

The academy is the actuarial profession’s most prominent body, and the dispute with Mr. Schobel had fueled unusual passions in a group more typically known for reticence and discretion in the handling of huge sums of money for insurance companies and pension funds.

Mr. Schobel’s allies hoped he would shake up the tradition-bound profession and give it more prominence in the nation’s great debates over health care and Social Security. But Mr. Schobel’s enemies saw him as a bully.

His ouster came after 19 past presidents of the academy learned that he had defamed the executive director of a second professional body, the Society of Actuaries, by telling subordinates she had “looted” the society and taken kickbacks. She sued him and the society, and last year won an award of slightly more than $2 million.

During those proceedings it also came to light that Mr. Schobel had committed a violent crime in New Jersey more than 30 years ago, but had his record expunged.
69 2009-10-02 He said the commission was “going to take a look at any new information that anybody has,” adding that “to make a statement now that it was not arson is a little premature.”

The governor was in office when Mr. Willingham was executed on Feb. 17, 2004. He denied the condemned man a reprieve even after a detailed report by an arson expert said the evidence that Mr. Willingham had set the fire was flimsy and inconclusive.

Last month, Mr. Perry expressed confidence that Mr. Willingham was guilty and played down reports casting doubt on the original investigation, calling the authors “supposed experts,” while making a quotes gesture with his fingers.

Mr. Perry, facing the primary challenge from Ms. Hutchison, has been working to shore up his support among conservatives, who usually decide the Republican primary here.

Mr. Willingham, an unemployed auto mechanic with a history of petty crime, was convicted of setting his house in Corsicana on fire in 1991. His three small daughters died in the blaze, and he maintained right up to his death that he had tried to save them. The police doubted his story partly because his bare feet had not been burned.

Local arson investigators testified at his trial that, judging by the charring and fracture patterns of broken glass left by the blaze, someone had poured a flammable liquid under the children’s beds, along the hallway and out the front door. The jury took less than an hour to convict Mr. Willingham.

In 2004, however, Gerald L. Hurst, an Austin scientist and fire investigator working in Mr. Willingham’s behalf, reviewed the evidence and determined the investigators had relied on several outdated and discredited methods to reach their conclusions. Most of the evidence could be explained by an accidental fire, Dr. Hurst said.

That conclusion was confirmed six weeks ago by an independent arson expert hired by the Forensic Science Commission, which was created in 2005 to investigate mistakes in crime laboratories after scandals rocked the one in Houston. The expert, Craig L. Beyler, of Baltimore, said in his August report that “the investigators had a poor understanding of fire science” and that the evidence they cited did not support a finding of arson.

Mr. Beyler was to testify before the commission in Dallas on Friday. But the newly appointed chairman, John M. Bradley, the district attorney in Williamson County, canceled the hearing, saying he did not know enough about the inquiry. “I felt I had been asked to take a final exam without having an opportunity to study for it,” he said.

Mr. Bradley said he did not know if he would continue the inquiry into the Willingham conviction that his predecessor had started. He said he wanted to consult with the lawmakers who created the commission about its mission.

The former chairman, Sam Bassett, an Austin lawyer whom Mr. Perry had twice appointed to the commission — and could have reappointed — said the governor had not told him why he was replaced. Mr. Bassett said he had hoped to produce a definitive report on the case by next spring.

“I hope they continue and complete the Willingham investigation,” he said. “It’s important for the future of criminal justice in Texas to make sure good science is being used in the courtroom.”
70 2009-10-02 Whether that would do anything for consumers is hard to tell, but this week 7-Eleven, the convenience store chain, descended on Capitol Hill with what it said were petitions signed by 1.6 million customers seeking such legislation.

All of this invites the basic question: If the store gets less when I use my credit card than it does when you pay cash, why should we pay the same price?

There is a prohibition, both in credit card agreements and in the laws of some states, against stores imposing a surcharge for using a credit card. But it is legal for them to offer cash discounts, even though that amounts to the same thing. But only gasoline stations — and a minority of them — offer such discounts in any quantity.

Why is that? Retailers claim their contracts with banks impose restrictions that make it difficult to offer such discounts without running afoul of the agreement and facing financial penalties. MasterCard says that it knows of no such rules, and that if a grocery store wants to put up a sign offering, say, a 2 percent discount for cash on all purchases, that there would be no problem.

In practice, some retailers of big-ticket items like furniture will quietly offer discounts if a customer will pay cash. But the vast majority of stores that take plastic — which is to say, nearly everybody these days — charge the same price for cash or credit.

It would be interesting to see what would happen if all rules restricting cash discounts were outlawed by Congress. Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, has proposed doing just that by saying card companies and banks could not restrict a merchant’s discretion as to how to display or advertise the store’s prices.

The card companies say that would open the way for stores to mislead customers by posting one price and then charging more.

There are, of course, advantages for merchants who accept cards. The costs of cash include the possibility of theft, by employees or others, and in some cases, the cost of transporting cash to banks. Electronic transactions make record-keeping easier. So perhaps stores would not want to offer discounts. We would find out if that were true only if stores were confident of no restrictions on their doing so, and if customers began to seek such discounts.

The card companies argue that there are few cash discounts because merchants think customers are likely to spend more with cards and would be offended if they were asked to pay more. “They don’t want to annoy their customers,” said Shawn Miles, MasterCard’s head of global public policy.

There is a little evidence what would happen if the rules were changed. When Australia adopted rules that restricted the fees card companies could charge to merchants and allowed surcharges for use of credit, a study by the Australian central bank concluded that users of premium cards, who paid their charges in full every month, saw the effective subsidy they received on a $100 purchase reduced to $1.10, from $1.30. The fees paid by customers for cards that offer cash back, or miles on an airline, might well increase.

The retailers have supported the Welch bill, but they seem to be putting their most vigorous efforts into backing bills introduced by Representative John Conyers, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and Senator Richard J. Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, that would suspend antitrust law and let merchants band together to negotiate card fees with credit card companies. The Senate version of the bill would establish a government panel to decide on fees if the banks and merchants could not agree.

The card companies think that is a bad idea, and say 7-Eleven misled customers into signing the petition. “The merchants want to pass on the cost of accepting those cards to consumers,” said Bill Sheedy, Visa’s group president for the Americas. “They want to lower their costs and increase their profits.”

It seems reasonable to think some customers may not have completely understood the issue before they signed. Here is what the petition said: “Help us fight unfair credit card fees. Ask Congress to stop credit card companies from charging unfair transaction fees to the businesses you shop.” Just why are those fees unfair? The petition did not explain.

It was just 51 years ago that Bank of America introduced the BankAmericard, which became Visa. Before that, few people had access to plastic, and consumer debt was about 13 percent of annual personal income. Now the figure is 21 percent.

There are advantages and disadvantages to all that debt, even if the disadvantages have seemed most obvious during the long recession that was partly caused by excessive indebtedness at all levels of society.

But it does seem absurd to have a system that requires people who do not use credit to subsidize those who do. You know there is something wrong when a middle-class person can get a part of his purchases refunded by the bank, or can collect miles good for free airline tickets, while paying the same price as a poor person who can get none of those benefits.
71 2009-10-02 Start the clocks: Digital displays that tell straphangers how many minutes until the next train arrives could be coming to the busiest subway lines in New York next year.

More than 150 stations on the numbered subway lines, including the heavily trafficked Nos. 1, 4 and 6, will be providing the information by December 2010; in some stations the clocks will be running even earlier, according to a recently released Metropolitan Transportation Authority document.

In the timeless realm of the underground, where anguish can mount with each passing trainless second, this amounts to something of a revolution.

“This is what riders want,” said Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a transit rider advocacy group. “It helps move the city’s transit system into the 21st century.”

Although New Yorkers became familiar with the technology after its debut on the L line in 2007, that train, which snakes through Williamsburg out to Canarsie, carries only a fraction of the city’s overall ridership (though it does carry a high proportion of its well-heeled hipster set). The No. 6 train, on the other hand, handles 700,000 rides a day, more than the entire Chicago rail system.
72 2009-10-02 Although President Obama has put off an immigration overhaul until next year, the federal agency in charge of approving visas is planning ahead for the possibility of giving legal status to millions of illegal immigrants, the agency’s director said Thursday.

“We are under way to prepare for that,” Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of the agency, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said in an interview. Mr. Obama has told immigration officials that a legalization program would be part of legislation the White House would propose, said Mr. Mayorkas, who became director in August. The agency’s goal, he said, is to be ready to expand rapidly to handle the gigantic increase in visa applications it would face if the legislation, known as comprehensive immigration reform, passed Congress.

The citizenship agency faces a difficult balancing act, preparing for a potential workload bigger than any it has faced, based on legislation in early stages of discussion that is fiercely opposed by many lawmakers in Congress. Also, the agency must work to reduce backlogs and delays that have hampered its performance.

There are no official estimates of the number of illegal immigrants who would apply for legal documents. The Pew Hispanic Center and the Center for Immigration Studies, two research groups in Washington, estimate that at least 10.8 million illegal immigrants live in this country. But a large number of those would not be eligible for legal status for many reasons, including past immigration violations.

Currently, the citizenship agency can handle applications from about six million immigrants a year, Mr. Mayorkas said, including the time-consuming collection of fingerprints and other biometric identity information. Under some plans for legalization, the agency might receive that many applications in a few weeks.
73 2009-10-02 Nike’s denial of an endorsement deal indicates how far Vick still has to go to rebuild his reputation, said Bob Williams, the chief executive of Burns Sports and Entertainment and an expert on celebrity endorsements.

“More time needs to pass,” he said. “You want to be sure as an advertiser that Michael Vick is going to live by the new habits that he’s created since leaving prison.”

Others questioned whether he would ever be able to attract major deals again.

“I don’t see at a lot of options for him, endorsement-wise,” said Bob Dorfman, the executive creative director of Baker Street Advertising and a sports marketing expert. Dorfman, who noted that Vick’s performance was mediocre in his first game of the season Sunday, said advertisers were looking for proven winners in a recession. “At this point, you could barely call him a B-level player. It just isn’t worth it.”

Williams pointed out that Nike had provided Vick with free products, which could be construed as a low-level endorsement.

“Nike wants to maintain the relationship in case this is a great comeback story and he rehabilitates himself,” Williams said.

Dorfman and others were not so sure, saying it was more likely a sign of loyalty to one of their former stars.

“He was a fairly solid member of their roster, pre-dogfighting days, and did some very good advertising for them,” Dorfman said.

HASSELBECK MISSES PRACTICE Seattle’s Matt Hasselbeck again missed practice and is likely to miss a second consecutive game, Sunday at Indianapolis.

Hasselbeck, a three-time Pro Bowl quarterback, threw lightly Thursday. It was the most he has done in a practice since he broke a rib on Sept. 20 at San Francisco. The backup Seneca Wallace is likely to start. (AP) TWO PATRIOTS SIDELINED New England Patriots linebacker Jerod Mayo and nose tackle Vince Wilfork remained sidelined and missed their second straight day of practice.

Mayo sprained the medial collateral ligament in his right knee in the first quarter Week 1 against Buffalo. Wilfork left Sunday’s game against Atlanta when he hurt his left ankle.

Receiver Wes Welker and cornerback Jonathan Wilhite saw limited time Thursday. Welker missed the past two games with a knee injury. Wilhite hurt his groin Saturday night while running from two people outside his home, the police said. (AP)
74 2009-10-02 In the N.F.L., leather helmets of the 1920s evolved into plastic models by the 1950s, after which single face bars evolved into cages through the 1980s. Most experts believe that these advances, while heading off catastrophic injury, have led to greater use of the head while tackling and more daring play over all. This leads to more concussions and subconcussive blows, for which the helmets were not truly designed and that can cumulatively cause later-life cognitive problems.

Only in the 21st century have helmet manufacturers begun to focus on directly protecting against concussions. A Riddell model features six accelerometers and a wireless data-transfer system that can alert trainers to any dangerous hits that might otherwise go unnoticed. Xenith, a brand of helmet designed by the former Harvard quarterback Vin Ferrara, uses air-releasing shock absorbers that could handle a wider range of g-forces than foam alone.

Dave Halstead, who oversees football-helmet testing as the technical director of the National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment, said that as advanced as helmets have become, they do not yet protect against dramatic rotational, rather than linear, forces. Halstead cited the concussion sustained Saturday by the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Tim Tebow of Florida, whose head snapped violently forward after hitting a teammate’s knee.

Like most experts, Halstead emphasized that the inevitability of football concussions suggests that the best protection against short- and long-term damage comes less in their prevention than in their treatment.

“I don’t know if helmets in our lifetime will be effective for them,” Halstead said of such impacts. “What we need is not a magic helmet — it’s a magic pair of glasses where people on the sideline can tell, even when the kid looks fine, isn’t fine.”

Despite increasing concern for heeding brain trauma at the high-school level — where sustaining a concussion before another has healed kills or seriously injures about 10 players a year — 58 percent of high schools still have no access to an athletic trainer, according to the National Athletic Trainers’ Association. Risks are essentially unknown among players, who now exceed 300 pounds while chasing college scholarships that are ever more valuable.

N.F.L. players routinely receive expert medical care. But because those doctors are team employees, their loyalties — knowingly or not — can be compromised toward the short-term interests of the club (getting the player back on the field) and away from the long-term interests of the player (avoiding early-onset dementia, which still remains unlikely). Proper care for concussions is often impossible because, with N.F.L. contracts not being guaranteed, the players are known to hide them to protect their paychecks.

The N.F.L. began mandatory neuropsychological testing in 2007, a significant advance in providing objective evaluation of concussion symptoms. But other league moves came with mixed messages to both its players and the public.

A rule against letting a player return to a game in which he had been knocked unconscious — which the league’s committee on concussions had insisted was proved safe — was described by an N.F.L. lawyer as “not medically required” and as much about safety as “an effort to avoid this debate going forward.”

As bans against certain types of tackles and helmet-to-helmet hits were introduced — with Commissioner Roger Goodell repeatedly emphasizing that safety was paramount — the league preserved the chance for spectacular collisions tailor-made for highlight reels.

The N.F.L. trumpets its education of players regarding the seriousness of concussions, highlighted by a pamphlet it distributes to all players each season. But the pamphlet says research has not shown that repeated concussions had permanent effects “if each injury is managed properly,” a tautology that outside doctors called misleading and worse.

“Many players believe what the league wants them to believe — that you can come back from any injury,” said Pete Kendall, a center for four teams from 1996 through last season. “When you’re 22, 24, 26, it’s very difficult to consider the long-term consequences when you’re 60 — it’s more whether you can play in six days. Especially when the league sends out those signals.”

One N.F.L. theory that outsiders have found slightly more plausible is that the league’s players are probably less susceptible to brain injuries — the rationale being that more-susceptible players would not have lasted long enough to make the pros. They would have been weeded out in college and even high school, the theory goes.

If that is true, the recent dementia finding among N.F.L. players could be of even wider concern. Could some players who stop playing football in high school or college face the same latent risks as professionals who lasted six more years in the N.F.L.? It is one equation that doctors of all affiliations have yet to solve.
75 2009-10-02 TLC said on Thursday that it had suspended filming of the Gosselin children, left, on its reality series “Jon & Kate Plus 8” after a lawyer for Jon Gosselin told the cable channel in a letter that production crews were forbidden to enter the Gosselin family home. The letter was reported on Thursday on CBS’s “Early Show,” which said it was dated Tuesday, the same day that TLC announced it would sideline Mr. Gosselin and rename the reality show “Kate Plus 8.” Mark Heller, a lawyer for Mr. Gosselin, said in a statement that he was confident his client “will be completely successful in his quest to take back control of his family and preserve, protect and ensure their future well-being by putting the brakes on his divorce and pulling the plug on TLC, the media giant that he perceives as a monster.” The “Jon & Kate” show drew a wide audience in the spring and summer, when the couple’s marriage effectively collapsed. In a statement on Thursday, TLC said, “We are aware of Jon Gosselin’s recent statements and remain deeply disappointed at his continued erratic behavior.” TLC said that Mr. Gosselin and his family were shooting for the show as recently as last Friday.
76 2009-10-02 AMENITIES Direct beach access and concierge service, among others.

STATUS The development opened in July. So far five shares have been sold.

DETAILS Mission Beach, a popular oceanfront playground, is at the center of the Strand, a roughly two-mile-long beach northwest of downtown San Diego. The beach has a long boardwalk and the historic Belmont Park amusement center, which opened in 1925 and offers artificial wave pools, along with an aging roller coaster and an indoor swimming pool. This development, said to be the first beachfront residence club in Southern California, occupies a single building with 10 two-bedroom homes. Ranging from 1,081 to 1,227 square feet, the furnished units are laid out on two levels and include floor-to-ceiling windows, private decks, high-definition televisions, Brazilian granite countertops and Wi-Fi access. They are sold in one-eighth shares, giving owners three preplanned weeks of use a year, with options for more time, depending on availability. Cabanas, chairs and umbrellas are set up on the public beach in front of the building, and bikes are available. Underground parking, private storage and daily housekeeping are offered as well, and the club’s concierge can assist with prearrival grocery shopping, spa reservations, dinner plans and golf tee times. Sea World is located in the bay, just southeast of the development’s site. The San Diego International Airport is usually reachable in under 20 minutes. The club is part of the Elite Alliance vacation-home exchange program, which offers access to residence clubs in Jackson Hole, Wyo.; Bermuda; and elsewhere.
77 2009-10-02 “I’m telling you there were 30 G.M.’s in that room, and there’s no appetite for an automatic penalty,” Brian Burke, the general manager of the Toronto Maple Leafs, said after the meeting. “Hitting is a critical part of our game; it’s distinctive to North American hockey.”

That remains the league’s view, and it is almost certain to be tested again during the regular season. According to a study by the National Academy of Neuropsychology, 759 N.H.L. players sustained concussions from 1997 to 2008.

The disposition of the Phoenix Coyotes provides the league’s biggest boardroom challenge. An embarrassed N.H.L. wound up bidding for the team in federal bankruptcy court over the summer after several buyers dropped out. It was an attempt to stop the Canadian billionaire James L. Balsillie, who had angered the league by defying its rules concerning relocation with earlier attempts to buy a team and move it to Hamilton, Ontario.

Balsillie’s bid was thrown out in court on Wednesday, much to the league’s relief. The judge allowed the N.H.L. to continue to look for a buyer for the Coyotes, but that may be difficult, considering the potential buyers who walked away from the team, which according to a court audit lost $72.1 million in 2008.

The Coyotes case cast a pall on the N.H.L.’s summer after the league posted the highest attendance figures and television ratings since the 1970s. That success was fueled almost entirely in hockey’s traditional strongholds in Canada and the northern tier of the United States, where teams like Pittsburgh, Detroit, Chicago and Boston drew big followings.

But in the Sun Belt, teams struggled, casting into question the N.H.L.’s long push to develop hockey in nontraditional cities. Phoenix, Atlanta, Florida, Tampa Bay and Nashville have ownership or other financial problems, which could be exacerbated with league revenue leveling off in the current recession.

The league’s television exposure in the United States continues to be problematic. Last season, Versus recorded a 13 percent gain in viewership for its N.H.L. telecasts, but at midnight Aug. 31 the satellite provider DirecTV dropped the network over a fee dispute. To make up for the shortfall, the league will start the season by providing three weeks of free service for its N.H.L. Center Ice package.

Even the Olympics, seemingly a bright spot, provide a potential stumbling block for the N.H.L.

Despite the intense interest that the Olympic tournament generates, this may be the last time the league participates in the Games.

The N.H.L., locked in a simmering battle with the Russian Kontinental Hockey League over player signings and, ultimately, control of the lucrative European market, has indicated it may not take part in the 2014 Olympics in Sochi, Russia.

Commissioner Gary Bettman and other officials have cited various reasons for their reluctance to commit to Sochi, among them: the Games disrupt the N.H.L. schedule; and an Olympic tournament played overseas does not provide much benefit for the league.

Burke even went so far as to suggest that hockey be moved to the Summer Games, a move that is impossible under the Olympic charter, which mandates that sports played on ice and snow belong exclusively to the Winter Games.

Compounding problems for the league is the players’ overwhelming support for Olympic participation. In July, Ovechkin was named an official ambassador for the Sochi Games.

“Nobody can say to me, You can’t play for your country in the Olympic Games,” Ovechkin told ESPN in New York last month, adding that he would go even if it meant being suspended by the Washington Capitals, his N.H.L. team.

But in February, Ovechkin is expected to be in Vancouver for the Winter Games, along with the rest of the world’s best players. If that tournament and the 2010 Stanley Cup playoffs are anywhere close to as good as last season’s hockey, the N.H.L. will have weathered many of the storms that confront it as the 2009-10 campaign begins.
78 2009-10-02 Acknowledging that the Mets have not only lost 92 games but potentially alienated many fans, the team announced Thursday that it would lower some ticket prices by more than 20 percent next season.

The average price for full-season tickets will fall more than 10 percent, and the price of some seats will fall by twice as much. Prices for all season tickets will decline, the team said. By contrast, the Yankees said they would keep most ticket prices steady next year and lower prices for the most expensive seats.

The cheapest ticket at Citi Field will remain $11 on so-called value nights. The tickets with the largest declines will be in sections on the field level and second deck that adjoined lower-priced seats, said Dave Howard, the team’s executive vice president for business operations. Fans tended to avoid those higher-priced sections in favor of seats nearby that were cheaper, he said. The team may expand the number of clubs at the stadium that fans can visit next year.

“We’re hopeful that people will respond to the price reductions,” Howard said, adding that the team will continue to have one of the highest payrolls in the National League next year. “We were all disappointed about the impact of the injuries and the performance on the field.”

The Mets did not have much choice but to lower prices given the high expectations for the team and the buzz around the new stadium before this season. The team was able to fill Citi Field many nights even though ticket prices for non-premium seats rose 8 percent compared with Shea Stadium, and far more for premium seats, which include access to a restaurant, club or special services. The top-priced seat costs as much as $695.
79 2009-10-02 LONDON — The London Stock Exchange said Thursday that it was in exclusive talks to link with the pan-European alternative trading system Turquoise in an attempt to regain market share and expand abroad.

Turquoise, which was set up by Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and seven other investment banks, put itself up for sale in August after it said that it had achieved its goal of increasing competition and efficiency of the European trading environment. But alternative trading platforms like Turquoise, which opened in August last year, also struggled to make a profit because of costly technology and declining trading volumes.

London’s stock exchange, Europe’s biggest according to the value of companies whose shares it trades, said the talks “may lead to a transaction” but declined to give more details.

The London exchange’s chief executive, Xavier Rolet, a former Lehman Brothers executive who took over in May, pledged to focus on increasing market share lost to smaller alternative trading platforms mainly because of its higher fees and slower technology. He took steps to reduce costs, improve trading technology and considered expanding abroad or into other financial products.

Two weeks earlier, the London exchange agreed to buy MillenniumIT, a Sri Lankan technology services company, for $30 million.

Mr. Rolet’s predecessor, Clara Furse, fought hard to keep the stock exchange independent as she watched rivals like Nasdaq and Euronext form international alliances that increased competition.

Turquoise would give the London stock exchange access to 15 countries in Western Europe and help it compete with Deutsche Börse, NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX and Chi-X, the platform set up in early 2007 by the electronic broker Instinet. UBS, the bank picked by Turquoise to help it find a buyer, sent sales documents to the biggest exchanges.
80 2009-10-02 So what would sensitivity-training experts advise the agents to make the transaction less like an Excedrin headache?

“I would talk with them about what does it mean to be a professional,” said Mitchell Karp, a management and organization consultant. “To be a professional is to be able to separate your personal feelings from your job-related responsibility. Sometimes I remind people that when we were children, we’d say, ‘I’m rubber, you’re glue — whatever you say bounces off me and sticks to you.’ Part of being successful as a ticketing agent is to learn when and how to wear a rubber suit.”

That means ignoring the anger of drivers who are staring at a $115 ticket that says they have violated the rule against “obstructing traffic at an intersection — also known as ‘blocking the box.’ ”

Alan Hilfer, the chief psychologist at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, said he just missed getting such a ticket on Wednesday morning at 96th Street and Third Avenue.

He said, “I watched them ticket five cars at once” that were in the intersection when the light turned red.

“They got very little resistance from the drivers, because the drivers all knew they were blocking an intersection,” Dr. Hilfer said. “But I would talk about the need to be very respectful. You need to ask the person to recognize that you’re doing the job you’re assigned to do, because that job is important on two levels: It helps the city enforce important traffic codes, and it’s a way the city has of earning money.”

He said he would counsel agents to make their encounters with drivers as friendly as possible. They should be clear from the moment they approach a car that “this is not something they’re doing to them personally.”

Eugene O’Donnell, a lecturer in police and law policy at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said agents regularly exercise discretion when they decide not to write a ticket even though they believe there is a violation. “What complicates their job is the expectation that no matter how compassionate and understanding they are,” he said, “they’d better have a certain number of tickets at the end of the day.”

Dr. Hilfer advised agents that mentioning that drivers can challenge a ticket was important. “Once I got a ticket for no parking after 8:30 in the morning,” he said. “My clock said 8:30. Her clock said 8:31. We got in an argument. I said, ‘What are my rights?’ and she said, ‘You have no rights.’ ”

He said he appealed the ticket, and it was dismissed.

All too often, agents say, they are routinely shouted at, cursed at, spat at.

“This is the hardest job you can ever have,” said James Huntley, president of the agents’ union, Local 1182 of the Communications Workers of America. “We get no respectability. We are like the Rodney Dangerfield of the city.”

He took issue with another element of the mayor’s plan: studying other cities’ amnesty programs, which reduce or waive late penalties on past-due tickets. In a statement, the mayor said, “The $700 million in parking fines currently outstanding could pay the salaries of more than 7,000 new police officers.”

Mr. Huntley said the money should be spent on raising agents’ salaries. “After 25 years, we’re making, like, $35,000,” he said. “He’s going to reward another agency, and not the agency that took in the money.”

He said that the agents already got training in “courtesy, respect and professionalism.” With nearly 3,000 agents on the streets, he said, “everybody’s going to have their moments when they’re going to disagree with some type of citizen paying a ticket.”

He added, “Most of the time, we keep our mouth shut; we issue the summons. You have the irate motorist, you have the irate pedestrian, calling us all kinds of names. They’re the ones that need sensitivity training.”
81 2009-10-02 For most of the last two decades, a clear majority of Americans has supported the right to abortion. A new poll, though, suggests that support for abortion may have declined, with the public almost evenly divided over the issue.

The apparent shift, which contradicts some other recent polls, appears in a poll by the Pew Research Center released on Thursday. A 2008 poll by Pew researchers had found that those in favor of keeping abortion legal outnumbered opponents, 54 percent to 40 percent. In the new Pew poll, the gap has narrowed: 47 percent of those surveyed said abortion should be legal in all or most cases, and 45 percent said it should be illegal in all or most cases — a difference within the poll’s margin of sampling error.

The new survey did not find the reasons for the shift in opinion. But Pew researchers pointed out that the shift has occurred since the election of President Obama, a Democrat who supports abortion rights but has often spoken about the need to reduce the number of abortions. New York Times/CBS News polls, as well as others, found no such shift after Bill Clinton — also a Democrat who supports abortion rights — took office. Pew has no comparable data on the issue dating back that far.

Polls conducted by some other organizations within the last few months have found opinion on abortion to be more stable. In an ABC News/Washington Post poll in June, for example, 55 percent of respondents said abortion should be legal in all or most cases, while 43 percent said it should be illegal in all or most cases — close to the average in their polls since 1995.

Times/CBS News polls have also found essentially no change in Americans’ overall views of abortion. In a Times/CBS News poll in June (which asked a differently worded question than the Pew or ABC/Post polls did), 36 percent said abortion should be generally available; 41 percent said it should be available but under stricter limits than it is now; and 21 percent said it should not be permitted — close to the average in New York Times or CBS News polls dating back 20 years.
82 2009-10-02 General Petraeus, the American commander who oversees the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and works closely with General McChrystal, was sounding a careful note in public after participating in a three-hour strategy meeting with Mr. Obama and the administration’s national security team at the White House on Wednesday. For now, his aides say he does not want to get ahead of the president and the continuing deliberations.

Speaking with Brian Williams of NBC as part of a two-day conference with newsmakers at the Newseum in Washington, General Petraeus said that Wednesday’s meeting at the White House was “a very good and quite long discussion going back and looking at the goals and objectives and assumptions” underlying Mr. Obama’s Afghanistan strategy that the president announced in March.

At the Institute for Strategic Studies, General McChrystal noted that the former Taliban rulers of Afghanistan had provided sanctuary to Al Qaeda, from which it planned the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States, and he said political stability there was vital to regional security, as well as to the security of Britain, the United States and elsewhere.

Advocating a “counterterrorist focus” in Afghanistan against Al Qaeda, instead of a “counterinsurgency focus” against the Taliban and Al Qaeda, he said, was a formula for what he called “Chaos-istan.” Proponents of that approach, he said, would accept an Afghanistan in which there was “a level of chaos, and just manage it from outside.”

The general’s troop request was at the heart of the White House strategy session on Wednesday led by Mr. Obama, which included Mr. Biden, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, other cabinet secretaries, top generals, and General McChrystal, participating by videolink from London. The request has come as the worsening conflict in Afghanistan has prompted increased unease in the United States and Europe.

In an oblique acknowledgment of the tricky political terrain, General McChrystal said there had been no pressure on him from military superiors to scale down his troop request — a pattern that developed at points during the Iraq war, when American generals hesitated to call for more troops after the defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, ruled them out.

“All of the interaction I’ve had with my senior leadership, they’ve not only encouraged me” to be blunt in stating his case, the general said, “they’ve insisted on it.”

As if in an afterthought, he added, laughing, that there was no certainty he would always be so free to speak so plainly. “They may change their minds and crush me some day,” he said.

General McChrystal was named the new American and allied commander in Afghanistan this summer in succession to Gen. David D. McKiernan, who was removed after barely a year in the job, and retired, when Mr. Obama and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates decided they needed a fresh approach.

But direct contact between Mr. Obama and the Afghanistan commander has been rare. Aides in London said that Wednesday’s teleconference was only the second time since General McChrystal assumed his command in June that the two men had talked by videolink, a form of contact with field commanders that President George W. Bush, at the height of the Iraq war, used as often as once a week. Although he was out of Afghanistan on Wednesday, the aides said, General McChrystal was not invited to attend the White House strategy session in person.

But judging from General McChrystal’s relaxed demeanor at the session in London, any suggestion he might be headed for a showdown with the White House over war strategy — for the kind of clash that Gen. Douglas A. MacArthur had with President Truman during the Korean War — seemed far-fetched. He went out of his way to say that the White House strategy review was an essential part of developing a successful approach to the war. “I think the more deliberation and the more debate we have, the healthier that’s going to be,” he said.

In the war assessment he delivered to the Pentagon, he struck a note of urgency, saying that if the troop increases he had recommended were not in place within 12 months, the allied effort risked failure. But he told the London audience that the time being taken by current policy review in Washington was worth it. “I don’t think we have the luxury of going so fast that we make the wrong decision,” he said.

The general has used his London trip to make a renewed bid for an increase in Britain’s troop commitment in Afghanistan. With 9,000 soldiers, Britain currently has the second largest coalition contingent after the Americans. Officials at Britain’s Defense Ministry have said discussions with the Americans have included the possibility of about 2,500 additional troops in the British contingent.
83 2009-10-02 Earlier, the Commerce Department said consumer spending surged by the largest amount in nearly eight years in August, as personal income growth lagged. Consumer spending rose 1.3 percent and incomes edged up 0.2 percent.

Even so, economists worry whether that rebound can be sustained with households facing rising unemployment and tight credit conditions.

A day ahead of the Labor Department’s jobs report for September, a weekly unemployment report showed new jobless claims rose more than expected, to 551,000, evidence that jobs remain scarce. Economists polled by Thomson Reuters had predicted claims to rise to 535,000.

The increase comes after three weeks of declines, and just before the Labor Department’s September unemployment report. Economists forecast that report will show the unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent from 9.7 percent in August. Most economists expect the rate to top 10 percent by early next year.

Employers are expected to have cut 180,000 jobs in September, down from 216,000 in August.

Reports this week have raised investors’ doubts about the economic recovery and whether they should be continuing this year’s rally. The Dow Jones industrial average lost nearly 30 points Wednesday, as a disappointing report on Midwestern manufacturing contributed to the bearish tone.

Markets in Europe and Asia struggled Thursday as weak economic data overshadowed upgraded growth forecasts from the International Monetary Fund. Exchanges on Wall Street are also expected to start lower.

In afternoon trading, the FTSE 100 in London was down 1 percent, the DAX in Frankfurt was down 1.3 percent, and CAC-40 in Paris was also 1.3 percent lower.

Asian markets were mostly lower, tracking Wall Street’s fall on Wednesday and after a Japanese survey showed manufacturers still think they need to lay off workers.

Economic data out of Europe was mostly gloomy, with the unemployment rate hitting a fresh 10-year high in August at 9.6 percent, up from 9.5 percent in July. Some 15 million people were seeking work in the euro area in August, 165,000 more than in July.

“We doubt that the labor market correction has run its course,” wrote Jennifer McKeown, economist at Capital Economics, in a note.

She wrote that even if unemployment soon stops rising, earlier increases will hurt wage growth.

“In all, then, while the outlook for exports and industry is improving, there is so far little prospect of a strong pick-up in consumer spending growth,” her note said.

The data was released just as the I.M.F. unveiled its latest World Economic Outlook report, which raised its global growth outlook for 2010 to 3.1 percent from 2.5 percent previously.

The monetary fund said the world was recovering from the crisis faster than expected, but warned that the improvements were in part due to stimulus measures by governments and central banks and being driven Asia.

Recovery in Europe would be sluggish, in part because of rising unemployment, as highlighted in Thursday’s economic figures.

In Asia, economic readings were mixed. Surveys showed Chinese manufacturing was expanding and big manufacturers in Japan were less pessimistic. Yet after making drastic cuts to workers, Japanese companies still say they have too many employees and too much production capacity.

”We’re still on the less-bad trend, but it’s a good time to take some money off the table,” said Song Seng Wun, economist at CIMB-GK in Singapore. ”After a very decent September, we’ll have to regroup and rethink our strategy for the next quarter.”

Earlier in Asia, Japan’s Nikkei 225 stock average dropped 154.59 points, or 1.5 percent, to 9,978.64 and South Korea’s Kospi fell 28.51 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,644.63.

Indexes in Australia and Singapore were lower, but stocks in Taiwan and Indonesia edged up.

Hong Kong and mainland China markets were closed for the 60th anniversary of Communist rule. Hong Kong reopens Friday but mainland markets are closed until Oct. 9.
84 2009-10-02 In a signal that Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Michael Vick still has a long way to go before attracting major endorsements, Nike on Thursday clarified reports that it had signed a contract with him, even as it acknowledged that it had agreed to...
85 2009-10-02 At the request of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Attorney General Jerry Brown's office has opened an investigation into Acorn's activities in California. Mr. Schwarzenegger wrote to Mr. Brown after viewing a video made by conservative activists purpo...
86 2009-10-02 WHAT Beachfront fractional-ownership development.     WHERE San Diego....
87 2009-10-02 SCHORR--Emily. A shining light has gone out too soon. Rest in peace dear Emily. Judy and Jack...
88 2009-10-03 The Center for Auto Safety says the potential fire danger from the gas tanks of three million Jeep Grand Cherokees is so great that the government should order a recall....
89 2009-10-03 The legendary Times fashion photographer Bill Cunningham died on Saturday, June 25, at age 87. In this weekly video series, he spotted and distilled the latest trends from the runways of Paris to the colorful streets of New York.
90 2009-10-03 Scenes from the Paris fashion week photo diary of Sofia Sanchez and Mauro Mongiello....
91 2009-10-03 Steven Clemons of The Washington Note and Ann Louise Bardach, author of "Without Fidel," discuss whether the status quo in Cuba will ever change.
92 2009-10-03 BAGHDAD (AP) — Iraqi security forces in Mosul have detained more than 150 people suspected in the Sunni insurgency during an offensive in the country’s last major extremist stronghold, a senior security official said Friday.

The crackdown is the latest attempt to break insurgent strength in Mosul, a northern city. It is also the first wide-ranging operation since the United States military withdrew combat forces from Iraq’s cities in June. While each sweep into Mosul in the past years has produced scores of arrests, networks like Al Qaeda in Iraq have not been greatly weakened.

The Iraqi security official said the most recent raids began this week and were expected to be completed Saturday. So far, the detained suspects include some people who are believed to be senior insurgent commanders and financiers, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media.

American forces took part in the offensive, primarily in a support role, the official said. The United States military did not immediately comment on the offensive in Mosul.

The city has remained one of the lingering concerns for the Pentagon as it prepares to end American combat operations next August. Insurgents have resisted a series of assaults by Iraqi and American troops and continue to stage attacks from bases in Mosul.

In February, a joint American-Iraqi campaign into Mosul resulted in the arrests of more than 80 insurgency suspects, but it appeared to make little headway against the insurgents’ ability to strike. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki vowed more than a year ago to begin a “decisive” battle against extremists in Mosul, Iraq’s third largest city.
93 2009-10-03 But that is a practice his own Socialist party has long been accused of nurturing. So why, many Greeks want to know, should they believe that the Socialists are different this time around, or that they can instigate change?

“You are asking me what people in the street ask me every day,” said Anna Diamantopoulou, a senior Socialist party member and a former European commissioner. The answer, she said, is that Greeks are fed up.

“There is always a moment in history and in political life when people say, ‘That’s enough,’ ” she said. “And I believe that the country is in a crisis — an economic crisis, a political crisis, a social crisis. So that’s enough for many people.”

Offsetting the need for reform is a deep Mediterranean resignation; many Greeks find the status quo, however problematic, more convenient than a new order, and aspire to find what is known as “volema,” the term for a comfortable setup within the prevailing system.

Adding to the skepticism here is a widespread disdain for politicians. Although Mr. Karamanlis came to power promising to clean up government, his efforts to persuade Greeks to pay their taxes and register their land were less effective after senior members of his government were found to have done neither.

One of his closest aides was accused of orchestrating a controversial land swap in which the state lost an estimated $150 million after exchanging prime Athens real estate for much less valuable property. The aide denied wrongdoing and stepped down.

Mr. Karamanlis was accused of covering for other high government officials who were accused of having profited from the deal, and who later stepped down. He denied that anyone in his government had done anything illegal.

Greeks also found Mr. Karamanlis’s government ineffective and puzzlingly passive in response to several crises, including a series of devastating forest fires in recent years, and the shooting by the police of a 15-year-old last December, which set off violent student protests that raged uncontrolled for weeks and caused millions of dollars of damage. (In a country with frequent demonstrations, many Greeks viewed the protests as political theater or a rite of youth, not as a social uprising.) Fresh protests are expected on the first anniversary of the shooting this December, and the dire economic situation may well precipitate other demonstrations.

The economy is the central issue in Sunday’s elections. After 15 years of sustained growth, buoyed by Greece’s entry into the euro zone, the economy has stalled. Unemployment is at 9 percent and is expected to rise to 10 percent, if not higher, in 2010.

Analysts say the recession is exacerbated by deep structural problems. The underground economy is estimated at 30 percent of gross domestic product. Experts say that Greece loses about $17.5 billion annually in unpaid income taxes and $13 billion in unpaid payroll taxes to cover social costs. And with two pensioners for every worker, employment levels cannot sustain social spending.

Greece also has a longstanding tradition of hiring more state workers in order to stave off social unrest, a practice that has bloated the public sector — one in four Greek workers is employed by the state — and increased public debt, which is estimated to reach 108 percent of gross domestic product.

Both New Democracy and Pasok say they will try to convince Brussels to give Greece more time to bring its deficit below the ceiling of 3 percent of gross domestic product set by the European Commission.

If the government does not take stimulus measures and banks do not extend credit, “come January, the economy will be strangled,” said Savas Robolis, a labor economist and the scientific director at INE/GSEE, a prominent labor research institute.

“If that happens,” he said, “it will dampen all the new energy and hope built up for Pasok.”
94 2009-10-03 Since then, even some of Brand’s most vocal critics have said that their minds have been changed. At the first scholarly colloquium in 2008, Jay Coakley, a professor emeritus of sociology at the University of Colorado, called on the N.C.A.A. to release more of its data to researchers. To Coakley’s surprise, the first person to raise his hand after his speech was Brand. “He came up to me and said that he was going to give this more thought,” Coakley recalled.

Nearly two years later, the N.C.A.A.’s research department has arranged to release four sets of data — including detailed academic statistics and graduation rates — to a national clearinghouse at the University of Michigan.

The N.C.A.A.’s method for measuring classroom success, known as the academic progress rate, is the most high-profile of the data initiatives that were begun under Brand. Walter Harrison, president of the University of Hartford and chairman of the committee that oversaw the reforms, said that when results were first released in 2005, they yielded surprises. While some teams and universities did well, baseball players scored poorly despite records of good grades in high school, and a committee was set up to examine potential causes. Similar committees are now looking at men’s basketball and football.

Now that the academic reporting system is under way, attention has turned toward athletic spending.

“How do we get out of this endless spiral of spending more and more money on intercollegiate athletics?” said William E. Kirwan, a co-chairman of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, which has accused the N.C.A.A. of overly commercializing college sports. He is also the chancellor of Maryland’s university system. “The analysis there is obviously going to require the collection of data.”

The N.C.A.A. already collects financial data for use by member universities, a development that Harrison and others said has helped slow the growth in spending by offering university presidents a more realistic picture of what their competitors were doing. But that database is not available to the public, and individual institutions are not identified. Renfro said the N.C.A.A.’s members were unlikely to agree to release the data because financial information was so sensitive.

Kirwan disagreed. “I think the same arguments were made when we first started collecting academic data,” he said. “I think once you have data, my experience generally has been that the demands for access to the data will certainly increase.”

If Kirwan’s prediction comes true, many will probably attribute the development to Brand’s legacy of pursuing facts, no matter where they lead.

“He wasn’t concerned with what was good or bad or otherwise,” said Todd Petr, the managing director of research at the N.C.A.A. “He was a philosopher, and he wanted to know what the truth was. And he pushed us to get it right.”
95 2009-10-03 Still, the Constitution offers some protections. In August, the International Crisis Group, a nongovernmental organization based in Brussels that seeks to prevent and resolve deadly conflicts, issued a report recommending that opposition groups take part in the election. It said that although the new Constitution “entrenches military power,” the changes at least established “shared political spaces — the legislatures and perhaps the cabinet — where cooperation could be fostered.”

And internationally, some policies toward Myanmar, formerly Burma, are shifting.

Last week, the Obama administration announced that it would engage the junta directly, while keeping sanctions in place. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton called for the unconditional release of political prisoners, including Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, and “credible, democratic reform.”

Mr. Win Tin said, “If the direct engagement of the U.S. will result in the release of all political prisoners and in a revision of the 2008 Constitution, then dialogue could begin between us and the junta, and we would consider running in the election.”

Mr. Win Tin — warm, razor-sharp and clearly determined — said the reason the junta released him, shortly before his prison sentence was completed, might have been to split the party. He admitted that “we are having some arguments about whether we are going to participate in the elections or not,” but insisted that there was “no conflict within the party now.”

Mr. Win Tin worked as a journalist and became secretary of the newly formed National League for Democracy before being jailed for three years in 1989. In 1991, he was given 10 more years for his involvement in popular uprisings in 1988 that were crushed by the military. In 1996, he was given seven more years for sending the United Nations a petition about abuses in Myanmar’s prisons. Much of the time, he was in solitary confinement.

“I could not bow down to them,” he said. “No, I could not do it. I wrote poems to keep myself from going crazy. I did mathematics with chalk on the floor.”

He added: “From time to time, they ask you to sign a statement that you are not going to do politics and that you will abide by the law and so on and so forth. I refused.”

When all his upper teeth were bashed out, he was 61. The guards refused to let him get dentures for eight years, leaving him to gum his food.

Last month, Mr. Win Tin was briefly detained after he wrote an opinion article that appeared in The Washington Post, criticizing the military junta and its plans for the election next year.

“I think they are trying to intimidate me, to stop me from appearing in the foreign media,” he said.

During the interview, on a cousin’s leafy porch in suburban Yangon, formerly Rangoon, government spies openly watched and took photographs from outside the gate.

Never married, Mr. Win Tin talks fondly of his adopted daughter, who lives in Sydney, Australia, after gaining political asylum 15 years ago. He has not seen her since.

Accustomed to a spare prison diet, he has one meal early in the day and a bit of fruit in the evening.

“I don’t want to be a burden on anyone,” he said.

Since his release, Mr. Win Tin has tried to reinvigorate the leadership of the National League for Democracy by stepping up the frequency of meetings and lobbying overseas governments. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi remains popular, despite her long years of detention, but the party has been crippled by the arrests of hundreds of younger members, Mr. Win Tin said.

“We have some young men, but they are followed and sent to jail all the time,” he said. “Sometimes, they go to the pagoda just for praying. They are followed and charged with something and sentenced.” Many are tortured, he said.

In one kind of torture, called “riding the motorcycle,” the subject is made to bend the knees, stand on tiptoe with sharp nails under the heels and make the sound of a revving engine. When the subject can no longer maintain the tiptoe stance, the nails penetrate the foot.

All but one of Mr. Win Tin’s eight colleagues on the party’s central executive committee are older than he is. The committee president and chairman, U Aung Shwe, is 92, and so infirm that he has not visited party headquarters for months. The party secretary, U Lwin, 87, is bedridden and paralyzed. The youngster in the group, U Khin Maung Swe, is in his mid-60s.

Despite the challenges his party faces, Mr. Win Tin remains optimistic.

“We expect democracy can happen anytime,” he said, recalling the country’s postcolonial democracy period from 1948 to 1962. “But sometimes, you have to sacrifice everything for a long, long time. It might extend for more than your life span.”
96 2009-10-03 It’s the most important button at Citi Field, the one that levitates a famous piece of fiberglass fruit every time a Met hits a home run. Adam Garrido has not had to press that button very often this season.

Garrido is in charge of the massive video scoreboards at Citi Field. But when a Met does hit a home run — which happened only 49 times through Friday night — it is also Garrido’s job to press a black button that is protected by a black metal flap with the word “LAUNCH” inscribed above it. Then the home run apple pops up (most of the time, anyway), leading to a modestly majestic moment that draws cheers from the crowd.

For the better part of three decades, the original apple and now its replacement have been an endearing Mets trademark. Unfortunately, the dimensions of Citi Field, and a depleted lineup, have cut down on Mets home runs. So the new apple, constructed in Minnesota and 65 percent bigger than the one at Shea Stadium, has often sat idle this season.

Little has gone right for the Mets this season, even when Brian Schneider and Fernando Tatis hit back-to-back home runs on July 12. Tatis’s homer followed Schneider’s so quickly that the apple’s impressive hydraulic delivery system did not have time to reset. That problem, much like those in the team’s scouting and medical departments, will be addressed in the off-season.

Garrido had the honor of commemorating the first official homer by a Met at Citi Field, a blast by David Wright on April 13 in the opener against the Padres. (In case you’re wondering, the Mets lost that game, too.) Garrido said he was not upset that he has since had few chances to raise the apple.
97 2009-10-03 The fallout from the implosion of the Binghamton basketball program continued Friday, when the SUNY Chancellor Nancy Zimpher announced that the university would not oversee an independent audit of its athletic department.

Binghamton also reversed the firing of Sally Dear, the adjunct lecturer who taught human development for 11 years before being dismissed earlier this week. Dear believed she was dismissed because she spoke out against the basketball program. The university had cited fiscal reasons. But Dear received a letter Friday saying she would remain an adjunct, although in a different department, during the audit.

“How come they’re firing me due to budget cuts and a reconfiguring of the department and all of a sudden I’m being hired by another department?” Dear said.

The audit of the athletic department will be initiated and overseen by the Executive Committee of the SUNY Board of Trustees, not Lois DeFleur, the Binghamton president.

“These steps are necessary to remove any doubt whatsoever about the quality and integrity of the athletic and academic enterprises of Binghamton University,” Zimpher said in a statement.

The chancellor’s announcement came at the end of a week in which six basketball players were dismissed, including the star point guard Emanuel Mayben for his arrest on charges of selling and possession of crack cocaine. Also pending was a sexual harassment suit brought by a fund-raiser against two athletic department officials.
98 2009-10-03 David Letterman was funny as he described his blackmail ordeal; he just wasn’t kidding.

His confession on “Late Show” on Thursday night was less shocking than it was confusing. Mr. Letterman admitted “creepy” affairs with CBS employees in a tone so glib and deadpan that the audience couldn’t be blamed for assuming that this stand-up comedian, now back at his desk after his monologue, was still joking. Mr. Letterman noted that it would be embarrassing for his liaisons to be publicly known, then paused a beat. “Especially for the women.”

If nothing else, it was weird karma. Just as “Late Show” was soaring past “The Tonight Show” in the ratings, an extortion scheme by a CBS employee drove Mr. Letterman to admit to the kind of sordid affairs — with staff members — that he so mercilessly mocks others for being involved in.

As much as the philandering and possible abuse of power (the office fling is so often a crime of convenience), it was Mr. Letterman’s incongruous blending of the serious and the comic that seemed to crackle with the public and commentators. This wasn’t an exception, however.

Mr. Letterman is an intensely private celebrity — practically a hermit — who processes his personal life in front of a studio audience. His world almost seems like his own “Truman Show” — it’s lived most fully on television. Mr. Letterman went for 18 years without ever missing a show, until quintuple bypass surgery in 2000 forced him to take a break.

He has long had a disconcerting habit of weaving deadly serious statements into humorous performances. He was admired for the heartfelt, emotional way he explained his return to the air after Sept. 11. He was equally forthcoming and serious about the bypass surgery (he brought his surgeons onto the show), his brushes with a stalker, the birth of his son and even his late-life marriage in March. Most recently, he apologized, up to a point, to former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska for making a sexual joke about one of her daughters.

Mr. Letterman allows even his private preoccupations to bleed into his on-camera performances. On the air he had let his fans in on his infatuation with Stephanie Birkitt, the former assistant with whom his accused blackmailer, Robert Joel Halderman, a producer for the CBS News program “48 Hours Mystery,” lived at least for a while. For a long stretch several years ago, Mr. Letterman would bring Ms. Birkitt on his show, teasing her about her weekend plans and using pet nicknames like “Monty.”
99 2009-10-03 The museum in the private house near the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway announces itself in blue letters spelled out in painter’s masking tape.

“Don’t let Pirate Mike steal our heritage,” reads the sign, above a row of illustrations of gorgeous brick-fronted mansions and the legend “Landmark Admiral’s Row.”

Not much more information is forthcoming until Tuesday nights, when Scott Witter sets a piece of slate on the doorstep of 109 Hall Street that says “B.O.M.B. Open” in the same blue tape and Brooklyn’s Other Museum of Brooklyn stirs to life once more.

Thirteen blocks away, Admiral’s Row, the string of 19th-century Italianate officers’ quarters on the edge of the Brooklyn Navy Yard  to which Mr. Witter’s museum is a discordant but impassioned love song  crumbles on.

The museum and the mansions lie in opposite corners of Wallabout, a sliver of a semi-industrial neighborhood wedged between Fort Greene, Clinton Hill and the Navy Yard. But while the museum  a collection of somewhat random artifacts including porcelain smoking pipes dug from a nearby backyard and an almost-drivable 1920 Briggs & Stratton Flyer  remains oddly vital, Admiral’s Row is just about out of time.

The city, which owns the rest of the Navy Yard and is in the process of acquiring Admiral’s Row from the National Guard, says the houses, occupied until the 1970s, would cost too much to rebuild  $20 million or more. On Oct. 19, the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation will collect proposals from developers interested in knocking down 9 of the 11 buildings on the row and building a jumbo supermarket (badly needed in the neighborhood), plus more commercial space and a parking lot.

This makes Mr. Witter, a 61-year-old architect, pack rat, gadfly and preservationist who lives next door to the museum, upset, to say the least.

“The government has had the responsibility to maintain these buildings up to military standard, which they haven’t,” he said the other day, standing on Flushing Avenue outside the wire-topped fence that is as close as civilians are allowed to Admiral’s Row. “For 30 years, they’ve been derelict in their duties.”

He is hardly a lone voice. The Municipal Art Society, the New York Landmarks Conservancy and the Historic Districts Council have all pleaded with the city to save Admiral’s Row. A Pratt architecture professor, Brent Porter, has released a model showing how the 6.5-acre site could be redeveloped without knocking down the residences. A 2008 report commissioned by the Army Corps of Engineers found the superstructures of the Admiral’s Row houses to be generally “sound, level and plumb.”

None of which cuts much ice with the Navy Yard Development Corporation. If the federal government required the Admiral’s Row buildings to be rebuilt as a condition of transfer, the Navy Yard’s chief executive, Andrew Kimball, wrote in 2007, “neither the city nor the B.N.Y.D.C. are interested in acquiring and developing the site.”

Mr. Witter says that the federal governments decision this spring to condemn most of the row was made improperly, in violation of the National Historic Preservation Act process. He hopes to get it reversed.

Late last month, Mr. Witter, in his ever-present skull-and-crossbones ball cap adorned with a full set of Admiral’s Row pins, led a stroll along Flushing. He paused in front of Building C, once a mansard-roofed beauty joined to its neighbor, now hardly more than a three-story ivy trellis.

“This is the latest fiasco on the row,” Mr. Witter said. After a partial collapse earlier this year, he said, “the Fire Department came in and disassembled the thing to the ground.”

He went down the line  Building H, the only limestone structure and fairly intact-looking; Building D, circa 1851, possibly built by Thomas Walter, designer of the United States Capitol dome; Building I, maple sapling sprouting from its smashed porch steps  doomed, doomed, doomed.

Only the yard commander’s residence, with its grand ballroom and gardens, and the 1838 timber shed are to escape the wrecking ball. A few blocks east, though, the Marine Corps commandant’s residence is being turned into a Navy Yard museum. Mr. Kimball has said it might have an exhibit about Admiral’s Row.

For now, and until Admiral's Row is landmarked, Mr. Witter says, there is the Other Museum, a five-year-old movable smorgasbord, now on the second floor of a sturdy 1876 wood-frame house with severely weathered shingles. It is open Tuesdays from 7 to 9 p.m.

On Sept. 22, Mr. Witter opened promptly at 7:23 and launched into a guided tour, beginning with the metal practice bomb in the stairwell that he found in the Utah desert and that gave his museum its Gertrude Steinesque name.

He moved on to the Flyer, a bare-bones motorcar that looks like a sled on wheels with a gasoline engine mounted on the back. “I flipped this on my dad’s lawn,” recalled Mr. Witter, who grew up outside Binghamton. The two seats of the Flyer were occupied by a poster of the local city councilwoman, Letitia James, who supports the city’s plan, and a Mickey Mouse head wearing a rat mask that is Mr. Witter’s symbol for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

“Do you want a beer, Freddy?” Mr. Witter asked, leaning over a bathtub stocked with Budweiser. “Sure,” Mr. DeChirico replied.

“Sometimes I tell people, ‘I’m going to the museum,’ and they say, ‘What museum?’ and I say, ‘Brooklyn’s Other Museum,’ ” Mr. DeChirico said as he sat down next to Mr. Witter’s companion, Karen Polack. “People don’t know what I’m talking about.”

Mr. Witter offered an explanation of his curatorial philosophy.

“The museum is dedicated to landmarking and preserving Admiral’s Row and the sane development of Brooklyn,” he said. “But the stuff in the museum is just the stuff in the museum.”

Later, as Mr. Witter stood on Hall Street in front of the house, another semiregular, Richard Cooper, wandered by.

“Any women up there?” he asked. “Karen,” Mr. Witter replied, referring to his partner. “She’s taken,” Mr. Cooper noted.

The conversation turned, as it often does, to Admiral’s Row. Mr. Witter was asked if his basement might someday hold pieces of it.

Mr. Witter leveled his gaze. “They’re not going to demolish it,” he said.
100 2009-10-03 Much of the debate over legalizing gay marriage has focused on God and Scripture, the Constitution and equal protection.

But we see the world through the prism of money. And for years, we’ve heard from gay couples about all the extra health, legal and other costs they bear. So we set out to determine what they were and to come up with a round number — a couple’s lifetime cost of being gay.

It was much more complicated than we initially imagined, and that’s probably why we’ve never seen similar efforts. We looked at benefits that routinely go to married heterosexual couples but not to gay couples, like certain payments. We plotted out the cost of for couples whose employers don’t offer it to domestic partners. Even preparation can cost more, since gay couples have to file two sets of returns. Still, many couples may come out ahead in one area: they owe less in income taxes because they’re not hit with the so-called marriage penalty.

Our goal was to create a hypothetical gay couple whose situation would be similar to a heterosexual couple’s. So we gave the couple two children and assumed that one partner would stay home for five years to take care of them. We also considered the taxes in the three states that have the highest estimated gay populations — New York, and . We gave our couple an income of $140,000, which is about the average income in those three states for unmarried same-sex partners who are college-educated, 30 to 40 years old and raising children under the age of 18.

Here is what we came up with. In our worst case, the couple’s lifetime cost of being gay was $467,562. But the number fell to $41,196 in the best case for a couple with significantly better health insurance, plus lower taxes and other costs.

These numbers will vary, depending on a couple’s income and circumstance. Gay couples earning, say, $80,000, could have health insurance costs similar to our hypothetical higher-earning couple, but they might well owe more in income taxes than their heterosexual counterparts. For wealthy couples with a lot of assets, on the other hand, the cost of being gay could easily spiral into the millions.

Nearly all the extra costs that gay couples face would be erased if the federal government legalized . One exception is the cost of having biological children, but we felt it was appropriate to include this given our goal of outlining every cost gay couples incur that heterosexual couples may not.

Our analysis is not exact science. Not every couple would get married if they could, and others would not want to have children. We also made a number of assumptions based on average costs, life spans, state of residence and gender.

Our gay family is made up of two women living in in a committed partnership that lasts 46 years, until the first partner dies at age 81. We ran two sets of calculations: in the one that turned out to be our worst case financially, one woman earned $110,000 and the other $30,000. In our second couple, both partners earned $70,000. We started running the numbers when both were age 35.

We received assistance from Roberton Williams, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center, who performed our tax analysis, which required simulating more than 900 income tax returns, in part because we followed the partners for 50 years. We also decided to run all scenarios across the three states so that the results would not be skewed by different state taxes. We’ve outlined all the detail in a workbook linked to the online version of this column.

As for the emotional costs of living with these added complexities, they can’t be quantified. Frederick Hertz, a lawyer in , Calif., who works with same-sex couples, likens heterosexual marriage to being in the car pool lane. “Being part of a same-sex couple, it’s always stop. Wait. Pay a toll,” he said.

Harvey Hurdle, who lives in with his partner and their young son, said he was reminded of the disparities every time his Social Security statement arrived in the mail. “It’s pretty insulting,” he said. “It says your spouse would get this much. And it’s like, ‘Oh no he won’t!’ ”

In our worst case, the lower earner’s employer did not provide health insurance and her partner’s employer didn’t cover domestic partners. So the lower earner had to buy coverage on the private market, while the higher-earning partner provided coverage for herself and the two children. All this cost the gay couple $211,993 more than their heterosexual married counterparts, who were able to take advantage of the higher-earner’s family coverage.

In our best case, health coverage cost the gay couple $28,595 more. We assumed both gay partners were eligible for employer-provided coverage. The higher-earner’s employer also provided domestic partner coverage, which covered her partner for the five years she stayed at home. When she returned to work, she used her own employer’s insurance.

Even though the couple paid nearly $29,000 more in premiums than an identical heterosexual married couple, it was cheaper than using domestic partnership coverage throughout because of the onerous tax implications, according to Mr. Williams of the Tax Policy Center. A nondependent partner’s coverage is taxable income, and she can’t use pretax dollars to pay the premiums, according to Todd A. Solomon, a partner in the employee benefits department of McDermott Will & Emery in .

All our hypothetical individuals started collecting Social Security when they were 66. Same-sex couples are not entitled to a variety of Social Security benefits, including spousal benefits (heterosexual spouses can receive up to 50 percent of a spouse’s benefits while the spouse is alive, if they are higher than their own); survivor benefits (surviving spouses can receive their deceased spouse’s benefits in lieu of their own, if they are higher); and a flat death benefit of $255.

In the worst case, the gay partner who earned $30,000 could not receive higher spousal benefits or survivor benefits from her partner’s much higher earnings record. Nor was she entitled to the death benefit. In total, the gay women collected $88,511 less in Social Security than a similar heterosexual couple. Some couples might try to buy in an attempt to replace the benefit.

In our best case, when the gay partners had largely identical incomes, neither was at a huge disadvantage because they ended up with about the same monthly benefits. So the only extra benefit a heterosexual married couple received was the $255 death benefit.

Heterosexual married couples can transfer an unlimited amount of assets to each other during their lives and at death without paying estate taxes. Everyone else, including married same-sex couples, must pay federal on amounts that exceed the 2009 exemption of $3.5 million. Many states also levy their own estate or inheritance taxes, though same-sex couples may be shielded from those in states that recognize their unions. Our couple lived in New York, where the estate tax exemption is $1 million. And though New York recognizes marriages performed elsewhere, that recognition does not extend to state income or estate taxes.

In our worst case, the gay partner who died first in 2055 left an estate that exceeded the state’s threshold by $171,528. That meant a tax bill of $43,378, according to Ron L. Meyers, an estate-planning lawyer with a significant same-sex clientele at Cane, Boniface & Meyers in Nyack, N.Y.

Meanwhile, their identical heterosexual counterparts owed nothing.

The gay couple in our best case had a smaller estate, in part because they were careful to title their home as tenants-in-common, so only the deceased partner’s half of the home was taxable. The estate didn’t exceed the federal or state threshold. So they owed nothing.

Two women who want to have a biological child together need sperm to do it. They may need to purchase sperm from a bank and use a medical professional to inseminate one of the partners. There are also adoption costs.

The worst case here totaled $40,000. It included 12 months of sperm and insemination costs, but the big wild card was the possible need to move to a state where same-sex second-parent adoptions were legal. While this may seem extreme, couples often do it, according to Joyce Kauffman, a lawyer in , Mass., who has worked with many of them. We estimated a minimum of $20,000 for this cost, including real estate brokerage fees to sell a home and moving costs.

In the best case, there might be no cost at all: the couple could use sperm from a relative of the partner who isn’t bearing the child or from a friend, inseminate at home and take their chances with free legal forms on the Web. Ms. Kaufman does not recommend such a cavalier approach to vital documents.

The cost for men to have a biological child would be much higher if they used a surrogate.

We assumed that one partner, in both best and worst cases, received a small pension. In both cases, the partner with the pension plan died first.

Employers do not have to provide survivor pension benefits to a same-sex spouse, but many do anyway (which would put our best case at $0). In our worst case, however, the higher-earning partner died first and did not work for such a company. So the surviving partner got nothing. A similarly situated heterosexual surviving spouse would receive $32,253 before dying herself several years later.

You generally need to earn income to contribute to an Individual Retirement Account. But heterosexual married couples can contribute up to $5,000 annually to a spousal I.R.A. for a nonworking spouse. Stay-at-home gay partners, however, cannot make these contributions. So they end up with smaller accounts.

We assumed that all the couples would have either saved 7 percent of the stay-at-home parent’s previous year’s salary, or $5,000, the maximum contribution. So the gay couple with one partner who started out earning just $30,000 would have saved less (had she been legally able to) than someone earning $70,000. In both cases, that five-year gap in savings early on in the partners’ lives haunted them later because they weren’t able to benefit from decades of compounding returns.

The couple with the lower-earning partner at home ended up $48,654 behind by the time that partner died, assuming she invested in a portfolio mixed equally between and bonds that returned 5.94 percent annually. The surviving spouse from the gay couple with equal incomes ended up $112,192 behind.

Instead of filing one joint federal tax return and one state income tax return, same-sex couples must file two sets of returns. In both best and worst cases, those couples paid an additional $12,300 in tax preparation fees over the 46 years they are together.

Even married same-sex couples are encouraged to create a number of documents that try to replicate the protections and rights of heterosexual marriage because their unions are not universally recognized. In the worst case, our gay couple spent $5,500 more than their heterosexual counterparts on their additional paperwork. That included a revocable living trust, which is more difficult to contest than a will, and what is known as a pour-over will, which ensured that anything left out of the trust would be included. They also each set up financial powers of attorney, health care proxies, living wills and a domestic partnership agreement.

In the best case, our couple didn’t spend any more than a prudent heterosexual couple would. Both couples created two wills, financial powers of attorney, health care proxies and living wills.

Married heterosexual couples with two working spouses with similar incomes often pay more in federal taxes than if they remained single because of the so-called marriage penalty. This occurs when a couple’s combined income pushes them into a higher tax bracket than they would have been in if they filed as singles. But some couples — especially those with a wide disparity in income or with a stay-at-home parent — usually pay less when they file jointly. They benefit from what’s known as a marriage bonus.

In our worst case, where one gay partner earned $110,000 and one earned $30,000, the couple paid $15,027 less in taxes over their lifetimes than their heterosexual counterparts.

Though the gay and heterosexual married couple had identical salaries, the married couple collected more income in retirement — a direct result of their marriage status — and thus owed more in taxes (though they still benefited from the marriage bonus). For instance, the married couple collected higher Social Security spousal benefits and survivor benefits, pension income and income derived from a spousal I.R.A. The gay couples weren’t entitled to any of these benefits.

In our best case, where the partners each earned $70,000, the gay couple paid $112,146 less in income taxes. “That is the marriage penalty rearing its ugly head,” Mr. Williams said.
101 2009-10-03 The market’s optimism has been tested this week by several indicators that have either weakened or fallen short of expectations, a disappointment after several months of hopeful signs on crucial industries like housing and manufacturing. That has led investors to question whether the 50 percent surge in stocks in the last six months can be sustained.

With nerves running high, stocks have fallen in seven of the last eight days. The Dow Jones industrials have pulled back about 4.3 percent since coming within 82 points of the 10,000 level last week.

“People have had a long, hard week,” said Bruce Shalett, managing partner at Wynston Hill Capital in New York.

Many found the relatively calm response to the jobs report encouraging, taking it as a sign that there were still investors willing to use the dips to pick up stocks they considered cheap.

“Pullbacks are going to constantly be used as opportunities to get into the market,” said Hank Smith, chief investment officer of equity at Haverford Investments in Radnor, Pa.

The Dow fell 21.61 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,487.67, after being down as much as 79 points. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 4.64 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,025.21, and the Nasdaq composite fell 9.37 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,048.11.

For the week, the Dow and the S.& P. 500 index each lost 1.8 percent, while the Nasdaq fell 2 percent.

Two stocks fell for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.4 billion shares Friday compared with 1.6 billion Thursday.

Stocks are coming off a banner third quarter. Both the Dow and the S.& P. 500 gained 15 percent in the July-September period. It was the Dow’s best quarter since 1998.

The fourth quarter may not be as stellar. Analysts expect the market to drift over the next couple of weeks as investors await quarterly earnings reports and company forecasts on business activity. The last meaningful pullback in the market since the rally began in March came during the four weeks leading up to second-quarter reports this summer, when the major indexes lost about 7 percent.

“October is shaping up to be a challenging month for investors,” said Brent McQuiston, a vice president at WealthTrust-Arizona.

Strong earnings could help offset growing concerns about a recovery and stabilize the market, he said, but solid revenue growth is what is needed to put the market on firm footing.

In the meantime, the market will get reports on the service sector, retail sales and wholesale trade inventories next week.

Yields on long-term Treasuries moved off their lowest levels since the spring. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 11/32, to 103 13/32, and the yield rose to 3.22 percent, from 3.18 percent late Thursday.

Crude oil fell 87 cents to settle at $69.95 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
102 2009-10-03 JERUSALEM  Thin and wan, but lucid and very much alive, Gilad Shalit, the captured Israeli soldier whose fate has gripped Israel for more than three years, appeared in a video on Friday holding a Palestinian newspaper dated Sept. 14.

Israel obtained the DVD on Friday in a deal brokered by German and Egyptian mediators. In return, Israel released 19 Palestinian women from its jails and was to release a 20th on Sunday. Prison officials said most were near the end of their terms and no longer considered dangerous.

The DVD offered Israel its first glimpse of the young man since June 2006, when he was seized in a cross-border raid by Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups and dragged, injured, into Gaza. Friday’s exchange was the most tangible sign of progress so far in the years of talks on his release, for which Hamas is demanding freedom for up to 1,000 Palestinian prisoners, including many convicted of deadly terrorist acts.

In the short video, Sergeant Shalit, now 23, appears thin but healthy. Cleanshaven, dressed in khaki military-style clothes and sitting against a plain light-colored wall, he holds up a copy of a Hamas-published newspaper dated Sept. 14, 2009.

“Hello, I am Gilad, son of Noam and Aviva Shalit, brother of Hadas and Yoel, who lives in Mitzpe Hila,” Sergeant Shalit says in Hebrew. “My ID number is 300097029.”

Reading from a piece of paper in a voice that breaks at times, he says: “I have been hoping and waiting for the day of my release for a long time. I hope the current government under Benjamin Netanyahu will not waste the chance to finalize a deal, and I will therefore be able to finally have my dream come true and be released.”

The soldier sends his love to his family, and, with an embarrassed half smile, says the military wing of Hamas is treating him “excellently.” He then rises and takes a few paces to show he is physically intact.

Prime Minister Netanyahu and Defense Minister Ehud Barak were among the senior officials who first saw the video, along with military officials who checked its authenticity. A copy was flown by helicopter to northern Israel, where the Shalit family watched it privately at home. They decided to allow it to be made public, and it was broadcast on all Israeli television channels in the afternoon.

Noam Shalit, the soldier’s father, told reporters outside the home that, despite the initial impression that Gilad was in relatively good condition, the family was deeply worried. “We cannot forget that he has been suffering and rotting in Hamas prison nearly 1,200 unbearably long days and nights,” he said. He added that the family expected “this ordeal to end and for Gilad to return home very soon.”

In a country where 18-year-olds are conscripted for military service, many Israelis feel intimately involved with the case. Activists calling for a deal on Sergeant Shalit’s release have held a constant vigil outside the prime minister’s official residence.

But with memories of bloody Palestinian suicide bombings and attacks still fresh, the price for Sergeant Shalit’s freedom is a subject of fierce debate. Friday’s release was the first since the conservative Mr. Netanyahu came into power in March.

Hamas hailed the deal as a great political achievement. Of the 19 prisoners released, 18 returned to the West Bank and were received by the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, at his headquarters in Ramallah.

But the largest celebration was reserved for Fatima Younis Zaq, the only one from Gaza. Ms. Zaq, who is in her 40s, is affiliated with the extremist group Islamic Jihad. She was arrested in May 2007 at the Erez crossing on her way into Israel, and was still awaiting sentencing for planning a suicide bombing.

Ismail Haniya, the prime minister of the Hamas government in Gaza, and other leaders greeted her as she returned with an infant son who was born in jail, her ninth child. “This is a day of victory for the resistance and steadfastness,” Mr. Haniya said.

Imprisonment is an emotional issue in Palestinian society, and  with some 11,000 Palestinians in Israeli jails  one that has touched almost every family over the decades of Israeli control.

Hamas, possibly with an eye to increasing its popularity in the West Bank before elections expected next year, has recently been projecting a sense of flexibility. Hamas leaders have made upbeat statements about a possible reconciliation with Mr. Abbas and his Fatah party.
103 2009-10-03 David Letterman was funny as he described his blackmail ordeal; he just wasn’t kidding.

His confession on “Late Show” on Thursday night was less shocking than it was confusing. Mr. Letterman admitted “creepy” affairs with CBS employees in a tone so glib and deadpan that the audience couldn’t be blamed for assuming that this stand-up comedian, now back at his desk after his monologue, was still joking. Mr. Letterman noted that it would be embarrassing for his liaisons to be publicly known, then paused a beat. “Especially for the women.”

If nothing else, it was weird karma. Just as “Late Show” was soaring past “The Tonight Show” in the ratings, an extortion scheme by a CBS employee drove Mr. Letterman to admit to the kind of sordid affairs — with staff members — that he so mercilessly mocks others for being involved in.

As much as the philandering and possible abuse of power (the office fling is so often a crime of convenience), it was Mr. Letterman’s incongruous blending of the serious and the comic that seemed to crackle with the public and commentators. This wasn’t an exception, however.

Mr. Letterman is an intensely private celebrity — practically a hermit — who processes his personal life in front of a studio audience. His world almost seems like his own “Truman Show” — it’s lived most fully on television. Mr. Letterman went for 18 years without ever missing a show, until quintuple bypass surgery in 2000 forced him to take a break.

He has long had a disconcerting habit of weaving deadly serious statements into humorous performances. He was admired for the heartfelt, emotional way he explained his return to the air after Sept. 11. He was equally forthcoming and serious about the bypass surgery (he brought his surgeons onto the show), his brushes with a stalker, the birth of his son and even his late-life marriage in March. Most recently, he apologized, up to a point, to former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska for making a sexual joke about one of her daughters.

Mr. Letterman allows even his private preoccupations to bleed into his on-camera performances. On the air he had let his fans in on his infatuation with Stephanie Birkitt, the former assistant with whom his accused blackmailer, Robert Joel Halderman, a producer for the CBS News program “48 Hours Mystery,” lived at least for a while. For a long stretch several years ago, Mr. Letterman would bring Ms. Birkitt on his show, teasing her about her weekend plans and using pet nicknames like “Monty.”
104 2009-10-04 Japanese Grand Prix analysis....
105 2009-10-04 UNIONDALE, N.Y. — John Tavares dropped to one knee, thrust up a glove, then raised both hands and whooped as his Islanders teammates swarmed him. With one flick of his wrists Saturday, Tavares scored his first N.H.L. goal, which might have been worth much more.

Six months after the Islanders finished the season with the worst record in the league, Tavares, the 19-year-old Canadian who was the No. 1 overall draft pick in July, energized a beleaguered franchise by doing a lot more than just showing up.

To the delight of a capacity crowd of 16,250 at Nassau Coliseum, Tavares scored a goal and had an assist in his N.H.L. debut. The Pittsburgh Penguins, the defending Stanley Cup champions, rallied for a 4-3 shootout victory, but the Islanders pushed hard.

“We’re looking to surprise a lot of people,” Tavares said.

Sidney Crosby, the Pittsburgh center and captain, won the game by flipping a shot past Islanders goaltender Dwayne Roloson in the shootout. On the previous shot, Tavares’s wrist shot sailed wide of the goal. But Tavares made it apparent he was here to contribute in a hurry.

The Islanders lost a one-goal lead when Pittsburgh forward Ruslan Fedotenko scored with 3 minutes 53 seconds left in regulation. Crosby and Kris Letang scored in the shootout for the Penguins, smudging Tavares’s debut a little.
106 2009-10-04 Opening night on Saturday at Madison Square Garden was a big night for new Rangers. Vaclav Prospal, Marian Gaborik and the 19-year-old rookie defenseman Michael Del Zotto, all among the team’s nine newcomers, scored as the Rangers emphatically beat the Ottawa Senators, 5-2, and evened their record at 1-1.

For Del Zotto, the Rangers’ No. 1 draft choice in 2008, it was his first N.H.L. goal.

“I can’t even put words to it, it’s such an unbelievable feeling,” he said of scoring on his shot from the blue line, which flew through a welter of players past Ottawa goaltender Pascal Leclaire to make the score 3-1 late in the second period.

The Rangers dominated the first period, with 8 of their 13 shots coming on the power play.

Prospal, signed from Tampa Bay over the summer, finally opened the scoring at 3 minutes 20 seconds of the second period with a perfect shot to the top corner past Leclaire.

At the halfway mark, Brandon Dubinsky made the score 2-0 with another shot to the top corner. He added an empty-netter in the game’s final minute.

Gaborik, the speedy stick-handler signed from Minnesota over the summer, buried a rebound in the third period. He also scored in the Rangers’ loss in Pittsburgh on Friday.
107 2009-10-04 These academics have found the same disturbing patterns in economic data from more than 66 countries: A nation’s political leaders loosen regulations governing the financial system. Banks use the new freedom to borrow money and earn juicy returns. Soon, these sovereign states are awash with money from foreign investors. But beware these torrents of outside wealth. They are accompanied by bubbles in stocks, commodities and real estate.

Often, policy makers and business leaders step forward and say that nobody should be fearful. Yes, bubbles have burst before — but now, they say, investors are safe because the old dangers no longer lurk.

As the authors note, this was said about Latin America and Africa in the 1970s, Asia in the 1990s and, of course, the United States in the last decade.

Bubbles, however, inevitably go splat. And what happens next isn’t pretty. Countries like Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and Nigeria defaulted on debt in the 1980s. In the late ’90s, Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff note, “Korea, Indonesia and Thailand, among others, were forced to go to the International Monetary Fund for gigantic bailout packages, but even this was not enough to stave off deep recessions and huge currency depreciations.”

And, of course, we all know what happened in the United States. The authors point out that Mr. Greenspan and his successor, Ben S. Bernanke, “argued vigorously that the Federal Reserve should not pay excessive attention to housing prices, except to the extent that they might affect the central bank’s primary goals of growth and price stability.” Famous last words.

Some of the book’s findings are obvious. Bubbles are dangerous? Gee, you don’t say. But others are revelatory. Americans have every reason to be ashamed of the real estate boom. Many of us believed that we had earned the instant wealth we accrued as housing prices spiked. But people worldwide suffered when this easy money disappeared.

It turns out that the United States isn’t the only nation where a banking crisis was preceded or accompanied by a real estate bubble. The authors found that over the last 100 years, this has happened in tandem with 21 major banking crises. No wonder they suggest the International Monetary Fund keep a close eye on property values.

“This Time Is Different” seems unlikely to be a best seller. The authors have chosen to present their findings rather dryly, with numbers and tables, instead of enlivening them with colorful observations and anecdotes that might seduce non-academics into digesting such complex subject matter.

“We trust that our visual, quantitative history of financial crises is no less compelling than the earlier narrative approach,” the authors write.

They devote far too many pages to legalistic definitions and charts that are barely distinguishable from the ones of the page before. A little more color would have helped immensely.

Still, you have to admire them for being so dogged. They say up front that they hope to influence economy policy, and they may succeed. They make a predictable call for more oversight and advocate the creation of a new “international financial regulatory institution” to look for danger signs like rising property values so it can prod countries to dampen their overheated economies before they blow up.

That last proposal may be wishful thinking. But it is not too much to ask officials at existing regulatory agencies to do a better job. They, of all people, should read this book. It may be a bit too much for average readers, but everything they need to spot the next recession is in there.
108 2009-10-04 Charley Casserly, a former general manager who is now a CBS analyst, said the 53-man roster and the 8-player practice squad should be increased so teams could have access to more practice-eligible reserves who could quickly fill in for injured roster players. Herman Edwards, the former coach of the Jets and the Kansas City Chiefs who is now an ESPN analyst, favors increasing the game-day roster from 45, but he is even more concerned with how teams will manage in the middle of the week.

Edwards said coaches would have to closely evaluate the ages of their players, with older ones practicing less to save their bodies. Many teams already limit contact in regular-season practices, and late in the season, some teams practice without pads.

But Edwards said attrition still took a toll because if an injured player was not put on injured reserve, the team could not fill his roster spot and was essentially practicing and playing short-handed, wearing down healthy players. In one practice during Edwards’s tenure with Kansas City, the Chiefs were so depleted on the offensive line that a defensive lineman had to fill in. He went the wrong way on a play, leaving quarterback Tyler Thigpen (now with the Dolphins) exposed to an onrushing defensive player, who accidentally injured Thigpen’s knee.

“You think you start out with 61 guys, but you end up practicing with just 52,” Edwards said. “You can’t add anybody, and somebody has to take the guy’s reps. That’s why coaches have to say, ‘We can’t do this in practice today because we don’t have enough receivers.’  ”

Rich McKay, the president of the Atlanta Falcons and a co-chairman of the Competition Committee, said it was unlikely the roster would increase beyond 61, although the number of players active for a game could increase from 45. That would make more players available for special teams, which would limit the number of starters who must be deployed for those plays, which often cause injuries. And if the season is expanded, injured reserve may no longer end a player’s season, with teams allowed a limited number of activations, making it more like baseball’s disabled list.

“Fans want to see marquee players that get hurt early in the year have that chance to come back,” McKay said.

But the most profound changes may take place long before the season, stretching to when athletes are first evaluated. Mackie Shilstone, the executive director of the Fitness Principle at East Jefferson General Hospital in New Orleans, who has worked with professional athletes, said teams would have to focus more attention on injury prevention by determining each player’s training needs based on injury potential, injury history and years in the game.

Weight-training regimens may change from emphasizing power to stressing power and endurance. And there could be more focus on using training movements that reflect how a position is played. For instance, linemen, who use their hands repeatedly, would lift weights not with a long bar but with one that is the width of their shoulders. That way, the lifting motion would mimic their playing motion, Shilstone said.

Shilstone said some players would become lighter, so they could be quicker over a longer period of time, and that would help reduce overuse injuries like those to the hip and knee.

Shilstone said he hoped a longer season would spur a revolution in equipment. Currently, wide receivers do not like how restrictive thigh pads feel, so they use lighter knee pads on their thighs, exposing them to femur injuries. Quarterback shoulder pads are light, allowing quarterbacks to raise their arms, but do not offer enough protection, Shilstone said.

“You’ll probably see the career life span go down, and you’re going to need a lot of bodies,” Shilstone said. “Also, players will need a great disability insurance agent.”

A majority of injuries are to soft tissue — hamstring pulls, groin-muscle strains, quadriceps tears — and many happen early in the season. That is largely because after running and lifting for much of the off-season, players have their longest stretch of down time just before training camps open in late July. Players may be better off with moderate workouts before camps open.

And once they are in training camp, Tyer suggested: “Outlaw two-a-days. Take a little stress off their bodies.”

He added, referring to two former Redskins head coaches: “George Allen in the ’70s would have to have 18 two-a-days in a row, or he didn’t think his team would be ready. We’d scrimmage the Colts, and they’d have 18 guys on their sideline with hamstring pulls and we’d have the same. Joe Gibbs figured out you don’t have to have two two-a-days in a row, and that dramatically reduced the number of soft tissue pulls.”

Tyer also presented an intriguing, if unlikely, option: Would coaches consider reducing the playing time for their best older players early in the season?

“Do you want your starting left tackle to play in all 18 games or just have him starting 14 games?” Tyer said.

Whether a longer season will provoke a sea change or just a tweak in the N.F.L., one thing is certain: There will be more ice packs on shoulders and more braces on knees.

“Eighteen games would be a long season, and then you add four playoff games, and that’s games half the year,” Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco said. “We played 19 games last year, and if we had to play another, we would have had a lot of guys hurt for the Super Bowl. In a longer season, our 19th game would only be our first playoff game.”
109 2009-10-04 Melissa Lee Bradbury and Scott Lawrence Friedman were married Saturday. Joseph R. Gagnon, a Massachusetts justice of the peace, officiated at the Langham, a hotel in Boston.

The bride and the bridegroom are graduates of Colby College, where they met.

Mrs. Friedman, 31, is the associate director of admissions at Tufts University School of Dental Medicine, in Boston, and is studying for a master’s degree in educational studies at Tufts University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. She is the daughter of Susan Bradbury and Richard Bradbury of Lynn, Mass.

Mr. Friedman, also 31, is an associate for policy consulting at Industrial Economics, an environmental consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. He received a master’s degree in biology from the College of William and Mary. He is a son of Gail L. Friedman and Stuart I. Friedman, both of Larchmont, N.Y.
110 2009-10-04 Emily Carlin Poster and Christopher Allen Hoch are to be married on Sunday. Rabbi Stephanie L. Bernstein is to officiate at the Christian Heurich House Museum in Washington.

The bride, 27, is a public health research associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received a master’s degree in public health from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

She is a daughter of Margaret S. Poster and Paul M. Poster of Scarsdale, N.Y. Her father, who is retired, worked from New York as an East Coast sales representative for 145 International, a dealer of fine art and historic manuscripts. Her mother is the chief operating officer of the New York law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher.

The bridegroom, 32, is a graphic designer at Hunt Smith Design, a company in Washington that produces marketing materials and creates Web sites. He graduated from the Rochester Institute of Technology.

He is a son of Janet A. Hoch and Robert R. Hoch of Clarksville, Md. The bridegroom’s mother retired as a director for marketing services at Macro International, a research and consulting firm, in Calverton, Md. His father works from Clarksville as an independent project manager specializing in updating and modernizing power plants and electric utility companies.
111 2009-10-04 Mariah is pregnant with her fifth child. She has already lost one child in infancy and before the book is out will lose another. She dreams of escaping Tangierneck, “a place of standing still and death,” and is adamant that her new child will live.

While novelists like James Baldwin, Richard Wright and Ralph Ellison had explored the black male experience, Ms. Wright’s novel was among the first to focus on the confluence of race, class and sex. Republished by the Feminist Press in 1986 and again in 2002, “This Child’s Gonna Live” remains in print today.

Not every reviewer embraced the book. Writing in Harper’s Magazine in 1969, the critic Irving Howe called its style “overwrought.” But many others praised Ms. Wright’s densely interwoven poetic language, her deft use of local dialect and her ability to convey the extraordinary predicament of being black, female, rural and poor.

“It’s a very difficult novel in a lot of ways,” Jennifer Campbell, an associate professor of writing studies at Roger Williams University, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. (Professor Campbell wrote the afterword to the novel’s 2002 edition.) “It’s very, very painful to read: the pain of not being able to keep your children safe, of not being able to feed them properly, of not being able to give them two pennies for the Halloween celebration.”

Ms. Wright spent about 10 years working on a second novel but did not complete it, her husband said last week.

She scarcely seems to have had time. Besides working full-time as a bookkeeper, Ms. Wright taught, lectured and was a past vice president of the Harlem Writers Guild. She published critical essays; a volume of poetry, “Give Me a Child” (Kraft Publishing, 1955, with Lucy Smith); and a nonfiction book for young people, “A. Philip Randolph: Integration in the Workplace” (Silver Burdett, 1990). She was deeply involved in political causes, protesting everything from the Vietnam War to South African apartheid to the present war in Iraq.

There was something else, Ms. Wright’s husband said, that kept her from the second novel: the anguish of writing the first. For the story of the Upshur family, though its characters were composites, was in large measure Ms. Wright’s own.

Sarah Elizabeth Wright was born on Dec. 9, 1928, in Wetipquin, Md., a historically free black community on the eastern shore. Her father, like Mariah’s husband, was an oysterman; her mother, like Mariah, shucked oysters and picked crops. Sarah had nearly a dozen siblings, several of whom died in childhood. She began writing poetry when she was about 8.

After graduating from Salisbury Colored High School, Sarah entered Howard University, where she became editor of the newspaper. She left before graduating, her husband said, “because she was literally starving.” Her parents had no money to send her for food.

“When Sarah went off to Howard, they had no idea what it meant in terms of the financial requirements,” Mr. Kaye said last week. “They gave her oilcloth that they thought she could barter with other people to obtain what she needed.”

Ms. Wright moved to Philadelphia in the late 1940s and to New York a decade later. There, in a three-room apartment on the Lower East Side, she began work on “This Child’s Gonna Live.”

“That took such a toll on her, because she was forced to dredge up painful childhood memories that she thought she had run away from when she left the community,” Mr. Kaye said. “Death just seemed to be a constant companion in her childhood, and the spirit of death just hovered over the community.”

Besides her husband, Ms. Wright, who was known in private life as Sarah Wright Kaye, is survived by a son, Michael; a daughter, Shelley Chotai; three siblings, Wanda, Howard and Gilbert; four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.

She also leaves behind a box containing the manuscript of her unfinished novel, the second installment in a planned trilogy about the people of Tangierneck. During the decade she worked on the book, Ms. Wright never discussed it, even with her husband.

Mr. Kaye has not opened the box. To judge from the heft, he said, it contains several hundred pages. From a chapter he found elsewhere, the novel appears to concern Bardetta Upshur, Mariah’s daughter — the child who was meant to live, and did.
112 2009-10-04 The architect and bon vivant could probably draw a crowd to a recitation of his laundry list. Instead, he gives tours of , which he restored to its current splendor in 1999. Judging from a preview he gave me, 10 years have not dimmed his admiration for that “great people-watching machine,” nor softened his memory of what it took to, say, remove the polyurethane that was gunking up the mural. He sees Open House New York as a kind of focus group on the building’s continued relevance. “I’m very interested in how curious the public is about the place,” he says. “People still say ‘Oh, wow.’ ”

Tours like his fill up quickly (if you can’t get a spot, some of them are available as podcasts on the Web site). But they mostly appeal to people interested in things like history, buildings, New York — obscure subjects compared to interest in other people’s apartments.

This year’s Open House offers tours at 14 private residences, many of them led by the owners.

There’s an obvious hazard to that arrangement: If the tour is boring, it’s really rude to walk out.

Boredom is not a problem at the Duane Street home and studio of Sandro Marpillero and Linda Pollak, though. They chopped eight feet off the back of the building (who makes their home smaller?), and the results, as well as the story they tell about it, are dramatic. But as I walked into their teenage daughter’s bedroom, with her personal effects in full view, I couldn’t help feeling a little uncomfortable. Why would anyone invite strangers to snoop around their stuff?

On the way out I walked back through the couple’s busy architectural office, the part of the apartment that’s closest to the street door. Maybe if you’re the kind of person who invites your employees into your home, it isn’t that big a leap to invite New York in, too.

Or if you’re the kind of person who has a glass-bottom bathtub and a toilet without a door, as Adam Kushner does. An architect and contractor, he also welcomes tours into his family’s home on Barrow Street. The first year, the line went up the block and around the corner. “My wife cleared out,” he recalled. “She said it’s your thing; if you want 400 people trooping through the apartment, go for it." After another year’s tours, he Googled himself and found that someone had written an unflattering blog post. “I felt like a D-list celebrity for a few seconds,” he said, laughing.

Mr. Kushner lives a few blocks from Murray’s Cheese, which opened its caves for the 2006 Open House, and found so many takers that it now offers tours on its own. On the Open House weekend, Michael Anderson, a soft-spoken hipster who gives his title as affineur, will lead visitors — in hairnets and disposable booties — into the vaults where cheeses great and small come of age.

As I followed him into Murray’s cool, cramped chambers, lined with shelves of wood and straw, I thought about how little the process had changed since the Middle Ages. Though back then the guys cutting and wrapping would probably have been French monks and the affineur probably would not have had such an impressive moustache.

By the way, save your jokes; he’s heard them all. And if you could avoid asking him his favorite cheese? Thanks. You wouldn’t ask Kate Gosselin which of her children she liked best.

I stepped back out into modernity, and the city that was once again buzzing around me seemed subtly but fundamentally altered. No, I wasn’t still wearing the hairnet.

To some degree New York forces everyone to live in public. The most famous residents jostle along the sidewalks with the rest of us, protected by nothing more than a baseball cap and some sunglasses. But we are always reminded of how much takes place beyond view — hidden behind velvet ropes and guarded by phalanxes of doormen.

In one brief but exuberant outpouring, Open House New York does a lot to rectify that. Suddenly the city — or an intriguing fraction of it, anyway — is transparent, and anyone who wants to can hop those ropes and glide past those guards. Curiosity is all that’s required. But comfortable shoes help.
113 2009-10-04 Ten years ago, Maya Lin wrote that she was officially retiring from “the monument business.” After completing the landmark Vietnam Veterans Memorial (Washington, D.C., 1982), the artist and architect designed three major civic works commemorating significant American passages: the Civil Rights Memorial (1989), commissioned by the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala.; the Women’s Table (1993) in honor of coeducation at Yale University, her alma mater; and the continuing Confluence Project (1999-), composed of seven site-specific installations along the Columbia River Basin in the Pacific Northwest, an intricately considered tribute to the Lewis and Clark expedition, Native American culture and the undeniable beauty of the region’s landscape.

But in that same book, “Boundaries” — a wonderfully plain-spoken work that struck a delicate balance between memoir and critical monograph — Lin admitted that there was in fact one more monument that she wanted to create. “This memorial would focus on the most important issue for me while growing up and to this day: the environment and man’s relationship to it,” she wrote. Her plan was for an ambitious, multisited public artwork dedicated to the earth’s threatened places and vanishing species. Tentatively called “The Extinction Project,” it was a proposal for an entirely untraditional memorial that would present both an urgent vision of how the natural world is disappearing within our lifetime and a hopeful model for shaping future history.

“The Extinction Project,” now titled “What Is Missing?” has evolved steadily as Lin, an active board member of the Natural Resources Defense Council, collaborates with institutions, artists, scientists and environmental groups, collecting information and “paying attention and listening to the earth.” The resulting outdoor sculpture, a room-size cast bronze cone lined with reclaimed redwood, made its debut in September, 2009, at the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco. “Sitting inside the cone, you hear the sounds of animals that are already missing or facing extinction — like dodo birds, golden toads,” Lin explains. “It’s very much about linking the past with the present and a plausible future.”

In an effort to engage the widest audience possible — and to seriously articulate the environmental crisis, which Lin calls “the sixth mass extinction in the planet’s history” — “What Is Missing?” uses sculpture, video, sound installation, hand-held electronics, printed material and an interactive Web site. From beneath a false floor, brief texts and projected images — the eye of a whale, a vanishing grassland, a flock of loons — float into the air, waiting to be captured on a piece of optic Plexiglas that the viewer grasps in his hands. Next April, to coincide with Earth Day, a short video homage to endangered habitats sponsored by the public art organization Creative Time will appear on MTV’s electronic billboard in Times Square, and the “What Is Missing?” Web site will go live. “We are creating media objects that can jump from form to form,” Lin says. “You listen inside the cone, tap in online or download content to your iPod or your computer. It’s a monument that can go wherever it wants to go and information that is pretty much free.” (A second element of the project, a traveling installation with an audio-visual cabinet of wonders, is at the Beijing Center for the Arts and at the Storm King Art Center in Mountainville, N.Y.)

Lin, who is about to turn 50, was born and raised in Athens, Ohio, a college town in the Appalachian foothills. “I grew up surrounded by woods,” she recalls of the quietly insistent landscape inscribed with sandstone cliffs, river valleys and ancient burial mounds. “I’ve always made art, but I was also outside the grocery store with petitions boycotting whale hunting and seal trapping.” Entering Yale as an undergraduate, she planned to study field zoology but when an adviser informed her of the program’s vivisection component, she chose architecture, a discipline linking art and science, as an alternative.

For every project that she undertakes, Lin does an enormous amount of research and writing, a process that the artist Robert Smithson ingeniously called “the analytic searchlight.” Painstakingly editing and distilling information (or, as she has called it, her “percolation process”), she transforms ideas into architecture — say, the undulating ocean floor translated into waves of aluminum wire, a steep hill rendered in wood and relocated indoors, and a Northwestern bird blind, a looping trail constructed from locally harvested black locust trees — that is precisely realized, potent and disarming.
114 2009-10-04 Lydia Millet’s stories uniformly begin with arresting lines, all of them guns on the wall, waiting to go off. “When a bird landed on her foot the pop star was surprised.” “The dog was serious, always had been.” “I knew a great man once.” High stakes, yes, but also the promise of a bit of fun, a promise that this collection rarely forgets.

“Love in Infant Monkeys” is Millet’s first story collection (after six novels), and it centers on the interactions between celebrities and animals. But of course it’s really about plain old humans — life lurks in the civilian under­world, it’s clear. We may get David Hasselhoff’s dog and his walker, Noam Chomsky and a rodent cage, Thomas Edison and the elephant he filmed being electrocuted, but these setups are often decoys; the narrative mostly belongs to those beneath the headlines.

Millet’s strengths are on display in “The Lady and the Dragon.” To lure Sharon Stone to be his concubine, an Indonesian billionaire has bought the Komodo dragon that attacked her ex-husband. But his staff fails to procure the real Stone and instead hires a Vegas impersonator who freaks out when the lizard disembowels a fawn. Lizard and impersonator eventually escape on the same boat.

Pretty ridiculous, yet the story isn’t played for laughs. It slowly shifts registers from amused to engaged. Millet starts with a journalistic recounting of the attack (they’re mostly too good to check, but all of these stories rely on some factual under­pinning — Stone’s ex, Phil Bronstein, really was bitten by a Komodo dragon), then continues with a more nuanced view of the situation. In a wonderfully believable detail, the staff member responsible for contacting Stone is too scared to call her management, so he e-mails instead. We end, surprisingly, with the impersonator in a kind of communion with the Komodo dragon. “At once graceful and ugly, humble and pugnacious. She could not explain it to herself, but it was reassuring.” Through slow accretion, Millet works a kind of spell: you finish the story thinking about human virtues, not comic traps. There isn’t much nature writing in “The Lady and the Dragon,” but there’s a lot of naturalism.

Chekhov’s gun analogy is by now too worn, and similarly the observations in some of these stories can feel familiar. “A pigeon might seem serene,” Millet writes in “Tesla and Wife,” “but that was a trick of the feathers. The feathers were soft, but beneath them it was bloody. That was beauty, said Tesla: the raw veins, the gray-purple meat beneath the down.” Yes, we get it — gore and intensity are the stuff of life. But beneath the bravado, the sentiment is commonplace.
115 2009-10-04 When we think about how America won the cold war, our attention tends to fasten on grand, public moments of presidential leadership, like Truman’s decision to resist Stalin’s designs on Europe, Kennedy’s settlement of the Cuban missile crisis or Reagan’s realization that he could “do business” with Mikhail Gorbachev. This is not wrong, but it elides other pivot-points, invisible to Americans even as they were happening, that, in retrospect, loom almost as important. The C.I.A.’s hidden success in assessing the Soviet war machine is one example. Another consists of the crucial Pentagon decisions, unheralded at the time, that ensured our ability to match Soviet power and enforce an armed stalemate between the two superpowers until, as George Kennan had forecast in the late 1940s, the Soviet empire collapsed from within.

“A Fiery Peace in a Cold War,” Neil Sheehan’s deeply researched, compulsively readable and important book, is about one of those decisions. It reminds us that, as the founders warned, the survival of the United States depends on our ability not only to choose wise presidents, but also to maintain a federal government that attracts extraordinary talent at all levels. As Sheehan shows us almost cinematically, this was particularly true in the 1950s, when American leaders had to decide whether to keep resisting Soviet power mostly with strategic bombers, or to build an awe-inspiring force of nuclear-tipped missiles.

Those years constituted a historical epoch that is mainly important for the nuclear war that did not happen. The problem is how to dramatize a nonevent. Telling a tale that unfolded in conflicts behind Washington’s closed doors is more difficult than recounting the boom and bang of battlefields. But Sheehan succeeds by using the same technique he employed in his splendid book “A Bright Shining Lie” (1988), which focused on one man, Lt. Col. John Paul Vann, to tell the larger history of America’s tragic experience in Southeast Asia.

In the early 1950s, the champion of strategic bombers in the United States was the famous, truculent, imperious Gen. Curtis LeMay, the chief of the Strategic Air Command, who, during the last months of World War II, had tried to break Japan’s will and avert the necessity of an American invasion by dropping 150,000 tons of firebombs on Japanese cities. After the war, LeMay built a bomber force that for years ensured American military pre-­eminence. It had the potential to drop nuclear weapons on targets across the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and China, killing, if necessary (in a 1954 classified estimate), as many as 60 million people.

As Sheehan describes it, the problem with LeMay was that by the mid-1950s, he “was no longer willing to hear anything that did not fit his preconceptions.” And he was convinced that the key to prevailing in the cold war would remain his bombers, which he touted as “the best delivery vehicle” in the “battle against Soviet air power.” LeMay even argued that the United States should “cease stockpiling of conventional weapons,” which he considered “obsolete,” and go all-nuclear, because America should “always use the best weapons available in either general or limited war” — a view that made many Americans ridicule and fear him when he publicly expressed it as George Wallace’s independent-party running mate in 1968.

In the Pentagon of the 1950s, LeMay was “king of the mountain,” as one colleague put it, known for pulverizing those few men who tried to stand in his way. Fortunately for us all, he met his match in the hero of Sheehan’s book, Gen. Bernard Schriever. Sheehan calls him “the handsomest general in the United States Air Force.” Born in 1910 in northern Germany, Schriever was brought by his mother to the United States in 1916 in order to reunite with his father, an engineering officer for German passenger liners, who had been stranded at the start of World War I. The family settled in the German-speaking part of the Texas hill country. After studying at Texas A & M, Schriever began his career in the Army Air Corps.

Lacking LeMay’s blinders, Bennie Schriever realized that the Soviets planned to rest their future defense not on bombers but on intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of striking the United States with only 15 minutes of advance warning. The Kremlin was also fast improving batteries of surface-to-air missiles that could knock LeMay’s beloved bombers out of the sky. Schriever feared that unless the Pentagon immediately shifted its ambitions from bombers to missiles, the Kremlin would within just a few years be able to threaten the world. Despite LeMay’s brutish efforts to marginalize him, Schriever became, as Sheehan writes, “the indispensable man in the creation of the intercontinental ballistic missile during the cold war and the enormous consequences that were to flow from it.”

Schriever’s new way of thinking began in 1953, when he was still a colonel. During a briefing on intermediate-range bombers at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama, he had a fateful conversation with the legendary refugee scientists Edward Teller and John von Neumann. They predicted that by 1960, the United States would be creating hydrogen bombs so lightweight that missiles could carry them. The following year, Schriever, by then a general, was asked to supervise, on highest priority, the creation of some kind of ICBM force. “I’ll take the job,” Schriever replied, “provided I can run it — completely run it — without any interference from those nitpicking sons of bitches in the Pentagon.”

On a matter like ICBMs, there was only so much that could be decided down the chain of command from the White House — especially when the sitting president of the United States had been the World War II Allied commander in Europe and was an expert allocator of existing resources to shape (or reshape) American military forces. In July 1955, along with von Neumann and others, Schriever had an audience with President Eisenhower in the West Wing. He explained not only the paramount importance of ICBMs and the “radical” new organization he had established near Los Angeles to develop them, but also why he had not handed the project over to commercial aircraft contractors, which was so often the custom of the time. This was all “in the interest of compressing time,” he said, “our most critical commodity.”
116 2009-10-04 THERE’S no set formula for resuscitating a celebrated motorcycle brand. The most consistent trait of recent efforts seems to be great initial promise followed by bankruptcy.

John Bloor, the British construction tycoon who bought the rights to the Triumph brand from government receivership in 1983, spent eight years putting the company back together before introducing the first new models. Today Triumph rivals BMW bike sales in the United States.

Other attempts have met with less success.

In the 1990s, Dan and David Hanlon, brothers from Minnesota, revived Excelsior-Henderson, an American brand that last built bikes in 1931. The company raised nearly $100 million from investors but built fewer than 2,000 bikes before filing for bankruptcy protection.

Kenny Dreer, an Oregon-based customizer, bought the rights to the Norton marque a decade ago. A Commando prototype was built, but operations ceased in ’06. An effort to revive Vincent was pursued by Bernard Li, a San Diego businessman. His Honda-powered prototype impressed the editors of Cycle World, but Mr. Li died in 2008.
117 2009-10-04 With a running time of 83 minutes, “Snow White” was the first American feature-length animated film, something that represented a considerable risk for Disney and his investors at a time when theatrical cartoons ran eight or nine minutes. As is pointed out many times in the profuse supplementary material on the new “Snow White” disc, no one in Hollywood believed that audiences would sit still for an hour and a half of frantic activity and bright colors.

But Disney had anticipated his critics by muting his palette — the film is largely in tones of green, brown and blue, with strategically chosen bright-red highlights (Snow White’s lips, the poison apple) — and by slowing down the narrative pace to a near standstill.

Most of the plot mechanics are relegated to a couple of hundred words of storybook exposition at the film’s beginning and a breathless denouement triggered by Prince Charming’s abrupt return. The body of the film consists of two extended sequences: Snow White’s arrival at the dwarfs’ cottage, which she immediately subjects to a thorough, housewifely cleaning, and the dwarfs’ return (whistling) from a hard day’s work only to discover a strange new matriarch in their presence. They quickly learn to submit to her affectionate authority.

Subsequent Disney princesses would be defined by their willfulness and increasing narcissism (reaching some kind of low/high point with “The Little Mermaid” in 1989), but Snow White is more a motherly figure than the insistently empowered proto-feminists of the later films.

As a story, the film functions as a series of carefully timed reversals of the parent-child relationship: the evil Queen banishes her virtual daughter, Snow White; Snow White becomes a benign mother to her unruly brood of “little men”; the dwarfs in turn become her caretaker when she’s struck down by the Queen’s poison apple (tucking her into a crystal sarcophagus); the Prince arrives in time to awaken Snow White into young womanhood, at which point — “happily ever after” — the cycle potentially begins again. (Will Snow White be as competitive with her daughter as the queen was with her?)

Visually, the film moves from cozy closed spaces to menacingly open ones, just as, emotionally, it swings between a sense of snug protection and threatening exposure. This is a pattern common to most of the great Disney features, and it reflects what might be the most primal human drama of all: the unpredictable ebb and flow of parental love.

Prominent among the modern heirs of Disney is Nick Park, the British stop-motion animator behind the brilliant “Wallace and Gromit” series. The four “Wallace and Gromit” short films — originally broadcast on British television in 20- to 30-minute segments that suggest the two-reel comedies of the ’20s and ’30s — have themselves now been gathered onto a Blu-ray disc, “Wallace and Gromit: The Complete Collection,” and the high-definition format enhances their charm as well.

No less compulsively than Disney’s animators, Mr. Park and his crew have constructed scrupulously detailed miniature environments to contain their clay performers, and the Blu-ray format brings out their carefully handmade quality.

The environment here suggests the greatest model railroad ever made — and it is certainly no coincidence that model railroading is one of the hobbies enjoyed by Mr. Park’s title characters, a pair of bachelors, one human and hopelessly naïve (Wallace), one canine and instinctively skeptical (Gromit), who live together in middle-class bliss in a Northern England village that does not seem to have appreciably changed since the mid-1950s.

In the newest short, the 2008 “Matter of Loaf and Death,” that bliss is threatened by a female incursion: Wallace, now a baker, falls for a former beauty queen and pastry buff. Gromit smells a rat, given that bakers in the immediate area are being murdered at an alarming rate. As always, much of the movie is devoted to the elaborate contraptions that Wallace has constructed: insanely intricate labor-saving devices that reflect and parody the complex mechanisms of the filmmaking process.

Mr. Park has matured as a filmmaker since the first Wallace and Gromit short, “A Grand Day Out,” in 1989, but it’s hard to imagine him moving, as Disney eventually did, toward a sleeker, more streamlined style. For one thing, that territory is already occupied, and wonderfully well, by the Pixar films (“Wall-E” is perhaps partly based on a lonely little robot, square and dented, whom Wallace and Gromit meet on the moon in “Grand Day”).

For another, Mr. Park is too plainly in love with profusion: for this most generous of filmmakers, more is definitely more. (“Snow White,” two-disc Blu-ray and standard definition combination package, $39.99, G; “Wallace and Gromit,” Blu-ray $29.99, standard definition $29.98, not rated.)

ALSO OUT THIS WEEK

ADAM RESURRECTED In this adaptation of Yoram Kaniuk’s 1968 novel, a death camp survivor (Jeff Goldblum) who was once a professional circus entertainer uses his gifts to entertain his fellow residents in a postwar mental hospital. Despite Mr. Goldblum’s “tour-de-force performance,” Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times last year, the film “poses familiar questions about who is sane in an insane world and assumes that simply reiterating those questions will suffice.” With Willem Dafoe and Derek Jacobi; Paul Schrader directed. (Image, Blu-ray $35.98, standard definition $27.98, R)

ANVIL: THE STORY OF ANVIL Sacha Gervasi’s documentary follows the aging members of a Canadian heavy metal band as they continue their increasingly desperate 20-year search for commercial success. The success of the movie “lies in its ability to make you care about an enterprise you might initially have been inclined to laugh at,” A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in April. “It’s painful to watch them work so hard for so little, though it’s also frequently funny.” (VH1 Films, $24.98, not rated)

THE MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW: THE COMPLETE FIFTH SEASON After a mysterious delay, 20th Century Fox resumes its reissues of the beloved ’70s sitcom, this time with 24 episodes from the 1974-75 season. (Fox, $29.98, not rated)

MY LIFE IN RUINS Nia Vardalos (“My Big Fat Greek Wedding”) is a tour guide in Greece in search of romantic fulfillment. The movie “has none of the homey authenticity of ‘My Big Fat Greek Wedding,’ ” Mr. Holden wrote in The Times in June, and it’s “not likely to spur much tourism to Greece.” With Richard Dreyfuss and Alexis Georgoulis. (Fox, Blu-ray $39.99, standard definition $29.98, PG-13)

YEAR ONE Harold Ramis’s comedy pairs the manic Jack Black with the barely there Michael Cera as primitive tribesmen wandering through some of the early events of the Bible. The result is “a thoroughly, sometimes gaggingly broad and sly conceptual laugh-in” filled with jokes “about God, poop, circumcision, female underarm hair and the state of Israel,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times in June. With David Cross, Paul Rudd, Hank Azaria and Oliver Platt. (Sony, Blu-ray $39.95, standard definition $28.96, available in both unrated and PG-13 versions)
118 2009-10-04 HARDCOVER     1 1OUTLIERS by Malcolm Gladwell (Little, Brown, $27.99). How luck and opportunity, in addition to talent, help people succeed....
119 2009-10-04 BLIND--Rebecca McCoy, suddenly, Saturday, September 26, in Bermuda. Wife of William C. Blind, Jr., mother of Lisle and Burroughs. Daughter of Emily B. McCoy and the late William H. McCoy. Sister of William H. McCoy II. Funeral service at St. James...
120 2009-10-04 It was a delightful sight: thousands of teenagers dressed in the style of their favorite Japanese animated cartoon characters. They were converging on the Javits Center for the New York Anime Festival, a three-day event that began Sept. 25 and res...
121 2009-10-04 ''OUR shoes are our fashion crack,'' effused Christos Garkinos, an owner of Decadestwo, the high-end vintage consignment shop in Los Angeles. ''We get over 2,500 pairs a year, and we keep the prices cheap.''      And how. Prompted by the success o...
122 2009-10-04 Opening night on Saturday at Madison Square Garden was a big night for new Rangers. Vaclav Prospal, Marian Gaborik and the 19-year-old rookie defenseman Michael Del Zotto, all among the team's nine newcomers, scored as the Rangers emphatically bea...
123 2009-10-04 WHILE in Afghanistan last summer as part of Gen. Stanley McChrystal's initial assessment team, I found many American and other international units more focused on protecting themselves than protecting the Afghan population. Traveling through the a...
124 2009-10-04 PAPERBACK     1 4 FREAKONOMICS by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner (Harper Perennial, $15.99). The economics behind the events of daily life....
125 2009-10-05 David Walter Banks for The New York Times
126 2009-10-05 The Manhattan Theater Company is going ahead with plans to open its production of “The Royal Family” on Thursday night despite the sudden illness of one of its stars, Tony Roberts....
127 2009-10-05 On a sunny morning, the filmmaker Jeff Scher finds a fleeting parallel universe in pedestrians' shadows.
128 2009-10-05 Charlie Black comes out of retirement, after quitting lobbying during the election campaign of the Republican presidential nominee....
129 2009-10-05 Jay H. Walder visited the subway station in Flushing, Queens, as part of his first day in one of the state's most high-pressure jobs: M.T.A. chairman....
130 2009-10-05 Apple became the latest company to resign from the United States Chamber of Commerce, citing climate issues....
131 2009-10-05 The off-again, on-again Chevrolet Caprice nameplate could be revived after all. General Motors announced plans today to revive it in 2011 for a line of North American police cars....
132 2009-10-05 For the first time since the dot-com bust, online advertising has fallen for two quarters in a row....
133 2009-10-05 Seventeen million insects and three million plant specimens have descended on London. It's not a horror movie, it's the second phase of the new Darwin Center at London's Natural History Museum, which opened on Sept. 15....
134 2009-10-05 Tommy Thompson, a well-known Republican and former Bush health secretary, says he supports the Senate Finance Committee's health bill....
135 2009-10-05 A climate "auditor" responds to challenges that he should try undertaking climate science....
136 2009-10-05 DealBook Dialogue: Leo E. Strine Jr., the vice chancellor of the Delaware Court of Chancery, argues that excessive risk-taking is not unexpected if prudent regulation regulation weakens while the pressures to generate profits increase....
137 2009-10-05 The president will appear at a dinner for the Human Rights Campaign, a day before a march in Washington....
138 2009-10-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
139 2009-10-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
140 2009-10-05 There's no easy way to tell someone that his idea for a business is crazy....
141 2009-10-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
142 2009-10-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
143 2009-10-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
144 2009-10-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
145 2009-10-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
146 2009-10-05 WASHINGTON — The inspector general who oversees the government’s bailout of the banking system is criticizing the Treasury Department for some misleading public statements last fall and raising the possibility that it had unfairly disbursed money to the biggest banks.

A Treasury official made incorrect statements about the health of the nation’s biggest banks even as the government was doling out billions of dollars in aid, according to a report on the Troubled Asset Relief Program to be released on Monday by the special inspector general, Neil M. Barofsky.

The report also provides new insight into the way the Treasury allocated billions of dollars to nine of Wall Street’s largest players. The report says that Bank of America appeared to qualify for more aid earlier, under the government plan. That assertion adds another element of intrigue to continuing investigations of the bank’s merger with Merrill Lynch and the role that regulators played in the deal, even as Merrill’s condition deteriorated.

The bailout formula called for banks to get an amount equal to as much as 3 percent of their risk-weighted assets, with aid capped at $25 billion for each institution, according to the report. By size, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America could have qualified for more, and the first two received $25 billion.

But Bank of America was given only $15 billion in October, since Merrill Lynch was earmarked for $10 billion. The two companies agreed to a merger, though their deal had not yet been approved by regulators or shareholders.
147 2009-10-05 The decisions in those cases, he said, are likely to signal whether the court has become “more receptive to regulatory constraints on the market” in the wake of the financial crisis.

The new term comes at a time of rapid change at the court. While the Rehnquist court welcomed no new justices in its final 11 years, ending with Chief Justice ’s death in 2005, there have already been three versions of the Roberts court in its first four years. And there may be more changes come summer, if talk of the of Justice turns out to be correct.

The court’s newest addition, Justice , arrived in August, replacing Justice . While most Supreme Court specialists expect her to vote much as Justice Souter did, there are at least two areas in which she may veer away from his approach.

One is criminal law. The other is corporate law, a field in which the expertise she gained on the federal appeals court in New York, with its heavy business docket, will play a major role.

The Obama administration, meanwhile, took office in the middle of the last term and its lawyers made only minor adjustments in pending cases. They will be freer to chart their own course now. One result, Professor McConnell said, will be an inevitable clash, one echoing confrontations with other ambitious presidents, including and .

“Every time in American history when you see a consequential administration,” he said, “you see a heightened tension between it and the court.”

By the time the justices left for their summer break in June, a majority of the cases they had agreed to hear — 24 of 45 — concerned business issues, according to a tally by the National Chamber Litigation Center of the United States Chamber of Commerce. The corresponding numbers last year were 16 of 42.

The nature of the cases has changed, too. In recent terms, the business docket was studded with cases about employment discrimination, federal pre-emption of injury suits and the environment. With the exception of a single employment case, all of those categories are missing.

In their stead, important questions about bankruptcy, corporate compensation, patents, antitrust and government oversight of the financial system will confront the justices.

Free Enterprise Fund v. , No. 08-861, for instance, concerns an issue that has engaged the court since the New Deal: at what point does the lack of presidential control over independent agencies violate separation-of-powers principles?

The case arose from the last big financial crisis, the accounting scandals at Enron, Worldcom and other companies. In response, in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Congress created an independent board to oversee accounting firms. The board’s members are appointed and may be removed for cause by the , itself an independent agency, meaning the accounting board is doubly insulated from both political pressure and presidential oversight.

The Supreme Court’s ruling in the case, said Professor Pildes, who submitted a brief supporting the board to the appeals court, could affect “how much flexibility Congress will have to design new administrative structures to avoid future financial crises.”

In Jones v. Harris Associates, No. 08-586, the Supreme Court will decide what role the courts should play in regulating the compensation paid to for mutual funds. In affirming dismissal of the case, a unanimous three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the Seventh , in , said the issue was a variation on the much-discussed question of whether the markets could be trusted to set .

“Publicly traded corporations use the same basic procedures as mutual funds,” Chief Judge Frank H. Easterbrook wrote for the panel. Though he dissented from the full court’s decision not to rehear the case, Judge agreed that “executive compensation in large, publicly traded firms often is excessive because of the feeble incentives of boards of directors to police compensation.”

A case re-argued in September and technically part of last year’s docket, Citizens United v. , No. 08-205, is another example of the court’s more intensive focus on the limits of government regulation of businesses. The question in the case, which centers on the documentary is whether the government may ban political speech by corporations that concerns candidates during campaign season.

Another case about free speech rights, Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz v. United States, No. 08-1119, arises from a 2005 federal law that appears to bar lawyers from advising their clients to take on more debt if they are considering bankruptcy, a practice that can be abusive. But there are perfectly lawful reasons to take on such debt, like refinancing a to pay down credit card debt. The Justice Department is urging the court to narrow the law.

The case that has most transfixed the business community is Bilski v. Doll, No. 08-964, a patent dispute that addresses the consequential question of whether intangible business methods may be patented. A federal appeals court last year rejected Bernard L. Bilski’s attempt to patent a method of hedging risks in commodities trading, ruling that only processes tied to a particular machine or capable of transforming an object into something different can be patented.

A broad ruling could affect many aspects of the economy, notably computer software.

“Bilski seems to have the makings of a landmark decision in patent law,” said Pamela Harris, executive director of the Supreme Court Institute at .
148 2009-10-05 The list from census data isn’t all that surprising, but there it is.

Westchester County, No. 1. Nassau, No. 2. Hunterdon and Bergen in New Jersey, Nos. 3 and 4, respectively.

And so it goes. Of the 10 counties in the country with the highest median property taxes, every one is in New York or New Jersey.

Or, to look at another table in the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey for 2008, of the 10 counties with the highest real estate taxes as a percentage of home value, all 10 are in New York. Or, to try one more, of the states with the highest median real estate taxes overall, New Jersey is No. 1, Connecticut is No. 2 and New York is No. 4 (tax-averse New Hampshire, which does not have a general sales tax or a personal income tax, sneaks in at No. 3).

This, as anyone who breathes oxygen knows, is a high-tax region. But as Richard Nathan packed up his office on Friday after 45 years of studying or participating in state, local and federal tax and budget policies, he wondered if we had finally reached a breaking point.

“I’m a little surprised there hasn’t been more heat and more agitation about tax caps and tax burdens in the way there has been in other parts of the country,” said Dr. Nathan, who retired as co-director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York at Albany. “I keep thinking, ‘When is this dog going to bark?’ And the numbers make you think it’s going to be soon. It just feels different right now.”

You can hear some pretty distinct yips in the New Jersey governor’s race, where the property tax burden could help the Republicans win their first statewide race this decade (or perhaps not, if the Republican candidate, Christopher J. Christie, looks like he doesn’t have answers either). But whether there’s anything more than resigned gnashing of teeth by suburban swing voters in all three states will say a lot about the future of local politics and particularly the fate of Democrats in what are supposed to be the bluest of blue states.
149 2009-10-05 TOKYO — Shoichi Nakagawa, the former Japanese finance minister who resigned after his erratic behavior at an international meeting in February, was found dead in his home on Sunday.

The Tokyo police said the cause of his death was being investigated.

A Tokyo native with a sharp tongue, Mr. Nakagawa, 56, was an outspoken conservative and a heavyweight in the recently ousted Liberal Democratic Party.

He served in important ministerial posts in agriculture, trade and finance, and was a close associate of Taro Aso, the former prime minister.

But after his resignation as finance minister in February, Mr. Nakagawa also lost his Parliament seat in August in landmark elections that handed power to an opposition party.

A staunch critic of China, Mr. Nakagawa frequently warned of its rising military might. He was a voice for the Japanese right and a loyal supporter of Yasukuni, a contentious Tokyo shrine that honors war dead, including executed war criminals. He denied that the Japanese imperial army forced women into sexual slavery in the 1930s and ’40s.
150 2009-10-05 “It is sort of along the same lines as the Bank of America and A.I.G. bonuses, except it is not taxpayer money,” said Cet Parks, executive director of the Baltimore-Washington Newspaper Guild, in an interview. “At the same time they are asking employees to make sacrifices, they want to reap the rewards of all these cuts they have been making.”

As it turns out, Sam Zell, the real estate mogul known as the grave dancer for his willingness to take on distressed assets, seems more like a grave digger. There is litany of infamies surrounding Mr. Zell’s ill-advised employee stock ownership plan in 2007 to take over the Tribune: its original creditors are currently investigating whether the sale qualified as a so-called fraudulent conveyance; cash flow fell to $789 million last year, from $1.5 billion in 2006; the costs associated with bankruptcy are now more than $7 million a month; and about 2,000 people lost their jobs in 2008 alone.

But the bonuses at issue in the court in Delaware offer a nice window into the entitlement and tone-deafness that has prevailed at the company better than any of those other big numbers.

The proposed bonuses come in two gilded packages. The annual management incentive program would pay more than $45 million to about 720 managers along a sliding scale based on achieving certain targets. About $11.6 million would go to 70 core managers and other personnel, with $9.3 million reserved for just 23 employees in a pay-for-performance arrangement.

If all of the maximum performance standards were met, about $66 million would be paid out, far more than bonuses paid in the past, at a time when total revenue declined by $800 million.

At a hearing on the bonuses, a union accountant testified that if the maximum incentives were paid, they would eat up 15.5 percent of operating cash flow.

The bonus plan, which is an effort to replace awards of equity given to managers in the past, was announced in February, just about the time that the company was issuing memos about wage freezes and “shared sacrifice.” At a hearing in May on the previous year’s bonuses, which the bankruptcy judge granted, Mr. Bigelow said, “I will tell you that not being rewarded for hard work and hard effort is demotivating.”

Steve Lopez, a columnist for The Los Angeles Times, knows the feeling.

“We’ve got empty desks throughout the newsroom. Working journalists used to sit at them and serve up good stuff daily. Then there’s the issue of our bankruptcy,” he wrote in an e-mail message, adding, “Yeah, I’d have to say the brain trust was tone-deaf, to say the least, in handing out bonuses to the big dogs.”

In their motion in support of the plan, the Tribune’s lawyers said, “the debtors’ need to maintain these incentives for 2009 remains as strong as ever, as its key personnel are still being called upon to surmount significant industry and macroeconomic challenges while at the same time working diligently toward a successful reorganization.”

A company spokesman added that in spite of opposition from the unions and the trustee, “both our senior lender steering committee and the unsecured creditors committee support this plan as in the best interests of the future of the company.”

Joseph J. McMahon Jr., the acting trustee for the Tribune bankruptcy, does not agree and filed an objection to the plan on Aug. 4, writing that the threshold for such payments was high, and he cited relevant case law requiring that the bonuses had to be “essential to retention of the person because the individual has a bona fide job offer from another business at the same or greater rate of compensation.”

He had questions about the targets at the basis of the payments, saying “the debtors do not give any factual and/or historical context to back up their characterization of that performance target as ‘real.’ ” Union lawyers called the targets that would enact the payments “a layup,” while Mr. Bigelow rejected claims that the target was set too low. “The plan was developed in good faith, with integrity,” he said.

All this requires what we in the journalism business call a to-be-sure moment. A company spokesman reminded me that with the coming $740 million sale of the Cubs, the company will have $1.5 billion in cash on hand, so while the company may be bankrupt, it’s not broke. And let’s stipulate that many of the men and women at the Tribune are working hard to lift it out of bankruptcy, keep its newspapers intact and serve their communities. They are not traders in obscure financial instruments that tipped over the markets and are now lining up at the trough.

But at a bankrupt company in a declining industry with negative performance, is it really time for the bankruptcy court to open up the wallet?

The chief judge, Kevin J. Carey, who is presiding over the bankruptcy case, said that a company fighting for its life needed top-tier talent, but also said, “in a troubled industry as this one, the argument could be made that bonuses should not be paid, or certainly not of this magnitude.” He will make a decision soon, perhaps in the coming weeks.

But regardless of whether the bonuses have been earned or not, James Warren, a former managing editor of The Chicago Tribune, wonders how necessary they are.

“Without denying that many of these folks are toiling hard and diligently, the basic arguments underlying this request are laughable and beg at least one simple question,” he said. “How many of those that are being enriched by the bonuses have been contacted by headhunting firms seeking their talents? After what has happened there and what is going on in the broader economy, where are they going to go?”
151 2009-10-05 In those assessments, too, General Jones seemed to distance himself from the more somber views of Gen. McChrystal, who has said that success against the Taliban is not a sure thing and that if the Taliban regained power, Afghanistan could once again be used as a terrorist base.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has advocated narrowing the focus of the war to hunting down Al Qaeda, while Sen. Carl Levin, the chairmen of the Senate Armed Service Committee, has opposed a troop increase, urging more deployment and training of Afghan troops, which now number 92,000.

General McChrystal, whom President Obama installed this summer, has said that 40,000 troops are needed for a counterinsurgency strategy that protects civilians, clears Taliban-held territory and holds it while Afghan soldiers are trained. He said in an unusually blunt speech in London that a “counterterrorist focus” — the kind advocated by Mr. Biden — was a recipe for what he called “Chaos-istan.”

He outlined his strategy on Friday in Copenhagen in a 25-minute meeting with President Obama on Air Force One while it was parked on an airport tarmac.

In Sunday’s talk-show appearance, General Jones, the former commander of all NATO forces, tried to deflect the public focus on a troop surge.

“It would be, I think, unfortunate if we let the discussion just be about troop strength,” he said. “There is a minimum level that you have to have that, but there’s unfortunately no ceiling to it.” He described the revised strategy being discussed to replace one developed in March as “a regional strategy.”

“We focus on Afghanistan and also Pakistan,” he said, elaborating on the strategy. “And I think that to not understand the value of the role that the government to play in Afghanistan and we have an election that is playing itself out is a very, very significant aspect of the strategy. And to not fully understand how reconstruction and development play in, whether you’re adopting a counterterrorism strategy or counterinsurgency strategy.”

He said trends in Pakistan “are very encouraging.”

“The relationship between the United States military and the Pakistani military is a growing one,” he said. “It’s on the ascendancy. We hope that will lead to a campaign against all insurgents on that side of the border. If that happens, that’s a strategic shift that will spill over into Afghanistan.”

He said that he expected a conclusion to the review within weeks.

“The president should be presented with options, not just one fait accompli,” he said.
152 2009-10-05 The battle began Saturday morning, when insurgents stormed the two American base camps in the Kamdesh District of Nuristan Province, pounding them with guns and rocket-propelled grenades. The provincial police chief, Muhammad Qasim Jangulbagh, estimated that about 300 militants took part, The Associated Press reported.

The Americans fought back with helicopters, heavy guns and airstrikes, but the insurgents were persistent and the battle lasted into the afternoon, said Col. Wayne M. Shanks, a spokesman for forces in Afghanistan.

The commander of the Americans in the area, Col. Randy George, described the strike as “a complex attack in a difficult area.”

While much about the attack was still obscure on Sunday, its broad outlines were eerily similar to those of a strike in nearby Kunar Province in July 2008. In that assault, about 200 insurgents stormed a small American outpost in the village of Wanat, less than 20 miles southwest of the compounds that were attacked Saturday.

That attack, a four-hour firefight in which the 48 American soldiers and 24 Afghan soldiers were outnumbered nearly three to one, has been described as the of Afghanistan, a debacle whose lessons the military says it has already incorporated in its new doctrine for the war.

The Wanat attack was well coordinated, disciplined and sustained, qualities that made it strikingly different from the usual roadside bombs, ambushes and hit-and-run attacks that had characterized the insurgency. The attack on Saturday seems to have followed that pattern.

It was less clear whether another factor Pentagon officials identified in Wanat, the military’s tense and mistrustful relationship with residents, was present in Kamdesh. In Wanat, the local people were furious with Americans for killing the staff members of a medical clinic in an airstrike the week before, and commanders suspect for that reason that residents were more hospitable to insurgents.

In Kamdesh, according to Jamaluddin Badar, the governor of Nuristan Province, there have been no major American airstrikes causing civilian deaths since he became governor 10 months ago.

Both attacks are likely to play into the debate in Washington, where the administration is considering General McChrystal’s request for a substantial increase of troops that he says is critical to defeating the Taliban.

General Jones, the president’s national security adviser, seemed to challenge that premise on Sunday. On the CNN program “State of the Union,” he said he did not believe that Afghanistan was in “imminent danger of falling” to the Taliban and that the presence of “is very diminished.” And on the program “Face the Nation,” he described General McChrystal’s recommendation for a troop increase as “his opinion” of “what he thinks his role within that strategy is.”

General McChrystal has said that success against the Taliban is not a sure thing and that if the Taliban regained power, Afghanistan could again become a terrorist base. He has asked the administration for 40,000 more troops on top of the 68,000 Americans already deployed there or en route as part of a strategy that protects civilians, clears Taliban-held territory and holds it while Afghan soldiers are trained.

He has also called for pulling American forces out of sparsely populated areas, including Kamdesh. The attack there on Saturday does not change those plans, Colonel Shanks said.

But Mr. Badar, the Nuristan governor, said that pulling back would be a mistake. Too few troops in the area and its proximity to the lawless tribal areas of have created a poisonous mix, leaving his province vulnerable.

“We knew the Taliban was getting stronger every day in eastern Nuristan,” he said. Teachers and civil servants in the area have been threatened and can no longer travel to the central parts of the province, he said.

He added: “We have long shared our concern with the government and foreign forces but they didn’t take it seriously.”

He said the attackers had gathered in a mosque and a nearby village before staging the assault on the compounds, which are near each other on top of a hill overlooking the district center about 10 miles from the border with Pakistan.

The fighters had come from Pakistan, he said, after military operations pushed them out of their bases there. He said the strike was led by a Taliban commander named Dost Muhammad, whom he described as the shadow commander for the Taliban in Nuristan.

It was unclear whether the insurgents breached either compound, but Colonel Shanks said that by the end of the battle, American forces still controlled the outposts, which they share with Afghan security forces. Mr. Badar said the attackers briefly entered the compounds.

Mr. Badar said that 11 Afghan police officers, including the district police chief, were kidnapped in the raid. A spokesman for the Ministry of Defense, Gen. Zahir Azimi, said that Afghan soldiers had also been captured on Saturday but he could not confirm how many.

The Americans identified the attackers as “tribal militia” rather than Taliban, a term that some military planners say oversimplifies the fight Americans face here and gives the appearance, sometimes falsely, of a coordinated, hierarchical fighting force.

The American military statement said American forces had “effectively repelled the attack and inflicted heavy enemy casualties.”

The bodies of at least five insurgents were found in the area after the fight, Mr. Badar said. The hostages were taken to Mandagal, a village in Kamdesh.

A Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahed, said that Taliban fighters overran the outposts and briefly occupied them. He said the Taliban were holding the district police chief and an intelligence officer hostage. He said that seven Taliban fighters had been killed, and that the fighters eventually withdrew because the area came under bombardment.

In another attack on Saturday, one American soldier died of wounds after being struck with a bomb in eastern Afghanistan, the military said.
153 2009-10-05 Here's an unusual characterization of I.B.M.: a shrinking violet among technology giants.     That's Steve Ballmer's take. During a recent interview, Mr. Ballmer, above, Microsoft's chief executive, criticized I.B.M.'s decisions over the last deca...
154 2009-10-06 Switzerland’s Justice Ministry has rejected the film director Roman Polanski’s request that it reconsider his arrest....
155 2009-10-06 Highlights of what’s on television on Tuesday night....
156 2009-10-06 In the midst of a weak economy, N.H.L. ticket prices rose just five cents over last season. Toronto, however, is another story....
157 2009-10-06 Google and Verizon plan to make Android handsets and other devices that do things on Verizon's network that Android phones on other networks can't do....
158 2009-10-06 Has age discrimination on the job become a bigger problem?...
159 2009-10-06 Gilt's new Gilt On the Go app lets fashion hunters score special limited-supply frocks and accessories on sale from wherever they may be....
160 2009-10-06 The auto parts maker Delphi ended four years in bankruptcy on Tuesday, emerging from Chapter 11 as a privately owned company....
161 2009-10-06 Two prize-winning architecture students use 20th-century materials to convey 21st-century climate risk....
162 2009-10-06 Wall Street firms are altering their bonus policies, but the changes are not cutting back the Street's appetite for risk, according to a survey by eFinancialCareers.com....
163 2009-10-06 Prepaid debit cards are among the fastest growing products in the banking industry. But many such cards come with a laundry list of hidden fees.
164 2009-10-06 The Senate confirms a new chief of the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, which the Obama administration has vowed to make over....
165 2009-10-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
166 2009-10-06 Bertha Lewis, the head of Acorn, vowed that the organization would go on, despite missteps, the video controversy, embezzlement and attacks on its operations....
167 2009-10-06 DealBook Dialogue: David A. Skeel, the S. Samuel Arsht professor of corporate law at the University of Pennsylvania School of Law, examines what he says is the myth about Lehman Brothers role in the financial crisis....
168 2009-10-06 The interesting thing about entrepreneurship is that you can encounter stress either because you are busy and growing and making money -- or because you are not....
169 2009-10-06 The spring 2010 collection from Stella McCartney....
170 2009-10-06 Suzanne DeChillo, Chang W. Lee/The New York Times; Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times
171 2009-10-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
172 2009-10-06 Google now has support for Android on all the major wireless carriers in the United States, except AT&T, the home of the iPhone....
173 2009-10-06 Jodi Hilton for The New York Times
174 2009-10-06 Policy experts and a Texas businessman explain how an "insurance exchange" could prove be better in theory than in practice....
175 2009-10-06 The Nissan Leaf, to be introduced late next year, is the company's first mass-marketed lithium-ion battery car. Nissan is working with the Chicago-based Zócalo Group to promote the Leaf through social media and, according to Katherine Zachary, a ...
176 2009-10-06 Société Générale, the French bank, said Tuesday that it aimed to raise $7.1 billion by issuing new shares in order to pay back aid received from the French government and to buy the 20 percent of Crédit du Nord that it does not already own....
177 2009-10-06 Plenty of music players come with FM radios, but what if you want more talk, less rock? Are AM tuners available?...
178 2009-10-06 Verizon Wireless is spearheading an initiative that would bring together a half-dozen venture capital firms and network equipment vendors to help fund development of Long Term Evolution technology, used to offer wireless service over large distanc...
179 2009-10-06 Banks operating in Britain could collectively face costs of about $3.5 billion a year to comply with liquidity rules intended to strengthen the financial system, a British regulatory agency said Monday....
180 2009-10-06 After suffering through a tough period of falling asset values and client withdrawals, the hedge fund industry may see assets rebound by 10 percent or more in the second half of the year, according to one data provider....
181 2009-10-06 A retired sales manager for Boeing pleaded guilty to hiding nearly $2 million in UBS accounts in Switzerland, as the United States pursues Americans illegally stashing funds abroad to avoid taxes....
182 2009-10-06 MF Global, the futures broker spun off from British hedge fund giant Man Group two years ago, has tapped a hedge fund veteran as its new global head of equities....
183 2009-10-06 Nordic Capital is ponying up $398 million in cash and debt to take a majority stake in Master Marine, a Norwegian offshore energy company....
184 2009-10-06 Symetra Financial on Monday said it filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a proposed initial public offering of common stock....
185 2009-10-06 Apple has become the latest company to resign from the United States Chamber of Commerce over climate policy.

Three large electric utilities resigned from the chamber in recent weeks for the same reason.

The chamber has been critical of efforts by the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate the greenhouse gases responsible for global warming.

“We strongly object to the chamber’s recent comments opposing the E.P.A.’s effort to limit greenhouse gases,” wrote Catherine A. Novelli, the vice president of worldwide government affairs at Apple, in a letter to the chamber on Monday.
186 2009-10-06 Q. Who should be vaccinated against swine flu?

A. Eventually, everyone, except for people who have the same allergies — primarily, allergy to eggs — that make annual flu shots dangerous for them. But for now, the first vaccine batches are reserved for those most at risk: health care and emergency workers; pregnant women; people caring for infants younger than 6 months old; children, teenagers and young adults 6 months to 24 years old; and anyone under 65 who has a weakened immune system or some medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes or morbid obesity. As more vaccine is made, healthy adults ages 25 and up should be vaccinated too.

Q. When will vaccines be available?

A. The first doses were given Monday. Deliveries are scheduled to continue through December.

Q. Where will vaccinations be done?

A. Each state will be different. Many will offer them to schoolchildren first, then to the public at schools, public health centers or other locations. Some will direct vaccine to pharmacy chains, doctors, employers and elsewhere. As more vaccine arrives, health departments are expected to post Web pages allowing a user to type in a ZIP code and find the nearest place offering vaccine. The flu.gov Web site will have links to those pages.

Q. Which vaccine, the nasal spray or shot, is appropriate for which populations?

A. Nasal spray gives excellent protection and is easier for children (and adults) afraid of needles. But it should not be given to pregnant women, children under 2, adults 50 and over, anyone with asthma or wheezing, or anyone with health problems like depressed immunity; diseases of the heart, lungs, liver or kidneys; diabetes; anemia; or difficulty swallowing or breathing.

Q. How many doses are necessary?

A. Only children under 9 will need two doses. If they have had previous flu shots, their pediatricians may decide only one is needed.
187 2009-10-06 The First Amendment protects even disturbing speech, a point the Supreme Court should keep in mind on Tuesday when it hears arguments in the case of a man convicted of selling videos of dogfighting and other animal cruelty. A federal appeals court reversed his conviction, ruling that the federal law under which he was prosecuted is unconstitutional. The Supreme Court should uphold that well-reasoned decision.

Robert Stevens, who ran a business called “Dogs of Velvet and Steel,” sold videos of pit bulls engaging in dogfights and attacking other animals. He did not participate in the attacks personally, but he was charged under a federal law that makes it illegal to sell depictions of acts of animal cruelty that are themselves illegal in the state where the depiction is sold.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, based in Philadelphia, reversed Mr. Stevens’s conviction. The Supreme Court has created narrow exceptions to the First Amendment for a few kinds of speech, including obscenity and, more recently, child pornography. The appeals court rightly declined to create another category for depictions of animal cruelty.

Some of the material in this case is truly stomach-churning. There are people who enjoy watching animals being tortured and killed. There is also, the federal government’s brief says, a market for “crush videos,” in which women trample small animals with their bare feet or while wearing high-heel shoes, images that some viewers are said to find sexually arousing. Videos are also sold showing dogfights and hog-dogfights, in which dogs attack, and sometimes kill, pigs.

This is not the only deeply offensive speech protected by the Constitution. Nazis are allowed to march, and racists are allowed to spew racism. If legislatures have the power to disapprove certain categories of unpopular speech, a lot of expression could become illegal. The government seems to think it is enough that the harm caused by the animal-cruelty depictions outweighs their social value, but the First Amendment does not say that Congress can restrict speech if it fails a balancing test.

It is also extraordinarily difficult to carve out free-speech exceptions. Animal cruelty is often depicted in videos and on Web sites that seek to call attention to the problem of animal abuse. The law makes an exception for certain depictions that have serious political, journalistic or other value, but there is no clear way to sort through all of the covered expression to determine who should be held criminally liable and who should not.
188 2009-10-06 SEOUL — The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, told the visiting prime minister of China that his government was ready to return to six-nation talks on its nuclear weapons program if it sees progress in bilateral talks with the United States, state-run media in North Korea and China said Tuesday.

Meanwhile, North Korea was “close to completing” the restoration of its main nuclear facilities in Yongbyon, the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported Tuesday, quoting an unidentified government source.

The government in Seoul could not immediately confirm the Yonhap report.

In an angry reaction to United Nations sanctions earlier this year, North Korea said it would restore the Yongbyon complex, previously mothballed under a deal with Washington. The complex, 62 miles north of the North Korean capital of Pyongyang, is the North’s only known source of weapons-grade plutonium.

Along with its uranium enrichment program, the Yongbyon facility also serves as North Korea’s main negotiating card as the regime has begun reaching out to the United States for a new round of one-on-one talks.

Mr. Kim’s commitment to the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, who is on a highly publicized trip to Pyongyang, reverses North Korea’s previous stance that the six-nation talks were “dead,” and also clears a major hurdle for the United States to engage North Korea. But Mr. Kim’s insistence on bilateral talks with Washington reiterates the North’s longstanding strategy of handling its nuclear dispute largely as a matter between it and the United States.
189 2009-10-06 At 6 feet 6 inches, Jay H. Walder, the new chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, barely fit beneath the ceiling of the Main Street Station in Flushing, Queens, where he arrived on Monday morning to greet commuters as part of his first day in one of the state’s most high-pressure jobs.

The theme of Monday’s photo op  new boss meets his constituents  didn’t quite fit either. Many of the commuters he met looked uneasy  a natural reaction, perhaps, when confronted on the subway by a smiling man in a suit with an outstretched hand.

But in a wide-ranging conversation with reporters, as he took the No. 7 train for the 40-minute ride to Grand Central, Mr. Walder came across as confident, relaxed and energetic, no easy task for a man who flew in from London over the weekend and had been up since 3 a.m.

In loafers and a red striped tie, Mr. Walder, 50, who helped transform London’s mass transit system, laid out his top priorities for New York as he steps into a six-year term as chairman and chief executive of the transportation authority.

He called for a high-tech overhaul of the bus system to create dedicated bus lanes, with GPS trackers that would tell commuters exactly when the next bus will arrive. He said he wanted “smart” fare cards that could be waved over a sensor, and countdown clocks on the subway, without the endless delays that have plagued the authority’s projects in recent years. And he said improving customer service was paramount.

“We need to be executing much better than we’ve been able to execute before,” Mr. Walder said. “It’s critically important to be able to do that. New Yorkers want to be assured they’re getting good value.”

He also asked that the public be patient. “What I would ask is give me the first 100 days to develop a real action plan, one that I can be comfortable with, that I can discuss with people and that we can be accountable for delivering,” he said. “It’s too soon to do that today.”

Mr. Walder’s week will be a flurry of briefings and get-to-know-you meetings with city and state officials, and senior management at the transportation authority. He will also be meeting with leaders of Transport Workers Union Local 100, which has been agitating in recent days for the authority to drop its appeal of a labor contract granting big raises to workers. (Mr. Walder said he had not yet made a decision on the labor matter.)

The head of the authority is a political appointee, and Mr. Walder showed some acumen in that realm by skirting Monday’s more controversial questions. Asked about a plan to tax drivers in parts of Manhattan, he said simply, “I just don’t think congestion pricing is today’s issue.” He did not say whether he supported Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s pedestrian plazas in Times Square, and he sounded a cautious note on the mayor’s campaign pledge to make crosstown buses free.

But Mr. Walder noted that over all, he and Mr. Bloomberg were “on the same page” and he made no reference to the mayor’s opposition last month to the size of Mr. Walder’s $350,000-a-year pay package. He will have to collaborate with the city’s Department of Transportation on his plans to improve bus service.

There was also talk of a more personal nature. Mr. Walder, who is relocating from London (and now staying at a hotel in Midtown), said he was a football fan who just suffered through a disappointing afternoon. “I arrived just in time to turn on my television and watch my Jets,” he said, “and after a few minutes I decided I was better off taking a walk outside.” (The New York Jets lost to the New Orleans Saints, 24-10).

And he likes cream cheese on his sesame bagel, a treat served in London, but not quite up to New York standards. “They’re just not as good,” he said.
190 2009-10-06 From the Metro-North Railroad station at 125th Street, it is one of the most visible features of the Harlem streetscape: a massive red stone building, covered with black netting, blue scaffolding and plywood. Bay-window frames and ornamental terra cotta rosettes peek through a gap.

But soon, the trainloads of commuters who pass by the landmark, the Corn Exchange Bank Building, an 1883-84 Queen Anne and Romanesque Revival structure, will be able to see even less: The top two floors will be gone.

On Wednesday, the city’s Department of Buildings issued a permit to demolish the two floors, finding the building was unsafe.

A community advocate, Ethel Bates, bought the building, at 81 East 125th Street, from the city in 2003 with the promise to rehabilitate it. But it sat with a gaping roof and crumbling masonry for six years and the city moved to retake control. In January, a judge ruled that the city could repossess the building.

By then, it was too late.

“It’s just really sad,” said John Weiss, deputy general counsel for the Landmarks Preservation Commission, which declared the structure a city landmark in 1993. “When someone comes in and they have a presentation saying, ‘This is our plan to completely renovate the building,’ it gives us some hope and confidence. But maybe that can be a false comfort.”
191 2009-10-06 The risk is that many local markets could end up looking much as they do today — with small businesses and individuals at the mercy of too few insurers wielding too much power in their regions.

“We may not be able to improve competition in the short run through the exchange,” said Len Nichols, a health economist at the New America Foundation, a Washington research group that supports an overhaul of the insurance market.

So far, the House proposal calls for the creation of a national exchange where someone in Iowa, for example, may have the same choice of health plans as buyers in Maine and California. Because insurance is now a state-by-state patchwork, such an approach would conceivably enhance competition by creating an interstate market.

But critics worry that the result may be a few big providers of one-size-fits-all plans, still leaving many small businesses and consumers with products that do not meet their needs or budgets.

Both Senate proposals, meanwhile, favor the creation of state-based exchanges, where a state may have the choice of deciding whether its residents can also buy from a national or regional exchange. The exchanges may have other wide variations, depending on the model chosen by a state or outlined in the legislation.

Some may mirror the one in Massachusetts, which actively screens the policies and negotiates with insurers on behalf of customers. Others may operate more like electronic yellow pages, where insurers list their offerings with little government involvement or oversight.

Another big question is whether there will be enough new customers to prompt insurers to actively compete for their business.

As currently outlined in the Congressional proposals, participation in the exchanges would be limited in some way — to only the very smallest employers, or to residents of a single state or to people who do not now have coverage through their employers.

Another limiting factor, policy experts say, would be whether Congress provides generous enough subsidies so that people who do not currently have insurance could afford it.

For all their potential drawbacks, the exchanges are meant to address a fundamental issue: the current lack of competition in many parts of the country.

President Obama, for example, in his recent speech to Congress, cited states like Alabama where the insurance market for individuals and small companies is dominated by a handful of carriers. As a result, he said, “the price of insurance goes up and quality goes down.”

A recent analysis by the Government Accountability Office notes that in more than a dozen states, including Delaware, Maine, North Dakota and Rhode Island, the largest health insurer offering coverage for a small business commands more than half of the overall market.

Some insurers argue that the strongest need for competition is among the hospitals and doctors, not the health plans serving as middlemen.

“There has to be competition within the delivery system,” said David H. Klein, the chief executive of the powerful Excellus BlueCross BlueShield in Rochester, a nonprofit insurer that is one of the major sources of coverage in that market. “In most of America, that just isn’t going to happen.”

But small business owners frequently complain they when they have limited choice among insurers, they have little bargaining clout. “It’s a ‘take it or leave it’ for some of the biggest carriers out there,” said Amanda Austin, a lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business, which represents small businesses.

At Smithfield Diesel and Transmission Repair in Rhode Island, for example, for years the choice of insurers has been limited to the state’s two biggest carriers — a Blue Cross plan and United Healthcare — said Joan Frattarelli, who runs Smithfield Diesel with her husband. This year, the company’s costs went up by 29 percent, to about $34,000 for coverage of four employees under Blue Cross.

Ms. Frattarelli said she worried that some proposals in Congress would continue to restrict her options to only those plans now available in Rhode Island, which would leave her no better off. “Competition is the name of the game,” she said, “I don’t care what industry it is.”

The hope in Washington, of course, is that an influx of tens of millions of newly insured customers will lure insurance companies to enter new markets. That is what happened a few years ago when private insurers flocked to offer prescription drug coverage after it was added to the Medicare program, said Ken Sperling, a health care consultant for Hewitt Associates.

But because of the restrictions on who can shop, and the question of whether the shoppers will be able to afford insurance, no one knows how many new customers there might be, especially in some in the least populous markets.

The big national insurance companies, like Humana, United Healthcare and Aetna, would not speculate on how the exchanges might affect their business plans. But some of the regional insurers say they could be tempted to expand, at least into nearby markets or states.

“It’s not off the radar screen,” said George C. Halvorson, the chief executive of Kaiser Permanente, the big California health plan. “We’re going to sit down and take a really hard look.”

Another deterrent facing new entrants is the fact that established insurers can negotiate the deepest discounts with the local hospitals and doctors, making it hard for a new player to compete on price.

“The big dominant insurer in any market has the providers pretty much sewn up,” said Timothy S. Jost, a professor at Washington and Lee University. “I think that’s the big problem, and I don’t know that the legislation addresses that very well.”

Congress must also decide whether the exchanges would have any authority to decide which plans are offered and at what price, said Paul Fronstin, a policy analyst with the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a co-author of a recent report on insurance exchanges. “The exchange can have a more active role if it negotiate rates,” he said, “but it is not clear what is going to happen.”

In Massachusetts, for example, the state’s exchange, called the Connector, negotiates directly with the state’s private insurance companies in offering a small number of state-subsidized plans — similar to what an employer does when it screens the policies offered to its work force.

“We work as an aggressive employer, offering managed competition,” said Jon Kingsdale, the executive director of the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority. He said the agency’s ability to negotiate on behalf of 180,000 customers who required state subsidies was a reason it achieved a 6 percent reduction in the cost of premiums this year.

But the Connector would be less effective if it had no say over which plans were offered on the exchange, said Mr. Kingsdale, who criticized the Senate Finance committee’s proposal, for example, as potentially creating little more than “an automated yellow pages.”

Because formulating an effective exchange is so difficult, some policy analysts are still arguing that only a new government-run competitor could create a powerful enough force in many parts of the country to offset the home-court advantage many insurers already wield.

“People don’t realize how hard it is to crack these markets,” said David Balto, a former official with the Federal Trade Commission who is now a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group. “What you need to have,” he said, “is something that effectively disrupts the market.”
192 2009-10-06 Taking meaningful steps to curb greenhouse gas emissions will not be cheap or easy, but the reality is that no one knows precisely how much it will cost. What we do know is that it’s a mission we must undertake, which is why our industry supports enactment of legislation to slash carbon emissions 80 percent by 2050.

We also know that federal legislation must include strong consumer protection measures to help dampen electricity price increases. For example, Congress should establish a moderate floor and ceiling on the price of emission allowances to protect consumers from abrupt energy price increases and the economy from volatility.

Congress should also allocate a full 40 percent of allowances to the power sector, proportionate with the industry’s carbon dioxide emissions. The benefits would flow through to electricity customers, under the supervision of state public utility commissions.

Moreover, emission reduction targets should reflect the availability of emerging climate-friendly technologies.

Taking these steps will help protect customers and help ensure sustained public support for tackling climate change.
193 2009-10-06 Recently, a Danish study in the British medical journal BMJ reported a link between pregnant women’s use of several antidepressants in the S.S.R.I. class, including Celexa and Zoloft, and an increased risk for a common heart defect in babies.

And a paper that appears Tuesday in The Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine reports that babies born to mothers who use S.S.R.I. drugs were more likely to have low scores on the five-minute Apgar test, an overall measure of newborn health, and to be admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit.

To put such findings in perspective, experts from the American Psychiatric Association and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists joined forces to review existing data and make recommendations for managing depression during pregnancy.

Their report, published in the September-October issue of General Hospital Psychiatry, finds that talk therapy should be the first-line treatment for mild to moderate depression, but it says that for severe cases the risks of antidepressants and even shock therapy are relatively low. Its main message, however, is that no generalizations apply: treatment decisions should be made case by case.

“There’s not a one-size-fits-all answer,” said Dr. Kimberly Yonkers, a professor of psychiatry and obstetrics and gynecology at Yale School of Medicine who was the report’s lead author, and who acknowledged receiving research support from antidepressant manufacturers. “You can’t say, ‘Stop medication for all women because it’s harmful,’ and you can’t put all women on medication either.”

The tone of the report is generally reassuring but is filled with caveats. Because pregnant women are rarely recruited for clinical trials, research on drug effects during pregnancy is limited; there is no data from the kind of randomized controlled trials that scientists trust most. Much of the information comes from large epidemiological studies, many in Europe, that link patient databases; the analyses often cannot weed out or control for characteristics other than drugs that may be affecting the pregnancies.

The new report — whose nine authors included four experts who acknowledged some financial, research or other ties to drug companies — goes to great lengths to point out the inconsistencies in the findings about some of the more alarming drug associations.

It is also hard to weigh the risks of medication against those of an untreated depression. Studies have linked depression during pregnancy to premature births, growth changes, and irritability and inattention in the baby after birth. (Prenatal use of antidepressants has also been linked with premature birth, low birth weight and miscarriages.)

“Women have been having babies and taking these medications now for decades, and so far nothing striking has shown up,” said Dr. Nada Stotland, a recent president of the American Psychiatric Association.

Still, Dr. Stotland and other experts suggested that women who had a history of depression or were taking medication might want to consult a doctor before becoming pregnant rather than quit the drug on their own, which would put them at risk of a relapse.

In 2005, the Food and Drug Administration classified paroxetine, sold as Paxil, as a drug to be avoided during pregnancy after studies linked its use in the first trimester to an increased risk of heart defects in babies. The new paper says the agency based its action on data that were “not strong,” but a number of studies have since found similar associations.

The Danish study reported that babies born to mothers who took Celexa (citalopram) and Zoloft (sertraline) were at double the risk of having septal heart defects, so-called holes in the heart. The absolute risk is still small, less than 1 percent, and the holes often close on their own. But the study noted that the risk was even higher if the mother took more than one kind of S.S.R.I. during her pregnancy.

Use of the same class of drugs late in pregnancy has been linked to an increased risk for persistent pulmonary hypertension, which can cause respiratory problems and serious complications in newborns. One recent study reported a sixfold increase in risk for the condition among babies born to mothers who used S.S.R.I.’s during the second half of pregnancy. But even with the use of drugs, the condition affects no more than 1.2 percent of babies, the report said.

A greater number of babies are affected by symptoms of drug withdrawal after birth: 15 to 30 percent of babies whose mothers used S.S.R.I.’s in late pregnancy experience effects like irritability, weak crying or no crying, abnormally fast breathing, hypoglycemia, unstable temperature and seizure. The symptoms usually resolve within two weeks.

Some critics said the paper gave short shrift to nondrug approaches like homeopathic remedies and nutritional supplements, while other experts said the paper’s endorsement of psychotherapy was “politically correct” but ultimately unrealistic.

Dr. Shari I. Lusskin, director of reproductive psychiatry at N.Y.U. Langone Medical Center, said the real danger was undertreatment. “By the time I get to hear about somebody’s perinatal depression,” Dr. Lusskin said, “it’s usually worse than what can be treated with psychotherapy alone, because women go out of their way not to complain; they don’t want to be put on medication, and they feel guilty.

“We should use a low threshold for treating women aggressively.”

Ms. Allen, of Marietta, said she needed aggressive treatment, so she decided to take medication — but was anxious about every pill. “I would wait six or seven hours before taking the pill, and just work myself up into more of a state,” she recalled. “My husband would say, ‘That’s not good for the baby; don’t do that.’ ”

Her son, Hunter Jamison Allen, was born at 9:05 p.m. on Election Day 2008, weighing 6 pounds 13 ounces, and scoring perfect Apgars. “He’s happy, healthy and adorable,” Ms. Allen said. “He’s my puddin’ pop.”
194 2009-10-06 Critics like the physicist Robert L. Park contend that the moment was nothing but a hormonal rush. That a man with a medical degree and a Ph.D. in chemistry failed to diagnose the problem and instead gave it higher meaning “is enough to cause concern,” said Dr. Park, a professor at the University of Maryland noted for his attacks on “voodoo science.”

Dr. Irving L. Weissman, director of the Stanford Institute of Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, said he was nervous about the appointment until Dr. Collins promised in a phone call not to let faith interfere with scientific judgment. But Dr. Weissman said that when therapeutic cloning proved successful, as he predicted it would, Dr. Collins would face a conflict between his job and his faith.

“There will be a moment of truth for Dr. Collins,” Dr. Weissman said.

In a recent interview over French toast at a diner near the agency’s sprawling campus here, Dr. Collins rejected any notion that faith and science conflicted in substantial ways. Indeed, he said, science illuminates the work and language of God. And he pointed out that he wrote in his book about God that he supports therapeutic cloning. When his book on personalized medicine comes out early next year, he hopes to move the conversation about his writings back to science.

“I have made it clear that I have no religious agenda for the N.I.H.,” he said, “and I think the vast majority of scientists have been reassured by that and have moved on.”

But he said he understood that cultural considerations could play an important role, which brings up the transportation and clothing issues.

Dr. Collins’s predecessor, Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, drove a silver Mercedes sports car to work and wore expensive suits, and those choices — along with a natural reserve and the unpopularity of President George W. Bush, who appointed him — meant he was never entirely embraced by the thousands of rumpled scientists who make up the core of the health institutes’ staff.

That he was a brilliant scientist and had highly developed organizational skills never won him plaudits outside of the agency’s top leaders, many of whom praised Dr. Zerhouni effusively.

By contrast, Dr. Zerhouni’s predecessor, Dr. Harold Varmus, rode a bicycle to work, wore khakis and was beloved.

With his high-end motorcycle, Dr. Collins seems to be splitting the difference between his predecessors. But he is distinctly in Dr. Varmus’s camp on clothing, and he has promised to be far more open than either. He has held town-hall-style meetings with staff members, reporters and outsiders. And neither of his predecessors was given to meeting reporters at the nearby greasy spoon.

“I’m a scientist, I’m one of them,” Dr. Collins said. “I have a lab, just like Varmus did. I’m a pretty informal guy. I ride a Harley.”

The issues of culture and identity are important because the director of the institutes has little official power. Crucial decisions about how to spend the agency’s $30 billion annual budget are made either by committees of scientists or by the 27 directors of the individual institutes and centers.

In one significant recent change, Dr. Collins will have discretion over about $500 million a year to finance research he deems important. For additional priorities, Dr. Collins will have to cajole not only the directors who report to him but also find a way to get more money out of a president and a Congress who, after showering the institutes with $10 billion in stimulus money, appear to be in no mood to spend more.

Like his recent predecessors, Dr. Collins promises breathtaking discoveries if the budget is increased and warns darkly that even a flat budget could lead to disaster. “The opportunities have almost never been as exciting,” he said, “and the perils have never been as high.”

Dr. Collins said he was already working on the agency’s 2011 budget request. If it falls back to $30 billion, the share of meritorious grant applications “will drop to historic lows, probably around 12 percent,” he said.

“We have to make the case for what biomedical research has to offer the public,” he added.

Dr. Collins spent a recent weekend reading hundreds of scientific grant applications to see firsthand the kind of science the health institutes are supporting. “I was energized by what I saw,” he said. “These were investigators who were full of ideas and energy and ready to change the world.”

Among the most promising areas of research, he said, were efforts to translate a mountain of genomic information that he helped create as the leader of a consortium of 20 centers in 6 countries that sequenced all 3 billion letters of the human genome, and did so ahead of schedule and under budget.

One project hopes to match treatments with the genomic profiles of tumors in 20 different cancers. “We’re trying to get to the point,” Dr. Collins said, “where every tumor immediately gets a genomic diagnosis.”

Because the laboratories of pharmaceutical companies are increasingly barren, Dr. Collins said he wanted to encourage academic researchers to consider either commercializing their ideas or pursuing drug development in universities when profits are unlikely — particularly for rare or neglected diseases.

Indeed, Dr. Collins was part of a team at the University of Michigan that in 1989 discovered the gene for cystic fibrosis. Two drugs are in clinical trials based in part on his work, but the commercial market for one of the most promising is small, he said.

While acknowledging the importance of basic sciences like biochemistry and genetics, he said he wanted scientists to consider clinical or therapeutic implications in their work. “We’re not the National Institutes of Basic Sciences,” he said. “We’re the National Institutes of Health.”

Putting science to work for an overhaul of health care by comparing the effectiveness of different treatments — work some scientists at the institutes have shunned in the past — is another priority, along with efforts to cure scourges of the third world.

Dr. Collins said he had been working 90 hours a week but made time recently to play at the Capitol with Joe Perry, the lead guitarist for Aerosmith.

And in an appearance last week on “The Colbert Report,” the host, Stephen Colbert, asked whether Dr. Collins would take off his glasses and shake out his hair to make science sexy and cool.

And Dr. Collins did just that.
195 2009-10-06 In a series of new papers, Dr. Proulx and Steven J. Heine, a professor of psychology at the University of British Columbia, argue that these findings are variations on the same process: maintaining meaning, or coherence. The brain evolved to predict, and it does so by identifying patterns.

When those patterns break down — as when a hiker stumbles across an easy chair sitting deep in the woods, as if dropped from the sky — the brain gropes for something, anything that makes sense. It may retreat to a familiar ritual, like checking equipment. But it may also turn its attention outward, the researchers argue, and notice, say, a pattern in animal tracks that was previously hidden. The urge to find a coherent pattern makes it more likely that the brain will find one.

“There’s more research to be done on the theory,” said Michael Inzlicht, an assistant professor of psychology at the University of Toronto, because it may be that nervousness, not a search for meaning, leads to heightened vigilance. But he added that the new theory was “plausible, and it certainly affirms my own meaning system; I think they’re onto something.”

In the most recent paper, published last month, Dr. Proulx and Dr. Heine described having 20 college students read an absurd short story based on “The Country Doctor,” by Franz Kafka. The doctor of the title has to make a house call on a boy with a terrible toothache. He makes the journey and finds that the boy has no teeth at all. The horses who have pulled his carriage begin to act up; the boy’s family becomes annoyed; then the doctor discovers the boy has teeth after all. And so on. The story is urgent, vivid and nonsensical — Kafkaesque.

After the story, the students studied a series of 45 strings of 6 to 9 letters, like “X, M, X, R, T, V.” They later took a test on the letter strings, choosing those they thought they had seen before from a list of 60 such strings. In fact the letters were related, in a very subtle way, with some more likely to appear before or after others.

The test is a standard measure of what researchers call implicit learning: knowledge gained without awareness. The students had no idea what patterns their brain was sensing or how well they were performing.

But perform they did. They chose about 30 percent more of the letter strings, and were almost twice as accurate in their choices, than a comparison group of 20 students who had read a different short story, a coherent one.

“The fact that the group who read the absurd story identified more letter strings suggests that they were more motivated to look for patterns than the others,” Dr. Heine said. “And the fact that they were more accurate means, we think, that they’re forming new patterns they wouldn’t be able to form otherwise.”

Brain-imaging studies of people evaluating anomalies, or working out unsettling dilemmas, show that activity in an area called the anterior cingulate cortex spikes significantly. The more activation is recorded, the greater the motivation or ability to seek and correct errors in the real world, a recent study suggests. “The idea that we may be able to increase that motivation,” said Dr. Inzlicht, a co-author, “is very much worth investigating.”

Researchers familiar with the new work say it would be premature to incorporate film shorts by David Lynch, say, or compositions by John Cage into school curriculums. For one thing, no one knows whether exposure to the absurd can help people with explicit learning, like memorizing French. For another, studies have found that people in the grip of the uncanny tend to see patterns where none exist — becoming more prone to conspiracy theories, for example. The urge for order satisfies itself, it seems, regardless of the quality of the evidence.

Still, the new research supports what many experimental artists, habitual travelers and other novel seekers have always insisted: at least some of the time, disorientation begets creative thinking.
196 2009-10-06 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — A retired sales manager for Boeing pleaded guilty on Monday to hiding nearly $2 million in UBS accounts in Switzerland, as the United States pursues Americans illegally stashing funds abroad to avoid taxes.

Roberto Cittadini was accused of filing a false tax return omitting that he had an interest in or control over accounts at UBS, as well as failing to report income from the accounts, according to the Justice Department.

Mr. Cittadini faces up to three years in jail, a fine of up to $250,000 and a civil penalty equal to 50 percent of the highest account balance between 2001 and 2007, the department said. He will be sentenced in January.

His plea is the seventh so far involving the government’s case against UBS, stemming from a February settlement in which the Swiss bank paid the United States government $780 million.

According to court documents, Mr. Cittadini set up a Hong Kong corporation in 2000 at the suggestion of a Swiss banker, Hansruedi Schumaker, who was charged in August with helping Americans hide their assets from tax authorities.

The plea deal said Mr. Cittadini was counseled by Matthias Rickenbach, a Swiss lawyer who was also indicted in August for conspiring to defraud the government.
197 2009-10-06 LONDON — Banks operating in Britain could collectively face costs of about $3.5 billion a year to comply with liquidity rules intended to strengthen the financial system, a British regulatory agency said Monday.

The far-reaching rules by the Financial Services Authority would put pressure on financial services firms to buy £110 billion, or $175 billion, in government bonds or other assets that would remain liquid during a financial crisis, thereby reducing the likelihood of bank failures. The rules would be introduced in several stages over the next few years, the regulator said.

“The new rules will require changes to firms’ business models and will bring substantial long-term benefits to the competitiveness of the U.K. financial services sector,” the regulatory agency said in a statement. “Low levels of financial soundness cannot provide sustainable long-term competitive advantage.”

Paul Sharma, the regulator’s director of prudential policy, said the agency was the first major regulator to introduce tighter liquidity rules for companies. He rejected criticism by banking industry officials that the regulations would make Britain’s banks less competitive and hurt their ability to lend. He argued that the opposite would occur because more stable banks would be more attractive to investors and customers.

The regulator decided on the rules after evaluating why some banks fared better in the credit crisis, concluding that holding plenty of “truly liquid” assets was essential to survival. The British banking system currently holds about £280 billion of such assets, according to the F.S.A.

The rules would also apply to branches of foreign lenders, to avoid the British government having to step in if a foreign bank failed, as it did last year when it compensated clients of some collapsed Icelandic banks.
198 2009-10-06 The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, told the visiting Chinese prime minister that his government was ready to return to six-nation talks on ending its nuclear weapons program if it first saw progress in one-on-one talks with the United States, s...
199 2009-10-07 The International Energy Agency decreased its estimate for greenhouse gas emissions produced by 2020, attributing the decline to slower economic growth and China’s efforts to develop clean technologies....
200 2009-10-07 Live analysis of division series Game 1 between the Dodgers and Cardinals....
201 2009-10-07 The nomination is timed to coincide with President Obama's speech to a group that advocates equal rights for gays....
202 2009-10-07 There's a lot wrong with Wall Street, but Americans still need to realize the enormous value of the finance industry, The Deal Professor argues....
203 2009-10-07 Hedge funds ended mostly in the black in September, for their seventh consecutive monthly gain, but the industry on the whole failed to outperform the general market....
204 2009-10-07 The push to enact a sweeping financial regulatory overhaul faced further obstacles as Congress and regulators appeared more divided than ever on how best to tackle oversight into the opaque $600 billion over-the-counter derivatives market....
205 2009-10-07 The Senate Finance Committee's health care legislation, as amended during seven days of debate, would cost a projected $829 billion over 10 years -- up from $774 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office....
206 2009-10-07 DealBook Dialogue: Lynn A. Stout, the Paul Hastings professor of corporate and securities law at the University of California, Los Angeles, Law School, looks at the problems with over-the-counter derivatives trading....
207 2009-10-07 Mortimer B. Zuckerman and OpenGate Capital have pulled out of the bidding for BusinessWeek....
208 2009-10-07 The Securities and Exchange Commission is not backing down in its insider trading case against Mark Cuban, the entrepreneur-turned-professional basketball team owner....
209 2009-10-07 The W Silicon Valley is offering rooms for $129 a night and Emirates is offering deals on its new daily service to Durban, South Africa....
210 2009-10-07 Before the (valanced) window closes on Thursday, when Tepper Galleries begins to auction off 1,103 lots from the estate of David Barrett, you can still dine out on a top New York decorator's tricks of the trade. Barrett's heyday was probably in th...
211 2009-10-07 I'm working on a novel set in Iowa; my narrator has fallen in love and left her husband of three decades for a man who lives 500 miles away. Her longing for him is in everything she does - and it's not hard for me to access. If I'm not already act...
212 2009-10-07 Rumors are flying about the sale of BusinessWeek....
213 2009-10-07 fter the closing of Gourmet magazine, Stuart Elliott looks at the effect of the recession on food advertising. He writes:...
214 2009-10-07 Recent concessions by Microsoft, including its offer to give European computer users a choice of Web browsers, appear to address European Union antitrust concerns, and cases against the company could be settled this year, the bloc's competition co...
215 2009-10-07 A year after Washington rescued the big names of U.S. finance, the continued disarray in debt-securitization markets, which in recent years were the source of roughly 60 percent of all credit in the United States, is making loans scarce and threat...
216 2009-10-07 The Financial Times reported that the financial industry, assailed from every side for its role in the global recession, has found an unlikely defender -- the Church of England....
217 2009-10-07 Verisk Analytics, the insurance data specialist, raised $1.88 billion in its initial public offering Tuesday, after shares priced higher than expected....
218 2009-10-07 ING Groep said Wednesday that it had agreed to sell its Swiss private banking unit to the wealth manager Julius Baer for 520 million Swiss francs, or $505 million, as the Dutch bank and insurer disposes of assets after receiving a 10 billion euro ...
219 2009-10-07 OpenGate Capital, the private equity firm, and New York Daily News owner Mort Zuckerman have dropped out of the bidding for McGraw-Hill's BusinessWeek magazine, Reuters reported....
220 2009-10-07 Texas oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens said Tuesday he had increased his long oil and natural gas position in recent weeks....
221 2009-10-07 BlackRock, the fund manager, remains bullish on stocks, particularly in the United States and in emerging markets, forecasting U.S. equity markets will offer annual returns of 6 to 8 percent over the next several years....
222 2009-10-07 Investors clamored to buy pretty much anything on Tuesday -- as long as it was not the dollar....
223 2009-10-07 The future of Canwest Global Communications, Canada's largest media conglomerate, became uncertain after the company was granted bankruptcy protection in a Toronto court for several operations....
224 2009-10-07 Johnny Damon has never won a playoff series with the Yankees; he plans to change that....
225 2009-10-07 The Yankees were unable to regularly fill their premium seats this season. With prices as high as $2,500 for the fanciest seats, fans found them just too expensive.

So the team is cutting the price of some of the seats and rebranding them.

Next season, the team says in its new premium-seating brochure, about 25 percent of the seats in the Legends Suite that hug the field from the outfield to the dugout on both sides of the field will be called the Champions Suite. The seats will cost between $300 and $500, if bought as part of full and 41-game season-ticket plans. The same seats as part of a 20-game package will cost an extra $25. The 507 seats have cost $500 and $650 since the end of April, when they were reduced from an opening-day range of $500 to $1,000,

Fans in the Champions Suite will no longer have access to the Legends Club but will have in-seat waiter service and access to lounges along the first- and third-base lines.

The highest-priced Legends Suite tickets have also been cut to $1,500 from $2,500.

Last month, the Yankees said 84 percent of the tickets in the stadium would remain the same next year and another 13 percent would have their prices cut by about 25 percent.

The prices for 3,400 field-level seats will decline to $250 or $235, from $325. Prices in the Delta Sky360 Suite and the Legends Suite were also cut, but the team did not say by how much at the time.
226 2009-10-07 Photo: Shawn Poynter for The New York Times
227 2009-10-07 The decision by E.P.A.’s administrator, Lisa P. Jackson, who took over the agency in January, is a significant departure from the policies of the E.P.A. under President George W. Bush.

For years, agency officials said that atrazine in drinking water posed almost no risk to humans or the environment. As recently as this summer, E.P.A. staff members argued that current regulations were adequate.

“We’re going to use our scientific resources in a new and more aggressive way regarding atrazine,” said Stephen A. Owens, who was recently confirmed as E.P.A. assistant administrator for prevention, pesticides and toxic substances.

“There are new scientific findings that deserve attention, and we’re going to engage our scientific panels in actively reviewing the work of this office under previous administrations,” he added. “We have a question: Did the decisions made in previous administrations use all the available science?”

A representative of atrazine’s largest manufacturer, the Swiss company Syngenta, said that she had not been fully briefed on the E.P.A.’s announcement. However, the spokeswoman, Sherry Ford, said, “we expect a positive outcome for atrazine at the end of this process.”

Ms. Ford added that the company “stands behind the safety of atrazine, which has undergone extensive testing. We are a science-based company, and we expect the E.P.A. to make sound decisions based on science, no matter which administration is currently in power.”

“This is a dramatic change,” said Linda Birnbaum, director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, part of the Department of Health and Human Services. “There is growing evidence that atrazine could be a hazard to human health. This is a strong signal that the world is changing for some of the most widely used chemicals.”

Atrazine has become a lightning rod in disputes over how the E.P.A. has used scientific findings to regulate chemicals and toxins.

The agency was sued in 2003 by an environmental advocacy organization, the Natural Resources Defense Council, amid claims that regulators had ignored studies showing that atrazine was dangerous to some animals.

In August, The New York Times reported on recent epidemiological studies that suggested small amounts of atrazine in drinking water, including levels considered safe by federal standards, might be associated with birth defects — including skull and facial malformations and misshapen limbs — as well as premature births and low birth weights in newborns.

E.P.A. officials said those studies, as well as recent papers reviewing numerous studies that showed that atrazine interferes with the development and hormone systems of some animals, played a role in their decision to re-evaluate the chemical.

A Times analysis of E.P.A. records also found that in some American towns, atrazine concentrations in drinking water had spiked sharply, sometimes for as long as a month. Though the E.P.A. and Syngenta were aware of those spikes, they often did not promptly warn local water systems, and the reports produced by local regulators and distributed to residents often failed to reflect those higher concentrations. Interviews with local water officials indicated that many of them were unaware that atrazine concentrations sometimes jumped sharply in their communities.

But officials in other communities have grown concerned. Water systems in six states — Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Mississippi and Ohio — recently sued atrazine’s manufacturers to force them to pay for removing the chemical from drinking water.

The E.P.A. is expected to announce on Wednesday four meetings over the coming year of the agency’s independent scientific advisory panel that will focus on atrazine.
228 2009-10-07 The company announced on Tuesday evening that it would soon begin selling a new version of the Kindle that can wirelessly download books both in the United States as well as in more than 100 other countries.

The move pits Amazon.com, based in Seattle, against a range of other players in the growing global market for digital reading. The rivals include iRex, a division of Royal Philips Electronics, the Dutch consumer electronics company; Sony; and China Mobile, the world’s largest mobile carrier, which said last month it would soon begin selling several kinds of electronic reading devices.

The new Kindle is physically identical to Amazon’s current Kindle, with its slender profile, six-inch black-and-gray screen and angular keyboard. The main difference: it will use the wireless networks of AT&T and its international roaming partners, instead of Amazon’s existing wireless partner for the Kindle, Sprint. Sprint’s network is incompatible with most mobile networks outside of North America.

The new Kindle will sell for $279. It begins shipping on Oct. 19.

“We regularly ship millions of English-language books to non-English speaking countries and people have to wait for the delivery,” said Jeffrey P. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive. “Now they can get books in 60 seconds. That is a pretty exciting part of what we are announcing.”

In addition, Amazon also announced a price cut for the United States-only Kindle, which will continue to be sold alongside the new global Kindle. The domestic Kindle is now $259, down from $299. Amazon previously dropped the price in July, from $359, to stimulate demand and to match the prices of rivals like Sony, whose least expensive e-reader now costs $199. Amazon also sells the larger-screen Kindle DX for $489.
229 2009-10-07 TORONTO — Iran’s judiciary has shut down three pro-reform newspapers, opposition Web sites reported Tuesday, in what appears to be a new effort to prevent protests against President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

The closures came several days after the appointment of two hard-line military veterans to security-related positions. Together, analysts said, the moves reflected the government’s continued determination to suppress the dissent that has risen in the wake of the disputed June 12 presidential election.

Iran’s supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, appointed Mohammad Reza Naqdi to lead the Basij militia force. The volunteer militia played a central role, along with the Revolutionary Guards, in the crackdown against protesters after the election. The former commander of the Basij militia, Hussein Taeb, was moved to a position in the intelligence section of the Revolutionary Guards.

The timing of the developments appears to reflect the government’s concerns about potential student protests as the new school year begins. Students staged at least two protests at two universities in Tehran last week, forcing Mr. Ahmadinejad to cancel his visit to one of them.

Analysts say they believe that the government’s moves are aimed at putting further pressure on activists and limiting the information that newspapers can report. “The appointments all suggest that they are increasing the pressure,” said Fatemeh Haghighatjoo, a former member of Parliament and a visiting scholar at the Boston campus of the University of Massachusetts. “But they are implementing their plans step by step so that the pressure would not appear too shocking. They feel they have to control the crisis.”
230 2009-10-07 Kenneth Adelman’s suggestion that Presidents Obama and Dmitri Medvedev should encourage other states to join the United States-Russian treaty banning intermediate-range ballistic missiles is a good one.

No matter how many missile interceptors are deployed under the Obama administration’s refined missile defense strategy, Iran or any other country of concern could overwhelm missile defenses simply by fielding more offensive missiles.

Mr. Adelman suggests that President Obama has overlooked this strategy. In reality, Russia proposed globalizing intermediate nuclear forces in 2007, and the Bush administration endorsed the idea. President Obama, too, has expressed his support before and after the 2008 election. The challenge now is to win the support of others to make it happen.
231 2009-10-07 It is one more strange twist in a case that has taken federal authorities from Colorado to Queens to Pakistan, and brought Mr. Dowling, 66, back from Denver to the city where he grew up on Logan Avenue in the Bronx — for what is undoubtedly the biggest case of his life.

A graduate of Iona College and the St. John’s University School of Law and a self-described “left-winger,” Mr. Dowling did not make much of the fact that he and the police commissioner worked the same job more than four decades ago and were now on opposite sides in the terrorism case.

He mentioned their time on the switchboard together in conversation, almost in passing. Asked about it in a interview, he played down the different paths they took after their time as trainees, or cadets, as they were eventually called.

“I’m sort of an antiwar hippie and Ray’s a straight shooter,” Mr. Dowling said, noting that Mr. Kelly joined the Marines, while he protested the war in Vietnam.

“When he became police commissioner, I sent him a note and he sent me a note back and he said, ‘Next time I’m in Denver, let’s get a beer,’ ” Mr. Dowling recalled, referring to Mr. Kelly’s first appointment to the post, in 1992. The two never had any further contact, Mr. Dowling said.

For his part, Mr. Kelly, who has often spoken about his time working on the switchboard, declined to be interviewed about the subject, but said through a spokesman that he had no recollection of Mr. Dowling.

Few who saw the two men would imagine a link. With unruly white hair and a ruddy complexion, Mr. Dowling looks as much like an English literature professor as a criminal lawyer, in contrast to the compact Mr. Kelly, whose square jaw and close-cropped hair practically holler Marine.

The two men nonetheless both served as trainees in a program designed to bring more college graduates into the police force. An hourly wage and a combination of part-time non-law-enforcement work and some training gave potential officers a taste of the department before they entered the Police Academy.

But Mr. Dowling said he chose law school instead, and, after graduating, worked in the city’s corporation counsel’s office before joining the Legal Aid Society.

After a summer visit to Aspen with friends, he said, he discovered the resort area of Telluride while driving around Colorado and several annual visits followed. “One year, I stayed,” he said with a smile.

He eventually moved to Denver, where his practice in federal court consists largely of drug cases, he said.

Mr. Dowling, one of eight children raised in Throgs Neck, has two sons of his own, 18 and 20, and calls himself “a big golfer,” but says he sticks to municipal courses.

Mr. Kelly, who also attended law school at St. John’s, was not the only man Mr. Dowling knew in his youth who went on to become police commissioner. Mr. Dowling said that Robert J. McGuire, who served during the Koch administration, was raised up the block from him in a neighborhood that also produced its share of hoodlums, including a prolific contract killer who died in prison.
232 2009-10-07 “In hundreds of surveys over the past two years, people have told us about subtle but dramatic changes like ‘I’m buying less toothpaste because I’m putting less on my brush,’ ” Mr. Blischok said.

At the same time, consumers reported buying more products like basic food ingredients. In other words, goodbye to costly gourmet meals and hello to traditional dishes like that green bean casserole made with Campbell’s cream of mushroom soup.

In many instances, suddenly budget-conscious consumers are switching from more expensive foods and “are discovering the difference they’ve been paying for is not worth it,” said Phil Lempert, editor of The Lempert Report, a daily food industry newsletter.

The sharp cheddar cheese sold by Kraft “is a dollar or two less than the exotic brand,” he added, and “they are not that different.”

The growing power of middle-brow meal items was apparent in a decision on Monday by Condé Nast to close the more upscale of its two food magazines, Gourmet, and keep publishing the more mainstream Bon Appétit.

“Gourmet was a tough sell to packaged goods advertisers,” said George Janson, managing partner at the GroupM Print unit of GroupM, a division of WPP devoted to helping marketers make media decisions.

“People are now looking for recipes and ingredients that are more accessible,” he added.

Venerable foodstuffs are not only looming larger in the media in which they typically appear, they are turning up in unexpected places. The episode of “Saturday Night Live” broadcast by NBC last week featured commercials for a Kellogg’s cereal and Tabasco hot sauce.

It is no wonder, then, that homey brands like Birds Eye, Bumble Bee, Betty Crocker, Del Monte, Hunt’s, Mott’s, Spam and Velveeta are seeking to reclaim a place in the front ranks of marketing.

Typically, Birds Eye runs one campaign each year, said Matt Park, chief marketing officer at Birds Eye Foods in Rochester, N.Y., but currently three are running, including ads that begin this week for the brand’s Steamfresh product line.

“We want to put as much money and resources as possible into marketing and product innovations,” he added, “because all the research we’ve seen indicates that consumers will be spending more time at home and less time eating out at restaurants.”

Not only are these food brands regaining a robust presence in media outlets, but new products are being introduced under mainstay names like French’s, Hormel, Quaker, Ritz and Wheaties.

For instance, the Hormel Foods Corporation has introduced what Scott Aakre, the company’s vice president for marketing of grocery products in Austin, Minn., described as “a more premium chili” under the Hormel Chili Master name.

Although priced higher than the Hormel Chili brand, which made its debut in 1937, the newcomer offers value because “it’s an opportunity to have a great meal at home,” Mr. Aakre said.

There are also new ads for Spam — another Hormel brand that made its debut during the Depression — suggesting Spam as an ingredient in easy-to-make dishes like macaroni and cheese or grilled cheese sandwiches. The Hormel agency is the Minneapolis office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group.

In January 2010, said Elliott Penner, president at the French’s food division of Reckitt Benckiser in Parsippany, N.J., “we plan launches in mustard and hot sauce, innovative new products that extend the categories.”

The expansions of the French’s mustard and Frank’s RedHot brands received approval after recent campaigns for both, centered on offering larger bottles at regular prices, produced “some pretty great growth,” Mr. Penner said, in revenue and market share.

“We work hard to create a point of difference between our products and competitors’,” he added, “and between our products and private label,” which typically cost less than name brands, “and make sure that point of difference is relevant.”

Other marketers of longtime kitchen favorites agree that as nice as it is to capitalize on nostalgic feelings, they must also meet contemporary needs.

“A lot of times, people are talking about a return to the ’50s,” said Sally Robling, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at the Pinnacle Foods Group in Mountain Lakes, N.J., which sells stalwarts like Log Cabin and Mrs. Butterworth’s syrups, Swanson frozen dinners and Vlasic pickles.

“But it’s important we’re going forward in this new environment in a way that’s relevant to today,” she added, “instead of just playing on our history.”

For instance, this sentence was added last year to ads for the Duncan Hines line of mixes and frostings: “There are some investments that always give great returns.” The ads were created by Merkley & Partners in New York, another Omnicom agency.

Duncan Hines is getting a presence in social media, Ms. Robling said, to let devoted users, whom she calls “alpha bakers,” share recipes more easily. And Pinnacle is adding popular flavors to the Duncan Hines line like carrot cake and red velvet.

For many of these brands, said Patty Bloomfield, vice president and engagement director at Northlich in Cincinnati, the creative agency for Birds Eye, “the good news is people have a very strong feeling” about their quality and remember growing up with them.

But they still ask “does Birds Eye fit into the way I live my life today?” she added. “Even as they’re watching pennies, they still value high quality, convenience, great taste and healthfulness.”

As for the future, experts say they believe the back-to-basics shift in consumer sentiment could become permanent even after the economy improves.

“This new consumer will shop the rest of her life differently,” said Mr. Blischok of Information Resources. “Behavior has been modified as a result of this recession.”
233 2009-10-07 DETROIT — Delphi, the automotive parts maker that was spun off by General Motors, completed a messy, four-year stay in bankruptcy protection on Tuesday with a sale of its assets to lenders and its former parent.

The emergence of Delphi Holdings, as the new company is called, eliminates a significant risk to the turnaround at General Motors, which estimated earlier this year that it had spent $12.5 billion to support Delphi’s reorganization.

A group of Delphi’s lenders, including the Elliott Management Corporation and Silver Point Capital, is buying most of its assets, while General Motors takes over Delphi’s steering business and four plants in Indiana, Michigan and New York.

The lenders also agreed to forgive about $3.4 billion in debt and invest $900 million into the company.

Delphi will now own four plants in the United States, which is all that remains of the 44 that it operated in this country when it filed for Chapter 11 protection in October 2005. Delphi, which was spun off by G.M. in 1999, was the nation’s largest automotive supplier at the time with more than 50,000 employees. Its domestic work force now numbers 14,000.

“We are grateful for the support and loyalty of our customers, who have placed their trust in Delphi’s ability to provide world-class products and uninterrupted supply, and the support of our suppliers who have contributed broadly to our efforts," Delphi’s chief executive, Rodney O’Neal, said in a statement.

Mr. O’Neal said the new Delphi would be “a more agile, nimble and resilient company.”

The asset sale comes after two failed tries to emerge from bankruptcy, including one last year that fell apart at the last minute when a lead source of financing backed out.
234 2009-10-07 In defending the 1999 law, Neal K. Katyal, a deputy solicitor general, cautioned the justices against pursuing an “endless stream of fanciful hypotheticals.”

Mr. Katyal reminded the justices that the case before them concerned videos of dogfights and that the law itself was mainly prompted by so-called crush videos, which cater to a sexual fetish. Those videos show women in high heels stepping on small animals.

But the 1999 law by its terms applies to audio and video depictions of all sorts of activities in which “a living animal is intentionally maimed, mutilated, tortured, wounded or killed” if that conduct was illegal where the depiction was sold.

The case before the court, v. Stevens, No. 08-769, arose from the conviction of a man for selling videos of dogfights. The man, Robert J. Stevens, was sentenced to 37 months in prison. The federal appeals court in last year overturned Mr. Stevens’s conviction and struck down the law on First Amendment grounds.

Patricia A. Millett, a lawyer for Mr. Stevens, urged the justices to follow suit, saying the law could not be rendered constitutional by narrowing it through judicial interpretation.

“There is interpreting and then there is alchemy,” Ms. Millett said, “ and I think this statute requires alchemy.”

The law does exempt materials with “serious religious, political, scientific, educational, journalistic, historical, or artistic value.”

But several justices indicated a discomfort with the vagueness of that standard and with entrusting the question of a work’s “serious value” to prosecutors and juries.

“Could you tell me what the difference is between these videos and David Roma’s documentary on pit bulls?” Justice asked Mr. Katyal, referring to an exposé of . “David Roma’s documentary had much, much more footage on the actual animal cruelty than the films at issue here.”

Mr. Katyal responded that “the line will sometimes be difficult to draw.”

Justice Scalia said the law violates the First Amendment by treating speech condemning depictions of animals fighting more favorably than speech celebrating the fighting. Mr. Stevens’s “message is that getting animals to fight is fun,” Justice Scalia said.

The hypothetical Human Sacrifice Channel came up late in the argument. Justice Alito described how it would work.

“Suppose that it is legally taking place someplace in the world,” he said. “I mean, people here would probably love to see it. Live, pay per view, you know, on the Human Sacrifice Channel.”

Ms. Millett haltingly said that Congress could not ban such a channel solely on the ground that it was offensive.

Mr. Katyal, to the apparent surprise of some of the justices, agreed, saying the First Amendment would not permit a law banning such a channel unless it could be shown that the depictions made the sacrifices more likely. The distastefulness of the depictions alone would not justify the ban.

The justices did not seem inclined to expand categories of speech outside the protection of the First Amendment, notably obscenity and , to encompass violent images unrelated to sex.

In child pornography, Justice Ginsburg said, “the very taking of the picture is the offense — that’s the abuse of the child.” In dogfighting, by contrast, she continued, “the abuse of the dog and the promotion of the fight is separate from the filming of it.”

Ms. Millett agreed. “If you throw away every dogfighting video in the country tomorrow,” Ms. Millett said, “dogfighting will continue.”

Justice Breyer suggested that Congress would be able to draft a more carefully tailored law focusing on crush videos and the kinds of animal cruelty that are illegal in all of the states.

“Why not do a simpler thing?” Justice Breyer asked. “Ask Congress to write a statute that actually aims at those frightful things it was trying to prohibit.”

“I am not giving Congress advice,” he added, “though I seem to be.”
235 2009-10-07 LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) — Yum Brands, the restaurant chain operator, said Tuesday that its quarterly profit climbed 18 percent, helped in part by business in China.

The company, which owns Taco Bell, KFC and Pizza Hut, earned $334 million, or 69 cents a share, up from a profit of $282 million, or 58 cents a share, a year earlier.

Yum, which operates nearly 3,300 restaurants in mainland China, said sales in the country rose 10 percent.

Revenue for the period, which ended Sept. 5 and was the third quarter of Yum’s fiscal year, fell 2 percent, to $2.78 billion, from $2.84 billion a year earlier. The company raised its full-year profit forecast to $2.14 a share, from $2.10 a share.

Yum, based in Louisville, released the results after the market closed. Its stock climbed 39 cents, to $35.25 a share, in after-hours trading.
236 2009-10-07 She is not the first of Mr. Kadyrov’s critics to die violently. Several who have spoken out the loudest have turned up dead, not only in Chechnya, but in places as far-flung as Moscow, Vienna and Dubai.

Like many of the others, Ms. Estemirova had accused Mr. Kadyrov, the Chechen president, of employing kidnapping, torture and extrajudicial killings in his Kremlin-backed drive to rid Chechnya of a violent separatist movement.

The day after her death, Mr. Orlov, talking about who he thought was responsible, said: “I know the name of this person. His name is Ramzan Kadyrov.” Later Mr. Orlov said he meant that Mr. Kadyrov had created an atmosphere in which such crimes were permissible.

Mr. Kadyrov has denied involvement in the killing, insisting that violent separatists backed by Western secret agents were probably responsible.

As in similar killings, there has been no discernible movement in the prosecution of the Estemirova case. Officials have made no arrests and identified no suspects in the three months since her death.

In contrast, Judge Tatyana A. Fedosova needed just two hearings and 30 minutes’ deliberation to reach a decision in Mr. Kadyrov’s libel suit. She rejected arguments by Mr. Orlov’s lawyers that their client’s accusations were based on Mr. Kadyrov’s record of human rights violations and his well-known hostile relationship with Ms. Estemirova.

The judge ordered Mr. Orlov to pay the Chechen president about $660 in compensation. The rights group Memorial must pay about $1,600, a symbolic sum in comparison with the $300,000 total requested by Mr. Kadyrov’s lawyer.

“It is a shame that the sum is so small,” Andrei Krasnenkov, Mr. Kadyrov’s lawyer, said after the trial. “When people begin to pay for their words, they will begin to act correctly.”

Mr. Kadyrov said he was satisfied with the decision; the lawsuit was about establishing truth, not about punishing Mr. Orlov, he said.

“From the very beginning, I attempted to explain to Orlov that he was not right, and very respectfully and reasonably explained to him my opinion on this issue,” Mr. Kadyrov said, according to the news agency RIA Novosti.

After the court’s decision on Tuesday, Mr. Orlov continued to insist that the Chechen leader was in some way responsible for Ms. Estemirova’s death.

“A significant portion of this trial consisted of a discussion of Ramzan Kadyrov’s guilt,” Mr. Orlov said outside the courtroom. “I think we convincingly proved this guilt, but the court obviously did not agree with us.”

During the trial, Mr. Orlov accused Mr. Kadyrov of “unconditional political guilt” in the killing of Ms. Estemirova and of creating an atmosphere in which Chechen officials could torture, kidnap and murder with impunity.

Mr. Orlov said he would appeal the decision, and apply to the European Court of Human Rights if that appeal was rejected.

Although Mr. Orlov said the decision would not affect the work of his employees in Chechnya, the trial does seem to have encouraged Mr. Kadyrov.

The Chechen leader now plans to file a libel suit against the newspaper Novaya Gazeta, said his lawyer, Mr. Krasnenkov. He said the newspaper, which once employed Anna Politkovskaya, another Kadyrov critic who was murdered, had published false statements about Mr. Kadyrov.
237 2009-10-07 BRUSSELS — NATO, criticized by the United States for not doing enough in Afghanistan, will start training the Afghan police in the coming weeks, the alliance’s new leader said.

The move by NATO, which said in April that it would take on such a role but did not provide details until now, is aimed at “transferring the lead responsibility for security to the Afghans themselves,” Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO’s new secretary general, said in an interview at NATO headquarters in Brussels on Monday. “The training mission is absolutely crucial.”

The effort is a major shift for NATO, which had kept clear of civilian training missions, fearing they would undermine its military role. NATO said it would also increase training of the Afghan National Army.

Mr. Rasmussen said the training was also part of an attempt to make NATO’s contributions more helpful to the United States, which supplies the lion’s share of troops and resources in Afghanistan. NATO has 35,000 troops there, while the United States has 65,000.

“From the long-term perspective, it is essential to ensure the right military balance inside NATO in order to make sure that the Americans will still consider NATO a military alliance which is relevant for them,” Mr. Rasmussen said. “We should acknowledge and recognize the huge efforts the Americans are making and in exchange, we need to ensure that the European side of NATO also makes a balanced effort.”

NATO’s decision comes as the Obama administration is in the midst of a major review of its efforts in Afghanistan.
238 2009-10-07 On a bright spring day in 1962, two months before Edward Keating published the ﬁrst issue of Ramparts magazine, President John F. Kennedy stepped to the podium at Berkeley's Memorial Stadium to address 88,000 eager listeners.It was the largest live audience Kennedy ever addressed and the biggest event in the University of California's history. The occasion was the university's ninety-fourth anniversary, but Kennedy's presence had turned it into something else: a celebration of cold war liberalism at its peak.

Draped in a dark ceremonial gown, Kennedy began by thanking his many hosts. One was Clark Kerr, president of the University of California, whose career up to that point was an unbroken series of triumphs. A former Berkeley graduate student, he was a leading labor arbitrator before returning to Cal to direct a new institute after World War II.When the spirit of McCarthyism settled over the campus a few years later, Kerr supported a ban on Communist professors but opposed the dismissal of faculty who refused to sign a new and more speciﬁcally anticommunist loyalty oath. That compromise earned him the respect of some faculty and the suspicion of several university regents. After Kerr became Berkeley's head administrator in 1952,one regent referred to him openly as the "Red Chancellor."

Another Kennedy host on the dais that day was California governor Pat Brown. Only the second Democratic governor in the twentieth century, Brown was presiding over the state's explosive growth,and his ﬁrst term produced an unprecedented expansion of the state's colleges, highways, and aqueducts. Some of that expansion was guided by the state's Master Plan for Higher Education, crafted largely by Kerr and passed in 1960. The plan accommodated a tidal wave of students born after World War II and was hailed as a blend of bold vision and shrewd practicality. It landed Kerr on the cover of Time magazine, but much of the credit also went to Brown.

Like Kennedy,Brown was Catholic,but his background otherwise diverged sharply from JFK's privileged upbringing. As a youngster, Brown went to public school in San Francisco, worked in his father's cigar store,and later attended law school at night.He never had to publicly subordinate his religious loyalties to his political ones, as Kennedy did, but his faith may have inﬂuenced his position on the death penalty, which he regarded as a barbaric practice inﬂicted on "the weak, the poor, the ignorant." His son Jerry, who had spent four years in a Jesuit seminary before enrolling at Cal in 1960, encouraged that view. As governor, Brown struggled with the issue, staying many executions while letting others go forward. He managed to alienate both death penalty advocates and critics when he delayed the execution of convicted rapist Caryl Chessman,only to allow it in 1960.When he appeared with Richard Nixon and Jerry at a San Francisco Giants game, he was booed so energetically that the three men left the stadium.

Brown and Kennedy had their own brief history.When Brown decided to run as a favorite son candidate in the 1960 California presidential primary,he and Kennedy struck a secret deal.Kennedy would stay out of the California primary if Brown agreed not to accept the vice presidential nomination. Kennedy's motive was clear; two Catholics couldn't possibly appear on the presidential ticket.

Kennedy's visit to Berkeley was meant to support Brown's reelection bid against Richard Nixon, Kennedy's rival in the 1960 presidential race.Nixon was a formidable politician,but most voters were happy with Brown and the state's booming growth. Moreover, Nixon had his own problems. He was still reeling from his narrow loss to Kennedy, struggling with the switch to state-level politics, and hitting false notes with the press. Asked by the New York Times about Kennedy's visit to California, Nixon called the president a carpetbagger.Kennedy laughed off the comment at a White House press conference and casually asserted his right to go where he pleased.
239 2009-10-07 “This gives us a chance to make real progress toward a clean-energy future, but only if the right policies are put in place promptly,” said the agency’s executive director, Nobuo Tanaka.

As a result of the economic slump, global emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, are expected to decline by 3 percent this year, the steepest drop in the 45 years according to figures compiled by the agency. That compares with an average growth of 3 percent a year over the last decade.

The report outlines how governments can achieve additional cuts through energy efficiency and investments in clean technologies. The goal is to keep global temperatures from rising more than 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. Meeting that target will require reducing emissions by 23 percent in 2030 compared with what they would otherwise be, the agency said.

“The message is simple and stark: if the world continues on the basis of today’s energy and climate policies, the consequences of climate change will be severe,” Mr. Tanaka said.

The cost of making the necessary changes would be $10 trillion from 2010 to 2030, the agency said, but lower spending on energy bills would offset much or all of that investment. Every year of delay, however, would add $500 billion to the necessary investments, the agency said.

One of the report’s main findings was that China’s recent energy policies could achieve much bigger cuts than expected.

China overtook the United States as the world’s top emitter of global warming gases in 2007 after more than a decade of rapid industrialization. But China is building more nuclear power plants and increasing the role of renewable energy, raising efficiency standards in new buildings, and gradually moving the economy from its manufacturing base to services, the agency said.

If China manages to achieve the predicted savings, that nation will be “at the forefront of all global efforts to combat climate change,” Fatih Birol, the energy agency’s chief economist, said in an interview.

Continued progress in China could increase the pressure on the United States, which has so far initiated no overall policy to reduce emissions, as well as on other industrialized nations.

While calling for deep cuts in emissions, the report acknowledged that profound transformations in energy usage would be necessary to achieve the cuts. In the transportation sector, for example, which is dominated by fossil fuels, 60 percent of worldwide car sales by 2030 would have to be either hybrids, plug-in hybrids or electric vehicles to meet the agency’s goals.
240 2009-10-07 OTTAWA — The future of Canwest Global Communications, Canada’s largest media conglomerate, became uncertain on Tuesday after the company was granted bankruptcy protection in a Toronto court for several operations, including its television network and The National Post newspaper.

The company, which is based in Winnipeg, Manitoba, did not include a chain of 11 large newspapers or several specialty television channels that it owns jointly with Goldman Sachs in the filing. The debt related to those newspapers is the subject of negotiations with different debt holders, mostly banks. Some analysts expect that those talks will result in a sale.

Nevertheless, the complex corporate structure of Canwest, as well as Canadian laws that ban foreign control of media properties, add to the uncertainty now surrounding all of the company’s holdings.

It will be difficult for the Asper family, which founded the Global Television Network, to retain control of the company once everything is settled. The Aspers loaded Canwest with debt, which now is about 4 billion Canadian dollars, to expand cable television channel offerings and to move into publishing. In a statement, the family said it would provide 15 million Canadian dollars ($13.9 million) of the 65 million Canadian dollars in new financing that the units require.

Chris Diceman, a media analyst with DBRS, a Toronto credit rating agency, said it was possible that whoever supplied the additional 50 million Canadian dollars in equity would also acquire control. In any case, he anticipated that special voting shares that are now the source of the Asper family’s control would retain little influence after the restructuring. It was also unclear if Leonard J. Asper, the president and chief executive, would remain in that role.
241 2009-10-07 Attacks have typically happened beyond a two-hour window from the start and end of school — that is, late at night or very early in the morning — and blocks away from school grounds, where neighborhood boundaries press against one another.

Within the three dozen or so schools where 80 percent of the victims in the study attended classes, the plan calls for a rethinking of the security philosophy so that policies favor strategies and prevention over policing and . And officials are becoming more strategic about providing safe passage to school by increasing police enforcement and by keeping tabs on gang and clique activities in real time as their turf wars hopscotch around school catchment areas.

“We were hoping the analysis would reveal what we should do, and in fact it has,” Mr. Huberman said.

The new approach, which took a team of eight people six months to create, is the most detailed and expensive effort to be put to the test in Chicago. But made public last month, it is not without some controversy.

Public school parents on the South Side have grown weary of new plans as they watch the death toll for mostly minority children in poor neighborhoods rising. About 85 percent of the public school student population lives in poverty. Some question why only 10,000 students — a small fraction of the 410,000-student population — should get extra resources.

Chicago typically spends $55 million a year on security for what is the third-largest school system in the nation. With the new plan, it will be spending $30 million a year on just the 10,000 adolescents most at risk.

“We’re living a nightmare,” said Stacey Willis, a parent of a high school sophomore, “and the community is very upset.”

Mr. Huberman said one of the inspirations for the new approach came from his years as a rapid response officer with the Chicago Police Department, but he is clear-eyed about the plan’s limitations in a school setting. Derrion Albert, a student in good standing, would not have been on a risk list, for instance. But, as the official thinking goes, perhaps his attackers would have been because the perpetrators often seem to come from the same at-risk group of students as the victims, and that could have made a life-or-death difference.

“What this model won’t do is get every kid who gets shot, but what it does do is give us a fighting chance to identify those kids who are most in trouble,” said Mr. Huberman, who was appointed in January by Mayor after the previous schools chief, Arne Duncan, was tapped by the Obama administration to be secretary of education. Mr. Duncan and Attorney General are scheduled on Wednesday to visit with Derrion Albert’s family.

Upon his appointment, Mr. Huberman said, Mayor Daley gave him a mandate: think outside the box and help us figure this out.

The youth safety issue has presented numerous school chiefs here a vexing paradox. As crime is down in general and the Chicago schools themselves are among the safest places for students to be — none of the recent killings has taken place on school grounds — children continue to be killed in their neighborhoods. Reinvigorated gang wars, some say from the large-scale demolition of public housing and the scattering of tenants, have turned some West and South Side areas into terrifying places for children to crisscross. Over the years, some of the shooting victims have been affiliated with gangs, but many have not.

One was a 7-year-old waiting at a hamburger stand with her father.

“You can track where we’ve spent more or less money on security and initiatives, and it hasn’t helped,” Mr. Huberman said. “So we knew that fundamentally it was not going to make a difference for the kids. So we needed to alter how we do things.”

Other cities will be watching what Chicago does to try to solve its youth violence problem.

Michael Casserly, executive director of the Council of the Great City Schools, a Washington-based coalition of the nation’s largest school systems, said education officials in Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, New York and other cities have also worked on reducing violence against students. “But the Chicago proposal strikes me as far more comprehensive than you often see in other cities,” he said.

The immediate challenge for Chicago is rolling out the complicated plan, which involves the coordination of various city departments and agencies, including the Police Department and Department of Children and Family Services, and local nonprofit and community groups.

The students will also have “to bite,” as Mr. Huberman puts it, adding that many are unaccustomed to having the kind of meaningful adult relationships the program envisions. To help get their buy-in, the program includes part-time jobs for students who participate. (No student who participates would be publicly identified, officials said, except to the adults involved in his or her intervention.)

“We believe that if we can change the behavior of these 10,000 students,” Mr. Huberman said, “we’ll be able to make a significant difference in the level of violence in the city.”
242 2009-10-07 Boeing said Tuesday said that it would record a $1 billion charge because of a delay in producing a new version of the 747 freighter jet, blaming slow sales and late design changes.

It was the second time in four months that the aircraft maker had announced delays in delivering a new model. In June, it announced further postponement of the 787, a highly anticipated passenger plane which is more than two years behind schedule.

Boeing, which is based in Chicago, is grappling with dwindling orders amid the global economic downturn, which has undercut demand for air travel and cargo services. Some airlines have been forced to cancel or delay plans to buy new planes. Boeing has cut costs and announced plans to slash thousands of jobs and scale back production of some aircraft.

Boeing’s latest delays will result in combined third-quarter charges of $3.5 billion for the 747 and 787 programs.

The charge for the 747-8, a larger plane than earlier versions, includes $640 million for higher estimated production costs. Because of late engineering designs the plane was reworked and manufacturing was disrupted.

The charge includes $360 million stemming from Boeing’s decision to hold production at 1.5 airplanes per month rather than raise it to two, a result of slow orders.
243 2009-10-07 Underlying the dollar’s weakness is the growing perception that many policy makers around the world, and in Washington, may welcome a slow but sustained depreciation of the dollar, especially against the Chinese renminbi and other Asian currencies.

A weaker dollar would make imported goods more expensive in the United States and American exports more competitive, but it could make overseas investors wary of buying the Treasury bonds that the country needs to sell to finance its deficit.

The slide gained momentum after the Reserve Bank of Australia surprised investors Tuesday by raising interest rates, making Australia the first big economy to lift rates after the global financial crisis.

Countries around the world — including the United States — trimmed interest rates to record lows as the credit crisis metastasized last year, in an emergency effort to stimulate the markets and keep lending from drying up. Although credit is flowing better now, the Federal Reserve has indicated that interest rates will hover near zero for some time.

“The move was taken as a sign that the global economy is firmly on the road to recovery,” said Vassili Serebriakov, a currency strategist at Wells Fargo. “That’s lifted risk appetites and assets across the world. The dollar strengthened when global financial markets went into a tailspin and has retraced back all that strength.”

Adding to the turmoil, a report on Tuesday in The Independent, a British newspaper, suggested that China, France, Japan and Russia were in secret talks with Persian Gulf countries to abandon the dollar for international trade in oil and replace it with a basket of currencies and gold.

The article named no sources and was quickly denied by Muhammad al-Jasser, the governor of the Saudi central bank, and Dmitry Pankin, Russia’s deputy finance minister. French officials declined to comment. In China, the government is closed for a weeklong holiday, but well-connected bankers were skeptical.

“While informal discussions might have taken place, I doubt they represent a serious intent to undermine the existing global monetary order or the role of the U.S. dollar,” said Fred Hu, who is the chairman of greater China for Goldman Sachs and advises the Chinese government.

But the report caught the attention of investors because several economists had been predicting that at some point, the world’s oil exporters would start moving toward other currencies to limit exposure to the dollar.

“It won’t be easy to make such a shift; it’s a pretty unrealistic idea in the near term,” said Qu Hongbin, an HSBC economist in Hong Kong. But in the years to come, he added, China would be delighted if it could print its own currency to pay for oil, instead of having to earn dollars through exports.

Any shift away from the dollar for oil trading, or for commodities more broadly, would seriously undermine global demand for dollars and strengthen the alternatives to it. This would make it harder for Washington to borrow overseas to finance its budget and trade deficits, and could fuel inflation in the United States.

Analysts characterized the surge in commodities prices on Tuesday as a reaction to weakness in the dollar, rather than a sign of bullish hopes for a quick recovery. Although activity is picking up, oil consumption remains subdued as factories work at part capacity, and consumers are still reluctant to spend thousands of dollars on gold jewelry when the recovery is tenuous. Crude oil futures in New York rose 43 cents, to $70.83 a barrel, and gold futures rose $21.90, to $1,039.70.

Despite worries about the eclipse of the dollar and an estimated $1.6 trillion deficit in 2009, the United States is still finding many eager buyers in the debt market. Foreign governments have billions of dollars in their coffers, and demand for Treasury notes has risen since May, making it cheaper for the government to finance its own operations.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 131.50 points, or 1.37 percent, to 9,731.25, and the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was 14.26 points, or 1.37 percent, higher at 1,054.72, adding to their sharp gains from a day earlier. The Nasdaq was 1.7 percent, or 35.42 points, higher at 2,103.57.

Interest rates rose. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 10/32, to 103 3/32, and the yield rose to 3.26 percent, from 3.22 percent late Monday.
244 2009-10-07 ALL good cooks become bored. Whether you’re a chef at a multi-star restaurant or just someone making dinner nightly, there are moments when all creative juices seem to ebb. You have no idea what to do with the shrimp you picked up on the way home, and no inclination to pore over cookbooks.

It’s at times like these that I play cupboard roulette. The rules are easy. Shut your eyes, reach your hand deep into your spice drawer or cupboard or fridge, and pluck out one bottle, jar or tin. Whatever you’ve grabbed — be it mulled cider spice mix, ancient dried epazote or pomegranate molasses — must be used to prepare your meal.

On the evening of the ho-hum shrimp, I reached into the section of cupboard holding obscure vinegars (pear, fig), fragrant oils (sesame, pumpkin seed) and such. Truth be told, I had sort of cheated, groping for what I thought was an oversize bottle of Worcestershire sauce. I could imagine kebabs of shrimp and chunks of lavender eggplant, slicked with Worcestershire and grilled until caramelized.

Instead, I found myself face to face with a dusty bottle of nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish sauce). I’d used it in salad dressings and as a condiment but never for food on the grill. Would the high heat burn off its subtle flavors?

I suppose I could have ditched the game, but I liked the idea of shrimp with nuoc mam, so I stuck with it.
245 2009-10-07 Société Générale, the French bank, said on Tuesday that it intended to raise 4.8 billion euros ($7.1 billion) by issuing new shares to pay back aid received from the French government and to complete its acquisition of Credit du Nord.      The...
246 2009-10-07 The European Commission is expected to introduce a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that directs the largest slices of 50 billion euros available for research and development to solar power and capturing and burying emissions from coal plan...
247 2009-10-07 The Yankees were unable to regularly fill their premium seats this season. With prices as high as $2,500 for the fanciest seats, fans found them just too expensive.

So the team is cutting the price of some of the seats and rebranding them.

Next season, the team says in its new premium-seating brochure, about 25 percent of the seats in the Legends Suite that hug the field from the outfield to the dugout on both sides of the field will be called the Champions Suite. The seats will cost between $300 and $500, if bought as part of full and 41-game season-ticket plans. The same seats as part of a 20-game package will cost an extra $25. The 507 seats have cost $500 and $650 since the end of April, when they were reduced from an opening-day range of $500 to $1,000,

Fans in the Champions Suite will no longer have access to the Legends Club but will have in-seat waiter service and access to lounges along the first- and third-base lines.

The highest-priced Legends Suite tickets have also been cut to $1,500 from $2,500.

Last month, the Yankees said 84 percent of the tickets in the stadium would remain the same next year and another 13 percent would have their prices cut by about 25 percent.

The prices for 3,400 field-level seats will decline to $250 or $235, from $325. Prices in the Delta Sky360 Suite and the Legends Suite were also cut, but the team did not say by how much at the time.
248 2009-10-07 How devastating is a tandem like the Cardinals' Chris Carpenter (17-4, 2.24 earned run average) and Adam Wainwright (19-8, 2.63)? In the last 10 years, only two other sets of teammates entered the postseason with at least 17 victories each and E.R...
249 2009-10-08 Mr. Roberts, who plays the role of Oscar Wolfe, in the George S. Kaufman-Edna Ferber comedy, became ill during Sunday’s matinee performance....
250 2009-10-08 Get your subterranean church organs tuned and make sure your chandeliers are firmly affixed to the ceiling: The Phantom is returning to the theater....
251 2009-10-08 Live analysis of Game 1 of the National League division series between the Boston Red Sox and the Los Angeles Angels....
252 2009-10-08 James H. Simons, a titan of the hedge fund industry, has told investors he plans to step down from day-to-day management of the firm he founded in 1982....
253 2009-10-08 The United States lost its No. 1 ranking as the most developed financial center in the world to Britain as the global financial crisis raised questions about the stability of the world's largest economy, according to a study by the World Economic ...
254 2009-10-08 Has the race for governor of New Jersey really turned into a referendum on weight?...
255 2009-10-08 Savannah, Ga., is a city of Spanish moss-choked squares and an unending cavalcade of hotels. Half the town, it seems, is hotel lobbies. So the most surprising thing about the Bohemian, which opened this summer, is how necessary it seemed....
256 2009-10-08 Pending health care legislation increases premium discounts to those who participate in workplace wellness programs....
257 2009-10-08 The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has opened an investigation into whether there is a dangerous rust problem with the frames on about 218,000 Toyota Tundra pickups from the 2000 and 2001 model years....
258 2009-10-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
259 2009-10-08 Also on Blogtalk: DIY speed bumps on Staten Island, an interview with the actor and Park Slope resident Peter Sarsgaard and a bathroom in a box....
260 2009-10-08 A team's use of the bullpen changes drastically between the regular season and the playoffs....
261 2009-10-08 The prosecutor's office in Frankfurt announced Thursday it would open an official criminal investigation into charges that Deutsche Bank spied on a shareholder, a journalist and its own board members....
262 2009-10-08 Verisk Analytics, an insurance data specialist that first signaled that it planned to offer shares to the public shortly before the collapse of Lehman Brothers, saw its stock jump in its trading debut....
263 2009-10-08 A Chicago hedge fund manager, Gregory Bell, pleaded guilty Wednesday for his role in an alleged $3.5 billion Ponzi scheme....
264 2009-10-08 In what may prove to be its latest government assignment, U.S. asset manager BlackRock is in the running to help state regulators estimate risks in insurers' investments, The Wall Street Journal reported....
265 2009-10-08 A U.S. District Court dismissed a lawsuit of former employees of Washington Mutual against JPMorgan Chase to recover their retirement account losses after the collapse of the thrift....
266 2009-10-08 The Dodgers played poorly over the last two weeks of the season, needing a week to reduce their magic number for winning the N.L. West from one to zero. Even though they had the best record in the league — a mark they held most of the season — the Cardinals appeared to be many people’s favorite.

The role of underdog is a comfortable one for the Dodgers, who swept the favored Cubs last year. Manager Joe Torre reminded his team that the playoffs are a new season, and that 11 wins will make them world champions.

“We wanted to come out and make a statement,” Dodgers center fielder Matt Kemp. “I think everybody was saying we’re the underdogs, but it’s just two good teams going at it.”

Kemp’s night alone embodied the struggle of both teams. He belted a two-run homer off Carpenter in the first inning, erasing an early deficit and canceling out the two runs he allowed by misplaying a pair of fly balls.

The Dodgers’ other runs came home on a bad throw (and even worse decision) by Cardinals’ third baseman Mark DeRosa, a sacrifice fly and a bases-loaded hit batter. They left the bases loaded twice.

The Cardinals twice had the bases loaded and came away empty. The killer came in the fourth after they chased starter Randy Wolf with two out. Ryan Ludwick hit a fly ball deep down the left-field line that would have cleared the bases if it had landed fair. It did not, missing by inches.

“I thought it was curving foul from the get-go, but it started floating,” said Jeff Weaver, the Dodgers’ starter. “I was relieved when it landed foul.”

He was also relieved after the next pitch, which Ludwick tapped back to him. That out began a strong stretch by the Dodgers bullpen. He combined with Ronald Belisario, Hong-Chih Kuo, George Sherrill and Broxton to allow five hits, no walks and a run, which came in the ninth after Kemp’s misplay.

“I wasn’t as sharp as I should have been,” said Wolf, making the first playoff appearance of his 11-year career. “Today was typical of what the bullpen did all year. They did an incredible job.”

Wolf said he did not expect the Dodgers to be fazed by the Cardinals or Carpenter.

“Ignorance is bliss and we have a lot of bliss,” said Wolf. “There are a lot of guys in the clubhouse that really believe in their ability and don’t care what the numbers are.”

The Cardinals will now turn to the 19-game winner Adam Wainright to deliver the type of command performance as a starter that he did as a rookie reliever in 2006, when he saved four playoff victories. Wainright will face another wunderkind, Clayton Kershaw, a 21-year-old left-hander with a wicked curveball.

If St. Louis wants to even the series, it will have another chance to reverse its futility against left-handed pitching.

The Cardinals, the presence of Albert Pujols and Matt Holliday notwithstanding, are batting .233 with a .365 slugging percentage against left-handers this season both National League lows.

Like Carpenter, who uncharacteristically walked four — he’d had just 38 all season — Pujols was not at his best. Though he made a diving stop to deprive the Dodgers of a run, he was unable to contribute at the plate. He was intentionally walked twice and grounded out three times. Pujols has now gone 82 consecutive at-bats without a home run, extending the longest homerless stretch of his career.

“I just think that we got beat,” Cardinals Manager Tony LaRussa said. “I mean, they were sharper in just about every area.”

Nowhere more so than their attitude.
267 2009-10-08 Jeter’s homer erased a 2-0 lead the Twins had built in the top of the third against Sabathia. Jeter, who reached base in all four of his at-bats, now has as many postseason homers (18) as Mickey Mantle and Reggie Jackson. That he has done it in many more games does not diminish his reputation.

“It’s almost like he takes it like it’s just another day,” said Nick Swisher, whose double in the fourth put the Yankees ahead to stay. “But once the lights hit in the postseason, it’s Jeter Time.”

Jeter helped the Yankees win four World Series at their old home, but none since 2000. Their last three trips to the playoffs have ended in the first round, mostly because of poor starting pitching.

That was why the Yankees signed Sabathia — and A. J. Burnett, the Game 2 starter — for a combined $243.5 million last winter. Sabathia had a shaky postseason history with Cleveland and Milwaukee, but the circumstances are different now. The Yankees found more rest for Sabathia this season, and it paid off.

Sabathia had 22 walks in 25 postseason innings before Wednesday. In the division series for the Brewers last season, he walked the opposing pitcher, Philadelphia’s Brett Myers, as he crumbled in the early innings. But he walked none this time, with eight strikeouts.

“Fatigue can manifest itself in a lot of ways,” Manager Joe Girardi said. “It can be lack of velocity, but usually it’s lack of command. And we saw his command tonight, it was pretty good.”

Sabathia was facing a Twins team that won the American League Central in 12 innings Tuesday, beating Detroit in a playoff and arriving at its Manhattan hotel at 3:50 a.m. Wednesday. But the Twins did not seem tired, jumping on Sabathia with a seven-pitch at-bat and a leadoff double by Denard Span.

Then Sabathia did what the Yankees pay him $23 million a year to do, generating strikeouts with runners in scoring position. He fanned Orlando Cabrera and Joe Mauer with sliders, and a flyout ended the inning.

“He struck out Cabrera, which is very hard to do; he’s normally a pretty good contact guy,” Twins Manager Ron Gardenhire said. “And he struck out Joe Mauer, which is really hard to do. And that was C. C. He knuckled down and made some big pitches.”

Two of Sabathia’s 113 pitches crossed up Jorge Posada, who became the first catcher in 10 years with two passed balls in a division series game. Sabathia said one was his fault, and one was Posada’s.

In the first inning, Posada said, he changed the signs with a runner on second and confused Sabathia. In the third inning, Sabathia threw a different pitch than the one he had told Posada.

“I didn’t know where the ball was,” Posada said. “I was just looking for the ball.”

A run scored then, and the Twins led by 2-0. But then Jeter pulled a homer off the rookie Brian Duensing, and Swisher doubled in his run the next inning. In the fifth, with two on and Jeter at second, Duensing stayed in to face Rodriguez, who had stranded the last 40 runners on base for him in the postseason.

Duensing tried a first-pitch fastball that Rodriguez stung to left for a hit. The pitching coach, Rick Anderson, had warned Duensing against doing that.

“I said, ‘Let’s just go right after him,’ ” Duensing said. “He said: ‘Well, we’ve got a base open. So if you’re going to miss, miss in or miss out.’ I missed in the middle. That’s my fault.”

Jeter came in, Duensing went out, and reliever Francisco Liriano grooved a fastball to Hideki Matsui, who crushed it into Monument Park in straightaway center for a two-run homer and a 6-2 lead.

Sabathia set down the 4-5-6 hitters on just eight pitches in the sixth. He left with two outs the next inning, having made just the fifth quality start (minimum six innings, maximum three earned runs) for the Yankees in their last 18 postseason games.

The fans saluted him with cheers of appreciation. They had longed for such playoff dominance again.

“This is what you come here for, to have a chance to win and pitching in the postseason, playing in October,” Sabathia said. “It was electric tonight.”

Sabathia lifted his cap on his way to the dugout, basking in the first October standing ovation in his new team’s new home. If the Yankees keep playing like this, there will be many more.
268 2009-10-08 But Democrats rejoiced. Several wavering Democrats and one Republican, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, had said they would be influenced by the budget office report.

Within minutes of receiving the report, Mr. Baucus, the chief author of the bill, was on the Senate floor, boasting that it would cover millions, reduce the deficit and revamp the health care system for the 21st century. “The report is good news,” he said. “Our balanced approach in the Finance Committee to health reform, I think, has paid off.”

Peter R. Orszag, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said the analysis “demonstrates that we can expand coverage and improve quality while being fiscally responsible.”

The cost analysis by the Congressional Budget Office was a crucial test. If the numbers had come in much higher — if, for example, the price tag had exceeded $900 billion — they could have delayed or derailed Democrats’ effort to pass a bill this year.

The budget office said Medicare savings and revenues from new taxes would grow at a brisk pace beyond 2019, so the bill would probably “reduce federal budget deficits over the ensuing decade, relative to those projected under current law.”

Democrats had worried that changes made by the committee, in seven days of deliberations, would add to the cost or reduce the number of people covered. The projected 10-year cost of the bill did increase, from $774 billion in Mr. Baucus’s original proposal. But the new costs were more than offset, and the budget office found that the latest version would reduce deficits by $32 billion more than the original plan.

The bill would require people to have insurance but reduced the penalties for those who violate the requirement. Senators of both parties had expected this change to reduce the number of people gaining insurance under the bill. But the budget office did not alter its estimate.

In a sign of the furious debate that lies ahead, hospital lobbyists said Wednesday that the coverage was not good enough to meet the terms of an agreement they had reached with Mr. Baucus and the White House. The industry said it had agreed to accept $155 billion in reduced Medicare payments over 10 years, provided that 97 percent of all legal residents were insured.

“They have not yet met the standard of our deal,” said Charles N. Kahn III, president of the Federation of American Hospitals, a trade group.

Republicans were not impressed by the new numbers. Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee, said: “The bill spends nearly $1 trillion and still leaves 25 million people without health insurance. That’s not much bang for the buck.”

Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said the bill would “create a massive new entitlement” to government-subsidized insurance.

Other Republicans noted that in a separate report the budget office said Wednesday that the deficit tripled to a record $1.4 trillion in the 2009 fiscal year, which ended last week.

A companion bill moving through the House would cost more, but would also do more to expand coverage, leaving 17 million people uninsured in 2019, the budget office said.

The House Democratic Caucus held meetings throughout the day to seek a consensus on its version of the legislation. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the discussions focused on the size and shape of a proposed government-run health insurance plan, which, under the House bill, would compete with private insurers.

“There will be a public option in the bill,” Ms. Pelosi declared.

In its analysis of the Senate Finance Committee bill, the budget office said a proposed expansion of Medicaid would add $345 billion to federal spending over the next 10 years. State Medicaid spending would rise by $33 billion, as 14 million people would be added to the Medicaid rolls.

The other big federal cost would be subsidies totaling $461 billion over 10 years, to help low- and middle-income people buy insurance.

The budget office said a proposed tax on high-cost insurance policies would raise $201 billion over 10 years. Penalties paid by people who go without insurance would total $4 billion over 10 years, far less than the $20 billion expected under Mr. Baucus’s original proposal. Employers who did not provide health benefits would pay $23 billion in penalties, down from the $27 billion previously estimated.

Mr. Baucus’s bill would create a Medicare commission, with power to make cutbacks in the program, unless blocked by subsequent legislative action. The budget office said the commission would save $22 billion over 10 years.

The bill would establish insurance cooperatives, to compete with private insurers. But the budget office said the co-ops would not establish “a significant market presence in many areas.”

The budget office found that the Finance Committee would reduce payments to private Medicare Advantage plans by $117 billion over 10 years while cutting the growth of Medicare payments to other health providers by $162 billion. Republicans contend, and Democrats deny, that beneficiaries would suffer as a result.

Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Democrat in the Senate, moved Wednesday to address criticism of the penalties that would be imposed on people who go without insurance. The penalty would be phased in from 2013 to 2017, when an adult without insurance would generally have to pay an excise tax of $750 a year.

Under Mr. Schumer’s proposal, those payments would be deposited in a new federal trust fund and could be used in the future to buy insurance for the person who had paid the taxes.
269 2009-10-08 The Senate has approved a resolution apologizing to American Indians for years of “ill-conceived policies” and acts of violence by United States citizens. Lawmakers said the resolution, included in a military spending bill, was a symbolic gesture meant to promote a renewed commitment to tribal communities. It was introduced by Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, and Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota. The Senate approved a similar resolution in 2008, but the House did not act on it. Lawmakers are also developing legislation to improve health care and public safety on reservations.
270 2009-10-08 A former high-ranking federal agent pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to drug trafficking charges that included accusations that he gave intelligence to Mexican cartel members.

The former agent, Richard P. Cramer, 56, who served with Immigration and Customs Enforcement on the Arizona border and in Guadalajara, Mexico, was arrested last month at his home near Tucson.

Mr. Cramer was later indicted and taken to Miami, where his case is being prosecuted because some of the smugglers met there to coordinate, and where he entered his plea before Magistrate Judge Ted E. Bandstra. He is being held without bail.

A spokeswoman for the United States attorney’s office in Miami, Alicia Valle, said the government would not comment. Mr. Cramer’s lawyer, Hector L. Flores, called his client “a good man who has the support of his family and friends,” who “should not be a casualty of the chaos in Mexico.”

A criminal complaint filed by the Drug Enforcement Administration, after a two-year investigation, alleges a breach of trust.
271 2009-10-08 It wasn’t just the prospect of living alone in the three-story house that daunted him, Dr. Casey said. It was the social duties that came with it. Even the official name of the house — The Elms — seemed formidable.

Now, as he begins his second year leading the university, Dr. Casey has not only adjusted to living at The Elms, he has also reinvented the house and its role on campus. He regularly invites professors, students, staff members and visitors to the house, which has shed its heavy drapes and visually become more open and welcoming.

He wanted to use the house as “an engine for change,” he said. “It’s become a place of talk and conversation and debate — what a house on campus ought to be.”

He has made The Elms the place to be on campus, and there is nothing exclusive about it.

“The house has become a metaphor for what Brian is doing with the whole campus,” said Lisa Hollander, DePauw’s vice president for alumni relations. “Warming it up, opening it up.”

Greg Schwipps, an English professor, novelist and 1995 DePauw graduate, recalled his excitement last fall as he prepared to attend the first of a series of small working faculty dinners at Dr. Casey’s house. In his 12 years as a faculty member, he had never stepped foot inside the president’s house. He had received invitations to annual receptions, he said, but as a junior professor, he had always felt too intimidated to show up.

“I said to one of my students, ‘I’m invited to the president’s house for dinner,’ ” Professor Schwipps said. “He said, ‘Cool, I’ve already been twice.’ ”

By the time they had made Dr. Casey the leading finalist, the trustees were captivated by his passion and plan for transforming DePauw into one of the nation’s very best small liberal arts colleges.

He had a law degree from Stanford, two graduate degrees in history from Harvard and an undergraduate degree in philosophy and economics from Notre Dame, where he was captain of the swim team. Ebullient and youthful, he was already connecting with students.

The one question, for Dr. Casey and, fleetingly, for a few trustees, was about a single guy serving as the host at The Elms. “Entertaining, for me, when I lived in Boston and New York, was telling everyone what restaurant we’re all going to meet at,” he said. “I can’t cook a thing. I’d never thrown a huge dinner party, I’d never done any of this. And all of a sudden I realized it was part of the job I hadn’t thought of at all.”

His talent, he said, was for being a guest at parties. “I was always the person who took care of the music. I’d burn CD’s, or bring my iPod.”

The previous president, Robert Bottoms, who is widely admired for diversifying the college and building the endowment and had retired after 22 years, had relied on his wife, Gwen, as the hostess of The Elms. He could not have done the job without her, Dr. Bottoms said. “She was kind of like the first lady of DePauw,” he said.

“I don’t have Mrs. Brian Casey,” Dr. Casey said. “I don’t have the partner who is going to do this with me.”

But he told the search committee he’d come up with a solution to the matter of the president’s house. He would simply invite everyone for regular dinners and parties. As for his lack of a spouse, he would enlist the help of a group of students as his co-hosts.

“I loved that idea,” Ms. Hollander said. “We have the most social student body. That sounded so right.”

Last Thursday night, Dr. Casey held the annual trustees dinner, with his 13 student ambassadors at his side.

“This place is more alive than it’s ever been,” said Kathy Hubbard, a trustee, looking around at the multigenerational crush of 96 guests ranging in age from 20 to over 60,

Trustees and their spouses mingled with professors and staff members. After checking to make sure his iPod was ready with the playlist he had created for the evening (including John Coltrane — “In a Sentimental Mood,” Astrud Gilberto — “Corcovado,” Diana Krall — “’Deed I Do” ), a smiling Dr. Casey was making the rounds.

Matt Jennings, 23, a new trustee and 2009 DePauw graduate who is now with Teach for America, recalled returning last fall from studying in Paris. Dr. Casey walked him around campus and described the DePauw he wanted to create. “On that day,” Mr. Jennings said, “I realized I loved Greencastle more than Paris.”

It was close to 11 when the last guests left, still exclaiming over the after-dinner performance by Adam Gilbert, a student ambassador, of Schumann’s “Dichterliebe” and Broadway show tunes (piano accompaniment provided by a trustee, James B. Stewart, the journalist and author). With the party over, Dr. Casey offered a tour of the house, starting at the front door.

“I walked in, and I thought, ‘I can’t live here,’ ” he said, recalling his first visit. He waved his hand at the long sweep of hallway. “It’s 114 feet to the other end.”

One of his first acts as president was to remove the curtains covering the glass panes of the front doors. “I wanted people to see in,” he said. Such gestures carried a lot of weight with the faculty. (“It’s a transparent house,” said Pedar Foss, a classics professor who is dean of academic life.)

Dr. Casey led the way into the small white dining room, with the built-in bookshelves, that had been a little-used study. Here, he said, is where he holds faculty dinners for 8 to 10 people. “I love dining rooms with lots of books,” he said. “I thought this would be a great place to have conversations about DePauw and the curriculum.”

The dining room was inspired by the great parties he’d been to at a friend’s small apartment on the Upper West Side, where the table was squeezed in among the bookshelves.

He pointed out the color-coded books. Red and orange — “The Economic Value of Higher Education” and “Blacks at Harvard;” tan and beige include “Our Underachieving Colleges,” and “All the King’s Men.” It is one of the stories people tell about Dr. Casey’s house.

Last Christmas, he had offered to put the house on Greencastle’s historic house tour for the first time. While he was traveling for work, decorators arrived to prepare the house.

“I came home to find this winter wonderland — garland everywhere,” he said. “I walked into the dining room and they had taken all my books and put them back on the shelves arranged by color.”

“It’s really strange,” he said, scanning the shelves, “when you realize how many books you have that are orange.”

“Now when I have to find a book, I have to think, ‘What color is it?’ ”

The trustees had raised the money to make the necessary changes to the house, which mostly involved opening it up, pruning overgrown shrubs and trees, repairing water damage, creating a large catering kitchen — in the past the food was prepared off-site — and painting the Tiffany blue dining room in creamy white and silvery gray. Small lights were also installed in the ceiling.

In his rare down time, Dr. Casey unwinds in the private part of the house — a small living room behind the kitchen, with a pair of contemporary sofas, a wooden desk and ladder bookshelves from his previous life. Back stairs lead to his bedroom suite, on the second floor, where there are also four other bedroom suites where he invites trustees, and other visitors, to stay.

“There was one night I was in the private living room,” he said, and decided to sit by the fireplace in the grander, public one. “I had this book, I walked over — it’s a long walk,” he said. “I’m sitting in this room, I was trying to read. I felt like I was in some bizarre Hollywood piece. I left.”

He led the way into the remodeled white kitchen and out to the stone patio, with its new fireplace and white trellised pavilion.

He stood at the edge of the pool and told a story that has already become part of campus lore about the president’s house.

Karl Rove and Howard Dean were on campus last month for a debate. Dr. Casey held a party in their honor before the event. It was a warm afternoon, and people were mingling on the patio.

“So Karl Rove says to me, ‘President Casey, I really want to talk to you, come over here,’ ” he said. “The light was on the pool. I looked down, and I thought, ‘Oh, there’s this huge clump of dead leaves in the pool.’ ”

On second glance, oh, no. “It was a dead mouse,” he said. “Karl Rove reaches over, grabs a napkin, reaches in, grabs this big dead mouse — and throws it in the shrubs. He walks back over.”

He thanked Mr. Rove, and told him, ”You are never to mention this to anyone.”

Later that night, in his opening remarks before a packed auditorium, Mr. Rove announced to half the campus that there was a dead mouse in Dr. Casey’s pool.
272 2009-10-08 One of the first things many people notice after upgrading to Apple’s iTunes 9 is that the program’s browser pane, which lists artists, albums and genre, has moved to a vertical list along the left side of the iTunes window. If you prefer the old browser position (which sat along the top of the iTunes window with side-by-side panes that showed the music library’s artists, albums and, optionally, genre), you can change it back. Go to the View menu in iTunes, select Column Browser and choose On Top instead of On Left. (If the browser isn’t showing, choose Show Column Browser from the View menu first.)
273 2009-10-08 Remodelista.com, a home design blog known for dissecting the components of stylish rooms, has been redesigned as a Web site with tools to help renovators and amateur decorators outfit a home. The reconfigured site allows readers to browse products by category, create clip files, e-mail items to friends and buy appliances, hardware, lighting and furniture.

Remodelista.com was started in 2007 by four friends — Julie Carlson, Sarah Lonsdale, Janet Hall and Francesca Connolly — with a similar taste for livable rooms furnished with a mix of classics, vintage finds and modernist pieces.

“We thought of it as an information-sharing vehicle,” Ms. Carlson said. “Why shouldn’t friends with a similar sensibility share their renovation files online?”

Since then, the site’s traffic has grown by about 20 percent a month, she said, reaching 100,000 unique visitors last month. Like Apartment Therapy, the site is earning a reputation as a sourcebook for interior design at a time when many shelter magazines, including Domino, House & Garden and O at Home, have fallen by the wayside.

“I can’t say that we foresaw all these magazines closing,” Ms. Carlson said. “But we were conscious that we could create something new.”
274 2009-10-08 Q. Why do MP3 players have only an FM radio, but not AM radio — which has a lot of sports, news and talk stations?

A. Many companies have opted for FM over AM radio in portable MP3 players for technical reasons. For one, AM radio requires a longer antenna to pull in the signal than FM radio does. Since part of the appeal of an MP3 player is its small size, stuffing an AM antenna inside the device could make it bulkier and more unwieldy.

Signal interference can also hinder AM radio. FM radio generally has better sound quality than AM radio — which makes FM more appealing to manufacturers looking to produce sleek, high-fidelity music players.

While it’s not easy to find a MP3 player that comes with both AM and FM radio, they are out there. The C. Crane Witness ($180; C. Crane provides details at bit.ly/ANFkG) is one such MP3 player that includes an AM radio tuner.
275 2009-10-08 The Bowers & Wilkins Mini Zeppelin and the Bose SoundDock 10 are fairly expensive systems for playing music from an iPod, iPhone or computer ($400 for the Mini Zeppelin, coming in November; $600 for the Bose, available now). Both companies say the technology inside makes it worth it. The Mini Zeppelin streams digital data directly from a music device using what the British company says is an audiophile-grade digital-to-analog (DAC) converter, bypassing the DACs in the music players.

The Bose SoundDock 10 has a few tricks of its own, including a pair of proprietary Twiddler transducers (a combination of a high-frequency transducer and midrange driver; in other words, a speaker).

There’s an auxiliary input and video output (to use the iPod to send content to a TV) but no U.S.B. connector. Bose says it will offer an optional $150 Bluetooth dock to stream music from a phone. STEVE WILLIAMS
276 2009-10-08 European antitrust regulators said Wednesday that they had tentatively accepted ’s concessions to settle two antitrust cases, which the company said left both organizations free to focus on the next generation of technology giants, including .

The competition commissioner, , said at a briefing Wednesday that concessions made by Microsoft to give European computer users a choice of Web browsers appeared to address many antitrust concerns. She said another case against the company could be settled this year.

In a telephone conference call with reporters, Microsoft’s chief lawyer, Brad Smith, did not mention Google by name. But he said clearing the decks in meant the company could turn its attention to the market for Internet search technologies and winning approval for its proposed merger with . That deal would allow Microsoft to become a bigger player in online advertising, a market currently dominated by Google.

“It is very important for us to resolve competition law issues that have been on the agenda for more than a decade,” Mr. Smith said. “I don’t think that hurts, and it probably helps as we address some other issues.”

“There are still loose ends to tie up, but it looks like the battle with Microsoft is in the end game and there is a clear vacancy for antitrust poster child in ,” said Stephen Kinsella, an antitrust partner with the law firm Sidley Austin. “My money is on Google.”
277 2009-10-09 Renee Fleming speaks about the role of the Marschallin in “Der Rosenkavalier.”...
278 2009-10-09 The Red Sox try to even their division series against the Angels behind Josh Beckett....
279 2009-10-09 In the final installment of a four-part interview from 1980, Richard Burton talks about drinking, among other things....
280 2009-10-09 The iStik is an iPod holder that hangs on to your clothes with magnets....
281 2009-10-09 The quest for a regulator that will keep financial consumers from being taken to the cleaners by their bank or their mortgage broker or their credit card issuer....
282 2009-10-09 While Barnes & Noble has made its e-book store available on a range of devices, including the iPhone, BlackBerry and coming e-readers from Plastic Logic and Irex, it has always left open the possibility that it would develop and sell its own devic...
283 2009-10-09 ....
284 2009-10-09 A New York City Transit report says the much-maligned line is, indeed, terrible, and officials say they are trying to fix it....
285 2009-10-09 The Patient Money columnists Lesley Alderman and Walecia Konrad start a new series on employee health benefits and the open enrollment process....
286 2009-10-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
287 2009-10-09 September results for the nation's biggest hedge funds are starting to trickle in and DealBook has gotten a hold of a few. We'll updating this list as more funds report their gains or losses for the month....
288 2009-10-09 Monologue | Aired Thursday night on "The Tonight Show With Conan O'Brien": This weekend, President Obama plans to appoint his Administration's first openly gay ambassador, David Huebner. Huebner will serve as the U.S. ambassador to Barbra Streisan...
289 2009-10-09 An attempt at making brisket that's a little more elegant than usual....
290 2009-10-09 The Cardinals' Ryan Franklin proved unable to retire four Dodgers hitters late in Game 2 of the division series, leading to Los Angeles's victory....
291 2009-10-09 The pledge prompted an environmental group to say the country was less generous than it appeared....
292 2009-10-09 A strong showing by hedge funds in September pushed the industry's total assets to almost $2 trillion, but funds are still far from their peak of $3 trillion in 2008, according to new data....
293 2009-10-09 Yohji Yamamoto, the Japanese fashion design house, said Friday it has filed for bankruptcy protection, citing slumping sales amid a global downturn....
294 2009-10-09 Zoe Cruz, once one of Wall Street's most powerful women before her ouster from Morgan Stanley almost two years ago, is planning to launch her own hedge fund, The Wall Street reported....
295 2009-10-09 New World China Land, the Chinese property arm of New World Development, is planning a rights issue to raise more than $600 million, three banking sources told Reuters on Friday....
296 2009-10-09 One of two former Bear Stearns managers indicted for fraud over the collapse of hedge funds in 2007 feared a "blow-up risk" to investors as early as November 2006, according to an e-mail released on Thursday....
297 2009-10-09 Twitter is in advanced talks with Google and Microsoft about licensing its data feed to the companies' search engines, AllThingsDigital reported....
298 2009-10-09 Re “The Burger That Shattered Her Life” (front page, Oct. 4): As a dietitian, I agree that eating beef is still a gamble — but it always will be. As long as we produce and consume huge quantities of cheap meat, the risks of foodborne illnesses — and diet-related chronic diseases — are not going away.

The National Cancer Institute recently published a study of more than half a million people that found that those who ate 4 ounces of red meat a day — the size of a small hamburger — were more likely to die over the next 10 years, mostly from heart disease and cancer.

If more people dropped burgers and other animal products and moved toward a plant-based diet, we would have lower chronic disease rates, and the animal agribusiness industry would shrink, making the whole food supply safer.
299 2009-10-09 Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta, who took the helm of a wounded department in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, has decided to leave the job at the end of the year.

In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Scoppetta, 76, who has held several high-ranking jobs in five decades of public life, said he was exploring teaching possibilities at various city universities, just as he had been doing when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tapped him to lead the Fire Department in January 2002.

“The reason I am leaving now is I have decided, after 47 years, that if I am ever going to get to those other things, like teaching and writing, and some traveling,” said Mr. Scoppetta, “I better get to it now.” His departure is effective Dec. 31.

Mr. Scoppetta said he and the mayor had had no specific discussions about a successor. He declined to name candidates.

Reacting to the news, Stephen J. Cassidy, the president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association, a firefighters’ union, issued an e-mail statement through a spokesman that said, “The Scoppetta years were not kind to the Fire Department of the City of New York.”

John J. McDonnell, the past president of another union, the Uniformed Fire Officers Association, said he and Mr. Scoppetta had “agreed to disagree” on some occasions. “We sort of had some rocky roads, but we maintained an open-door policy, which, as a union official, was one of the most important things you can ask for,” Mr. McDonnell said.
300 2009-10-09 ONE of the most popular tactics in consumer advertising these days is what is known as cause marketing or cause-related marketing, whereby companies seek to do well by doing good. So widespread has cause marketing become that it is being expanded from products for people to products for their pets.

For instance, for some time the Pedigree brand of dog food sold by Mars has been promoting its support of pet adoption. Now, Del Monte Foods is making its donations to an organization named Canine Assistants the centerpiece of a campaign for its Milk-Bone line of dog treats.

Underlining that focus is the theme of the campaign: “It’s good to give.” The double meaning is meant to convey that just as Milk-Bone is good to give your dog, you can also get a warm and fuzzy feeling if you give to good causes  or support brands that do.

The campaign, created by the New York and San Francisco offices of Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, has a budget estimated at more than $10 million. The ads began appearing on Sept. 21 and are scheduled to run through the spring.

The campaign includes the first television commercials for Milk-Bone in several years. There is also print advertising, ads in coupon inserts in Sunday newspapers, information on the Milk-Bone Web site (milk-bone.com or milkbone.com) and elements in social media like Facebook, Flickr, Twitter and You

Milk-Bone is “a bit of a sleeping giant,” said Christie Fleming, vice president for marketing at Del Monte in San Francisco, and “as we thought about the next generation of growth, reminding consumers why they should continue to purchase Milk-Bone is critically important to us.”

Out of those discussions came the concept of playing up the “emotional” aspects of the brand along with the “functional” aspects, Ms. Fleming said, an idea encapsulated in this language on the brand’s home page: “When you give the wholesome goodness of Milk-Bone dog snacks, you’re giving more than cleaner teeth and fresher breath. That’s because every time you buy Milk-Bone dog snacks, a portion of the proceeds goes to help the Canine Assistants organization.”

Canine Assistants, based in Alpharetta, Ga., has trained and provided service dogs since 1991 to adults and children with disabilities and special needs. Ms. Fleming said that in the 12 years the brand has been supporting the organization, more than $10 million has been donated, along with supplies of Milk-Bone. The brand also sponsors events at which the service dogs are presented to their new owners.

“Cause marketing, we believe, will work well,” Ms. Fleming said, “because of the emotional connection pet parents have with their pets.” The term “pet parents” is used by marketers of pet products to denote the devoted pet owners who treat their pets like children.

The television commercial features Jake Jeter, a recipient of a dog from Canine Assistants. He is a law student who was injured in an accident that left him in a wheelchair.

Mr. Jeter is shown rolling down a hallway in his wheelchair with his dog, Carly. They leave a building after the dog opens a door with its paws and he gives the dog a Milk-Bone, which the commercial calls “the treat that gives back.”

Cause marketing is another way to woo consumers in tough times, said Sean Hardwick, senior vice president and group management director at the Irvine, Calif., office of Draft FCB, because “there’s only so much value advertising people will accept in this climate.”

“There’s tons of ‘save this’ and ‘dollars off’ that,” he added. “I think people will welcome a respite from it.”

As altruistic as cause-marketing campaigns may be, Mr. Hardwick said, “you’ve got to be pretty clear why you want people to buy the product.”

“And in this advertising,” he added, “we’re pretty clear.”

There is also a link on the Milk-Bone Web site to the Web site of Canine Assistants. And those who want to donate directly to Canine Assistants, rather than indirectly by buying Milk-Bone, may do so through another link on the Milk-Bone Web site, which takes them to the donation section of canineassistants.org.

Other agencies working on the campaign, in addition to Draft FCB, are Starcom Worldwide in Chicago, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, for media buying, and Catalyst:SF in San Francisco, the digital agency of record for Del Monte, for executing the interactive part of the campaign.

The Milk-Bone fan page on Facebook, under the label It’s Good to Give Milk-Bone, is tracking the progress of a service dog in training named Noble, a lab and golden mix puppy. Photographs and brief text reports have been posted since Sept. 10 and more than 660 people on Facebook have become fans.

Users of Twitter can follow the brand through #Milkbone. The Milk-Bone Web site offers examples of some comments.

Someone named Axongap wrote: “A wiener dog approached me today and asked for a ride because he ran out of gas. Was I wrong in giving him a Milk-Bone instead?”

And someone named iandblair wrote: “The dog wants a Milk-Bone, forgot where I hid them. Oh oh.”

Or as a famous canine, Astro of “The Jetsons,” would put it, “Ruh-roh.”
301 2009-10-09 Get your subterranean church organs tuned and make sure your chandeliers are firmly affixed to the ceiling: the Phantom is extending his reach. On Thursday, Andrew Lloyd Webber disclosed the initial details of “Love Never Dies,” his long-in-the-works sequel to “The Phantom of the Opera.” As Phantophiles already know, the musical moves the story from a Paris opera house to the Coney Island boardwalk, where the Phantom and his love, Christine, once again cross paths (presumably not in line for the Cyclone). In a release, press representatives for “Love Never Dies” said that its world premiere would take place at the Adelphi Theater in London on March 9. Its Broadway opening is scheduled for Nov. 11, 2010, at a theater to be determined, followed by an Australian run in 2011. The London production is to star Ramin Karimloo (of London’s “Phantom” and “Les Misérables”) as the Phantom and Sierra Boggess (of Broadway’s “Little Mermaid”) as Christine. It will be directed by Jack O’Brien (“Hairspray,” “The Coast of Utopia”). Above from left, Mr. Lloyd Webber, Ms. Boggess and Mr. Karimloo.
302 2009-10-09 By Mr. Zandi’s reckoning, from this year to next, more than four million households will surrender homes to foreclosure or through so-called short sales, where the property is sold for less than the bank is owed.

The half-million mortgages that have been adjusted to create lower payments for borrowers have been modified only on a trial basis.

After three months of successfully making new payments — no sure thing — borrowers must then submit additional paperwork to turn the trial terms into a permanent modification, creating more room for bureaucratic stumbles.

Administration officials shed no light on what experts say is a crucial determinant of the ultimate success of the program: They said they did not know how many of the mortgage modifications had actually lowered the loan principal, as opposed to merely stretching out the life of the loan through lower payments.

Experts say homeowners whose principal balances are reduced are much less likely to fall back into delinquency. Reducing the principal is particularly important for those who are underwater, meaning they owe more than their home is worth.

“When people are underwater, they have a much higher re-default rate,” said Diane Thompson, a lawyer for the National Consumer Law Center. “If some subsequent life event happens, if there’s a storm and they need money for repairs, if they lose their job, or they have to move and they need to sell the house, they are absolutely stuck.”

Even as the Obama administration reports progress, many homeowners continue to express deep frustration with the program.

In Hampton, Ga., Maxine Yancy and Michael A. Blaino say they were already approved for a loan modification from their mortgage company, GMAC, only to be informed that their agreement was mysteriously canceled, with the lender still threatening to foreclose on their home.

Far from the free-spending, exuberant borrowers commonly associated with the foreclosure crisis, Ms. Yancy and Mr. Blaino, her son, typify the fastest-growing source of trouble: Those who have fallen into danger because of a lost job.

Ms. Yancy, 73, is a retired schoolteacher whose income is about $2,200 a month — roughly half from Social Security, the rest from a part-time job teaching at a community college. She and her son together bought a three-bedroom ranch six years ago, paying just under $123,000. They have a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage at an interest rate of a little more than 8 percent, requiring payments of $1,089 a month.

The payments were manageable until June 2008, when Mr. Blaino lost his job in the reservations office of a local hotel. When the mother and son heard about the Obama administration’s plan for loan modifications in February, they contacted their lender right away.

When they sent in the paperwork, they were twice told that their file was incomplete. After sending in their paperwork a third time, GMAC responded with a “temporary workout plan” and invited them to pay $785 for the next three months.

Ms. Yancy says she promptly mailed in a check only to have it returned with a letter saying they were delinquent. When she called customer service for an explanation, GMAC explained that a certified check was required, though this condition had not been disclosed.

She sent in a money order for her July payment, then more for August and September. But when Ms. Yancy called GMAC last month to see about the status of their application for a permanent loan modification, she was told that the workout plan had been canceled and their house would soon be sold in foreclosure, she recalled.

Horrified and confused, she pressed for an explanation, and was told that they had failed to pay the agreed-upon lower payment of $1,088.

“That totally doesn’t make sense, because that was our original loan payment,” Ms. Yancy said. “It’s crazy.”

In the last two weeks, she and her son say they have left repeated messages with GMAC seeking a supervisor who can get to the bottom of the matter. “This morning I woke up with hard pain in my chest right where my heart is,” Ms. Yancy said. “I know that this is probably from the stress of dealing with GMAC.”

A GMAC spokeswoman declined to discuss the case, citing its privacy policy, but said generally that the lender has been eagerly processing loan modifications. The office that handles loan modifications has expanded its staff by 30 percent since January, and servicing teams have been working extra hours and on weekends, she said.

According to a report released by Treasury on Thursday, GMAC had modified 26 percent of eligible loans that were at least two months’ delinquent in September, making it one of the better performers. Bank of America, by contrast, had modified only 11 percent of such loans, according to the report.

Some mortgage companies tell customers they cannot modify loans because they merely send out the monthly bills, while the mortgages are actually owned by investors. Yet industry insiders say many mortgage companies can profit by delaying the process and keeping homeowners in long-term delinquency, extracting myriad fees.

Administration officials said they would continue to press mortgage companies for improvements in their handling of applications. On Thursday afternoon, Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban Development summoned representatives from major mortgage companies to Washington for further discussions.

“We’ve put significant pressure on the servicers to ramp up production,” said Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, in Thursday’s briefing. “We are keeping that pressure on.”

Treasury first announced its foreclosure relief program in February. Under the plan, the government pays mortgage companies $1,000 for each loan they modify, and $1,000 a year for up to three years. The plan was advanced with the promise that it would eventually spare up to four million households from foreclosure. At the end of June, only 143,000 trial modifications had been begun, the Treasury Department now estimates.

In July, frustrated by the slow pace and irritated by homeowner complaints, the Treasury Department summoned major mortgage companies to Washington for what was subsequently described by officials as a dressing down. The mortgage companies promised to improve their staffing and training. The administration soon set a target of 500,000 trial loan modifications by the end of this month, reaching that goal three weeks early.

Still, officials said much work remained. “Unacceptably large numbers of families across the country are still at risk of losing homes,” said Mr. Geithner.
303 2009-10-09 Mr. Reid pointed to the budget office report in announcing the vote. “The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office confirmed that the Finance Committee plan — which is one of five plans before Congress to reform the way health insurance companies treat people in this country — will reduce the deficit,” Mr. Reid said.

“It didn’t say it will keep the deficit the same; it didn’t say it will increase it, not even by a penny,” Mr. Reid went on. “It said, in black and white, that the Finance Committee’s bill will reduce our deficit not just in the short term, but over the long term as well. That’s something progressives, conservatives and everyone in between can applaud.”

But not everyone was applauding.

Republicans, who are overwhelmingly opposed to the legislation, minimized the significance of the cost analysis. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, went so far as to call the cost analysis “irrelevant.”

“The fact is, the bill it’s referring to will never see the light of day,” Mr. McConnell said on Thursday. “That’s because the real bill will soon be cobbled together in a secret conference room somewhere in the Capitol by a handful of Democrat senators and White House officials.”

But Democrats rejoiced. Several wavering Democrats and one Republican, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, had said they would be influenced by the budget office report.

Within minutes of receiving the report, Mr. Baucus, the chief author of the bill, was on the Senate floor, boasting that it would cover millions, reduce the deficit and revamp the health care system for the 21st century. “The report is good news,” he said. “Our balanced approach in the Finance Committee to health reform, I think, has paid off.”

Peter R. Orszag, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said the analysis “demonstrates that we can expand coverage and improve quality while being fiscally responsible.”

The cost analysis by the Congressional Budget Office was a crucial test. If the numbers had come in much higher — if, for example, the price tag had exceeded $900 billion — they could have delayed or derailed Democrats’ effort to pass a bill this year.

The budget office said Medicare savings and revenues from new taxes would grow at a brisk pace beyond 2019, so the bill would probably “reduce federal budget deficits over the ensuing decade, relative to those projected under current law.”

Democrats had worried that changes made by the committee, in seven days of deliberations, would add to the cost or reduce the number of people covered. The projected 10-year cost of the bill did increase, from $774 billion in Mr. Baucus’s original proposal. But the new costs were more than offset, and the budget office found that the latest version would reduce deficits by $32 billion more than the original plan.

The bill would require people to have insurance but reduced the penalties for those who violate the requirement. Senators of both parties had expected this change to reduce the number of people gaining insurance under the bill. But the budget office did not alter its estimate.

In a sign of the furious debate that lies ahead, hospital lobbyists said Wednesday that the coverage was not good enough to meet the terms of an agreement they had reached with Mr. Baucus and the White House. The industry said it had agreed to accept $155 billion in reduced Medicare payments over 10 years, provided that 97 percent of all legal residents were insured.

“They have not yet met the standard of our deal,” said Charles N. Kahn III, president of the Federation of American Hospitals, a trade group.

Republicans were not impressed by the new numbers. Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee, said: “The bill spends nearly $1 trillion and still leaves 25 million people without health insurance. That’s not much bang for the buck.”

Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said the bill would “create a massive new entitlement” to government-subsidized insurance.

Other Republicans noted that in a separate report the budget office said Wednesday that the deficit tripled to a record $1.4 trillion in the 2009 fiscal year, which ended last week.

A companion bill moving through the House would cost more, but would also do more to expand coverage, leaving 17 million people uninsured in 2019, the budget office said.

The House Democratic Caucus held meetings throughout the day to seek a consensus on its version of the legislation. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the discussions focused on the size and shape of a proposed government-run health insurance plan, which, under the House bill, would compete with private insurers.

“There will be a public option in the bill,” Ms. Pelosi declared.

In its analysis of the Senate Finance Committee bill, the budget office said a proposed expansion of Medicaid would add $345 billion to federal spending over the next 10 years. State Medicaid spending would rise by $33 billion, as 14 million people would be added to the Medicaid rolls.

The other big federal cost would be subsidies totaling $461 billion over 10 years, to help low- and middle-income people buy insurance.

The budget office said a proposed tax on high-cost insurance policies would raise $201 billion over 10 years. Penalties paid by people who go without insurance would total $4 billion over 10 years, far less than the $20 billion expected under Mr. Baucus’s original proposal. Employers who did not provide health benefits would pay $23 billion in penalties, down from the $27 billion previously estimated.

Mr. Baucus’s bill would create a Medicare commission, with power to make cutbacks in the program, unless blocked by subsequent legislative action. The budget office said the commission would save $22 billion over 10 years.

The bill would establish insurance cooperatives, to compete with private insurers. But the budget office said the co-ops would not establish “a significant market presence in many areas.”

The budget office found that the Finance Committee would reduce payments to private Medicare Advantage plans by $117 billion over 10 years while cutting the growth of Medicare payments to other health providers by $162 billion. Republicans contend, and Democrats deny, that beneficiaries would suffer as a result.

Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Democrat in the Senate, moved Wednesday to address criticism of the penalties that would be imposed on people who go without insurance. The penalty would be phased in from 2013 to 2017, when an adult without insurance would generally have to pay an excise tax of $750 a year.

Under Mr. Schumer’s proposal, those payments would be deposited in a new federal trust fund and could be used in the future to buy insurance for the person who had paid the taxes.
304 2009-10-09 But riders said they liked having the agents around, particularly at night as a deterrent against crime. A compromise plan in 2005 reoriented the job toward customer service, placing some clerks outside the booths to better assist riders. Now that program is being wiped out.

In all, nearly 800 more agents will be reassigned in the next several years; those who retire will not be replaced.

Transit officials say the changes will not make the system more dangerous. At least one entrance at every station retains a 24-hour staffed booth, and customers at an unattended entrance can use intercoms to reach the agent on duty. Security cameras monitor many subway platforms and entrances, and crime has fallen significantly.

But at Times Square, the system’s busiest station, passengers who enter near Mr. Hossain’s shop are two blocks (and several staircases) from the nearest staffed booth. At smaller stations, the nearest agent can be on the wrong side of four uncrossable subway tracks.

At the 110th Street station on the No. 1 line, no agent remains on the uptown platform.

“It’s really irresponsible; it doesn’t make sense to me,” said Noni Valhackett, 20, a resident, as she waited for a friend in the station around 10 p.m. on Tuesday.

“A young woman in New York shouldn’t have to be somewhere late at night where there’s no one around,” Ms. Valhackett said.

Beneath the Port Authority Bus Terminal on Tuesday, some riders struggled to navigate the nuances of the system. David Rainbird, , a resident on the way to , could not carry his suitcase through the turnstiles, but there was no agent around to open the service gate. He ended up getting help from a equipment repairman who happened to be nearby.

“If I didn’t speak English, I would have been completely stuck,” a relieved Mr. Rainbird said afterward. “I might as well be on the subway.”

The repairman, who was scraping the underside of a reader, said he had been fielding questions for hours. “It bothers me, because I have to keep up with my work,” he said. (He would not give his name, saying he was not authorized to speak with reporters.)

Matt Freemantle, an English tourist on a gap year before starting at University College London, waited five minutes to get directions from a clerk in a booth. He said he preferred the London subway, where agents often interact with customers with no partition between them.

“It’s more clear; it’s easier to speak to them,” he said, adding that the New York clerk’s directions were garbled. “They can point out exactly where to go.”

The new chairman of the transportation authority, , who helped run London’s system for six years, said the changing role of station agents was emblematic of changing technology in the transit world. London’s use of computerized fare cards allows for fewer agents with more flexibility in their role, he said.

Mr. Walder noted that New York’s agents were never intended to be security guards, and that the system is much safer than it used to be. In an emergency, agents are instructed to call for help, not to interfere.

“The board had to make some very tough decisions to be able to deal with a tough financial circumstance,” Mr. Walder said in an interview on Thursday. “We will continue to have a presence in every station. We have a Police Department that is doing a fabulous job on crime. I think it was an appropriate decision.”

This year’s reduction in agents saved $5.7 million, according to .

Still, critics of the change insist that the clerks provide a reassuring presence for riders. “I just don’t think the authority has an appreciation for the convenience of its customers,” said , a staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a riders’ advocacy group.

Others cited the recent arrest of a terrorism suspect in , who was accused of trying to construct the same type of explosives used in the 2005 transit bombings in London.

“It’s imperative that we have as many eyes and ears as possible,” said Norman Seabrook, an authority board member and chairman of its safety and security committee.

Still, some riders shrugged off the changes and said they barely noticed that the clerks had disappeared.

“I’ve never actually talked to them or anything, so it doesn’t bother me,” said Alex Shiozaki, a Juilliard student, who was waiting for the uptown local train at 110th Street. “There are other people taking it at the same time, so it’s safe.”

“I’m a law-abiding citizen,” said of Upper , sitting a few feet down the platform. “It doesn’t bother me.”
305 2009-10-10 Live analysis from St. Louis of the Game 3 of the National League division series between the Cardinals and the Dodgers....
306 2009-10-10 Two days after Italy’s highest court deemed unconstitutional a law granting Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi immunity from prosecution, Mr. Berlusconi said he had no plans to step down. “I am the best prime minister ever,” he said at a news conference on Friday, Italian news media reported. “I am absolutely the politician most persecuted by prosecutors in the entire history of the world throughout the ages.” He said that he had spent “200 million euros on judges,” only to be corrected by associates, adding, “Excuse me, on lawyers.” Mr. Berlusconi’s Fininvest holding company was fined $1.1 billion last week for bribing judges in the 1990s. There are three cases pending against him concerning his business dealings.
307 2009-10-10 Peter Bergen and Sameer Lalwani’s plan to tax foreign contractors carrying out aid projects in Afghanistan should be considered only after less disruptive measures with higher payoffs are carried out.

Most Western governments do not tax income earned in Afghanistan, so the Bergen-Lalwani plan would lead to an exodus of foreign expertise unwilling to take on ever-increasing risk for less pay or, more likely, to an increase in the price of aid projects.

Besides, any change in taxation would not reduce the obvious perquisites that foreign workers enjoy, and locals resent.

In the short run, instead of insisting on new taxes, the government should collect taxes it is already owed.

As little as a year ago, it failed to collect the tax that many of the airlines operating in Afghanistan charged for each ticket sold. Customs collection should also be tightened.

The Afghan government fails to spend effectively, too. The government should demand meaningful direct technical assistance from its allies to stretch the money it already gets.

This, in addition to more local procurement for civilian and military aid, would improve the perception that matters most: the Afghan people’s of their own government.
308 2009-10-10 William C. Thompson Jr., the Democratic candidate for mayor and a decided underdog, has found one way to pump up his message, even if listeners have sometimes been left scratching their heads.

On Mr. Thompson’s marches through street festivals across the city, an assistant carrying a megaphone is assigned to accompany him and serve as announcer, crowd-controller and trash talker.

“Meet Bill Thompson,” the aide may yell, “a real Democrat for a Democratic town.”

“Vote for Bill,” goes another line, adding, in a dig at Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s out-of-town roots, “he’s Brooklyn-born and Brooklyn-raised.”

On a recent Sunday, the job of providing color commentary fell to Walter Mosley, the Thompson campaign’s Brooklyn field coordinator.

Mr. Mosley has no formal training in the craft, instead relying on a combination of wit and whimsy. “I make it up on the fly,” he said.

At times it showed. Some of his one-liners worked; other didn’t.

“Meet Bill Thompson,” he yelled into the bullhorn, “a real New Yorker for real New Yorkers.”

A few seconds later, he tried out this one: “Meet Bill Thompson  a real man for all men.”

“It’s time to make history,” he said. “It’s time to make Bloomberg history!”

Perhaps conceding too much, he told the crowd: “Give the man encouragement. It’s a hard road.”

As if sensing a fumble, he added, “Anything worth having is hard.” MICHAEL BARBARO

Mayor Bloomberg and City Councilman John C. Liu did not seem to have enjoyed sharing the same stage. But if they don’t, they may have to get used to it.

At an annual Hindu festival at South Street Seaport last Sunday, the two occupied the same stage for the first time since Mr. Liu won a runoff in the Democratic primary for comptroller over David Yassky, a Brooklyn councilman who was reportedly favored by Mr. Bloomberg. And in a preview, perhaps, of the next four years (assuming, of course, that both win on Nov. 3), Mr. Bloomberg found a way to rib Mr. Liu  a frequent Bloomberg critic  that could be viewed as either good-natured or awkward.

First, Mr. Bloomberg joked: “You can visit a dozen different neighborhoods in our city and find Hindus praying next to Muslims praying next to Jews praying next to Buddhists praying next to Christians, and the only thing they’re arguing about is, ‘What are we going to do about the New York Mets?’ “

Mr. Bloomberg then poked fun at Mr. Liu: “But I will take full credit for the good weather today. Now, come on. We have to have some rain so we can keep the streets clean and fill our reservoirs. And I had to decide whether the rain was yesterday or today, and I know that John Liu is going to try to take credit. But he hasn’t won in the general election yet, so he’ll be doing that afterwards.” DAVID W. CHEN

Most New Yorkers still seething over Mr. Bloomberg’s campaign to extend term limits can express their anger at the polls.

Carl V. Powlett decided to do it across a T-shirt.

Mr. Powlett, 54, a jack-of-all-trades from Brooklyn, has designed a line of cotton shirts emblazoned with the slogan “I used to like Mike.”

He said the shirt ($15) sums up the prevailing mood in New York City this election season: People who once admired the mayor, for his apolitical approach and corporate résumé, are now infuriated with him.

“I remembered the ‘I like Ike’ line from the 1950s,” said Mr. Powlett, who kept the punchy rhyme, but reversed the sentiment.

“I typed it on my computer in big letters and stared at it for an hour,” he said. “It just felt right.”

Before he created a Web site this week, he received nine orders, just by wearing the shirt around town. It comes in six colors, and three sizes: small, large and extra large. “Anyone who sees it wants to talk about it,” said Mr. Powlett, an independent. “It’s a me-too kind of thing. People are angry.”

The shirt, he said, appeals to people because “it’s not threatening, or offensive.” Best of all, Mr. Powlett said, “it’s not easily refuted by the opposition.”

“You can’t tell somebody they are wrong for not liking him anymore,” he said.

With Mr. Thompson building his entire mayoral campaign around term limits, Mr. Powlett’s business prospects are improving. A big city union, District Council 37, has expressed interest in buying a few dozen.

“It would be nice to sell 10,000 of these shirts,” he said, “but that is not likely.”

Wherever Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is campaigning, there is Margaret Setterholm.

At a Hindu festival one day. At an endorsement by John D. Podesta, a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton two days later. And then three days later, at yet another endorsement, this time by Mayor Manny Diaz of Miami.

Ms. Setterholm is the kind of volunteer any candidate would love  though the deep-pocketed Mr. Bloomberg isn’t exactly pining for free help.

Still, there she was, dutifully doing her part, holding a campaign placard as the politicians spoke.

“I don’t like career politicians,” Ms. Setterholm said. “I don’t think they’re really connected to the people. It’s all about stagecraft.”

Ms. Setterholm, a Democrat, said t she got involved as a Bloomberg volunteer in 2001. She said that she was a true believer then  even more so than some staff workers, whom she remembered preparing résumés in the weeks before Election Day, convinced that Mr. Bloomberg would lose.

She has lived overseas for much of her life and is a big proponent of democracy. So she was a bit peeved on Friday when she was asked by a campaign worker to stop talking with a reporter. “Freedom of speech,” she said dismissively, before continuing to chat.

She enjoys occasional accidental interactions with Mr. Bloomberg. On Sunday, for instance, the mayor spotted her with some takeout food. Curious eater that he is, he asked what she was having. “Indian,” she said. “Do you like it?”

“I do,” he responded. “But I’ve got a dinner to go to.”

One more fact about Ms. Setterholm. She lives in Yonkers so can’t vote for Mr. Bloomberg.
309 2009-10-10 Mr. Klaus said he wanted the Czech Republic to have an opt-out of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which lays down the basic human rights of all European Union citizens, including property rights.

“I have always considered this treaty a step in the wrong direction,” he said Friday. “It will deepen the problems the E.U. is facing today, it will increase its democratic deficit, worsen the standing of our country and expose it to new risks, among other things also because it endangers the legal status of the citizens and the stability of property rights in our country.”

Prime Minister Jan Fischer said Friday that the government, in its review of the treaty, had not found any risk that it would open the door to property claims. And he insisted that the country could still complete ratification of the treaty by the end of the year, despite Mr. Klaus’s latest demand.

But Union officials said the changes requested by Mr. Klaus would require, at the bare minimum, that a revised treaty noting the exception be ratified again by the Czech Parliament, and probably by all other 26 member nations, too. That would mean a delay unacceptable to most nations.

Jerzy Buzek, the president of the European Parliament who met Mr. Klaus on Friday in Prague, said he was optimistic that Mr. Klaus’s demand could be satisfied by other means. Mr. Buzek, a former Polish prime minister, noted, for example, that Poland and Britain had already secured opt-outs from the charter.

Poland wanted assurances that the Union could not impose laws on social issues such as abortion, while Britain did not want provisions such as the right to strike.

Legal experts noted that one solution to avert a unionwide crisis could be for the bloc’s 26 other member states to issue a declaration at a summit meeting later this month in Brussels agreeing to Czech demands. Such a declaration was used to address Irish concerns about the treaty after Ireland rejected it in a referendum in June 2008.

Unlike the Czech Republic, Poland and Britain negotiated their charter opt-outs before the ratification process of the Lisbon Treaty started.

Some Czechs said Mr. Klaus’s attempt to link the Lisbon Treaty to post-war property claims, long an emotional issue here, was a populist maneuver. Others said the famously contrarian Mr. Klaus was seeking to assert his power and grab the spotlight. Formally, the Czech President has a largely ceremonial role; in practice, in the 20 years since Communist rule ended the office has been held only by two dominating figures, Vaclav Havel and his fierce rival, Mr. Klaus.

Mr. Klaus may be using Lisbon “to change a parliamentary system into a semi-presidential system,” Mirek Topolanek, the former Czech prime minister, this week told the Prague Post, an English-language newspaper.
310 2009-10-10 Mr. Obama said that the Chamber’s latest effort, part of a campaign by businesses to seek loopholes and exemptions from important rules that could protect consumers, reflected how “business has been done in Washington for a very long time.” He noted that over the last decade, the Chamber had spent nearly half a billion dollars in lobbying expenses.

“Contrary to what some have argued, this agency would not restrict consumer choice and innovation,” Mr. Obama said. “Nothing could be further from the truth. In the past, a lack of clear rules led to innovation of the wrong kind: the firms that did best were the ones that did the best job of hiding the real costs to consumers.”

In response to the president’s remarks, Thomas J. Collamore, a spokesman at the Chamber, said, “The U.S. Chamber is focused on job creation and economic growth. It is our constitutional right to petition our government on behalf of our members, the millions of businesses trying to make their way out of this recession.”

And David Hirschmann, president of the Chamber’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, issued a statement that the group disagreed that a “massive new federal agency with unprecedented powers over vast segments of the business community will be good for consumers, for America’s job creators or for the economy.”

While the public debate has focused on the plan to create the consumer protection agency, a huge and related behind-the-scenes lobbying battle has erupted over the issue of whether the new law would set a floor or a ceiling for regulation of lenders. Specifically, industry lobbyists have sought to kill the administration’s proposal to enable states to set higher standards for banks. The industry has sought lower federal standards, and the pre-emption of any state regulations that would go further.

The outcome of that fight will help determine whether the legislation fundamentally alters the way banks and other less regulated lenders are supervised. The Bush administration largely succeeded in a series of court fights in blocking more aggressive state regulators and prosecutors from imposing tougher standards on lenders, including those that issued what are now seen as predatory loans.

Mr. Obama signaled his intention to continue to push for a prominent role for local supervision of lenders, introducing four state attorneys generals at the meeting: Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, Lisa Madigan of Illinois, Martha Coakley of Massachusetts and Roy Cooper of North Carolina.

Senior Treasury officials, in interviews this week, repeated their commitment to preserving a major role for state regulators and prosecutors in policing financial companies, and said that those states that had more aggressive local regulation often have had fewer problems with their lenders. But industry lobbyists disagree — and to the extent some bank lobbyists and executives support a federal financial consumer protection agency, they see it as a possible way to set lower federal standards that could pre-empt more restrictive action by the states.

The White House meeting comes days before the House Financial Services Committee begins to mark up the administration’s plan. Next week the committee will draft legislation overhauling the regulation of derivatives and creating the new agency. What remains to be seen is whether the new regulatory framework will have more teeth than the current system, which according to most experts was so lax that it was a major contributor to the crisis.
311 2009-10-10 Then sit down with pencil and paper and go through the plan materials for each of your health insurance options, listing the pros and cons of each health care option. (If you don’t have plan materials or can’t access them online, ask your company’s benefits department for copies.)

Be sure to go through this same exercise with your spouse’s open-enrollment packet as well, even if your family has previously been insured under your benefits. With so many changes, you may find your spouse’s plan ends up being a better deal than yours.

But read carefully. This year many companies have cut back on or eliminated spousal coverage.

SIGN UP FOR FLEX SPEND There is one sure thing about this year’s open-enrollment period: your out-of-pocket costs for things like deductibles and co-payments are bound to increase. That makes it more important than ever to take advantage of your company’s flexible spending account.

These accounts allow you to put aside money tax-free to pay for approved medical expenses, like co-payments and over-the-counter cold medicines, with pretax dollars. Depending on your tax rate, you can save about 20 percent on your health care costs. Nonetheless, only 22 percent of eligible workers sign up for flex-spend plans. Don’t be part of this unsophisticated statistic. Sign up this year.

You need to calculate carefully, however, because any money in the account you don’t use for approved medical expenses is forfeited. (For advice on how to best manage your flex-spend account see our previous “Patient Money” column on the topic. A link is provided in the online version of this article.)

And be sure to read the plan terms carefully. Some big employers are cutting back the maximums they’re allowing employees to save in flex-spend accounts just as out-of-pocket costs are rising.

STUDY THE DEDUCTIBLES All the rage with employers right now, many high-deductible plans have low hospitalization coverage and low lifetime caps on what they’ll pay for health care benefits, says Kathleen Stoll, director of health policy at Families USA.

If you decide to make the switch, be sure to read each of the high-deductible plan offerings carefully. The good news is that many employer-sponsored high-deductible plans now offer limited prescription drug coverage and coverage of preventive and wellness care.
312 2009-10-10 Mr. Adams does so brilliantly in this searching, experimental de facto symphony. The first movement, “The City and Its Double,” begins with a wash of orchestral sound, murmuring motifs and rhythmic shards. Scurrying figurations break out and whirl around, getting stuck in place one moment, spiraling off frenetically the next. Is this harmonically astringent be-bop or weird echoes of a Baroque toccata?

Eventually the violins begin a winding, sometimes aimless-sounding episode of fitful, churning lines. Mr. Adams has become a master at piling up materials in thick yet lucid layers. Moment to moment the music is riveting. Yet, as in some other Adams scores, I found it hard to discern the structural spans and architecture of this one.

The pensive second movement, “The Song Is for You,” with its hazy sonorities, slithering chords, sultry jazzy solos and undulant riffs, does somehow convey California. The third movement, “Boulevard Night,” begins languorously but soon erupts, all jagged, quirky and relentless. Call it “The Rite of Swing.”

Mr. Dudamel, gyrating on the podium and in control at every moment, drew a cranked-up yet subtly colored performance of this challenging score from his eager players. He seemed so confident dispatching this metrically fractured work that I was drawn into the music, confident that a pro was on the podium.

Like Mr. Dudamel’s Beethoven Ninth at the Hollywood Bowl, the Mahler performance was not what you might expect from a young conductor. For all the sheer energy of the music-making, here was a probing, rigorous and richly characterized interpretation, which Mr. Dudamel conducted from memory. The suspenseful opening of the first movement, with its sustained tones and cosmic aura, had uncannily calm intensity. But when bird calls and genial folk tunes signaled the awakening of nature, the music had disarming breadth and guileless tenderness. And Mr. Dudamel was all ready-set-go when Mahler’s wildness broke out.

In the rustic second movement, he captured the music’s beery, galumphing charm, and milked the Viennese lyricism with the panache of a young Bernstein. He and his players uncovered the slightly obsessive quality of the songful slow movement, with its droning repetition of tonic-dominant bass patterns. And he viscerally conveyed the fits and starts of the mercurial finale, building to a brassy climactic fanfare almost scary in its ecstasy.

The musicians were with him all the way, though the playing was rough at times, with patchy string tone and scrappy execution. For all the important accomplishments, of Mr. Dudamel’s predecessor, Esa-Pekka Salonen, he was not the most gifted orchestra builder. The vitality of the playing was always inspiring. No one wants the slick virtuosity that some orchestras are content with. Still, Mr. Dudamel and his players may have work to do.

At the end, as a confetti shower of Mylar strips fell from the ceiling, Mr. Dudamel returned to the stage again and again. But he never took a solo bow from the podium. Instead, he stood proudly with his players on stage.
313 2009-10-10 BANGKOK — Myanmar’s military government allowed Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the country’s beleaguered democracy movement, to hold a rare meeting with foreign diplomats on Friday as part of what appear to be early but tentative signs of a détente between the junta and Western governments.

The meeting focused almost exclusively on Western sanctions against the country, diplomats in Yangon, Myanmar’s largest city, said.

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi has angered the junta with her support for sanctions, but in recent weeks she has suggested that she is open to changing her mind on the issue.

“She was at great pains to say that this was fact-finding and that she had reached no policy view yet,” said Andrew Heyn, the British ambassador to Myanmar, who represented the European Union at the meeting.

“We did a lot of the talking in response to questions from her,” Mr. Heyn said.

Also present were diplomats from Australia and the United States. Drake Weisert, a spokesman for the United States Embassy, said the meeting lasted an hour and was hastily arranged; Myanmar’s Foreign Ministry sent an invitation to the American Embassy on Thursday.

The United States is reassessing the sanctions put in place after the military government of Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, ignored the results of a landslide election victory in 1990 by Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party.
314 2009-10-10 TOKYO — Yohji Yamamoto, the Japanese designer whose ascetic look defied the overexuberance of the 1980s, fell prey to the global economic crisis on Friday when the company bearing his name filed for bankruptcy protection.

Yohji Yamamoto follows a string of fashion houses into insolvency amid a slump in luxury sales worldwide. The Italian luxury company Gianfranco Ferré filed for bankruptcy in February, while Christian Lacroix, the French couturier, sought bankruptcy protection in May.

The outlook for the fashion industry is especially bleak in Japan. Women here, once the world’s most avid luxury shoppers, are turning to cheaper, more casual fashion in the middle of a prolonged downturn.

Low-cost brands like Uniqlo and the Swedish casual fashion retailer Hennes & Mauritz have become the labels of choice for many Japanese.

Just this week, Gianni Versace, the Italian fashion brand, announced it would close its Japanese stores as demand for luxury goods continued to decline. Versace Japan had sales of 1.6 billion yen in 2008 (about $18 million at today’s exchange rates) compared with 4.1 billion yen four years ago.
315 2009-10-10 Then sit down with pencil and paper and go through the plan materials for each of your health insurance options, listing the pros and cons of each health care option. (If you don’t have plan materials or can’t access them online, ask your company’s benefits department for copies.)

Be sure to go through this same exercise with your spouse’s open-enrollment packet as well, even if your family has previously been insured under your benefits. With so many changes, you may find your spouse’s plan ends up being a better deal than yours.

But read carefully. This year many companies have cut back on or eliminated spousal coverage.

SIGN UP FOR FLEX SPEND There is one sure thing about this year’s open-enrollment period: your out-of-pocket costs for things like deductibles and co-payments are bound to increase. That makes it more important than ever to take advantage of your company’s flexible spending account.

These accounts allow you to put aside money tax-free to pay for approved medical expenses, like co-payments and over-the-counter cold medicines, with pretax dollars. Depending on your tax rate, you can save about 20 percent on your health care costs. Nonetheless, only 22 percent of eligible workers sign up for flex-spend plans. Don’t be part of this unsophisticated statistic. Sign up this year.

You need to calculate carefully, however, because any money in the account you don’t use for approved medical expenses is forfeited. (For advice on how to best manage your flex-spend account see our previous “Patient Money” column on the topic. A link is provided in the online version of this article.)

And be sure to read the plan terms carefully. Some big employers are cutting back the maximums they’re allowing employees to save in flex-spend accounts just as out-of-pocket costs are rising.

STUDY THE DEDUCTIBLES All the rage with employers right now, many high-deductible plans have low hospitalization coverage and low lifetime caps on what they’ll pay for health care benefits, says Kathleen Stoll, director of health policy at Families USA.

If you decide to make the switch, be sure to read each of the high-deductible plan offerings carefully. The good news is that many employer-sponsored high-deductible plans now offer limited prescription drug coverage and coverage of preventive and wellness care.
316 2009-10-11 Photo: Scott Dalton for The New York Times
317 2009-10-11 What really happened in Germany, 1931....
318 2009-10-11 Advocates plan a march on the Mall on Sunday....
319 2009-10-11 Alabama forced five turnovers, including four interceptions of Ole Miss quarterback Jevan Snead. The Crimson Tide pressured Ole Miss relentlessly, leaving Snead ineffective and longing for his old blind-side protector, Michael Oher.

“Their big weakness on their team is their offensive line,” the all-American nose tackle Terrence Cody said. He added, “As we kept hitting him and knocking him down, he was wearing down and started making bad throws.”

The Tide’s specials teams dominated as well, forcing two fumbles, blocking a punt and converting a fake punt with a nifty pass up the middle.

The big question Alabama still has to answer is this: can McElroy lead the offense against the top-tier defenses they will see the rest of the season? The Tide still has to play South Carolina, L.S.U. and Tennessee before that potential matchup against Florida for the conference title.

McElroy looked more like a caretaker than a playmaker Saturday, and he eagerly agreed that his most important statistic of the night was his lack of turnovers. He finished 15 of 34 for 147 yards, but was still smiling. He said he “probably played my worst game of the year up to this point,” but added, “I had zero interceptions and zero fumbles that were lost — you have to be happy about that.”

McElroy often telegraphed his passes to the star receiver Julio Jones by locking too long on him, or forcing passes into double and triple coverage. If Alabama reaches the Bowl Championship Series title game, it will do so because of its offensive line and gritty running game.

The sophomore tailback Mark Ingram finished with 173 yards on 28 carries. His punishing style epitomized Alabama’s ground game, as it often took three or four Mississippi tacklers to bring down the Tide’s ball carriers.

While Alabama churned out yardage, Ole Miss was stuck in neutral.

Snead entered the season as the consensus No. 2 quarterback in the SEC, after Florida’s Tim Tebow, and draft pundits were projecting him as perhaps the N.F.L.’s No. 1 pick in 2010. But Snead has been perhaps the biggest disappointment in college football this season. He entered the game ranked 10th in the SEC in passing efficiency, and Ole Miss Coach Houston Nutt acknowledged that all the preseason expectations might have weighed on him.

Snead’s baffling fall from Heisman candidate to SEC punching bag could be seen in an inept first half. He had as many completions as interceptions — two — and the Rebels had only one first down. It was so bad for Snead at one point that an Ole Miss sports information official hustled over to the statistics keepers during the second quarter to see if an interception could be changed to a fumble. (It was not.)

It was that kind of day for Ole Miss. As dusk settled, and the fans streamed out of the stadium into the biting cold, all the preseason promise here officially blew away.

The season is only halfway done, but the story lines in the SEC are beginning to look a lot like last season’s.
320 2009-10-11 When AIDS researchers released results last month from a six-year trial in Thailand of a new AIDS vaccine, they said it showed some promise for new avenues of research, though they freely admitted their data was weak.

Now two published accounts citing anonymous AIDS researchers who were given confidential briefings about the trial results have reported that the data, released on Sept. 24, may be even weaker than the authors admitted — essentially, instead of being 31 percent better than nothing, the vaccine might be only 26 percent better.

The accounts were on Science magazine’s Web site and in The Wall Street Journal.

The debate is over which participants in the study should be counted — all 16,395 Thais who participated at some point or only the ones who got all the doses of the vaccine and stayed in the study for the full time.

The researchers said last month that the vaccine seemed to work 31 percent better than a placebo — and there was only a 4 percent chance that that 31 percent difference was simply a fluke. To some it seemed that a promising step had been made in the long search for a vaccine against AIDS, which has killed more than 25 million people.

But others who have seen the research say that a “per protocol” analysis, that is, how the vaccine worked among the Thais who got all six vaccine shots at the right time and were followed up to the trial’s end, would show that the results were not statistically significant
321 2009-10-11 While most twins go home without serious complications, government statistics show that 60 percent of them are born prematurely. That increases their chances of death in the first few days of life, as well as other problems including , eye and ear impairments and learning disabilities. And women carrying twins are at greater risk of pregnancy complications.

In fact, leaders of the fertility industry and government health officials say that twins are a risk that should be avoided in fertility treatments. But they also acknowledge that they have had difficulty curtailing the trend.

Many fertility doctors routinely ignore their industry’s own guidelines, which encourage the use of single embryos during the in-vitro fertilization procedure, according to interviews and industry data. Some doctors say that powerful financial incentives hold sway in a competitive marketplace. Placing extra embryos in a woman’s womb increases the chances that one will take. The resulting babies and word of mouth can be the best way of luring new business.

Doctors are also often under pressure from patients eager for children, who have incentives to gamble as well. Frequently, they have come to IVF as a last resort after years of other treatments, are paying out of pocket, and are anxious to be successful on the first try. And many do not fully understand the risks.

Dr. William E. Gibbons, incoming president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, said his organization was concerned about the risks of twin pregnancies and would issue new guidelines at a meeting next week to further discourage . “People should be made aware of the concerns that we think twins are not a good outcome,” Dr. Gibbons said.

The industry creates preterm infants with in-vitro and other fertility treatments even as government and nonprofit groups work to fight the nation’s 12.7 percent rate of prematurity, regarded as a major national health care problem.

While IVF multiples are typically the children of affluent women, much of the effort at reducing premature birth has been focused on prevention and prenatal care for low-income women. A study released last week by the March of Dimes cited fertility treatments as one of the main reasons for a 36 percent increase in prematurity in the last 25 years.

The government estimates that caring for premature infants costs $26 billion a year, including $1 billion for IVF babies, expenses that eventually get passed through the system and on to businesses and consumers.

The unusual birth of in in January notwithstanding, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine and its affiliate, the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology, have succeeded in reducing the number of larger multiple births from in-vitro fertilization over the last several years.

The two medical organizations and the federal have been promoting the use of single embryos in many cases to reduce the number of twins. But that has not translated into major action at the 483 fertility clinics across the country. The latest figures from the industry show that women under 35, the group most likely to get pregnant from the treatments, choose to use single embryos in only 4.5 percent of in-vitro rounds.

“You can’t convince a couple that having twins is a bad thing,” said Dr. Maurizio Macaluso, who runs the C.D.C.’s women’s health and fertility branch. “That’s a major communication problem.”

In 2006, a record 137,085 twins were born in the , double the number in 1980. Of that total, 23,284 were the result of IVF, according to government statistics. The number does not include twins born as a result of other fertility treatments.

Most fertility doctors acknowledge the potential problems with twins, whether conceived naturally or through fertility treatments. But many say that the good done by their industry — creating new families — outweighs the bad, and that twins are not such a risky bet because most are healthy.

“At the end of the day, when you dissect the statistics out, our patients are interested in establishing a family and a pregnancy,” said Dr. Michael Swanson, a fertility doctor who treated Ms. Mastera.

It is a tricky cost-benefit analysis, however, and one that potentially involves the worst kind of collateral damage, the type that figures in the of expectant parents.

Erin and Scott Hare of lost their twin daughter, conceived through in-vitro fertilization. Her surviving brother, Carter, who was born at just over 24 weeks, is doing well but needs therapy for lingering problems.

George and Narine Nazaretyan of Van Nuys, Calif., have twin daughters conceived through IVF. One of the girls, Natlie, has a severe case of , which occurs four to six times as frequently in twins as in single babies.

Cutting down preterm births from IVF would be an easy way to make a small dent in reducing the nation’s prematurity problem. Dr. Macaluso calls them “low-hanging fruit” — a partial solution that is within reach.

But there is concern among public health officials that the problem may instead grow as fertility treatments become available to more people.

“In the past few years, we have felt increasingly uncomfortable because we feel like we are sitting on the tip of the iceberg,” Dr. Macaluso said.

In the competitive marketplace for fertility medicine, success rates are the metric by which in-vitro clinics thrive or fail. The rates — meaning the chances of producing a baby at each clinic — are published by the C.D.C. and are widely used by couples to choose a doctor.

Congress passed a law in 1992 that required the data to be disclosed after some clinics were exaggerating their numbers to lure potential clients. But there is evidence that the law has had the unintended effect of pressuring doctors to transfer multiple embryos to maximize their success rates.

“If a person does not have as high a pregnancy rate as his neighboring competitor, they’re going to lose those prospective patients,” said Dr. David Kreiner, medical director of East Coast Fertility, a network of fertility centers based in Plainview, N.Y.

A busy fertility clinic can be extraordinarily lucrative, generating millions of dollars a year. And fertility doctors can take on godlike status in their communities for delivering their priceless commodities.

Knowing that prospective parents can easily seek IVF elsewhere, doctors give them unusual autonomy in deciding how many embryos to transfer.

For many in-vitro patients, the high cost of treatment is often a factor in making that decision. When Ms. Mastera had the procedure at Conceptions Reproductive Associates of Littleton, Colo., in September 2008, she was a candidate for single embryo transfer under industry guidelines. At age 32, and having never before undergone in-vitro fertilization, her chances for pregnancy were excellent.

Conceiving a child had become an obsession for the couple, who had met in 2000 while working as customer service representatives for Nextel. By 2006 they were married, living in a modest split-level home in Aurora and ready to start a family.

“I just told Jeff one day, ‘I think we should get off ; I’m ready,’ ” said Ms. Mastera, who was 30 at the time. “He was like, ‘O.K., let’s do it.’ ”

After trying unsuccessfully for more than a year, the couple consulted two fertility specialists in 2007 and spent more than $15,000 on the four rounds of intrauterine insemination.

“You’re an emotional basket case because you’re on these hormones,” Ms. Mastera said. “We’d be constantly worried about money. Like constantly. How are we going to pay our phone bill this month? Or our ? Because we’re having to pay for all these fertility treatments.”

In-vitro fertilization was the next logical step, but the price tag was even more daunting. Depending on the clinic, its location and the extra services included in the treatment, the procedure can run $12,000 a cycle to more than $25,000.

In 2008, the Masteras consulted their third fertility expert, Dr. Swanson at Conceptions. They chose him partly based on his clinic’s high success rates as published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Ms. Mastera’s would cover about $8,000 for the procedure and drugs. Frequently, insurance does not cover anything. Almost $18,000 in clinic fees and other costs remained for the couple, who proceeded to cash out their and money market accounts and put the remaining balance on a low-interest credit card.

Like many families, the Masteras could not afford a second cycle. So when the couple was given a choice by their doctor of implanting one or two embryos, they decided to increase their chances with two.

“This was our Hail Mary pass,” said Ms. Mastera, now 33. “We thought, let’s just do it. At the time, it was like, twins, they can be fun. They are fun, but holy cow.”

Some public health experts are frustrated by the disconnect between the medical risk of twins and society’s perception.

Twins are celebrities and celebrities have twins. The pop culture media goes into overdrive when stars like and give birth to twins.

“When they have their twins, it’s a very acceptable thing,” said Dr. Frank L. Mannino, medical director of the neonatal intensive care unit at the , Medical Center. The center expanded the unit last year, citing increased demand for the services, largely because of the use of fertility treatments.

Dr. Alan R. Fleischman of the March of Dimes, which has begun distributing literature discussing single embryo transfer, said a result of playing down the risks of multiple births is that many women undergoing in-vitro prefer to have twins.

“It’s not just a matter of hoping that if you put two embryos in, you’ll get one baby,” Dr. Fleischman said. “There are many women who actually want to have two children and would like to have their full family with one pregnancy.”

The problems began at week 24 of Ms. Mastera’s pregnancy.

The human uterus is designed to carry one fetus. An on Jan. 7 showed that the extra burden of twins was placing pressure on her cervix, causing the amniotic sac surrounding Max to begin pushing through.

“I was really stunned; I couldn’t believe what was going on,” said Ms. Mastera, who had not been having symptoms. “They came in and said, ‘You are going into surgery right now.’ ” As doctors tried to comfort her, Ms. Mastera said, she began crying uncontrollably.

In a procedure called a cerclage, doctors pushed the sac back into her uterus, then stitched up her cervix.

“The doctor said that if she were pregnant with one, she would have been just fine,” said her husband, Jeff, 31. “The sheer weight of the babies was just pushing them lower and lower.”

After the procedure, Ms. Mastera was ordered to remain in bed at home. Doctors hoped she would make it close to her April due date. But on the night of Feb. 15, Ms. Mastera’s water broke.

Her boys were born the next day, and were not the healthy babies she had dreamed of. “They wheeled me in, after I had recovered for an hour,” she said. “And it was weird. They looked really frail and unhealthy.”

Ms. Mastera said she was aware of the risk of prematurity with twins and had discussed the issue with Dr. Swanson before having the in-vitro procedure. Informed-consent documents given to patients by fertility doctors normally detail the increased risk of twins. But even with those increased risks, the actual number of serious outcomes like fetal death or brain damage is small.

While the average single pregnancy in the United States now last about 39 weeks, the average twins are born at just over 35 weeks, , according to the . And there is emerging evidence that babies born at that time can develop learning problems.

“There’s increasing evidence that the 34-, 35-, 36-weekers, the bigger prematures — and there are large number of those — have significant problems with learning later on, even though their mortality isn’t high” said Dr. Richard E. Behrman, a pediatrician and former vice president and dean of medical affairs at Case Western Reserve University who led the institute’s committee on preterm birth in 2006. “And that’s not appreciated in the obstetrical and lay community.”

According to one federal study, about 30 percent of all twins end up in a neonatal intensive care unit. Twins are eight times as likely as single babies to be born at very low birth weight — defined as under 3 pounds, 4 ounces. These are the babies who often need the longest care and face the biggest problems. Dr. Macaluso calls them “million-dollar babies.”

Carter Hare, the son of the couple, was one of them. His birth announcement in December 2006 gave a hint of the trouble: “Carter is born! 24 weeks 4 days.”

His health was touch and go. “They gave us a very grim outlook,” his mother, Erin Hare, said recently.

Doctors were aware early on that Ms. Hare’s pregnancy might be complicated. Three months before becoming pregnant with in-vitro twins she had miscarried a single in-vitro baby because of a condition called incompetent cervix, a problem similar to Ms. Mastera’s.

After becoming pregnant with the twins, Ms. Hare had her cervix stitched closed to keep her babies in place and remained hospitalized for much of the pregnancy.

At 20 weeks, an ultrasound showed that her baby girl’s heart had stopped beating, an apparent result of a compressed umbilical cord. “It was hard,” Ms. Hare said. “I actually at that point stopped accepting visitors. I put a ‘Do Not Disturb’ sign on the door.”

In her solitude, Ms. Hare was fighting to continue carrying both her son and the lifeless body of her daughter, whose sac began bulging through her vagina, threatening the entire pregnancy. Doctors performed a second cervical surgery, continuing efforts to keep her son from being born before 24 weeks gestation, regarded as the point of viability.

He was born four days beyond that milestone, 12 inches long and weighing one pound, 12 ounces. Carter spent 102 days in the neonatal intensive care unit at Presbyterian Hospital of Plano, near .

“He’s really a little miracle baby,” said Ms. Hare, a accountant. The family has since moved to Houston. Despite initial heart and eye problems, Carter did not require surgery. He receives therapy for sensory problems that sometimes develop in .

“He wouldn’t like being in a pool,” Ms. Hare said. “He would scream. His senses are just off. He has an extremely high tolerance for pain, then sometimes he’s real sensitive. The whole sensory process, when they develop outside the womb, it just doesn’t develop. It takes longer.”

Despite her troubled pregnancy, Ms. Hare tried another round of in-vitro after Carter was born, this time undergoing a more invasive surgery that stitches the lower part of the uterus and the upper cervix together and requires an abdominal incision.

“A lot of people thought I was crazy, but I didn’t did feel our family was complete yet,” Ms. Hare said.

On April 29, 2008, a daughter, Lauren, was born by at 36 weeks, 4 days.

In March, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the March of Dimes held a luncheon in Washington to discuss preterm babies. “The human costs are staggering,” Dr. Steven K. Galson, then the acting surgeon general, told the group. “The medical costs are staggering. That’s why we’re here.”

“Today you’re going to hear that preterm birth is not just a significant public health issue,” Dr. Galson said, “but that it also impacts businesses and employer health plans.”

The hospitalization and doctor’s care for Ms. Hare and her son exceeded $1 million. Most of that, about $750,000 to $800,000, was for Carter. The bill was picked up by the self-funded health plan of the Trammell Crow Company, the Dallas real estate company where Ms. Hare worked.

“The following quarter during the earnings release, somebody asked why there was a sharp increase in medical costs,” Ms. Hare said. No one identified her, but Ms. Hare knew that her family had contributed heavily.

In , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention hired an economist to predict what would happen if single embryo transfer were used in a large number of IVF cases.

Dr. Macaluso, the C.D.C. reproductive health official, estimates the patients, businesses and insurance providers would save more than $500 million annually, even taking into consideration the cost of extra in-vitro rounds, by lowering neonatal intensive care, special education and other costs of premature babies.

To reduce the number of twins, some clinics are experimenting with programs that provide IVF with single embryo transfer with free freezing of extra embryos and free transfer of frozen embryos if the first try does not work. Others are working to develop ways to identify the specific characteristics of a single embryo that will turn into a healthy baby.

Dr. G. David Adamson, a former president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, has advocated reducing the twins rate but says that the value of a baby should also be taken into account when discussing single embryo transfer.

“How many healthy babies do we want and what’s the risk and cost to the individual and society of having a baby with problems,” Dr. Adamson asked. “It’s a complex question, and varies from patient to patient.”

For the Masteras, the pain and anguish is fading as they watch their boys grow.

Although they are at risk for developmental problems because of their prematurity, the boys are meeting milestones. Max can now sit up on his own, and Wes crawled for the first time last week.

Ms. Mastera still feels guilty, worried that she did something to make her boys premature. “I don’t know if I’ll ever forget how horrible I felt about them coming early,” Ms. Mastera said. “And I don’t know if I’ll ever forget how we struggled.”
322 2009-10-11 Anchoring occurs when new information about a company’s prospects arrives and analysts are reluctant to alter their forecasts, which would be a tacit acknowledgment that their initial efforts were off the mark. The absorption of changed circumstances is drawn out enough to allow funds that react fairly early to benefit, managers say.

“Investors tend to underreact to positive fundamental change,” said Horacio Valeiras, chief investment officer of Nicholas-Applegate Capital Management. The full response to events “comes over time,” he said, as investors abandon “behaviors that are weighing them down.”

Herding amounts to investors collectively saying, “I’ll have what he’s having.” A trend develops and newcomers latch onto it, reinforcing it and making it look profitable. That brings in more investors, and the cycle continues until valuations are stretched, often to nonsensical extremes, before snapping back when little money remains to keep it going.

The tech bubble in the late 1990s was a notorious example. Another, in reverse, was the overall market collapse last fall and winter. Selling begat selling, and the lower prices went, the more it confirmed — for a while — that selling was the right thing to do.

When herding occurs in a market, behavioral finance funds try to profit by recognizing that the valuation extremes are unjustified, and buying or selling accordingly.

Although the role of emotion in investment may seem undeniable, especially lately, behavioral finance remains a niche discipline among investment professionals and academics. (Funds in Morgan’s Undiscovered Managers series have “behavioral” in their name, but many others that use behavioral techniques don’t.)

The more popular school of thought, the efficient-market theory, is based on the idea that asset pricing is rational and nearly perfectly reflects available economic and corporate information.

The main point in favor of efficient markets is the widely observed inability of active portfolio managers to beat market averages. If markets were inefficient, there should be more evidence that investors with certain skills could beat their peers consistently and predictably.

Followers of behavioral finance see high volatility and trading volume as confirmation that emotion plays a significant role in markets. If everyone has the same information and understanding, why do markets move at all, except for the few minutes or hours after major news? And what is the point of trading securities at any other time?

Will Goetzmann, director of the International Center for Finance at Yale and an authority on behavioral finance, said advocates of efficient markets had begun to concede that there is a sizable psychological component to trading. And a grudging recognition is emerging that there are meaningful differences in talent, he said.

“There has been a reversal of this notion that there isn’t any skill out there” among fund managers, Mr. Goetzmann said. “Research is finding that there are managers that have more skill than others and provide risk-adjusted value.”

Whether many of those who run behavioral finance funds are among them is questionable. Many have produced results over the last 12 months that are in line with the broad stock market. They have also displayed slightly higher volatility. And as paradoxical as it seems, the comparative performance of these funds tends to diminish during periods of peak emotion. Managers point out that behavioral finance techniques work better when the craziness that distorts markets abates, not while it is in full force.

The funds tend to be small, too, and therefore can have high expenses, often close to 2 percent of assets. That erodes returns even in the best of times.

Christopher Davis, senior fund analyst at Morningstar, is reserving judgment on behavioral finance funds, which he considers to be undergoing their trial run. But he is generally unimpressed so far. “It’s fair to say that it’s an emerging academic discipline,” he said, “and its application as an investment discipline isn’t all that far along.”

It’s not clear what significant advantage can be gained from understanding the mechanisms driving investors’ psyches. Just as someone sitting in a tree does not have to be Isaac Newton to know that falling out of it can hurt, an investor ignorant of the inner workings of his peers’ minds can still recognize the merits of a stock that’s cheap relative to the company’s profits.

“The bottom line here is that there’s a fancy theory underlying all these funds, but what they’re doing isn’t all that revolutionary,” Mr. Davis said. “They use quant screens to look for the cheapest stocks, but that’s what fund managers have been doing for a long time.”

AND Mr. Davis says that owning one of the funds doesn’t ensure that a shareholder will be immune from the same emotions that trip up others.

The best way to take principles of behavioral finance into account may not be to buy a specialty fund, he said, but to bear the principles in mind when making all investment decisions.

“Be sure you aren’t falling into any of the behavioral traps,” Mr. Davis advised. “It would be really kind of ironic if you invested in a fund based on behavioral finance and you sold it after the fund had a big loss or added to it after it was up 50 percent.”

“It’s hard not to be human,” he added.
323 2009-10-11 Mr. Buller concentrates his portfolio, holding a smaller-than-average number of stocks. His fund contained 40 in August. Partly, the relatively small size of the real estate sector forces that. But he also plows lots of money into his favorite ideas: “Historically, my top 10 names have ranged anywhere from 35 to 50 percent” of the portfolio, he said.

His largest holding in August, the Simon Property Group, the shopping center owner, represented nearly 11 percent of the portfolio, an unusually large proportion for a fund. “Simon is the Microsoft or G.E. of U.S. REITs,” he said.

In a time of economic tumult, Simon acts as a bulwark, protecting the portfolio if riskier holdings falter. “In this country, even though we have too much retail space, we’re not building a lot of new malls, and there’s a lot of demand for high-quality mall space,” he said.

Mr. Buller’s fund, which carries no sales charge, has an expense ratio of 0.92 percent.

John W. Rogers Jr., manager of the Ariel Fund, had an even worse 2008 than Mr. Buller did. Ariel’s value fell nearly 50 percent. But it has likewise rebounded this year and returned 34.1 percent in the third quarter.

Since he started the fund in 1986, it has returned 9.2 percent, annualized, versus 8.44 percent for the S.& P. 500. It carries no sales charge and has an expense ratio of 1.07 percent.

Mr. Rogers, based in Chicago, buys smaller-capitalization stocks for the fund. He hews to the philosophy popularized by Warren E. Buffett, seeking stocks trading well below his estimate of long-term value and issued by companies with sturdy competitive edges. He hangs onto investments for years.

Ariel has owned shares in Idex, a maker of industrial pumps and dispensers, since 1998. At the end of June, the shares represented 2.65 percent of the portfolio.

J. M. Smucker is a more recent addition. Mr. Rogers began buying its shares in 2003, attracted to its well-known jams and jellies. “I remember going to Orrville, Ohio, to meet with the Smucker brothers,” he said. “I really became a believer in the management team, and I felt like the brand could be around forever.”

Mr. Rogers also concentrates his portfolio, which included 31 stocks in June. But he doesn’t let any one holding grow to more than about 6 percent. “That’s my sleep-at-night range,” he said. “If I had an 8 or 9 percent position, I wouldn’t sleep comfortably.”

He probably endured a few anguished nights in 2008, which he called a “painful, humbling year.” Yet as prices sank, he found stocks that he regarded as steals and scooped them up. While doing so, he recalled the adage of another famous investor: “John Templeton said, ‘Buy at times of maximum pessimism.’ ”

Bradley Radin takes Mr. Templeton’s advice just as seriously as Mr. Rogers, and maybe more so: he manages a fund, Templeton Global Smaller Companies, for the company that Mr. Templeton started.

Mr. Radin’s value hunting led him to the consumer sector. “There’s been such a consensus view that the U.S. consumer is toast, so there’ve been some outstanding bargains,” he said.

One of his favorites has been Tempur-Pedic International, the mattress maker. Many investors dumped home furnishings companies last year as household spending and real estate slumped. Mr. Radin said he believed that mattress companies would be among the first to recover when the economy revived. “We didn’t have any grand insight on when the U.S. consumer would recover,” he said, “but mattresses aren’t exactly discretionary purchases.”

On top of that, companies with well-known brands, like Tempur-Pedic, “are amazingly powerful in this business,” he said. “They do a lot of advertising.”

Mr. Radin, based in Toronto, began managing the fund two years ago. Its Advisor class shares returned 28.8 percent in the third quarter, and were up 65.4 percent for the first nine months this year, compared with a loss of 50 percent last year. The Advisor class, which carries no sales charge, has an expense ratio of 1.12 percent.
324 2009-10-11 JACKSON, Miss. (AP) — The widow of the slain civil rights pioneer Medgar Evers fought tears Friday as Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, a former Mississippi governor, announced that he was naming a new Navy supply ship for her husband.

His widow, Myrlie Evers-Williams, said: “I think of those who will serve on this ship and those who will see it in different parts of the world. And perhaps they, too, will come to know who Medgar Evers was and what he stood for.” She spoke at Jackson State University, where Mr. Mabus made the announcement.

Mr. Evers was Mississippi field secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People when he was assassinated outside his Jackson home on June 12, 1963. He was 37.

“He gave his life for his country,” Mr. Mabus told an audience of about 200.

Mr. Mabus embraced Ms. Evers-Williams and Mr. Evers’s brother, Charles Evers, as they stood before a screen with a color likeness of the ship and a black-and-white photograph of Medgar Evers.

The Medgar Evers will be built at General Dynamics in San Diego, and Mr. Mabus said construction of the 689-foot vessel would take up to two years. The ship will deliver food, ammunition and parts to other ships at sea.
325 2009-10-11 WASHINGTON — In case you missed it — the Nobel Prize announcement may have been distracting — a momentous milestone occurred last week in the presidency of Barack Obama: He spent his first Leif Erikson Day in the White House.

The occasion fell during Fire Prevention Week and National Wilderness Month. It followed fast on the heels of Mr. Obama’s first National Hunting and Fishing Day declaration (Sept. 22) and a week before he gets to proclaim White Cane Safety Day (Oct. 15.)

Every administration will commit countless words, trees and taxpayer-supported staff hours to issuing hundreds, if not thousands, of presidential proclamations. Why? Because they just do, and always have, and because giving a presidential shout-out to some constituency group, public interest or obscure milestone can reap goodwill with some sliver of the population.

So while Leif Erikson Day passed largely unnoticed Wednesday amid the daily presidential smorgasbord of Afghanistan and health care, the White House took care to mark the event with a soaring tribute to the great Scandinavian explorer, just as every White House has since the days of Lyndon B. Johnson.

Mr. Obama hailed Erikson (“son of Iceland and grandson of Norway”) and exalted the “pioneering spirit” of Nordic Americans who “embody our nation’s unbounded enthusiasm for discovery and learning.”

The proclamation is signed simply “Barack Obama,” though — stop the presses — the president himself did not actually write the 348-word document. Presidents, of course, spend no time composing or thinking about these proclamations. They leave it to some Boswell in the White House press, correspondence or speech-writing offices to reflect on, say, Fire Prevention Week and pen documents that begin with topic sentences like this: “As powerful as any force in the natural world, fire deserves our utmost attention.”
326 2009-10-11 “From the beginning of the match until the end I didn’t let my level of play drop and definitely I came into the match really good,” Cilic said. “I was aggressive when I had to be.

The best thing I did today: I didn’t back off, I was just stubborn with my style of play.”

Cilic has lost all three of his previous matches against Djokovic.

Nadal said he had felt under the gun throughout the match.

“He was serving unbelievably, and his returning was very fast and playing winners all the time,” Nadal said. “The worst thing for me was that when I had a little bit of a chance to come back to the match, I didn’t play very well, either.

“If you’re losing, 6-1, 6-3, there are a lot of things you’re doing wrong in that match. I can accept to win, I can accept to lose, but 6-1, 6-3 is — mentally, I probably wasn’t there.”

Djokovic broke Soderling in the first game and, after double-faulting on deuce at 4-3, fired three consecutive aces to hold serve and won the set.

Djokovic broke Soderling’s serve in the second set at 4-3, then served out the match with an ace.

“I assure you that it was a lot more difficult because he’s a big server, a big hitter, and he was very aggressive throughout the whole match,” said Djokovic, ranked No. 2 in the world. “So I was very patient and I waited for my chances that were given to me, and I used them at the right time.”

Kuznetsova had little difficulty dispatching Petrova, who had ground through three-set battles with Serena Williams and Peng Shuai to get to the semifinals.

“I tried to move her around. I knew it was her weakness,” said the sixth-seeded Kuznetsova, winner of the 2006 China Open said of Petrova.

DAVIS CUP FINAL IN BARCELONA The Davis Cup final between defending champion Spain and the Czech Republic will be played in Barcelona.

The Spanish tennis federation announced on Saturday that the best-of-five series scheduled for Dec. 4-6 would be held on the clay courts at Palau Sant Jordi.

The choice was made after the International Tennis Federation rejected Tenerife in the Canary Islands and the southern port city of Malaga because they were open-air courts. Malaga’s stadium also fell under the minimum seating capacity of 12,000.
327 2009-10-11 BEIJING — China’s prime minister called Saturday for the United States and North Korea to engage in a “conscientious and constructive dialogue” aimed at reviving multilateral talks over the North’s nuclear weapons program.

North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-il, suggested in a meeting with China’s premier last week that his country would return to multilateral talks if the United States held bilateral talks and if those negotiations went well. The United States has said it would hold talks with North Korea, but only if they quickly lead to the resumption of multilateral deliberations aimed at resolving the nuclear issue.

The statement by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao seemed to indicate that China was ready to take a more active role in trying to end the standoff between the United States and North Korea, but it remains unclear if he won concessions from the North that will induce Washington to enter into bilateral talks.

Kurt M. Campbell, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, is expected to hold follow-up discussions next week in Beijing and Tokyo, the State Department said.

Since 2003, the multilateral or six-party talks — which include the two Koreas, the United States, China, Russia and Japan — have been the main forum where the regional powers have tried to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear ambitions. But North Korea called the talks “dead” and insisted on a direct dialogue with Washington after the regional powers joined United Nations sanctions that were imposed on the North in the aftermath of its nuclear test in May.
328 2009-10-11 His firm, one of the biggest fund sponsors, has two equity-income entries in its American funds stable: Capital Income Builder, which seeks rising income, and Income Fund of America, which stresses high current income. Each portfolio contains roughly one-third bonds.

These days, a substantial dividend from a company is considered to be at least 2.5 percent to 4.25 percent, compared with a little over 2 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500. Equity-income funds paid an average dividend of 2.54 percent on Sept. 30, according to Lipper.

Companies that pay high dividends tend to be well entrenched, with shares selling at moderate price-to-earnings ratios. Some examples include Caterpillar, Campbell Soup, MeadWestvaco and Heinz.

Stephen R. Petersen, portfolio manager of the $20 billion Fidelity Equity Income fund, calls the equity-high income pairing a practical investment in almost any market climate.

“For people who like the combination of capital appreciation — obviously with volatility but also a relatively good yield vis-à-vis shorter-term investments like money market funds — it’s a very logical and straightforward approach,” Mr. Petersen said.

Also enthusiastic is Celia Brugge, proprietor of Dogwood Financial Planning, a fee-only firm in Memphis. For income-seeking clients, she said she tends to look first these days to C.D.’s, then to short-term bond funds.

After that, however, she gravitates to a favorite equity-income fund — the $2.2 billion Vanguard Dividend Growth fund, which has low annual expenses of 0.32 percent. The fund was formerly known as Vanguard Utilities Income.

“I really like dividend growth funds,” Ms. Brugge said. “Even the most conservative investors need at least a little bit in stocks.”

But while the stocks of dividend payers tend to be cushioned when the market tumbles, equity-income funds can still erode your principal. The category lost 6.42 percent, on average, in the 12 months through September.

“We experience the ups and downs that most other diversified funds either enjoy or are suffering from, just like anybody else,” said Mr. Petersen, the Fidelity manager. His Equity Income fund, which was up 19.6 percent in the third quarter, and down 4.2 percent for the last 12 months.

You can minimize the risk by examining, for example, how much of a portfolio is committed to financial stocks, which traditionally have been equity-income favorites but which have been clobbered in the industry’s downturn.

Determining exposure to various subgroups in the category — banks, insurance companies and diversified financial firms — can help you decide whether to use the fund to bet that the comeback of this past spring and summer will endure.

Another group requiring close scrutiny, said Tom Roseen, senior research analyst at Lipper, is consumer discretionary stocks, which include automotive companies and account for about 8.5 percent of the average equity-income portfolio.

Mr. Petersen, referring generally to the fund group’s risk, said, “Anytime there’s an economic downturn, the risk of dividends being cut is there.”

On the other hand, Mr. Roseen regards as “ripe for expansion” the dividends of energy companies — which are the biggest component of the category’s average portfolio, at 12.5 percent — and those of materials makers and other industrial companies.

And Mr. Hanks observed that equity-income managers no longer have to avoid the fast-growing technology sector, where paying dividends was once virtually anathema. Microsoft, Intel and others now do so.

FUND investors also need to keep an eye peeled for a possible or even likely end to the preferred tax treatment applied to dividends since 2003.

The tax cuts enacted under President George W. Bush are set to expire next year. And the prospect is that income distributions in 2011 will be taxed at the highest marginal rate, the same as interest from bonds.

“There’s a risk that the 15 percent tax rate on dividends — that favorable tax rate — will not continue” much longer, Mr. Petersen said.
329 2009-10-11 Edward E. Yardeni, an independent investment strategist, said that China had kick-started the global economic recovery when it created a huge public works program last fall, and that he thought developing countries would continue to lead the way. “That’s very positive for commodities,” he added, “because these emerging economies spend a great deal on roads and bridges and airports, and their consumers are spending more on homes and cars.”

Mr. Yardeni said that with commodity prices already driven up, he would rather own emerging-markets stocks at this point. Most commodity prices, he said, accurately reflect current supply and demand — except for oil, which he said was more expensive than it should be because of concerns about geopolitical risks. He added that current prices would allow both commodity exporters like Brazil and importers like China to prosper.

But Mr. Yardeni did not object to the idea of an individual investor owning both a commodity fund and an emerging-markets fund in the same portfolio, “as long as you know that you’re doubling down on the same fundamental trade.”

Gonzalo Pangaro, the manager of the T. Rowe Price Emerging Markets Stock fund, predicted that the gap between the growth rates of the developed world and the developing world would widen over the next decade. “I think it will take the developed world some time to deleverage,” he said.

Mr. Pangaro, who previously managed the T. Rowe Price Latin America fund, has put a strong emphasis on Latin America, which makes up 28 percent of the emerging-markets fund, and particularly on Brazil, at 18 percent of the portfolio.

Petrobras, the Brazilian state-run oil company, at 6.2 percent of the portfolio, is the fund’s largest holding. “We’ve owned Petrobras for a very long time,” Mr. Pangaro said, “but in the energy and materials sector, we generally focus on midcaps and small caps.”

The portfolio does not hedge the currencies of countries in which it invests. So investors will be exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, including those for the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso. The fund rose 21.7 percent in the third quarter and returned 12.5 percent in the 12 months through September.

The Van Eck Emerging Markets fund also does not hedge for currency risk, and it tilts toward small and midsize companies rather than the large, formerly state-owned companies that dominate the stock markets in many developing countries. David Semple, the portfolio manager, said that small companies were more likely to benefit from rising consumption in their local markets, which should bolster demand for commodities, “whether it’s steel for cars or crocodile skin for Gucci shoes.”

In the energy and basic materials sectors, this has led Mr. Semple to focus on some stocks that would not be on the radar screen of many natural resources funds, which tend to own larger energy companies. For example, the second-largest holding in the Van Eck fund, recently at 2.2 percent of the portfolio, is KazMunaiGas Exploration Production, which is majority owned by the government of Kazakhstan.

“It has decent assets, and cash in the bank,” Mr. Semple said. But he said the key attraction was its relationship with the government, which gives it preferential rights for oil and gas drilling in Kazakhstan, a central Asian country with vast energy reserves.

Another large holding is the KNM Group, which is based in Malaysia and works on refinery projects for major oil and gas producers worldwide. Its shares trade only on the Malaysian stock exchange.

Van Eck Emerging Markets rose 25.1 percent in third quarter and 23.45 percent during the last 12 months.

THE similarities between emerging markets and commodities are also apparent in the world of exchange-traded funds, said Paul Justice, the E.T.F. strategist at Morningstar, the fund tracker.

Among E.T.F.’s owing emerging-markets stocks, Mr. Justice says, he likes the Vanguard Emerging Markets E.T.F. because of its diverse portfolio and low cost. It rose 21.2 percent in the third quarter and charges 0.2 percent in annual expenses. If investors already own one or two emerging-markets funds, he said, they might consider an E.T.F. focused on small-cap stocks, like WisdomTree Emerging Markets Small-Cap Dividend. It was up 22.9 percent in the quarter.

But after six months of robust returns, Mr. Justice cautioned investors not to expect emerging markets to continue to grow by leaps and bounds. “I’m not saying that it’s going to go negative,” he said. “But I’m not predicting anything like the returns that it’s had this year.”
330 2009-10-11 The man at the center of the American policy conundrum remains a mystery, the subject of adoring mythmaking by his followers and guesswork by the world’s intelligence agencies. He was born, by various accounts, in 1950 or 1959 or 1960 or 1962. He may be hiding near Quetta, , or hunkered down in an Afghan village. No one is sure.

“He can’t operate openly; there are too many people looking for him,” and the eye he lost to Soviet shrapnel in the 1980s makes him recognizable, said Alex Strick van Linschoten, a Dutch-born writer who lives in Kandahar, where Mullah Omar’s movement was born, and who has helped a former Taliban official write a memoir.

“There are four or five people who can pass messages to Omar,” Mr. Strick van Linschoten said. “And then there’s a circle of people who can get access to those four or five people.”

Rahimullah Yusufzai, of The News International, a Pakistani newspaper, who interviewed Mullah Omar a dozen times before 2001, called him “a man of few words and not very knowledgeable about international affairs.” But his reputed humility, his legend as a ferocious fighter against Soviet invaders in the 1980s, and his success in ending the lawlessness and bloody warlords’ feuds of the early 1990s cemented his power.

“His followers adore him, believe in him and are willing to die for him,” Mr. Yusufzai said. While even Taliban officials rarely see him, Mullah Omar “remains an inspiration, sending out letters and audiotapes to his commanders and fighters,” the journalist said.

A recent assessment by Gen. , the top American commander in Afghanistan, identified the Taliban as the most important part of the insurgency, coordinating “loosely” with groups led by two prominent warlords. He concluded that “the insurgents currently have the initiative” and “the overall situation is deteriorating.”

The statement from Mullah Omar, one of a series issued in his name on each of the two annual Id holidays, offered a remarkably similar analysis. He, or his ghostwriter, praised the success of “the gallant mujahedeen” in countering the “sophisticated and cutting-edge technology” of the enemy, saying the Taliban movement “is approaching the edge of victory.”

For a recluse, he showed a keen awareness of Western public opinion, touching on the history that haunts foreign armies in Afghanistan (“We fought against the British invaders for 80 years”), denouncing fraud in the recent presidential election and asking of the American-led forces, “Have they achieved anything in the past eight years?”

American military and intelligence analysts say the Taliban have definitely achieved some things. They describe today’s Afghan Taliban as a franchise operation, a decentralized network of fighters with varying motivations, united by hostility to the Afghan government and foreign forces and by loyalty to Mullah Omar.

The Taliban have deployed fighters in small guerrilla units and stepped up the use of bombings and . The movement has expanded military operations from the Taliban’s southern stronghold into the north and west of the country, forcing NATO to spread its troops more thinly.

Day-to-day decisions are made by Mullah Omar’s deputies, in particular Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a skilled, pragmatic commander, who runs many meetings with Taliban commanders and “shadow governors” appointed in much of the country, analysts say.

Mullah Omar heads the Taliban’s Rahbari Shura, or leadership council, often called the Quetta Shura since it relocated to the Pakistani city in 2002. The shura, consisting of the Taliban commanders, “operates like the politburo of a communist party,” setting broad strategy, said Mr. Yusufzai, the Pakistani journalist. General McChrystal wrote in his assessment that the shura “conducts a formal campaign review each winter, after which Mullah Omar announces his guidance and intent for the coming year.”

Thomas E. Gouttierre, director of the Center for Afghanistan Studies at the , , said that “as a symbolic figure, Omar is a centrifugal force for the Taliban,” playing a similar role to that of in Al Qaeda. But Dr. Gouttierre credits the Taliban’s success not to any military genius on the part of Mullah Omar but to more worldly advisers from Pakistan’s intelligence service and Al Qaeda.

Western and Afghan sources agree on the bare outline of Mullah Omar’s biography: He was born in a village, had limited religious schooling, fought with the mujahedeen against the Soviet Army and helped form the Taliban in 1994. Some accounts say he is married and has two sons.

His emergence as the leader of the puritanical students who later fought their way to the capital, , may have resulted from his very obscurity, some experts say. He was not a flamboyant warlord with allies and enemies, a likely plus for the Taliban’s sponsors in Pakistan’s Directorate. “He had an unaligned quality that made him useful,” Mr. Strick van Linschoten said.

In jihadist accounts, his story has the feeling of legend: “At the height of his youth, he stepped forward against the disbelievers and terrorized their ranks,” says an undated 10-page biography from an Islamist information agency, which also describes how he once refused cream and other delicacies, preferring “a bowl of plain soup with some hard, stale bread.”

Taliban folklore tells of his bravery in the 1980s in removing his own injured eye and fighting on; of his dream in the mid-1990s in which the Prophet Muhammad told him he would bring peace to Afghanistan; and of how in 1996, he donned a cloak reputed to have belonged to the prophet and took the title “commander of the faithful.”

That was the year that Mr. bin Laden moved his base to Afghanistan. Ever since, the central question about Mullah Omar for American officials has been his relationship with Al Qaeda.

In 1998, two days after American missiles hit a Qaeda training camp in an unsuccessful attempt to kill Mr. bin Laden, Mullah Omar telephoned an astonished State Department official, Michael E. Malinowski, who took the call on his porch at 2:30 a.m. Mullah Omar demanded proof that the Qaeda leader was involved in terrorism, according to declassified records. (Mullah Omar also suggested that to improve American relations with Muslim countries, President should step down.)

Mr. bin Laden courted the Taliban leader, vowing allegiance and calling the far less educated man a historic leader of Islam. A letter of advice from Mr. bin Laden to Mullah Omar on Oct. 3, 2001, found on a Qaeda computer obtained by The , heaped on the praise (“I would like to emphasize how much we appreciate the fact that you are our emir”).

Despite intense pressure from the and its allies to turn over Mr. bin Laden, Mullah Omar declined, and paid a steep price when the Taliban fell.

Richard Barrett, a former British intelligence officer now monitoring Al Qaeda and the Taliban for the , argues that Mullah Omar has learned the lesson of 2001. If the Taliban regain power, he said, “they don’t want Al Qaeda hanging around.”

He added, “They want to be able to say, ‘We are a responsible government.’ ”

Indeed, in his Sept. 19 statement, Mullah Omar made such an assertion: “We assure all countries that the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, as a responsible force, will not extend its hand to cause jeopardy to others.”

Mr. Riedel, who helped devise the Afghanistan strategy now being rethought, scoffs at such pronouncements as “clever propaganda.”

“We’ve been trying for years to get the Taliban to break with Al Qaeda and turn over bin Laden, and they haven’t done it,” Mr. Riedel said. “Whatever the bond is between them, it’s stood the test of time.”
331 2009-10-11 TO many, the word alchemy evokes mysterious processes aimed at turning lead into gold and the pursuit of magical elixirs granting immortality. An exhibit at the Bruce Museum, “Alchemy: Magic, Myth or Science?,” offers a broader perspective. Through nearly 100 items, including paintings, artifacts, mineral specimens, scientific instruments, interactive stations and a video, the show explores the far-reaching effects of alchemy and sets it in a historical context as the precursor to modern chemistry.

“Alchemy was a philosophy and practice that sought to understand the nature of matter,” said Carolyn Rebbert, the curator of the exhibition. Its objectives were rooted in the transmutation of one material to another but varied depending on the time and place.

One of the oldest objects in “Alchemy” is a Persian dagger dating back 3,000 years. It is made of bronze, the result of adding tin to copper, and is included in a section of the exhibit that examines the earliest transformative reactions: smelting, the separation of a pure metal from its ore, and fermentation, a biochemical process used for 9,000 years that is necessary to bake bread, brew beer and make wine.

During the Middle Ages, alchemy reached Europe, where practitioners tried feverishly to produce gold from baser metals. In an area of the show labeled “Serious Science or Foolish Pursuit,” 17th-century Dutch genre paintings, including “The Alchemist,” by Pieter Brueghel the Younger, present alchemists’ quest as vain and profligate.

Still, the work of alchemists led to the manufacturing of useful products like porcelain, pigments, perfumes, gunpowder and pharmaceuticals. In the section titled “Alchemical Secrets and Industries” are samples of these substances, as well as paintings depicting a more sympathetic view of the alchemist at work, like David Teniers II’s “Interior of a Laboratory With an Alchemist,” from 1650.

The exhibition concludes at the threshold between alchemy and chemistry with, among other items, a tiny platinum crucible and spoon that once belonged to Antoine Lavoisier, the father of modern chemistry.
332 2009-10-11 Not surprisingly, his approach has not been popular with everyone. Critics seem to view the idea of branding the Louvre as both crass and unnecessary, and are particularly dismissive of Mr. Loyrette’s outreach abroad. Supporters believe that he is merely doing what any museum director has to do these days to make the institution a financially stable place. For Mr. Loyrette’s part, he said he is simply, “making the museum more modern.”

Regardless of his methods and motives, what does seem clear is that Mr. Loyrette, with major plans for expansion, satellite franchises and new partnerships that would have been unheard of even a decade ago, is overseeing the most drastic rethinking of the Louvre’s place and purpose in at least 20 years. (It was 1989 when I. M. Pei finished the then-controversial glass pyramid for the museum’s entrance courtyard.)

On a private tour given over the summer, Mr. Loyrette, lanky, 57, and spry in a dark suit, seemed unencumbered by the weight of the world’s most august and treasured art collection. Instead he seemed preoccupied with the details, spouting facts and figures as he dashed through the seemingly endless halls and galleries. “If you want to see everything you must walk 14 kilometers,” he announced — more than eight miles. Then: “Forty percent of our visitors are under the age of 26.” And on a more worrisome note: “80 percent of the people only want to see the Mona Lisa.”

Much of what he has been trying to do at the museum has been to fuse those numbers so that they are not working at cross purposes: to push the visitors — especially young ones — past the Mona Lisa to explore the miles of largely unexplored artworks beyond it.

Looking at yet another set of numbers, it is hard to argue with his results. Since he arrived a little over eight years ago, attendance at the museum is up 67 percent, with 8.5 million visitors recorded in 2008 and 10 million expected by 2014. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art has nearly 5 million visitors, and the British Museum 5.9 million.)

At the same time he has created an endowment, which right now stands at nearly $175 million, largely to compensate for gradual decrease in contributions from the French government; in 2008 it covered only 47 percent of the museum’s $315 million costs, down from 60 percent in 2001.

Not that Mr. Loyrette hasn’t had some help. His predecessor, Pierre Rosenberg, had started clearing out many of the institution’s cobwebs — introducing corporate financing (a relatively new phenomenon for French museums), hiring a fund-raising staff (also novel) and supervising an ambitious exhibition schedule — in the years before Mr. Loyrette arrived.

While there is a long and ingrained history of philanthropy in America, not so in France, where until recently it was assumed that the government was responsible for the country’s museums.

Mr. Loyrette received some help on this front too. In 2003 a new tax was introduced permitting individuals to deduct 66 percent of the value of any artwork given to cultural institutions and allowing corporations to deduct 60 percent to 90 percent if the work is deemed an historic treasure. The change quickly netted the Louvre 130 Italian Renaissance drawings from the Carrefour retail group — the value of which, Mr. Loyrette said, exceeded the museum’s annual acquisitions budget. More recently the insurance company AXA donated a 17th-century painting by the Le Nain brothers to the museum, and Pierre Bergé gave the Louvre a Goya portrait in memory of Yves Saint Laurent, his partner, who died last year.

Outside of France Mr. Loyrette has embarked on multiple partnerships with the intention of raising both cash and the museum’s profile. Some, like next year’s planned exhibition devoted to the German sculptor Franz Xaver Messerschmidt at the tiny Neue Galerie in Manhattan, seem relatively benign. Others have many worried that he is diluting the Louvre brand at best and cheapening it at worst.

In 2004 he struck a three-year agreement with the High Museum of Art in Atlanta that includes seven temporary exhibitions from the Louvre’s collection in exchange for a $6.4 million donation earmarked for the refurbishment of the Louvre’s 18th-century French furniture galleries.

More controversially, he made a deal two years ago with Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates to create the Louvre Abu Dhabi — a 260,000 square-foot museum designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel and expected to open in 2013 on Saadiyat Island, off the city’s coast. In an arrangement that echoes the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation’s deal with the city of Bilbao, Spain, Abu Dhabi will pay the Louvre $572.1 million for the use of the Louvre’s name and give the French museums another $786.5 million for loans, exhibitions and management advice.

Mr. Loyrette said that the funds will enable him to establish the first-ever endowment for a French museum and pay for special projects that the government will not, but critics were not appeased. “One can only be shocked by the commercial and promotional use of masterpieces of our national heritage,” wrote a group of leading art historians in the newspaper Le Monde in 2007. Similar outrage has been expressed over a plan to build a satellite branch of the Louvre in Lens, an economically depressed mining town northwest of Paris. His critics say a museum there is unnecessary; there are already two provincial museums nearby, one in Lille, another in Arras, both with art from the Louvre.

Mr. Loyrette defends the project. “For people living in Lens there is nothing to see,” he said. In addition to rotating exhibitions from the Louvre’s collection it will also be a laboratory for contemporary art with galleries big enough to showcase large-scale installations.

Others say both praise and criticism of Mr. Loyrette is misplaced, as he is merely carrying out projects initiated by the French government, which has always overseen the running of the museums. Marc Fumaroli, an art historian who is president of the Friends of the Louvre in Paris, pointed out that although Mr. Loyrette is very powerful, he is also “a functionary of the state.”

“The deal with Abu Dhabi was conceived by the government,” Mr. Fumaroli added. “Lens was too.”

But Mr. Loyrette’s biggest challenge might be the Louvre itself. If attendance increases at the rate it has been, in five years 10 million visitors a year will be crowding through an entrance designed for less than half that number. Already there is an exasperating and potentially discouraging crush at the Pei-designed pyramid as visitors vie to get in. Indeed, being told about the line outside the museum was the only thing that made Mr. Loyrette bristle. He said he had asked Mr. Pei’s office to reconfigure the interior space to make it more visitor friendly.

Another troubling reality is that the vast majority of those millions of people come to see only one — or three — pieces of art. “Everyone wants to see the same three things: the Mona Lisa; the Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory,” he moaned.

To make people more aware of the rest of the Louvre’s offerings, he recently released a new audio guide highlighting other works of art. To the same end he is also making sure that contemporary art continues to be subtly installed throughout the museum. His first commission was a painting and two sculptures by the German artist Anselm Kiefer that can be found in a stairwell linking the Egyptian and Mesopotamian antiquities. He recently asked the French artist François Morellet to create stained-glass windows for a Second Empire staircase.

One of the museum’s biggest shortcomings, he realizes, is the lack of American art. “It’s a scandal,” Mr. Loyrette said. “We’re supposed to be a universal museum, yet we only have three American paintings in our collection. So besides showing Mr. Kosuth and commissioning Mr. Twombly’s ceiling, the museum has set up an English language version of its online database, and soon it is expected to announce the expansion of a comprehensive online catalog of works created by American artists in French public collections.

But his most noticeable contribution will likely be the $67 million wing to house the Louvre’s world-class collection of Islamic art, something no other Louvre director has tried to do, and the most radical architectural addition since Pei’s glass pyramid.

“It was not even a department when I arrived,” said Mr. Loyrette. “We did not want to make this a separate museum because Islamic art is so artistically and politically important. It’s so closely linked with all of Western art.”

At 8:30 one summer morning, Mr. Loyrette could be found briefing some of the project’s backers. In addition to the Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, a grandson of King Abdul Aziz, Saudi Arabia’s founder, who has donated $20 million towards its construction (the largest gift ever made by an individual in France.), the French government has pledged $28.5 million, while Total, the oil company, has agreed to put up $4.8 million. The rest is coming from other French companies including Lafarge, the world’s largest cement maker.

The Italian architect Mario Bellini and the French architect Rudy Ricciotti have designed a translucent undulating roof fashioned from small glass disks, which will sit in the center of the Visconti courtyard, a majestic, neo-Classical space in the middle of the Louvre’s south wing.

Inside, the two-story wing will house a good portion of the Louvre’s collection of about 10,000 objects from the Islamic collection, roughly four times its current space, which has only room to show some 1,300 works.

Mr. Loyrette, a trained art historian, appears as comfortable discussing Anselm Keiffer’s paintings as he does the oldest known celestial globe. He decided to join the museum world because he “didn’t want to become a teacher,” he said.

Growing up in Paris, he recalls playing in the Tuileries as a child. “I can’t remember a time when I wasn’t going to the Louvre,” he said. His mother, an Egyptologist, worked there; his father is a lawyer.

He never forgets that the Louvre was originally a palace before it was transformed into a museum in 1793. And he treats it as if it were his home. “I spend every Sunday here,” Mr. Loyrette said. “I don’t have the time during the week.” Each visit he inspects a different set of galleries, looking at the installations, taking note of things he thinks should be changed, making sure nothing is out of place.

“I figure it takes me a month to get through the whole museum,” he said and paused before adding, “Cezanne once said, ‘The Louvre is the book in which we learn to read.’ It’s exactly like that for me too.”
333 2009-10-11 I went to Harvard with Michael Shapiro (hello, Michael!) and would like to answer his letter to the editor (Sept. 20) in response to Drew Gilpin Faust’s Sept. 6 essay, in which much frustration was manifest. Since graduation I have worked in academia, university administration and the private sector. The university is essentially a medieval institution, a bazaar of intellectual goods hawked by hoary promulgators of many divergent truths. It mysteriously produces, after four years, educated people — university graduates. No one has ever figured out another way to do this. However, the university cannot survive without government funding (replacing the church support of medieval times), contingent upon compliance with an array of complex regulations and laws. This has given rise to an entrenched quasi-governmental bureaucracy of managers.

The tenure system — antiquated, ritualistic and of course unfair — by its very quirkiness protects the academic side from being engulfed by the administrative side, as does the independence of departments. Without these inefficiencies, universities would become little better than branches of government, and the variegated thread to our cultural past would be broken. As long as we don’t tamper too much with the core model, we can limp along and pass something of value on to our children, so they can complain bitterly, in their turn, about the cumbersome, inefficient, unfair and bizarre institution called “the university” (and become educated in the process).
334 2009-10-11 In one week, he felt better. In a month, others noticed. “For the first time I thought I’d be alive in a year,” he said. “My planning window changed.” He bought a new suit, visited the dentist again.

He worried that the drugs, like others he had taken, would stop working. But as lesions disappeared, the weight returned, his energy remained good and time passed, “I crossed the line.” He grew accustomed to good health, though he’d changed. “I was more reflective, grateful, guilty, thinking about the ones who were so close, who’d made it to ’94 and ’95 and just missed being saved.”

Sometimes it felt as if he was the last one out before the building collapsed.

He moved 75 miles from Manhattan to Milford, Pa., a frayed, somewhat depressed area, where he bought a run-down hunting cabin on 600 acres. He fished and indulged his interest in historic preservation. “I started projects that took two to three years. I was willing myself to expand my planning window.”

In 2001, he began publishing Milford Magazine, extolling the town’s virtues, and in 2004 he sold POZ.

He fixed up and sold real estate, organized local festivals, opened a restaurant, a bed and breakfast, a newsstand and a mailbox store. In 2001, he and a business partner bought a historic hotel that had been closed 25 years, and in 2006 reopened it as the Hotel Fauchere, renovating it with enough care to become part of the Relais & Châteaux hotel group. “I got hyper-involved in Milford,” Mr. Strub said. “It was like I was putting myself into a Norman Rockwell painting.”

And yet, he couldn’t quite forget.

So many contemporaries had died that, at 51, he now has friends who are mostly older or younger. Even sophisticated young men he would meet, like Matthew Vitemb, 21, a recent graduate of Bard College (who prefers “queer” to “gay,” which he considers an outdated boomer term), had never known an H.I.V.-positive person until he met Mr. Strub.

Mr. Strub was struck that recently, when Representative Tammy Baldwin, the openly lesbian congresswoman from Wisconsin whom he calls a hero, released a video describing the impact of health care reform proposals on gay men and women, she didn’t mention AIDS.

While AIDS deaths in the United States are the lowest in 20 years — 14,497 in 2007, according to federal figures — and the most affected race has changed from white in 1995 to black today, the biggest single group dying is still gay men. “People don’t understand how easily it can happen again,” Mr. Strub said.

Somebody has to be the memory, he said.

In April, for the first time in a decade, he moved back to Manhattan full time, and now spends most of his days working for a small nonprofit group on AIDS issues. “I felt like I’ve done what I can do in Milford,” he said.

So many longtime advocates he’d known from the ’80s and ’90s now suffer from substance abuse and mental health issues like depression, that he has come to think of these problems as a form of post-traumatic stress caused from being so immersed in death.

The book that most brings back the feeling of that time to him is not about AIDS, but about Vietnam: Michael Herr’s “Dispatches.”

“You lived never knowing who would die next, where the next bomb would go off,” Mr. Strub said.

It’s probably a sign of his own trauma that as bad as things were then, “I miss the camaraderie the epidemic created,” he said. “An incredible clarity of purpose. An incredible sense of community.” He finds making new friends easier if it’s someone H.I.V.-positive.

He helped out with the National Equality March that is taking place in Washington this weekend. He assisted a younger black woman, Christine Campbell of Housing Works, a Washington-based AIDS services provider, with organizing the AIDS vigil for Saturday night. During a conference call last week, he was mostly quiet as she described the preparations, speaking up only to remind everyone of the plan to hand out palm cards for collecting e-mail addresses so they could build a contact list for future political action. “I feel like the grandpa,” he said after the call. “This is being created by a new generation of activists, so bright and excited.”

Mr. Vitemb, the recent Bard graduate, said his generation has internalized the lessons of gay boomers. “No one I know has multiple, multiple partners now,” he said. “Most young people now seem to want to be married.” But his generation doesn’t know how these changes came about, he said. “Sean provides a firsthand connection to that.”

Mr. Strub’s first gay rights march on Washington was in 1979. He was 21 and so thrilled that afterward he wrote a six-page letter to his parents in Iowa explaining how he was dedicating his life to the movement.

Now, he is marching in memory of lost lovers, lost roommates, lost doctors and all those others who didn’t make it to 1996 and the new meds. But he is also marching with his cousin, James Neiley of Vermont. James is 17, openly gay, and last spring spoke at a public hearing in Montpelier, presenting state senators a manila envelope filled with 100 letters he’d collected from teachers and classmates at Champlain Valley Union High School supporting gay marriage.
335 2009-10-11 In an age when food is increasingly marketed as organic, locally grown and nominally processed, do you find it odd that you’ve created an online sensation with Hungry Girl, which applies the new pieties about dieting and calorie counting to recipes that hark back to ’50s comfort food like “Gooey cinnamon rolls with cream-cheese icing”? 

I’m sure we’d all be healthier if we ate mostly plants and vegetables and whole grains and very little meat. But I don’t think that is reality for most people. Hungry Girl started because I’m hungry. I have a big appetite.

Are you hungry right now? 

A little bit. I always struggled. I do remember being 9 years old and my doctor saying to my mom, “She could lose a little weight.”

It is said that loneliness is the main cause of overeating. 

I’m not an emotional eater in any way. I just love food. So I find swaps for the foods that people crave, such as potato chips and macaroni and cheese and ice cream.

Right, what do you suggest for those of us who love French fries but are made to feel as shamed as Hester Prynne in “The Scarlet Letter” if we eat them in public?

 Try making butternut-squash fries. I bake them, no oil. They’re just as good. Take a peeled and deseeded butternut squash and cut it with a crinkle cutter, which makes them cuter and more French-fry-like. Then spray Pamon a baking sheet, sprinkle with a little kosher salt and bake for about 40 minutes.

Would that satisfy the desire for both saltand crunch? 

If you want crunch and salt I say go for Popchips. It’s a popped potato snack.
336 2009-10-11 Then he spotted a bulging tree trunk in “Two Ravines,” an image that seems almost Goberesque in its frank sexual content. “It’s the only time I’ve seen a reference to male or female genitalia in Burchfield’s paintings,” Mr. Gober said. “So I think it’s significant to find such a phallic image in a painting of rebirth.”

According to the museum, this is the first time that these two paintings have been reunited since leaving the artist’s studio. (“Two Ravines” now belongs to the Hunter Museum of American Art in Chattanooga, Tenn.; “The Coming of Spring” comes from the Metropolitan Museum of Art.) It’s also the first time that either painting has been shown on the West Coast. The Hammer exhibition, which opened Oct. 4 and travels next year to the Burchfield Penney Art Center in Buffalo and then to the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, proves unusual in one other respect: it is a rare example of an established artist undertaking the time-consuming, research-intensive job of organizing a historic artist’s retrospective.

A number of artists have guest-curated shows recently, typically for museums seeking to show their permanent collections in a new light. The Museum of Modern Art has invited artists including Vik Muniz to stage a show called “Artist’s Choice”; the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden tapped John Baldessari to plumb its storage facilities; and the Menil Collection invited Mr. Gober to rummage through its holdings. Most recently, the New Museum in New York announced that Jeff Koons would be sifting through the collection of the Greek billionaire (and Koons patron) Dakis Joannou for a future show.

But it’s unusual for an artist of Mr. Gober’s stature — he represented the United States at the Venice Biennale in 2001 and had a critically acclaimed retrospective at the Schaulager Basel in Switzerland two years ago — to suspend his own art-making long enough to organize an academically sound solo exhibition, complete with a scholarly catalog. And it was an unlikely subject for Mr. Gober, as he discovered while trying to secure loans for the show. “The funny thing is that if people were familiar with my work they tended not to be familiar with Burchfield,” he said. “If they knew Burchfield, they’ve never heard of me.”

Oddly enough, Mr. Gober says he is not especially obsessed with Burchfield. He said the idea for a show occurred to him only after he and his partner, the artist Donald Moffett, had the Hammer’s director, Ann Philbin, over for dinner in their East Village apartment last year. Ms. Philbin, who was a friend dating back to their days together in the protest group Act Up, spotted on a wall a small Burchfield drawing of a curtain blowing in a window — a work Mr. Gober said he had bought at an auction because “I liked the price — I think I paid $800.” They ended up talking about Burchfield’s legacy, which has been eclipsed by contemporaries like Edward Hopper and Milton Avery. Within a week, they were talking about a show.

“It wasn’t a burning desire of mine,” Mr. Gober said. “If a different museum director was at my house for dinner, I could be doing a Rosa Bonheur show,” he joked, referring to the 19th-century French animal painter, whose work he also owns.

But he said Ms. Philbin’s enthusiasm for Burchfield — she brought a show of his to the Drawing Center in New York in 1993 — got him thinking about “the fact that there has not been a full retrospective of the artist in 20 years and never one on the West Coast.”

“In fact, it’s surprising how many really smart people in the art world don’t know his work at all,” he added.

One reason is Burchfield’s medium. “Because of the fugitive nature of watercolors, many institutions can’t keep their Burchfield paintings on display,” explained Cynthia Burlingham, the Hammer curator who worked with Gober on the show. “Even in low light, the colors can fade or change.”

Another factor is that some Burchfield work from the ’20s and ’30s , like his Hopperesque street scenes, register today as rather conventional. But one effect of this exhibition, which features roughly 80 watercolors as well as journals, wallpaper designs, doodles and other ephemera spanning five decades, is to reveal an artist who was more wide-ranging and inventive than generally assumed. Even the catalog cover — a camouflage design that Burchfield made in 1918 during a stint in the Army — will come as a surprise to many.

Born in 1893 in Ashtabula Harbor, Ohio, and raised nearby in Salem, Burchfield attended the Cleveland School of Art, where his talents as a graphic artist were encouraged. Soon after graduation he put these drawing skills to use on a highly idiosyncratic project representing emotions through a system of semiabstract forms.

He called this visual dictionary “Conventions for Abstract Thoughts,” and the sentiments included “morbid brooding” (which resembles nothing so much as a stage curtain) and “fear” (which in one version looks like the fluke of a whale). It’s the first series visitors will encounter at the Hammer and provides a handy key, for those who like keys, to deciphering the emotional content of paintings to come.

And there were many paintings to come. By most estimates, he made over 200 paintings in 1917 alone: dramatic landscapes as well as local scenes featuring churches, houses and other small-town haunts that at their best vibrate with a van Gogh-like intensity, marked by vivid colors, bold brushwork and rhythmic visual patterning. It was such a feverish year that in 1930 MoMA’s founding director, Alfred H. Barr Jr., skipped over Burchfield’s American Scene paintings to show work from this early period.

At the Hammer, Mr. Gober has reunited 13 of the 27 works from the original MoMA show, which, he discovered through archival research, was the museum’s first show devoted to a single artist. Other early paintings like “The Coming of Spring” appear in expanded form toward the end of the show. Mr. Gober admits to having a soft spot for these “late, great” works, which are, as he wrote in the catalog, “imbued with visionary, apocalyptic and hallucinatory qualities” and managed to reprise “many of the painting ideas that he had developed as a young man.” Burchfield’s transformation, he added, produced “one of the rarest events in the life of any artist: great art in old age.”

While recent Burchfield exhibitions like “Ecstatic Light” at D. C. Moore Gallery in New York have also celebrated the late paintings, Mr. Gober has particular insight into “the arc of an artist’s life,” Ms. Philbin said. “He is asking questions about how and why artists make work and what happens in periods of stagnation, reinvigoration or other phases in an artist’s life.”

Over the course of multiple interviews, Mr. Gober repeatedly steered the conversation from his own art to that of his curatorial subject. Yet Ms. Philbin ventured to make one link, suggesting that the artists on occasion share a dark sensibility, like the curtain drawing that she spotted at Mr. Gober’s home. “This picture is a quiet scene, with no people, that is both perfectly banal and disquieting,” she said. “That’s absolutely Bob Gober and absolutely Charles Burchfield.”
337 2009-10-11 “How do you do. This is a new column about language.”

So began William Safire’s inaugural On Language column on Feb. 18, 1979, which promised to explore “new words, vogue phrases and the intriguing roots of everyday discourse — with occasionally crotchety observations on everything from proper usage to impropaganda.” Immediately following this opening came a moment of linguistic self-reflection that would become a hallmark of the column: should “how do you do” be punctuated with a question mark? Not in this case, he decided, since his simple introduction to readers was an act of telling, not asking.

For more than 30 years, in more than 1,300 crisp installments, Safire used this space to create a singular voice, that of the “Language Maven,” as he styled himself. We lost that voice last month, but we are left with a rich and varied legacy that shaped how Americans talk about talk.

When A. M. Rosenthal, the Times executive editor, asked him to write a language column for the magazine, Safire was already a Pulitzer Prize-winning political commentator, a former presidential speechwriter and the author of a handful of books, including a political dictionary. Yet he professed that he had no real credentials for the new job. “Why not become English-Speaking-World Usage Dictator?” he later recalled of his hiring. “So what if I hadn’t finished college, or even studied Latin? In the language dodge, I figured, a cat could look at a king.”

Though he jokingly anointed himself “Usage Dictator,” he was never comfortable with expectations that he play the part of language absolutist, handing down infallible decrees. “Maven” was a title more to his liking, a Yiddishism that he said contained its own “note of self-mockery.” (An incurable paronomasiac, he also enjoyed punning off the word, as in his 1993 collection of columns, “Quoth the Maven.”) Safire’s acute awareness of the limits of his own expertise was often lost on fans and critics alike. In the words of the University of California linguistics professor Geoffrey Nunberg, “People were always ready to invest him with a more august and imperial role than he was willing to assume.”

As battles raged between prescriptive grammarians and descriptive linguists and lexicographers, Safire more often than not played both sides against the middle. He did not subscribe to the pessimism that typified American language pundits of the 1970s like the NBC newsman Edwin Newman and the theater critic John Simon (the latter of whom beat Safire to the punch by assuming the mantle of “language columnist” for Esquire magazine in 1977). When On Language began, it was a time of great doomsaying. Just five months earlier, in September 1978, Dick Cavett invited Newman and Simon on his talk show to weigh in on the portentous topic “Is English a Dying Language?”

Safire, for his part, saw signs of life everywhere. “I welcome new words, or old words used in new ways,” he wrote, “provided the result is more precision, added color or greater expressiveness.” He exulted in the plenitude of American dialects, eagerly championing the Dictionary of American Regional English (DARE), a monumental research project now finally nearing completion. In an early column he singled out such DARE finds as hootenkack (“to talk someone into doing what he doesn’t want to do”) and pinkletink (an onomatopoetic name for a tree frog in Martha’s Vineyard). He drove the point home to his readers: “If you don’t give a hootenkack for a pinkletink, you’re insensitive to the color and excitement in our migrating, changing language.”
338 2009-10-11 ONE  spring day, I was riding to work on the West Street bike path. At the southern end of the path, which runs alongside the West Side Highway, a young man had brought what appeared to be a preschool day care class to practice their soccer skills...
339 2009-10-11 THE NEWSPresident Obama considered a troop buildup in Afghanistan as his national security advisers moved to reframe the war strategy to focus on Al Qaeda in Pakistan.     BEHIND THE NEWS The White House said the president was several weeks away f...
340 2009-10-12 A lawyer for Roman Polanski said his client realizes that some of the support he has received since his arrest has not been helpful to securing his release....
341 2009-10-12 General Electric is one of many advertisers who are trumpeting America's bright future in its new commercials.
342 2009-10-12 A new book examines the growing impact of the law on academic freedom....
343 2009-10-12 Like a number of things that didn't work in 2009, the Mets' timing now appears to be off when it comes to the availability of big name managers and executives....
344 2009-10-12 Protesters marched from the White House to the Capitol, demanding that the president keep his promises to allow gays to serve openly in the military and that he work to end discrimination against gays....
345 2009-10-12 It was hard to put aside politics at an hourlong presentation Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein gave to business leaders in Midtown....
346 2009-10-12 From Bits: In the third quarter, only 17 venture firms raised fresh capital, down from 63 in the same period last year, according to Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association, the lowest number since 1994....
347 2009-10-12 La Mamounia, a luxury hotel in Marrakesh, reopens....
348 2009-10-12 The White House and Congressional Democrats fired back Monday at an industry report suggesting that health premiums would rise sharply as a result of the proposed heath care legislation....
349 2009-10-12 Bank of America has hired yet another big law firm, this time Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, to handle civil litigation tied to its shotgun marriage to Merrill Lynch....
350 2009-10-12 In the third quarter, the number of venture capital firms that raised money was the lowest since 1994, and the overall money raised, $1.6 billion, was the smallest since the dot-com bust....
351 2009-10-12 The Chicago Cubs filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday, a step that will allow its corporate parent, the Tribune Company, to hand over the baseball team over to new owners....
352 2009-10-12 Legal defense based on the Orwellian notion that "some are more equal than others" - associated now with Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's attempt to justify immunity from prosecution....
353 2009-10-12 If the Angels' hurlers cannot adapt their approach to counter the slugging strength of their next opponents, they will most likely find themselves sent home every bit as quickly as the Red Sox were in the first round....
354 2009-10-12 Marathon Tech reviewer Danielle Belopotosky tests a new holder for the iPod that clings to shirts, shorts or jackets with magnets....
355 2009-10-12 Citigroup's sale of its Phibro energy trading unit to Occidental Petroleum may ultimately prove unimportant, but there is also a possibility that the deal signals a big shift in how much risk banks are allowed to take....
356 2009-10-12 Robert Caplin for The New York Times
357 2009-10-12 DealBook Dialogue: Lucian Bebchuk, professor of law, economics and finance and director of the corporate governance program at Harvard Law School, and Holger Spamann, co-executive director and fellow of this program, propose ways to improve risk-t...
358 2009-10-12 Apple does allow refunds for apps, which may hamper the sale of expensive apps....
359 2009-10-12 Beginning late next year, California pollution regulators will charge companies 15 cents per metric ton of greenhouse gases they emit....
360 2009-10-12 Credit Suisse named François Roussely, chief executive of the Swiss lender's operations in France, to the post of vice chairman for Europe on Monday....
361 2009-10-12 The Giants' 44-7 victory over the Raiders on Sunday gave them their first 5-0 start since their Super Bowl championship season of 1990. But more important for this season, it marked the end of the cupcake party....
362 2009-10-12 A survey of college admissions officers and counselors finds both working harder....
363 2009-10-12 The birth of in in January placed the onus for large on in vitro fertilization, a treatment in which eggs are joined with sperm in a petri dish and returned to the womb for gestation.

But the procedure the Stansels used is actually the major cause of quadruplets, quintuplets and sextuplets — the most dangerous pregnancies for both mother and children. While less effective than IVF, intrauterine insemination is used at least twice as frequently because it is less invasive, cheaper and more likely to be covered by , interviews and data show.

Multiples can occur when the high-potency hormones frequently used with the procedure overstimulate the ovaries and produce large numbers of eggs. Parents are then left with the kind of tough choices the Stansels faced: whether to eliminate some of the fetuses or keep the babies and face extraordinary risks.

“I think, and so many of my colleagues think, it’s a primitive approach,” said Dr. Sherman Silber, a fertility doctor in . “The rate is lower than IVF, and you don’t have control over multiples.”

In treating women who are having trouble getting pregnant, most doctors try low-potency fertility pills first, then intrauterine insemination with the hormone injections and in vitro fertilization as a last resort. Some insurance plans require women undergoing fertility treatments to have several rounds of intrauterine insemination before they will pay for in vitro fertilization. Because of the cost, other plans cover intrauterine insemination but not in vitro.

But a recent study led by Dartmouth Medical School suggested that because IUI often requires repeated tries, it would ultimately lower both costs and the risk of large multiple births if many patients avoided the procedure and moved straight to IVF.

Unlike IVF, intrauterine insemination is not tracked by any government agency, so there are no official statistics on how many pregnancies result from it. But other studies and the have found that IUI and other similar treatments cause more large multiple births than in vitro fertilization, contributing to the nation’s 12.7 percent rate of preterm babies.

Experts agree that at least 20 percent of the pregnancies are multiples. Most are , but one 1999 study found that 8 percent of the pregnancies with injectable hormones and insemination were triplets and quadruplets. The more babies, the greater the risk. Quadruplets, for example, have a more than 10 percent chance of dying in infancy.

Pregnancies with quadruplets or more are unusual, and shocking when they occur.

Jon and Kate Gosselin, who already had twins, had wanted just one more baby, but IUI resulted in the sextuplets made famous on the TLC program “Jon & Kate Plus 8.” The same thing happened to Jenny and Bryan Masche, stars of “Raising Sextuplets,” the TV program on WE, the Women’s Entertainment network.

Mrs. Masche became seriously ill from acute brought on by her pregnancy, but she has recovered. The Gosselins have separated under the stress of raising multiples. But the Masche and the Gosselin sextuplets are the success stories. They are healthy.

Women who have gone through large multiple pregnancies with poorer results say the shows give viewers a misleading picture by failing to present the wreckage left behind in many cases — babies who are stillborn, spend months in the hospital undergoing painful procedures that require morphine or suffer from long-term disabilities.

Multiple babies who arrive very early require the highest level of acute care for a longer time than any other patients. Despite the lower cost of IUI on the front end, many doctors point out that insurance plans bear higher costs when IUI goes awry and large broods are born.

“We have families that have babies here for three or four or five months, and they’re having discussions with their insurance companies because they have reached the lifetime limit of their medical coverage,” said Dr. Scott Jarriel, a neonatologist who works at the Woman’s Hospital of and treats the Stansel babies.

The Stansels’ decision to use intrauterine insemination was based largely on finances. The treatment can cost as little as $2,000 to $3,000, compared with $12,000 to $25,000 for in vitro fertilization.

Mrs. Stansel’s insurance would not cover IVF but would pay for six rounds of IUI. She consulted Dr. Grunert in April 2008, just over a year after the Stansels were married.

Mrs. Stansel, 33, first tried clomiphene, a fertility pill, but that did not work. Then she moved to the next step, a popular injectable drug, Gonal-F. The drug stimulated her ovaries in preparation for intrauterine insemination.

She became pregnant with twins after her first round of IUI. But she miscarried on Sept. 24, 2008, at 18 weeks.

Within months, Mrs. Stansel underwent another round of intrauterine insemination, but in January she learned that it was an , one that develops outside the uterus.

The Stansels decided to try again.

Before conducting their third insemination procedure in March, Dr. Grunert was monitoring Mrs. Stansel’s ovaries with ultrasound. He saw only two developing eggs mature enough to potentially be fertilized.

“It was obviously a shock,” Dr. Grunert said, “hopefully a once-in-a-lifetime experience.” Dr. Grunert has been in practice for 30 years and said it had never happened to him before.

Dr. Richard P. Dickey, a specialist in the New Orleans area who has conducted research on hormone use in reproductive medicine, said that IUI is normally a safe procedure. But, he said, some doctors prescribed excessive doses of the hormone injections, which could overstimulate the ovaries.

Or they use the injections before trying a cheaper oral drug that produces fewer multiples, Dr Dickey said. The drug is less successful than the injections.

A round of oral drugs is available for $20 and does not require extensive monitoring. A round of injectable drugs costs $1,000 or more. Clinics can make additional money when the injectables are used because they require the use of repeated ultrasounds and other testing, which can add up to $1,000 to $2,000.

“There’s a money factor, unfortunately, in this,” Dr. Dickey said. “There is a factor of not paying enough attention, and doctors aren’t sufficiently aware of the dangers of multiple pregnancy.”

Three years ago, Keira Sorrells, an interior decorator in Monroe, Ga., had found herself in a predicament similar to the Stansels’. After intrauterine insemination, Mrs. Sorrells learned that she was carrying quintuplets.

She said she was in shock at hearing the news and ill prepared for the next step. Before he had even closed the door to his office, her fertility doctor suggested selective reduction to Mrs. Sorrells and her husband, Richard. “We had never heard of it,” Mrs. Sorrells said.

“I think there’s a huge problem in the reproductive technology industry,” Mrs. Sorrells said. “I was told the chances that I would have triplets were less than 1 percent. There was no talk of being faced with a decision like that until the day that we had the ultrasound. Then you have two weeks to decide. And you don’t get counseling from anybody.”

In the next two weeks, Mrs. Sorrells and her husband struggled to make a decision on whether to eliminate fetuses and, if so, how many. The specialist gave her 50-50 odds that her babies would survive and said twins or a single baby would be safer.

The process of “selective reduction” involves injecting potassium chloride to the heart region of the fetuses, which then generally disappear on their own, absorbed into surrounding tissue.

Hoping to save as many babies as possible, Mrs. Sorrells decided instead to eliminate two of the fetuses, reducing her pregnancy to triplets. Even then, her pregnancy was troubled. She developed , a complication of pregnancy that includes rapidly increasing .

On Dec. 20, 2006, at 25 weeks and 5 days gestation, Mrs. Sorrells had to have an emergency .

The most severely ill of her three premature daughters, Zoe Rose, was born with multiple problems. Zoe died last year of a drug-resistant staphylococcus infection at age 14 months — nine of them spent in a neonatal intensive care unit. The Sorrellses’ two surviving daughters, Lily and Avery, are doing well despite their extreme prematurity and four-month stays in neonatal intensive care.

The Sorrellses have formed the Zoe Rose Memorial Foundation with the goal of helping parents who have premature children.

Dr. Brian Kirshon, a doctor in Houston who specializes in high-risk pregnancies, says some couples do not understand the implications of multiple births, even when the risks are explained.

“I think a lot of them don’t really understand the risks of prematurity, the risks of losing their babies, the risk of long-term complications, , , , development delay when they have extremely , or the ultimate risk of losing their marriage,” Dr. Kirshon said.

When Dr. Grunert discovered that Mrs. Stansel was carrying multiple fetuses, he handicapped her odds of delivering six healthy infants at practically zero.

Eliminating some of the fetuses would give the others the best chance for survival.

Dr. Mark I. Evans, a doctor in who is among a small group nationwide that specializes in selective reductions, estimates that 1,000 to 2,000 reductions are performed annually in this country, usually in the first trimester. Doctors generally discuss reduction as a possibility in pregnancies with triplets or more.

Many opponents criticize selective reduction as a form of . And for many parents who elect to carry all of the fetuses, the decision often hinges on religious convictions. There is also a chance, up to 5 percent, that selective reduction will be followed by a of all the fetuses, according to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine.

For the Stansels, the decision was influenced by their membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The church generally opposes abortion. After learning that Mrs. Stansel was carrying sextuplets, the Stansels decided to meet with church elders and consult with a reduction specialist.

“It just never felt right,” Mr. Stansel said. “We prayed many nights. A lot of sleepless nights. Originally we thought we might do the reduction. We chose to carry all six and, we believe, let God do what he’s going to do.”

On July 3, in her 19th week of pregnancy, Mrs. Stansel was admitted to the Woman’s Hospital of Texas for monitoring, under the care of Dr. Kirshon, an expert at delivering multiples. By early August, she began having contractions that did not stop with medication and threatened to rupture her cervix.

“There wasn’t anything we could do,” Dr. Kirshon said. Instead, Mrs. Stansel delivered the sextuplets on Aug. 4, about 14 weeks premature. The babies were born so early that no medical care would have been rendered unless the parents requested it.

Dr. Jarriel, the neonatologist, said the survival rate of babies at the stage they were born was about 60 percent to 65 percent. If they survived, the Stansels were told, there was a 100 percent chance that they would have problems.

But the couple asked the hospital for the most extraordinary measures to save them.

“We wanted to do all we could for them, to save them,” Mr. Stansel said.

“Give them that chance,” Mrs. Stansel added. “That’s the doctors giving their statistics. God doesn’t work in statistics.”

The babies — Ashlyn, Braden, Dallin, Haley, Kaitlyn and Rachel — ranged in weight from 12.3 ounces to 1 pound, 1 ounce. They were each less than a foot long.

Dallin was the first to die. Blood seeped into his lungs from an open heart valve, the Stansels said. Kaitlyn soon followed. Braden lived for two weeks before an infection entered his trachea and killed him.

“He fought hard,” said Mr. Stansel, 32. “His lungs just got so inflated, they crowded out his heart.”

The three were buried on Aug. 22 in , Mrs. Stansel’s hometown, in a single casket. “They came into the world together, and they’ll leave together,” Mr. Stansel said.

Ashlyn, the most severely ill of the three remaining babies, died Sunday night after experiencing .

“Our heart breaks for her,” her parents wrote in a posting on a blog they are keeping.

The couple has been making daily visits to the hospital and are now able to hold the girls for a short time. The two remaining infants are still attached to ventilators and feeding tubes, which deliver their mother’s milk.

Rachel, who now weighs 3 pounds, 7 ounces, is slowly being weaned off intravenous . On Thursday, Haley, who now weighs 4 pounds, underwent surgery to remove a .

The blog has drawn thousands of comments from supporters. But some critics have also written, saying the Stansels should not have continued the pregnancy knowing the poor odds. Some cited the pain and suffering of extremely preterm babies.

“I knew the babies would come early,” Mr. Stansel said in a recent interview at the couple’s suburban Houston home, near Humble. “I knew they’d be in the NICU. I knew there would be challenges.”

Mrs. Stansel added: “I don’t think I realized how tough it would be.”
364 2009-10-12 Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the senior Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said the Smadi case “points to a real need for an entry and exit system if we are serious about reducing illegal immigration.”

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and chairman of the Judiciary Committee’s subcommittee on immigration, said he would try to steer money from the economic stimulus program to build an exit monitoring system.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, immigration authorities, with more than $1 billion from Congress, have greatly improved and expanded their systems to monitor foreigners when they arrive. But despite several Congressional authorizations, there are no biometric inspections or a systematic follow-up to confirm that foreign visitors have departed.

Homeland security officials caution that universal exit monitoring is a daunting and costly goal, mainly because of the nation’s long and busy land borders, with more than one million crossings every day. The wrong exit plan, they said, could clog trade, disrupt border cities and overwhelm immigration agencies with information they could not effectively use.

Since 2004, homeland security officials have put systems in place to check all foreigners as they arrive, whether by air, sea or land. Customs officers now take fingerprints and digital photographs of visitors from most countries, instantly comparing them against law enforcement watch list databases. (Canadians and Mexicans with special border-crossing cards are exempt from those checks.)

But homeland security officials said that a series of pilot programs since 2004 had failed to yield an exit monitoring system that would work for the whole nation. They have not yet found technology to support speedy exit inspections at land borders. And airlines balked at an effort last year by the Bush administration to make them responsible for taking fingerprints and photographs of departing foreigners.

The current system relies on departing foreigners to turn in a paper stub when they leave.

Last year, official figures show, 39 million foreign travelers were admitted on temporary visas like Mr. Smadi’s. Based on the paper stubs, homeland security officials said, they confirmed the departure of 92.5 percent of them. Most of the remaining visitors did depart, officials said, but failed to check out because they did not know how to do so. But more than 200,000 of them are believed to have overstayed intentionally.

Immigration authorities have put in place a separate system for keeping track of foreigners who, unlike Mr. Smadi, come on student visas. That system has proved effective at confirming that the students have stayed in school and do not overstay their visas, officials said.

Immigration analysts said that given the difficulties of enforcing the United States’ vast borders, it remains primarily up to law enforcement officials to thwart terrorism suspects who do not have records that would draw scrutiny before they enter the United States.

“You can’t ask the immigration system to do everything,” said Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a research center in Washington, and a former commissioner of the immigration service. “This is an example of how changes in law enforcement priorities and techniques since Sept. 11 actually got to where they should be.”

Mr. Smadi, like many tourists who overstay visas, was able to fade easily into society and encountered few barriers to starting a life here, according to court documents and people who know him. He enrolled in high school, obtained a California identification card, landed jobs in two states and rented a string of apartments and houses. He bought at least two used cars, and even procured a handgun and ammunition.

Mr. Smadi’s arrest on Sept. 24 for the attempted bombing was not his first encounter with American law enforcement. Two weeks earlier, a sheriff’s deputy in Ellis County, Tex., pulled him over for a broken tail light just north of the town of Italy, then arrested him for driving without a license or insurance.

When the deputy checked his identity, Mr. Smadi’s name showed up on a watch list by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which was already investigating him. But the background check turned up no immigration record. The deputy called the F.B.I. and was told there was no outstanding arrest warrant for Mr. Smadi. So on the evening of Sept. 11, Mr. Smadi paid a $550 fine and walked out of the county jail.

“There was nothing to indicate to us that this person was currently in the States illegally,” said Chief Deputy Dennis Brearley.

Mr. Smadi had come to the United States from Jordan in early 2007 on a six-month tourist visa, immigration officials say.

For a few weeks he stayed in San Jose, Calif., with Hana Elrabodi, a retired Jordanian businessman who knew his family, according to Mr. Elrabodi’s wife, Temina. Though Mr. Smadi was not authorized to work, he found a job at a local restaurant. In late March, Mr. Smadi obtained a California identification card using Mr. Elrabodi’s address.

In October 2007, Mr. Smadi moved into an apartment in Santa Clara with his younger brother, Hussein Smadi, and another man he identified as his cousin, according to the manager of the apartment complex, Joe Redzovic. Mr. Smadi took another job, in a falafel restaurant, and in the winter he briefly enrolled in the Santa Clara High School.

After a fire gutted his Santa Clara apartment, Mr. Smadi moved to Dallas. Though his visa had expired by April 2008, he landed a job working behind the counter at Texas Best Smokehouse in Italy, Tex., about 45 miles from Dallas. He rented a bungalow nearby, using his California identification and passing a criminal background check, said his former landlord, David South.

Three months later, Mr. Smadi married one of his co-workers, Rosalinda Duron. They separated in the fall of 2008 after only three months, Ms. Duron said.

Investigators have found no evidence that Mr. Smadi, during his first year in the United States, openly espoused Islamic fundamentalism. Neither have they found any evidence that he received terrorist training abroad or came to the United States intending to commit a terrorist act, said Mark White, a spokesman for the F.B.I. in Dallas.

But by the spring of 2008, he caught the attention of the F.B.I. by posting incendiary remarks about wanting to kill Americans on Jihadist Web sites. Over the summer, he met with agents posing as members of Al Qaeda and planned to bomb the Fountain Place office building in downtown Dallas, according to an indictment unsealed on Thursday.

His arrest on terrorism charges came after he parked a truck that he had been told was carrying explosives in the building’s underground garage, according to court documents.

When the F.B.I. later searched his residence, they found a Beretta 9 millimeter pistol and a box of ammunition, along with his passport and the expired visa, the court documents show.
365 2009-10-12 Novak Djokovic won the China Open with a 6-2, 7-6 (4) victory over Marin Cilic of Croatia on Sunday, and Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia beat Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland, 6-2, 6-4, in the women’s final in Beijing.

Djokovic, from Serbia, broke Cilic’s serve in the sixth game and in the eighth to take the first set after a 90-minute rain delay. The second set was much tighter, with each breaking the other’s serve three times to force the tie break. But Cilic then struggled, and his return at 6-4 went wide. Kuznetsova needed just 1 hour 20 minutes to complete her victory, accumulating six aces along the way.
366 2009-10-12 Raymond A. Brown, a criminal and civil rights lawyer who deployed a sometimes theatrical manner on behalf of controversial clients like the Black Panthers, a Soviet spy, the boxer Rubin “Hurricane” Carter, and Dr. X, a New Jersey surgeon accused of murdering patients with an overdose of a muscle relaxant, died Friday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 94 and lived in Upper Montclair, N.J.

The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, said Thulani Davis, his sister-in-law.

Mr. Brown, a tall, slender man blessed with the courtroom gifts of a strong voice, sweeping arm gestures and a prowling gait, developed his ardor for civil rights as an African-American soldier sent to Army bases in the South and seeing firsthand how shabbily and humiliatingly blacks were treated. He honed his reputation with Southern civil rights cases in the 1960s and later defended some of the black students — including his son — arrested for taking over a building at Columbia University in 1968.

But his talent for courtroom bravado, oratory and canny legal strategies was such that clients like New Jersey politicians, organized crime figures and union officials sought him out when issues far from civil rights were involved. He defended the mayor of Camden, N.J., Angelo Errichetti, in 1980 in one of the Abscam cases involving congressmen and other politicians accused of taking bribes in what had been a sting operation by federal authorities pretending to be wealthy Arab sheiks.

In the late 1970s, he defended Mario E. Jascalevich, an Argentine-born physician identified as Dr. X in early newspaper reports, against charges that he murdered five surgical patients at Riverdell Hospital in Oradell, N.J., with overdoses of curare. Gesturing at the jury with his gold-rimmed half glasses and quoting Shakespeare, Mr. Brown contended in his opening statement that the surgeon was framed by colleagues trying to cover up their own ineptness. Dr. Jascalevich was acquitted in 1978.

In an important sideshow, Mr. Brown accused M. A. Farber, the reporter for The New York Times who revealed the mysterious deaths, of joining with the Bergen County prosecutor to advance their careers, and subpoenaed Mr. Farber and The Times for thousands of pages of investigative notes. Mr. Farber spent 40 days in jail and The Times was fined $285,000 in defending the right to protect news sources. (The Times was later refunded $100,000 of that money after the newspaper and Mr. Farber were pardoned in 1982 by the governor of New Jersey).
367 2009-10-12 At least half a dozen veterans of The Rocky and other papers have contributed to The Communicator in the last two months — most paid, a few pro bono — and more are in the pipeline. Two have become regulars: Mark Holm, a photographer and former photo editor at The Rocky and several other papers, and Drew Litton, a former Rocky cartoonist.

“It’s the Tom Sawyer business plan: I’m trying to convince all my friends how much fun it would be to help me,” said Mr. Sprengelmeyer.

Santa Rosa lies a two-hour drive east of Albuquerque, on a vast plain of prairie grass speckled with juniper and mesquite, where the old Route 66 and Interstate 40 cross the Pecos River. Mr. Sprengelmeyer gave up Washington for a town of 2,600 people, most of them Hispanic, with a per capita income about half the national average, where the biggest political dispute is what to do with a giant water slide the local council bought from an amusement park.

But Michael Sprengelmeyer (he became “M. E.” two decades ago, when it turned out his full byline would not fit in a column width) plays his own tune. A vegetarian teetotaler who tries not to wear leather — he favors old-fashioned canvas basketball shoes — he also fights his weight and smokes. He likes to sketch his paper’s page designs on paper plates. The two suits he owns, but never wears, used to belong to the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, now jailed, and are the subject of a lawsuit between the power broker and his tailor (a baroque tale Mr. Sprengelmeyer once told in The Rocky’s pages).

His new career turn was not a desperation move caused by the closing of The Rocky. He has thought about it for a while. For a couple of years, he scouted small-town papers that were for sale, including some in Iowa that he visited while covering the presidential caucuses there. After The Rocky’s demise, Mr. Sprengelmeyer, who grew up mostly in Albuquerque, turned his sights on New Mexico.

He would not disclose what he paid for The Communicator, but in a city where the median home price is about $100,000, he is a renter because “I could either buy a newspaper here or buy a house here, but not both.”

The paper came with a staff of just three part-timers and a single, more or less full-time reporter, Davy Delgado, who has an encyclopedic knowledge of Santa Rosa. Mr. Delgado, 54, does not own a phone, home or mobile, and since having a stroke two years ago, he cannot drive extensively.

Santa Rosa actually has two weeklies, The Communicator and the smaller Santa Rosa News. In recent years, each paper was aligned with one of two rival groups in City Hall; one of The Communicator’s former owners, Jesus Roybal, is the town administrator.

Mr. Sprengelmeyer has criticized both factions, increased the amount of serious news in the paper, and markedly improved its writing and appearance. Michael Gallegos, a clothes store manager who also does The Communicator’s page layouts, said he learned as much in a crash course of a few days with two former Rocky editors as he had in two years on the job.

People around town say they have noticed the difference. The greatest compliment may have been paid by Roberto Martin Marquez, editor of the Santa Rosa News, who wrote in his paper that “M. E. is making me a better newspaper man.”

Sales of The Communicator are up, in part because of eight sidewalk boxes that Mr. Sprengelmeyer bought from The Rocky and posted around Santa Rosa. He will not say how much money the paper makes, but says it is more than enough to support him, and he has visions of expanding to two days a week.

“If a house burns down, everybody here knows it, saw it, knew the people, probably hugged them, but they still want to read about it in a paper that comes out four days later,” he said.

The experience has made him an evangelist for small-town papers, which he says offer a hidden opportunity for unemployed journalists, but he acknowledges it isn’t for everybody. He works to the brink of exhaustion, fueling late-night production sessions with nicotine and caffeinated energy drinks. After a few hours’ sleep, he makes a three-hour, round-trip drive to pick up his press run in Clovis, where the paper is printed.

“I couldn’t do this if I had a family,” he said. “But it feels like it matters, and I’m having fun.”
368 2009-10-12 “A regular issue, by definition, we think is still valuable from an advertising perspective — you just get a little extra oomph in the special issues,” he said.

ESPN’s Body Issue tried to show off what print could do, both for advertisers and for readers, said Gary Belsky, editor in chief of ESPN The Magazine. It features athletes in mostly nude poses (though they do not expose any body parts too risqué).

One photo portfolio, “Bodies We Want,” shows people like Sarah Reinertsen, an amputee and triathlete, and Byambajav Ulambayar, a sumo wrestler. Another portfolio shows the damage done to athletes’ bodies, with close-ups of the surfer Laird Hamilton’s cracked heel and the Jacksonville Jaguars wide receiver Torry Holt’s crooked middle finger.

“These days, people are skeptical enough about print, or at least wary enough about print, that they’re looking for executions that differentiate print,” Mr. Belsky said. “Print can’t deliver music, video, but what print can deliver is beautiful, in-depth visuals and journalism that explores subjects in a particular kind of way.”

And, in special issues, at least, it can also deliver advertisers. The magazine’s revenue rose 35 percent from the same week’s issue last year.

Just what defines a special issue depends a bit on whom one asks. Some magazines publish editions that are sold at newsstands and do not go to subscribers, like Us Weekly on the vampire film “The Twilight Saga: New Moon,” or Sports Illustrated on various topics.

Some, though, turn regular issues into special issues by including an annual list or a recurring feature, devoting an entire issue to one subject, or just slapping a line on the cover declaring it so.

Disney FamilyFun magazine, for instance, considers its November issue a special issue because it includes its list of toy-of-the-year honorees.

“It’s happened for the last 18 years,” said Aparna Pande, vice president of the Disney FamilyFun Group. “We do very much consider it a special issue.”

This year, FamilyFun executives pitched the toy maker Hasbro on running an ad on the November cover, the first time FamilyFun would do such an ad. The cover would be a pocket and contain a pull-out sheet promoting Hasbro’s family-game-night initiative. Though Hasbro had not planned any print ads this year, it agreed.

“Magazines need to offer these creative alternatives to standard pages,” said Charlie Zakin, vice president for corporate media at Hasbro.

“Print is not the medium that is in vogue right now, and so we have extra pressure to overdeliver to our advertisers,” said Deborah Mignucci, publisher of Disney FamilyFun.

Although FamilyFun succeeded on the Hasbro cover ad, which was more expensive than the usual ad price, Ms. Mignucci said, the standard advertising in the issue did not do as well. The ad pages dropped about 39 percent from last year’s November issue.

People, which put a 35th birthday issue on newsstands this week, uses special issues to make the magazine more predictable for advertisers.

It runs at least seven special issues a year, like its Most Beautiful list and Best and Worst Dressed. Those tend to be more attractive to advertisers than issues where a grisly kidnapping might end up on the cover.

“When you have 51 issues a year, having something that the advertisers can plan around, to know the type of consumer or the type of editorial that will be in there, is very helpful,” said Paul Caine, president and group publisher of Time Inc.’s Style and Entertainment Group.

Special issues sell well on newsstands. Mr. Caine said People increases the circulation it guarantees advertisers for each of them.

With the 35th birthday issue, People included a coupon booklet from advertisers and advertiser-sponsored giveaways. The issue has 79 ad pages, up 20 percent from the same issue last year.

Despite the success of specials, Mr. Caine said, he would not produce many more than seven a year.

“There’s always going to be a question of fatigue when it comes to specials — what you don’t want to do is overemphasize specials or inundate them, because then it’s no longer special,” he said.

Sports Illustrated will produce six special issues this year, including a college football preview in August and a National Football League preview in September. Over all, Sports Illustrated’s ad pages are down 21.6 percent.

The NFL Preview issue, though, had about 86 pages of ads this year, up more than 50 percent from the same issue last year. The college football issue was up 15 percent. And the Sports Illustrated publication Golf ’s 50th anniversary issue was up 8 percent.

“Nothing against Sports Illustrated or any particular magazine, but when you get 52 issues a year, it’s kind of hard to break through,” said Mr. Gardiner, who bought ads for his client DirecTV in the N.F.L. issue. “If you can find one where there’s a special interest, special topic, you have a chance of your advertising having a little more resonance with readers.”

Mark Ford, president of Time Inc.’s News Group, which includes Sports Illustrated, said he was concerned about “reader and advertiser wear-out,” so he was trying not to push too many special issues, though he was happy with the ad sales for issues like Golf’s 50th anniversary.

Well, to some degree.

“We’re going to have, actually, a 51st anniversary as well, it was that successful,” Mr. Ford said, laughing. “How about 50 and a half?”
369 2009-10-12 But at the rally, some gave the speech low marks for lacking anything new and failing to acknowledge several major issues confronting the movement. In the words of Billie Myers, a musician who spoke to an eager crowd of tens of thousands on the west lawn of the Capitol, “I’m sorry, but I didn’t like your speech.”

The president did not lay out a timetable to repeal the ban on gays and lesbians serving openly in the military, voice support for any of the battles going on at state levels to allow same-sex couples more recognition under the law nor mention the march.

“He knows this march is happening, and he can’t even acknowledge it?” said Robin McGehee, 36, a co-director of the march. Ms. McGehee took issue with people she believes are giving the president a pass.

“In our community, there are people working hard to build a relationship with the president and people screaming in the streets for their rights,” she said. “There is an urgency with the people on the streets and a sense of ‘Oh, he’ll come around’ with the people who ate dinner with him.”

The Human Rights Campaign, which helped organize the last gay rights march on Washington in 2000 but had virtually no involvement in Sunday’s event, stirred up some controversy over the weekend after its president, Joe Solmonese, wrote a letter to supporters urging them to take Mr. Obama at his word. “It’s not January 19, 2017,” he wrote, referring to what would be the last day of Mr. Obama’s presidency if he were to win a second term.

While generally supportive of the president, many marchers said they felt that he had not delivered on campaign promises he made to gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender Americans.

“I think he has a lot on his plate,” said Rachael McIntosh, 25, of Worcester, Mass. “But I’d hoped we’d be a priority.” Ms. McIntosh raised a sign that read “Nobel Peace Prize. Earn It!”

Organizers of the march encountered considerable opposition from within gay political circles and from those who argued that it was hastily planned and would divert resources from campaigns at the state level.

Representative Barney Frank called the march “emotional satisfaction” for its organizers and said of their intention to pressure the Obama administration, “The only thing they’re going to put pressure on is the grass.”

The organizers were rating the march a success, saying that at least 150,000 people had attended, though the authorities gave no official estimate of the crowd size.

The marchers included many who were not gay but attended to support gay friends.

Lisa Kimmey, 25, drove all night with gay friends from Chicago so she could attend the march with them. “If I can get married, if I can get my partner’s health insurance, then everyone else in this country should be able to. It’s 2009, and it’s unbelievable to me that they don’t have that,” Ms. Kimmey said.

Dave Valk, 22, the student outreach coordinator for the march, said he believed that many people his age were embracing gay rights as the civil rights struggle of their time. “There are a lot of people getting involved not just because it’s a gay rights movement but because it’s a generational movement,” he said. “People feel like they’re part of a shift, that this is important.”
370 2009-10-12 Being open doesn't mean being ordinary, at least according to Lowell C. McAdam, the chief executive  of Verizon Wireless.     Verizon announced on Tuesday a partnership with Google to develop phones with the Android operating system for its networ...
371 2009-10-13 “Brief Encounter,” finishing its extended run at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco this week, is headed for St. Anne’s Warehouse in Brooklyn, but perhaps without its musical intermission....
372 2009-10-13 The Tate Modern closed Mr. Prince’s exhibition “Spiritual America” from view after Scotland Yard warned that a photograph it included, taken of Ms. Shields in the nude when she was 10 years old, could violate obscenity laws....
373 2009-10-13 Richard Silvestri's crossword is wild....
374 2009-10-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
375 2009-10-13 From Media Decoder: Bloomberg L.P. said Tuesday that it was the winning bidder for BusinessWeek, the troubled 80-year-old title that McGraw-Hill had put on sale this summer....
376 2009-10-13 BusinessWeek will soon be rechristened Bloomberg BusinessWeek....
377 2009-10-13 Photographs by Sarah Maslin Nir for The New York Times
378 2009-10-13 Bloomberg L.P. is the winning bidder for the McGraw-Hill magazine....
379 2009-10-13 The current operator of Tavern on the Green says it will have to lay off all of its employees during the lucrative Christmas season unless the Parks Department lets it occupy the restaurant past midnight on Dec. 31. But the future operator opposes...
380 2009-10-13 Health care reform is getting close to the finish line....
381 2009-10-13 Tavern on the Green's operators say they need three extra months to move out. The new operator says he might shut the restaurant for two years if that happens....
382 2009-10-13 The sale of the baseball team moved closer as a federal judge ruled that it could be acquired by the family of the billionaire J. Joseph Ricketts in a $845 million deal....
383 2009-10-13 Yahoo's Open Hack Day NYC has come and gone. I'm happy to say it was one of the best "hack" conferences I've ever attended....
384 2009-10-13 A CIT Group bondholder tells DealBook he's against a liquidation of the troubled lender, arguing that bondholders would fare better by taking the company up on its restructuring plan....
385 2009-10-13 A federal analysis concludes that five giant snakes introduced to the United States through the pet trade pose a high risk to ecosystems....
386 2009-10-13 Prescriptions, The Times's blog covering the health care debate, live-blogged the Senate Finance Committee meeting, during which senators approved the health care legislation 14-9....
387 2009-10-13 Brad Lidge's season is the worst by a wide margin for pitchers with postseason saves....
388 2009-10-13 The conjecture that black dogs (and cats) are less likely to be adopted from shelters than animals of other colors - due to superstition, because they are less photogenic, or because they are considered frightening....
389 2009-10-13 Travel spending in the United States is expected to decline by 9 percent this year, to $705 billion, and to recover only part of that in 2010....
390 2009-10-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
391 2009-10-13 The Senate Finance Committee voted, 14-9, in favor of a bill that would overhaul the health care system....
392 2009-10-13 RailAmerica, the railroad operator owned by the Fortress Investment Group, cut the price of its initial public offering Monday, but sold a million more shares than expected....
393 2009-10-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
394 2009-10-13 If you have a small business, it's important to choose a bank that actually services small businesses, not one that just says it does....
395 2009-10-13 Macao's move to review gaming rules in the world's fastest-growing gambling market could brighten the outlook for casino stocks as potential curbs would help profits by limiting oversupply....
396 2009-10-13 Steven Mnuchin, the hedge fund manager and former executive vice president at Goldman Sachs, is giving up the comfort and status of his five-bedroom duplex co-op at one of the most prestigious addresses in New York for the suburban wilds of Pasade...
397 2009-10-13 Capmark Financial Group, the commercial real estate company created through a 2006 leveraged buyout of certain GMAC assets, is preparing to file for bankruptcy possibly by the end of next week, a source with direct knowledge of the situation told ...
398 2009-10-13 CIT Group is seeing little interest from bondholders in a debt exchange offer aimed at repairing its fragile balance sheet, making bankruptcy increasingly likely, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters....
399 2009-10-13 SEOUL — North Korea agreed to hold talks with South Korea later this week, officials in Seoul said Tuesday, even as the North was reportedly preparing to test more missiles following a barrage of five short-range missiles that it launched on Monday.

Working-level officials from the two Koreas plan to meet Wednesday at a North Korean border city to discuss how to prevent floods in the Imjin River, which runs through their heavily armed border, said the Unification Ministry in Seoul.

Six South Koreans were killed last month when North Korea released water from a dam upriver without notice, causing a flash flood. The North said the emergency release of water was necessary because rain and floodwaters threatened to breach the dam. Afterward, the South demanded an apology, in addition to talks to prevent such accidents.

Separately, the Red Cross societies from both sides were set to meet Friday to discuss reunions of families separated by the 1950-53 Korean War. Two weeks ago, they organized a round of family reunions for the first time in two years, furthering the prospects of reconciliation between North and South Korea, whose relations have chilled over the North’s nuclear and missile tests earlier this year.

In the past, South Korea shipped food aid as a humanitarian gesture following such family reunions. North Korea is expected to seek food shipments during the new round of Red Cross talks this week.
400 2009-10-13 With so many advertising dollars flowing onto blogs, Facebook and Twitter, it is not surprising that the Federal Trade Commission, which is charged with protecting consumers from sneaky advertising, has turned its eye on this new medium.

Spending on consumer-generated and social-networking sites reached $1.01 billion in 2008, up 25 percent from 2007, according to PQ Media, a research firm. It is expected to grow about 20 percent this year. Much of this advertising is clearly labeled. But a lot of it is paid advertising masquerading as bona fide endorsements by celebrities, well-known bloggers and even ordinary people — honest comment, free from pecuniary considerations.

Companies have been known to make up fake people to blog about their products, such as the two “boys” concocted by Sony to pine over its PSP gaming unit in 2006. Earlier this year, a representative from Belkin offered to pay people to write positive online reviews of its products. There are commercial services to put marketers in contact with bloggers who will tout products for a fee.

Deceiving consumers has long been illegal. Guidelines demanding that people who endorse a product for money disclose their connections with advertisers date back to 1980 — way before the age of tweets. In 1968, an F.T.C. advisory demanded that advertorials disclose that they were advertising, not editorial. Concerned over the potential growth of deceptive advertising online, the F.T.C. amended these guidelines recently to clarify that they also apply on blogs, Twitter and other forms of online communication.

The rules offline should clearly apply online. This is a matter of principle, not medium, and the new rules are not an excessive burden. The guidelines state that endorsers must disclose payments in cash or in kind from companies whose products they endorse. Telling a commentator flogging a product online to disclose commercial ties does not constitute a challenge to free speech.

Still, regulators should tread carefully. As it enforces rules about disclosure of product endorsements on the Internet’s platforms, the F.T.C. must care not to hamstring the ability of bloggers and twitterers to report and comment about the world. To stay on the safe side, regulators should focus enforcement on the advertising companies rather than on the bloggers. Advertisers are the drivers of this new trend. The onus should be on them to ensure that blogs pitching their stuff warn readers about the commercial motivation of the endorsements.
401 2009-10-13 “Sometimes, you end up with more status quo than you want,” he said. “If that’s the case, if we look back three, four months from now and say, ‘Wow, there weren’t major changes,’ then I think next year will be perhaps the last year of this main group of players.”

Epstein said Ortiz, who had a dreadful start to the season and ended it with a 1-for-12 showing in the division series, must regain his old form in the middle of the lineup for the Red Sox to succeed.

“If he’s going to be the D.H. on this team, we need him to be a force,” Epstein said.

Ortiz will turn 34 next month, and Epstein may have already calculated that he is beyond a renaissance. Perhaps he was dropping a hint that Ortiz was no longer guaranteed to be the designated hitter. Ortiz hit .238 this season with 28 home runs and 99 runs batted in; he hit 27 of his home runs and had 81 of his R.B.I. after June 1.

The Red Sox, who rode the power of Ortiz and Ramirez to two World Series titles in the past five years, need more thunder in the middle of the lineup, but Epstein noted that the problem was not likely to be addressed without a trade. “It’s not the world’s greatest free-agent market,” he said. “There’s not a tremendous amount of impact talent out there, but there are opportunities.”

Most pressing is the decision on left fielder Jason Bay, who can become a free agent next month. The sides have been negotiating amicably for nine months.

Varitek, the 37-year-old captain and a virtual on-field pitching coach, hit only .209 with 14 home runs and 51 R.B.I. He did not play in the three-game series against the Angels as Victor Martinez, whom Boston acquired in July, took over. The Red Sox hold a $5 million option on Varitek’s contract for next year, and if they decline it, Varitek holds a $3 million option. Epstein said he had not spoken to Varitek about next year, but he made it clear that Varitek’s diminished playing time was not an anomaly.

“We made a trade that should address that for the most part next year,” he said. “Victor is as good as you’re going to get. We’re really happy with him on and off the field, his leadership, his offensive ability, his desire to work with the pitching staff.”

Epstein also spoke bluntly about starter Daisuke Matsuzaka, whose season-long battle with shoulder problems and his stubborn attitude toward the Red Sox’ plan for his rehabilitation angered the team. Epstein said Matsuzaka would have to follow a strict conditioning regimen that would be monitored.

“There will be follow-up, and our strong expectation is that he show up in fantastic shape on Day 1 of spring training next year,” he said. “I see it as a necessity, not really an option.”

Finally, Epstein lauded closer Jonathan Papelbon, whose blown save on Sunday all but ended hope for a comeback in the series, for his high standard of success over the years.

But he also pointed out that Papelbon, who had 38 saves in 41 save opportunities this season, did not have as dominating a year as in the past.

“But I know Jonathan’s going to go home and focus on getting better because he can be better than what he was this year,” Epstein said, “even though that was really, really good.”
402 2009-10-13 SAN FRANCISCO — In a move that severs another tie between Google and Apple, Arthur D. Levinson, the former chief executive of Genentech, has resigned from Google’s board.

In a statement on Monday, Google gave no reason for Mr. Levinson’s departure, but earlier this year, the Federal Trade Commission began an antitrust investigation into the close ties between the boards of Google and Apple.

At the time, Mr. Levinson and Eric E. Schmidt, Google’s chief executive, were directors of both Google and Apple. The Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914 prohibits such board overlaps when they reduce competition between two rival companies.

Mr. Schmidt resigned from the Apple board in August.

In a statement, Jon Leibowitz, the chairman of the commission, suggested that the commission had been ready to go to court to force the two companies to sever their board ties.

“Google, Apple and Mr. Levinson should be commended for recognizing that overlapping board members between competing companies raise serious antitrust issues, and for their willingness to resolve our concerns without the need for litigation,” Mr. Leibowitz said. “Beyond this matter, we will continue to monitor companies that share board members and take enforcement actions where appropriate.”
403 2009-10-13 An Afghan member of the Electoral Complaints Commission, the agency conducting the audit of the Aug. 20 presidential election, said Monday that he had resigned because the three foreigners on the commission were controlling the decision making. The member, Mustafa Barakzai, is a religious leader who was appointed by the Supreme Court. He was one of two Afghans on the commission, and it is unclear whether his resignation will affect the recount.
404 2009-10-13 Amtrak said its ridership dropped by more than one million passengers during the past year, but was still the second highest in the railroad’s history. Amtrak carried 27.2 million passengers during the 12 months ending Sept. 30. Its record was 28.7 million passengers in the previous year, a period coinciding with record high gas prices. Still, ridership was up over that of two years ago by 5.1 percent. Amtrak’s president and chief executive, Joseph Boardman, attributed the decline to the weakened economy, although travel was up on some short-distance routes and on the railroad’s 15 long-distance trains.
405 2009-10-13 The veterans department already recognizes more than a dozen conditions as being presumptively connected to Agent Orange exposure in Vietnam, including Hodgkin’s disease, prostate cancer and Type 2 diabetes.

But for diseases not on that list, veterans are required to provide evidence directly relating their service in Vietnam to their illness, a requirement that often leads to application rejections and prolonged appeals.

Veterans department officials estimate that about 200,000 veterans might seek benefits under the proposed change in policy. But they said they could not estimate the cost of the change until the policy underwent public review and was published in final form, which could take several months.

Mr. Shinseki’s decision is a victory for groups like Vietnam Veterans of America, which has been pushing the department to add Parkinson’s disease, ischemic heart conditions and hypertension to the list of diseases presumptively linked to Agent Orange.

But the new policy is also likely to prompt debate over how much responsibility the federal government should take in compensating and caring for aging veterans who are exhibiting a growing list of physical and psychological problems.

The most common of the three illnesses, ischemic heart disease, restricts blood flow to the heart, causing irregular heartbeats and deterioration of the heart muscle.

Parkinson’s disease is associated with a loss of cells that secrete dopamine, a brain chemical essential for normal movement. Patients develop tremors, rigid posture, impaired balance and an inability to initiate movement.

Hairy-cell leukemia, a rarer condition, is a slow-growing cancer in which the bone marrow produces too many infection-fighting cells, lymphocytes, that crowd out healthy white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets.

Agent Orange, named after the color-coded band on storage drums, was the most common herbicide used in Vietnam to clear jungle canopy and destroy crops. It contained one of the most toxic forms of dioxin, which has since been linked to some cancers.

Aides said Mr. Shinseki’s decision was influenced by a report released in July from the Institute of Medicine that found “limited or suggestive evidence” of an association between exposure to herbicides and an increased chance of Parkinson’s disease and ischemic heart disease in Vietnam veterans. The report also found “sufficient evidence,” a stronger category, of an association between herbicides and hairy-cell leukemia.

The report, written by a 14-member panel appointed by the institute, was based on a review of scientific literature. The institute is required by Congress to monitor the health effects of herbicides used in Vietnam and produce updates every two years.

In its report, the panel warned that there was a paucity of epidemiological data about Vietnam veterans. As a result, the panel said, its findings did not represent “a firm conclusion” about herbicides and Parkinson’s and herbicides and ischemic heart disease. It said it could not estimate the chances of veterans’ developing either disease.

Despite those caveats, the Institute of Medicine report has been cited by veterans advocates as providing sufficient evidence to justify a rule change. Under laws governing Agent Orange policies for veterans, the department cannot make benefits decisions based on cost, only on the scientific evidence. Aides to Mr. Shinseki said the Institute of Medicine report provided that evidence.

Some doctors and researchers say the expansion of Agent Orange benefits has been based on weak or inconclusive science, given the lack of studies on Vietnam veterans. Those skeptics argue that diseases like prostate cancer or Type-2 diabetes are just as likely the result of aging, lifestyle or genetic predisposition as exposure to Agent Orange.
406 2009-10-13 The Supreme Court convicted an American citizen on Monday of terrorism-related charges after claims that torture had been used to extract a confession. The court sentenced the American, Naji Hamdan, left, to 18 months in prison, but he should be freed soon because the sentence counts time served and he was detained last year. Mr. Hamdan, 43, faced charges of supporting terrorism, working with terrorist organizations and being a member of a terrorist group. Hearings in the case were closed to the public and the chief justice, Khalifa al-Muhairi, gave no details on his decision. Mr. Hamdan has denied the allegations and says he was tortured and forced to sign a confession. Rights groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union, have accused United States authorities of pushing the case in the Emirates because they lacked enough evidence for American courts.
407 2009-10-13 “The banks are still very risk averse,” said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of the research and trading firm I.T.G. “Regional banks are in a particularly tough spot, because they’re choking on commercial and residential real estate.”

Bankers acknowledge that loans are harder to secure than in years past, but they say this attests to the weakness of many borrowers rather than a reluctance to lend.

“Banks want to lend money,” said Raymond P. Davis, chief executive of Umpqua Bank, a regional lender based in Portland, Ore. “The problem is the effect that the recession is still having on us. Some of these businesses are still trying to come out of it. For them to go to a bank, if they are showing weak performance, it is harder to borrow.”

As the financial crisis has largely eased in recent months, big companies have found credit increasingly abundant, with bond issues sharply higher.

But for ordinary consumers, the picture is quite different. What was once of a flood of come-ons for home equity loans and credit cards has been replaced by notices of lowered credit limits.

For many smaller companies, too, borrowing remains tough.

Some 14 percent of small businesses found loans harder to secure in August than in July, according to the most recent survey by the National Federation of Independent Business. Among companies borrowing regularly, less than one-third reported that all their credit needs were being met.

“It’s quite significant, because small businesses generate significant job growth,” said Andrew Tilton, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs. “And small businesses rely more on bank financing, whereas large businesses have the alternative of raising money in the capital markets.”

Businesses with fewer than 500 employees hold more than half of the nation’s private sector jobs, according to the Small Business Administration.

In Port Arthur, Tex., Five Star Feeds, which sells gardening supplies, pet food and livestock feed, is stuck in a holding pattern on a planned expansion as the owner, Tina E. Bean, tries to persuade her local banker to provide $150,000 in credit.

Ms. Bean began the business in 2001 and has been profitable ever since, she said. She has already borrowed about $800,000 for her expansion, more than doubling the size of her storefront as she adds new product lines, including Western-style clothing like jeans and cowboy boots.

But without the last $150,000, she is unable to order the new products. Her new shelves remain bare. She missed the deadline to tap her final $150,000 in credit, she says, and her banker refused to offer a new loan, even as she insisted that she could not move into the new space.

“His answer is, ‘We’ll cross that bridge when we get there,’ ” Ms. Bean said. “Well, I’m there. I can’t open the store if I don’t have anything to put in it.”

Until she obtains financing, she has no reason to hire the two or three people she will need to run the larger space. She has no reason to place orders that would increase work for truck drivers who ferry blue jeans and pet grooming supplies to retail stores, and no need to bring on accountants, insurance agents, lawyers, forklift drivers and auto mechanics whose business opportunities would be incrementally expanded by more commerce.

Among small privately held companies, the amount of debt they carry as a portion of their equity has slipped by about 5 percent since 2007, according to Sageworks, a financial analysis firm in Raleigh, N.C. The drop reflects not only how companies have cut their inventories and paid down debt, but also the tightened credit terms they face when they try to borrow, said a Sageworks spokeswoman, Melinda Crump.

For companies that work on a contract basis bidding for jobs in advance, tight credit sometimes precludes their ability to seek new business: They cannot raise capital to hire workers and add equipment.

In Alexandria, Minn., Bob Novak, president of ACB Construction, has in recent months declined to bid on large-scale government jobs in Utah because of what he describes as a frustrating lack of credit for people in his line of work. His work force has shrunk to 1, from 14, in the last two years, yet every effort to generate fresh business seems to get snuffed out by rejections from banks.

“You might as well not walk through the door of a bank and have construction behind your name,” Mr. Novak said. “You cannot get a loan if you don’t look profitable, and you can’t look profitable if you can’t bid the work. I’ve had to walk away from jobs because I cannot get the funding.”

Med-National provides medical and dental services on a contract basis, mostly to the Defense Department. The San Antonio-based company has been in business for more than 20 years, has never lost money, and logged $5.9 million in sales last year, said the executive vice president, Robert S. Welborn Jr.

Yet as the company recently sought to secure a pair of contracts with the United States Army, its plans were delayed for nearly a year as it tried and failed to persuade a bank to lend it $300,000. The financing was required to hire the roughly 20 people needed to deliver the services — doctors and dentists and support staff.

Mr. Welborn initially called local banks with whom he had done business in years past, among them JPMorgan Chase and Wachovia. Their answer surprised him: no.

“It used to be you could practically just jangle your keys and they would give you some money,” Mr. Welborn said. “It isn’t anything like that anymore.”

In August, Mr. Welborn finally lined up financing from Wells Fargo and began hiring. Yet the delay and the uncertainty have left him reluctant to pursue other contracts.

“If we could borrow the money more easily,” he said, “we would be hiring even more people.”
408 2009-10-13 More than 45 years have passed since Terry Riley composed “In C,” a watershed work that heralded the breakthrough of Minimalism. The piece is in no danger of losing its freshness; the Grand Valley State University New Music Ensemble, a mostly undergraduate group based in Michigan, will release a new recording of “In C” in November, along with a second CD containing 18 imaginative remixes. The Michigan players will celebrate their new album with a concert at Le Poisson Rouge on Nov. 8.

But when Mr. Riley appeared at that club on Sunday night, “In C” was the furthest thing from the agenda. What became clear during the performance — which also featured Mr. Riley’s son, the guitarist and composer Gyan Riley; Tracy Silverman, an electric-violinist; and Ches Smith, a percussionist — was just how poorly the Minimalist label suits Mr. Riley now.

True, most of the compositions the group played included elements also found in Minimalism: static harmonies, raga-style drones and rhythmic ostinatos repeated at length. But the quartet’s sound most closely resembled that of Shakti and that of Oregon, adventurous jazz groups that mix lithe, muscular improvisation with Eastern musical influences and the transparency of chamber music.

Opening the first of his two sets with “MissiGono,” Terry Riley demonstrated his considerable jazz-piano credentials with gentle right-hand melodies loosed to float over insistent left-hand rhythms. Gyan Riley, a gifted performer, shifted between supporting the ostinato and pushing against it. Mr. Silverman added tuneful filigree; Mr. Smith offered an airy shimmer of cymbals and a nimble, musical solo.

For nearly half an hour Terry Riley and his players shifted through flowery lines, a shuffle beat, odd-metered dances and a brisk martial tattoo. Midway through, he sang several choruses of cheerily nonsensical lyrics: “1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7/All God’s children go to heaven”; “4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10/Judeo-Christianity, Muhammad, Zen.”

Afterward, Terry Riley caught his breath during Gyan Riley’s sinuous “Melismantra,” a raga-jazz piece for guitar, violin and percussion.
409 2009-10-13 A lawyer for Roman Polanski said on Sunday his client realized that some of the support he had received since his arrest had not been helpful to securing his release, Agence France-Presse reported. Adding that he was concerned for Mr. Polanski’s health, the lawyer, Hervé Temime, spoke to Agence France-Presse after visiting Mr. Polanski on Friday in a Swiss prison. He is being held for possible extradition to the United States more than three decades after fleeing sentencing on sex charges in 1978. In the interview Mr. Temime said Mr. Polanski was “very touched by the support he has received.” He added, “He also knows that some of it is counterproductive” but did not elaborate. Many filmmakers, actors and other public personalities have signed petitions seeking Mr. Polanski’s release. Mr. Temime said he found Mr. Polanski, 76, to be “very worn out.”
410 2009-10-13 But of the many factors that might have influenced the outcome in any particular case, Dr. Starko wrote, aspirin overdose stands out for several reasons, including a confluence of historical events.

In February 1917, Bayer lost its American patent on aspirin, opening a lucrative drug market to many manufacturers. Bayer fought back with copious advertising, celebrating the brand’s purity just as the epidemic was reaching its peak.

Aspirin packages were produced containing no warnings about toxicity and few instructions about use. In the fall of 1918, facing a widespread deadly disease with no known cure, the surgeon general and the United States Navy recommended aspirin as a symptomatic treatment, and the military bought large quantities of the drug.

The Journal of the American Medical Association suggested a dose of 1,000 milligrams every three hours, the equivalent of almost 25 standard 325-milligram aspirin tablets in 24 hours. This is about twice the daily dosage generally considered safe today.

Dr. Starko’s paper, published in the Nov. 1 issue of Clinical Infectious Diseases, has stirred some interest, if not enthusiastic endorsement, among other experts.

“I think the paper is creative and asking good questions,” said John M. Barry, author of a book on the 1918 flu titled “The Great Influenza.” “But we don’t know how many people actually took the doses of aspirin discussed in the article.”

The pharmacology of aspirin is complex and was not fully understood until the 1960s, but dosage is crucial. Doubling the dose given at six-hour intervals can cause a 400 percent increase in the amount of the medicine that remains in the body. Even quite low daily doses — six to nine standard aspirin pills a day for several days — can lead to dangerously high blood levels of the drug in some people.

Peter A. Chyka, a professor of pharmacy at the University of Tennessee, said he found Dr. Starko’s theory “intriguing.” Little was known about safe dosages at the time, he said, and doctors often simply raised the amount until they saw signs of toxicity.

“In the context of what we know today about aspirin and aspirinlike products, Starko has made an interesting effort to put this together,” Dr. Chyka said. “There are things other than flu that can complicate a disease like this.”

Although he doubted that more than a small number of deaths could be attributed to aspirin overdose, Dr. David M. Morens, an epidemiologist with the National Institutes of Health, said the paper was valuable in that “it makes an attempt to look at environmental or host factors that may be involved.” He said, “We haven’t been able to explain all the deaths in young adults with the virus itself.”

Dr. Starko was hesitant to estimate how many deaths aspirin overdose could have caused, but suggested that military archives might be one place to look. “I’m hoping others will follow up,” she said, “by examining available treatment records.”
411 2009-10-13 SEOUL, South Korea  North Korea launched a barrage of five short-range missiles off its east coast on Monday in its first missile tests in three months, in an apparent provocation as the United States weighs whether to start bilateral talks, South Korean news media reported.

The North Korean military launched two KN-02 surface-to-surface missiles, which have a range of 75 miles, from mobile launching pads on Monday morning and three in the afternoon, the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported, quoting an unidentified government source. Chosun, a daily South Korean newspaper, had a similar report.

A South Korean military official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to reporters, confirmed that North Korea launched short-range missiles.

The North’s longstanding tactic is to increase tensions when it seeks to nudge the United States to the negotiating table, where it uses its nuclear weapons programs as a bargaining chip to win aid and diplomatic concessions.
412 2009-10-13 Eating a Mediterranean-style diet — packed with fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, olive oil and fish — is good for your heart, many studies have found. Now scientists are suggesting the diet may be good for your mental health, too.

A study of over 10,000 Spaniards followed for almost four and half years on average found that those who reported eating a healthy Mediterranean diet at the beginning of the study were about half as likely to develop depression than those who said they did not stick to the diet.

All of the participants were free of depression when they were recruited to the study, and each filled out a 136-item food frequency questionnaire when they joined. Based on their self-reported dietary habits, they were assigned a score between 0 and 9, with the highest score reflecting the closest adherence to a Mediterranean diet.

Over time, those who had scored between 5 and 9 on the Mediterranean diet were 42 percent to 51 percent less likely to develop depression, the study found, than those who scored between 0 and 2.

The study, which was funded by the Spanish government’s official medical research agency, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, does not prove a cause-and-effect relationship between the Mediterranean diet and a lower risk for depression, only an association between the two. Still, many scientists are convinced that some damaging inflammatory and metabolic processes involved in cardiovascular disease may also play a role in mental health.

“Both cardiovascular disease and depression share common mechanisms related to endothelium function and inflammation,” said Dr. Miguel Angel Martinez-Gonzalez, professor of preventive medicine at University of Navarra in Pamplona, Spain, and senior author of the paper, published in the October issue of Archives of General Psychiatry.

“The membranes of our neurons are composed of fat, so the quality of fat that you are eating definitely has an influence on the quality of the neuron membranes, and the body’s synthesis of neurotransmitters is dependent on the vitamins you’re eating,” Dr. Martinez-Gonzalez added. “We think those with lowest adherence to the Mediterranean dietary plan have a deficiency of essential nutrients.”
413 2009-10-14 Kiss cannot be happy with Michael Bublé right now....
414 2009-10-14 Senior Treasury officials would like more of the biggest U.S. banks to repay billions of dollars in taxpayer money that bailed them out over the last year. But many firms would prefer to keep the money for several more years rather than raise new ...
415 2009-10-14 Kicking off the latest chapter of this year's Full Employment Act for K Street Lobbyists, representatives from a surfeit of industries descended on an influential Congressional committee on Wednesday as it began writing a law overhauling the natio...
416 2009-10-14 As opening statements began on Wednesday in the fraud trial of two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers, Ralph Cioffi and Matthew Tannin, two very disparate trial strategies emerged from the prosecution and the defense: one attention-grabbing, ...
417 2009-10-14 A senator turns against health care legislation from the Senate Finance Committee....
418 2009-10-14 Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, warned that if the government required all over-the-counter derivatives to be cleared on an exchange, this would have a "material impact" on the bank's future earnings....
419 2009-10-14 Michael R. Bloomberg said he thought the successful bid was a good move....
420 2009-10-14 Seeking Reader Questions for Michael Barron, an expert on public university admissions who is the top admissions official at the University of Iowa...
421 2009-10-14 Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times
422 2009-10-14 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg gives a thumbs up to his company's purchase of Business Week magazine....
423 2009-10-14 Big cuts in carbon emissions are possible, says Lester Brown of the Earth Policy Institute, but policymakers need to be much more ambitious in order to prevent some of the worst aspects of climate change....
424 2009-10-14 At a meeting in Washington yesterday, top executives of several multinationals emphasized the urgency of climate negotiations - and the importance of a constructive role from China....
425 2009-10-14 JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, said Wednesday that the bank's once-strong and stable dividend could be ready to make a comeback, with the bank looking to increase its payout significantly early next year as long as the economy does...
426 2009-10-14 The mere fact that Washington is considering a job-creation tax credit is doing harm even before it becomes law, an economist writes....
427 2009-10-14 Crédit Agricole, the French bank, said Wednesday that it would repay the $4.5 billion of debt the government bought last December, becoming the latest big bank to pay back a bailout....
428 2009-10-14 The first criminal trial stemming from the financial panic opened on Tuesday in a courtroom in New York with one overarching question: in this era of foreclosures and bank bailouts, how carefully balanced does a jury have to be to render a fair ve...
429 2009-10-14 Commissioner Roger Goodell cast doubt on Rush Limbaugh's viability as an N.F.L. owner Tuesday, saying that "divisive comments are not what the N.F.L. is all about."...
430 2009-10-14 Pretty much everyone agrees on the causes for the country’s desperate financial mess: predatory lenders, weak regulations, even weaker regulators, and risky nigh unto incomprehensible financial instruments.

Congress’s willingness to address those problems will have its first real test on Wednesday when the House Financial Services Committee puts finishing touches on what could be essential reform legislation — or a major disappointment, depending on what they do.

At the top of the committee’s agenda is regulation of the largely unregulated and dangerously opaque multitrillion-dollar derivatives’ market. Next on the agenda is the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency to oversee the consumer- offerings of and other financial firms — including , credit cards, overdraft “protection” and payday .

Both reforms are crucial, and we fear both are in danger of being irreparably weakened.

Derivatives are supposed to help investors and businesses manage risk, but their unchecked and unregulated use led — directly and indirectly — to the financial crash and subsequent trillions of dollars in taxpayer interventions.

Congress should require that all derivatives’ dealers and users — including banks, hedge funds and corporations — conduct their trades on exchanges where they would be subject to considerable regulation and public scrutiny. Regulators could create exceptions for customized contracts that are negotiated one on one for truly complex and unique circumstances. But most derivatives contracts are highly standardized and can be, and should be, exchange-traded.
431 2009-10-14 Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm has signed legislation requiring farm animals confined in cages to have enough room to turn around and fully extend their limbs. The bill makes Michigan the second state to ban so-called battery cages for egg-laying chickens, the fifth to ban veal crates and the seventh to ban stalls for pregnant pigs. The cages for hens and stalls for pregnant pigs will go away in about 10 years. The crates for veal calves will be banned in three years.
432 2009-10-14 Bloomberg is taking another step from the trading floor into the corner office.

The company said Tuesday that it was the winning bidder for BusinessWeek, the troubled 80-year-old title that McGraw-Hill had put on sale this summer.

Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but the price was said to be near $5 million, plus assumption of liabilities, which were $31.9 million as of April.

The magazine will continue to be a weekly print publication, rechristened Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Decisions have not been made about BusinessWeek’s staff of more than 400 people; Bloomberg will select which of those employees it wants by the end of the year, when the deal closes. Those not selected will receive severance from McGraw-Hill, said a BusinessWeek executive.

The deal is expected to close by the end of the year.

BusinessWeek was in a tough spot financially, and lost more than $800,000 dollars a week last year. Investors had pressured McGraw-Hill to get it off its books. While there was interest from parties in the private equity world, Bloomberg was seen as the preferred buyer.

“We are committed to the partnership,” said BusinessWeek president Keith Fox in an interview. “Bloomberg is acquiring a really powerful brand with strong reach among business professionals.”
433 2009-10-14 Legal experts said it would be almost impossible to find jurors unaffected by the crisis.

If the men are convicted of the securities fraud charges, they face up to 20 years in prison each.

“Both sides will probably pitch this at a very gut and emotional level, which is how most cases are decided anyway,” Robert S. Duboff, who runs the jury consulting firm HawkPartners, said. “But sometimes the people who are the most bitter at the institution could well end up being sympathetic to the people on trial.”

In arguing their case, prosecutors are likely to contrast the lives of Wall Street executives with those of ordinary Americans. The two executives at Bear Stearns, which collapsed into the arms of JPMorgan Chase in 2008, made many millions of dollars.

In an e-mail message disclosed by the prosecution last week, Mr. Tannin wrote that he made $2 million in 2006. He also expressed extreme anxiety about the performance of the hedge funds, writing in November 2006 that he could no longer sleep and began taking antidepressants because of fear the funds could eventually “blow up.”

The funds filed for bankruptcy in the summer of 2007, costing investors more than $1.4 billion. Both men were then dismissed.

One potential juror from Brooklyn, under questioning from Judge Block, said his feelings about workers in the financial industry depended on who the people were and added that investment managers seemed as if “they have very stressful jobs.”

In his questioning, Judge Block pointed out that even though many jurors had lost a chunk of their savings, the case was “not a revenge opportunity.”

The prosecution’s case is expected to hinge on messages between Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin showing they were concerned about the funds even as they collected more money from investors. The government’s case rests on whether jurors believe the two knowingly deceived investors about the funds.

“While this jury may not understand the arcane financial issues, they will have a sense of what’s right and what’s wrong,” said Brian L. Rubin, a partner in the litigation practice of Sutherland Asbill & Brennan.

The defense has argued that Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin were victims of the crisis and managed their investors’ money the best they could. Mr. Cioffi is also accused of insider trading; prosecutors say he took $2 million out of one fund and moved it into another. Opening statements in the trial begin on Wednesday.
434 2009-10-14 DENVER — When Coloradoans voted to tie the state’s minimum wage to inflation, they were trying to make sure low-wage workers did not fall too far behind the cost of living. But their vote has had an unintended consequence: Colorado plans to lower its minimum wage next year because of falling inflation rates, becoming the first state in the nation do so.

The state’s Department of Labor and Employment said Tuesday that it planned to lower the minimum wage to $7.24 from $7.28, after an August federal consumer price index report showed that the cost of living had fallen in the state. A public hearing on the issue is set for next month.

Colorado is one of 10 states where the minimum wage is tied to inflation. The others are Arizona, Florida, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Vermont and Washington.

“Colorado’s Constitution doesn’t give us any leeway,” said a state labor department spokesman, Bill Thoennes. “At this point, we don’t believe we have the option not to lower the minimum wage.”

In 2006, in an effort to keep low-wage workers’ salaries commensurate with the cost of living, voters approved a change to the State Constitution that requires the minimum wage to be adjusted with inflation.
435 2009-10-14 This is a taste of New York in the days between Danceteria and crack, food from the streets of a city scrambling back from the edge: Cowgirl SeaHorse, daughter to Cowgirl Hall of Fame in the West Village. That restaurant, now known simply as Cowgirl, is mother. Father is the memory of city roadhouses long gone.

And so there is on the menu coconut shrimp ($7.95) from Sugar Reef. Sugar Reef was nutso fake Caribbean eating in the ’80s East Village, fun like a fifth-floor walk-up with a pretty girl by your side. The shrimp are weird and wonderful time machines, crunchy and large, not so revelatory in flavor but a pleasant and intense reminder of a neighborhood filled with boys in pegged jeans late to band practice.

There is gumbo ($12.95) from the way West Village as well, from north of the cruising grounds, everyone zipped on hurricanes and smokes, the smell of low tide coming off the Hudson. That restaurant’s name: Gulf Coast. It wasn’t very good gumbo. It still isn’t. But it is as peppery as ever and this is sometimes enough, even still. It is hangover food.

Speaking of which, there is also a plate of chicken-fried chicken slathered in gravy fat ($12.95), with mashed potatoes and greens, that’s taken from Cowgirl Hall of Fame. (And taken originally, perhaps, from the old Cottonwood Café.) The gravy is smooth, flavorful, fine, the chicken moist and comforting, the potatoes excellent and copious.

Together these make up a good portion of the new restaurant’s charm. Have a roasted jalapeño stuffed with shrimp, wrapped in bacon ($8.95). Eat some chicken wings, with a blue-cheese dipping sauce. In a different part of America, the baby back ribs ($13.95) would mark the place as one of your better chain restaurants. Here they’re just overdone and over-sauced and therefore almost addictive. Order nachos and beer.

Cowgirl SeaHorse isn’t a great restaurant, obviously. But like the Hall of Fame, it’s open and fun — and a house margarita paired with warm, salty tortilla chips does much to recall the freak flagship’s mood of tolerance. There are mounted fish on the walls, outboard motors hanging from the ceiling and a soundtrack that runs from Hole to Johnny Cash and back again. Bring kids and the elderly, whomever you like. All are welcome, this city’s great promise realized once more.
436 2009-10-14 Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., reported third-quarter revenue of $9.4 billion, well ahead of the analysts’ consensus of $9 billion, as compiled by Thomson Reuters. Still, Intel’s sales remained 8 percent below last year.

Yet Intel executives emphasized the unfolding trend. The third quarter’s revenue was 17 percent higher than in the second quarter, the largest rate of improvement over those quarters in more than 30 years.

Net income was nearly $1.9 billion, or 33 cents a share. The Wall Street estimate was 28 cents a share, and that was after analysts had steadily lifted their earnings forecasts in recent months. In July, the consensus estimate was 15 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters. In the year-earlier quarter, Intel reported earnings of $2 billion, or 35 cents a share.

Intel’s recovery has been most robust in fast-growing, developing economies like China. But even the mature economies of the United States and Western Europe are showing signs of real improvement, with America slightly ahead of Europe, Stacy J. Smith, Intel’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.

The personal computer market is decisively recovering, although consumers, not companies, are doing most of the buying, Mr. Smith noted.

The upbeat third-quarter report is the latest evidence of growing optimism at the big chip maker. In July, Intel reported that its second-quarter results were stronger than it had expected, even though sales were down 15 percent from the previous year. Yet the downward trend seemed to be broken, cheering both Wall Street and the technology industry.

Then, at the end of August, Intel pointed to stronger demand for its microprocessors and chipsets and raised its revenue projection for the third quarter by $500 million, to about $9 billion.

Investors anticipate that technology companies, led by Intel, will lead the way out of the recovery. Earnings estimates for all the companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index are projected to be down 25 percent in the third quarter, compared with a year earlier, according to Thomson Reuters. But technology company profits are expected to be down only 14 percent. In July, analysts had expected technology sector profits to be off 20 percent in the third quarter.

Intel, according to some analysts, may have enjoyed a bump in demand in the quarter as major PC makers ordered chips to build machines equipped with Microsoft’s new operating system, Windows 7, which will be officially released Oct. 22.

Typically, analysts say, PC makers like Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Acer accelerate chip orders somewhat later in the year as they prepare for the year-end holiday shopping season. “The PC build cycle is probably earlier this year,” said David Wu, a semiconductor analyst at GC Research.

But with the market strengthening, Intel expects no let-up in the fourth quarter. It projected fourth-quarter revenue of $10.1 billion, plus or minus $400 million, which would be a 7.6 percent increase from the third quarter. That, Intel said, is in line with its typical seasonal increase in sales.
437 2009-10-14 LOS ANGELES  As one of the bed-hopping interns in the hospital soap opera “Grey’s Anatomy,” T. R. Knight was both nebbishy and adorable, a sad-sack elf who still managed to get the girls, despite the fierce competition from his more square-jawed, bedroom-eyed colleagues. Onstage as Leo Frank, the Jewish factory superintendent wrongly accused of murdering a teenage girl in the musical “Parade,” Mr. Knight remains distinctly nebbishy, but the scope for adorability is severely limited.

This serious-minded, somber show sets to music a true story of such unrelenting grimness that the usual audience-appealing devices of musical theater  heart-seducing melodies, lively dancing, glowing star turns  are deployed in modest doses. You don’t want to be tapping your toes to a sorry spectacle of justice miscarried, particularly one that ends in a lynching.

With a skillful score by Jason Robert Brown and a book by the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Alfred Uhry, “Parade” received mixed-to-downbeat reviews at its world premiere in 1998, in a production directed by Harold Prince for Lincoln Center Theater. Revived by the powerhouse Donmar Warehouse in London in 2007, directed and choreographed by Rob Ashford, it fared far better critically, and received several Olivier Award nominations.

Michael Ritchie, artistic director of the Center Theater Group here, has imported the Donmar production for the musical’s professional Los Angeles premiere at the Mark Taper Forum, enlisting Mr. Ashford to recreate his staging for the Taper’s small thrust stage, and supplying a sterling cast of American musical-theater veterans.

Davis Gaines, who spent many a year behind the mask in “The Phantom of the Opera,” plays three small roles (still in firm, stentorian voice). Michael Berresse and Charlotte D’Amboise, recently the original Zach and Cassie in the Broadway revival of “A Chorus Line,” are also aboard, along with Christian Hoff, a Tony winner for “Jersey Boys.”

The lush casting pays off handsomely, with all contributing incisive, effective performances, led by Mr. Knight’s focused, uncompromising turn as Leo, opposite an equally fine Lara Pulver (the lone holdover from the London cast) as his devoted, strong-minded wife, Lucille, whose efforts to seek justice for her husband almost succeed in saving his life.

But Mr. Ashford’s sensitive production, beautifully designed by Christopher Oram (sets and costumes) and Neil Austin (lighting), makes the real news here. Known on Broadway primarily as a choreographer (“Thoroughly Modern Millie,” “Curtains”), Mr. Ashford broke through as a director with this production in London, and followed it up last summer with an even more rapturously received revival of “A Streetcar Named Desire,” starring Rachel Weisz, also for the Donmar.

On the vast Vivian Beaumont stage, “Parade” was dark and solemn  as it is here  but also somewhat bloated with self-importance. Scaled down to a more intimate size here, it speaks in a quieter voice and seems less strident in its depiction of the power of anti-Semitism, bigotry and venality in the South of the early 20th century. (The events, based on a real case, take place in and around Atlanta between 1913 and 1915.)

Mr. Ashford signals the Brooklyn-bred, Cornell-educated Leo’s alienation from his Southern surroundings by keeping him forever in isolation, even before he has been convicted and thrown in jail to await his death sentence. Stranded in shafts of gray or sepia light, he always seems to be at an emotional remove from everyone else onstage, even his own Southern-born Jewish wife.

Mr. Knight’s tamped-down performance  trimmed gently in comic inflections that add a small dose of humor  accentuates the qualities that Mr. Uhry did not shy from depicting in his book, and which were said to have contributed to Leo’s conviction. Businesslike, unemotional, slightly ornery and inwardly seething with contempt for the men who persecute him, Leo can bring himself to seek sympathy only in the sober, faltering voice of reason in the song “It’s Hard to Speak My Heart.”

But by the time he finds his voice, it has become obvious that a mania for retribution, combined with suspicion of outsiders, has closed the minds of his persecutors to rational thought.

Small but significant changes to the structure of the show have been made. On Broadway the role of the ambitious reporter covering the case, Britt Craig (Mr. Berresse), loomed a little too large. His drunken solo turn, the closest thing the original version had to a showstopper, has wisely been cut, leaving no seams in Mr. Brown’s score, which mixes character-defining songs in a Stephen Sondheim-influenced style with period pastiche and the occasional soaring ballad.

To temper the depiction of the Southerners as a horde of bigoted jackals or ignorant men and women whipped into a religious frenzy by a Christian publisher (P. J. Griffith), Mr. Ashford resurrects a ghost in an antebellum gown to haunt the proceedings, representing the mournful spirit of the more genteel South. (Admittedly this is a bit hokey, but effective nonetheless.)

Mr. Ashford’s choreographic skill brings a propulsive momentum to the important scene in the second act in which Lucille approaches the governor, hoping to persuade him to reopen the case. A courtly Southern dance becomes a subtle metaphor for the cozy, corrupt political atmosphere that helped lead to Leo’s conviction but might also be manipulated to save his life. (And it’s nice that he’s given the terrific dancers Mr. Berresse and Ms. D’Amboise, who play the governor and his wife, a chance to cut loose, however briefly.)

Still, just as I did when watching “Parade” for the first time a little over a decade ago, I found myself wondering if anti-Semitism, corruption and venality are subjects profitably illuminated by being dramatized as musical theater. Music enhances our emotional responses to theater, but our reaction to the events depicted in “Parade” is mostly revulsion, which doesn’t need much help from an orchestra.

Even the suffering of Leo evokes a muted sorrow, more intellectual than sympathetic, since for much of the show he is depicted as cold, scornful and passive. The authors of “Parade” deserve credit for their fidelity to history and their ambition to probe a painful chapter in the American past, but for me the persecution of Leo Frank is a story that does not gain any greater dimensions by being set to song.

Book by Alfred Uhry; music and lyrics by Jason Robert Brown; co-conceived by Harold Prince; directed and choreographed by Rob Ashford; sets and costumes by Christopher Oram; lighting by Neil Austin; sound by Jon Weston; musical director, Tom Murray; orchestrator, David Cullen; original London sound design by Nick Lidster and Terry Jardine for Autograph; associate choreographer, Chris Bailey; hair and wig design by Carol F. Doran; associate producer, Neel Keller. A Donmar Warehouse production, presented by the Center Theater Group, Michael Ritchie, artistic director; Charles Dillingham, managing director. At the Mark Taper Forum, 135 North Grand Avenue, Los Angeles; (213) 628-2772. Through Nov. 15. Running time: 2 hours 38 minutes.

WITH: Brad Anderson (Officer Ivey/Luther Rosser/Guard), Michael Berresse (Governor Slaton/Britt Craig/Mr. Peavy), Charlotte d’Amboise (Mrs. Phagan/Sally Slaton), Davis Gaines (Old Soldier/Judge Roan/Guard), P. J. Griffith (Officer Starnes/Tom Watson), Curt Hansen (Young Soldier/Frankie Epps/Guard), Deidrie Henry (Minnie McKnight/Angela), Christian Hoff (Hugh Dorsey), T. R. Knight (Leo Frank), Lisa Livesay (Monteen), Hayley Podschun (Iola Stover), Lara Pulver (Lucille Frank), David St. Louis (Newt Lee/Jim Conley/Riley), Rose Sezniak (Lila/Mary Phagan) and Phoebe Strole (Essie).
438 2009-10-14 In the first seven months of 2008, just under 15 percent of American imports came from China. Over the same period this year, 19 percent did. Meanwhile, Canada’s share of American imports fell to 14.5 percent, from nearly 17 percent.

Besides increasing its share of many American markets, China is increasing the value of exports in absolute terms in some categories. In knit apparel, for instance, American imports from China jumped 10 percent through July of this year — while America’s imports from Mexico, Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador plunged 19 to 24 percent in each country, according to Global Trade Information Services.

Indeed, China's said Wednesday that its export slump eased in September, down just 15 percent, a strong improvement over August's decline. Economists said it was a sign of an improving global economy and renewed strength for Chinese exporters.

A similar tale is told around the world, from Japan to Italy.

One reason is the ability of Chinese manufacturers to quickly slash prices by reducing wages and other costs in production zones that often rely on migrant workers. Factory managers here say American buyers are demanding they do just that.

“The buyers are getting more and more tough in bargaining for lower prices, especially American buyers,” says Liao Yuan, the head of international trade at the Changrun Garment Company, which is based in southern China and exports jeans to Europe and the United States. “They offer $2.85 per pair of jeans for a package of a dozen, when the reasonable price is $7.”

Because China produces a diversified portfolio of low-priced and essential items, analysts say the country’s exports can hold up relatively well in a recession. Few other countries can match what has come to be called the “China Price.”

“China has a huge advantage,” says Nicholas R. Lardy, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. “They can adjust to market changes very rapidly. They have flexibility in their labor markets. And as consumers trade down the quality ladder, China can benefit.”

The expiration of textile quotas in large parts of the world this year has also allowed China to increase its market penetration.

But equally important are government policies that support this country’s export sector — from Beijing keeping its currency weak against the dollar to its determination to subsidize exporters through tax credits and billions of dollars in low-interest loans from state-run banks.

The results have been impressive. All told, in the first half of 2009, China exported $521 billion worth of clothes, toys, electronics, grains and other commodities to the rest of the world.

Though that represented a 22 percent decrease from the first half of 2008, it compares favorably to other major exporters. German exports have fallen 34 percent over the same period. Japanese exports were down 37 percent and American exports 24 percent, according to Global Trade Information Services.

Trading powerhouses like Germany are suffering from weaker demand for heavy equipment, automobiles and luxury goods. But the value of exports from oil-producing countries, like Russia and Saudi Arabia, has fallen even more.

One reason is that the price of oil has plummeted from last year’s record highs. But since oil is priced in dollars and the value of the dollar has fallen markedly, so have the value of American imports from these countries — over 45 percent in the case of Russia’s exports to the world.

Meanwhile, American imports from Saudi Arabia have fallen 65 percent.

China’s market share gains are mostly at the expense of countries like Japan, Italy, Canada, Mexico and Central America — in industries that China has long sought to dominate.

China’s share of furniture imports in the United States has grown to 54 percent, from 50 percent, over the last year, while furniture exports to the United States from Canada and Italy have plunged 40 percent from a year ago. In Europe, Chinese textiles and apparel have gained market share in every major country, after the quota expiration in January. Not long ago, Italy’s shoe imports were dominated by Romania; now China has a commanding share.

Japan once relied on electronics shipments to the United States, but every year for the past decade Japan has lost market share to China. This year is no different. In 1999, electronics goods from Japan made up 18 percent of America’s electronics imports. Today, that figure is down to 7 percent.

China’s market share has climbed 10 to 20 percent from a year ago. Together, the gains are helping China maintain its large trade surplus with the rest of the world, reviving worries about global trade imbalances — and once again putting the spotlight on China’s currency, the renminbi. Specialists note, however, that much of China’s gains stem from the fact that it is increasingly assembling products whose components are made elsewhere, and re-exporting them.

After letting its currency rise against the dollar, beginning in July 2005, China is once again pegging it closely to the dollar. As the dollar has fallen against other major currencies like the euro — about 15 percent since a year ago — Chinese imports have become more and more competitive.

Now, European officials are clamoring for China to reduce its flood of exports and pressing for antidumping investigations.

The International Monetary Fund is calling on China to rebalance its economy and allow its currency to appreciate against other major currencies.

The United States — which for years complained about China’s weak currency and soaring trade imbalances — has largely been silent in recent months, analysts say, partly because Washington is trying to improve relations with Beijing at a time when it desperately needs China to purchase American debt.

“Obama’s interest is not to push China to appreciate the currency, but to get them to pay the bills,” Dong Tao, an economist at Credit Suisse says, referring to China’s purchases of American debt.

For its part, Beijing worries that raising the value of its currency could be catastrophic, damaging exports and diluting the effect of the government’s aggressive stimulus package.

But the country’s leaders are well aware of the need to shift the economy away from heavy dependence on exports and toward stronger domestic consumption. Indeed, China is eager to move up the value chain, by selling higher-priced goods like computer chips, aircraft and pharmaceuticals — all of which would bring better-paying jobs and healthier economic growth.

Moreover, many economists say that as Chinese consumers become richer, they will buy more of their own goods. And as the dollar falls, it will make American exports more competitive globally, including in China. Those trends together could eventually help rebalance global trade — which became overly reliant on Americans buying cheap Chinese goods and China buying American debt. Right now, Beijing worries about growing trade frictions with its biggest trading partners, the European Union and the United States, and the possibility of some countries initiating protectionist measures.

Chinese exporters, meanwhile, fear that even as they gain market share the pressure to produce at low prices will hurt them and the quality of their products.

Ms. Liao at the Changrun factory says many producers are essentially scavenging to source raw material.

“Some even go to old factories to collect abandoned fabrics from old stock, so they can save two-thirds of the cost on raw material,” she says. “These fabrics are in very bad shape. They won’t wash, and easily wear out.”

But the discounting period may be here for a while with many economists forecasting a lengthy period of slow growth in Europe and the United States.

“China is going to get stronger,” Mr. Tao at Credit Suisse says. “Its competitors are getting weaker in the downturn. And the Chinese state has helped bail out some industries, like the auto industry; so in the future some new industries may emerge as exporters.”
439 2009-10-14 The company’s recent deals reflect that optimism about the growing importance of video traffic. Two weeks ago, Cisco began a tender offer to buy Tandberg, a Norwegian maker of videoconferencing systems, for $3 billion. And in March, Cisco agreed to pay $590 million for Pure Digital Technologies, a start-up that developed the popular Flip video cameras.

John T. Chambers, the chairman and chief executive of Cisco, has said that the company plans to keep spending. At $35 billion, Cisco has more cash on hand for acquisitions than any other technology company. Cisco’s vast cash stockpile results, in part, from its lucrative networking equipment business. The company is by far the largest supplier of the routers and switches that help direct data and voice traffic between computing systems.

While the profit margins on many popular data center products have plummeted over the years, Cisco reports 65 percent gross profit margins on its networking hardware.

Mr. Chambers has used acquisitions as a means of complementing the company’s networking products, while also getting Cisco into new businesses. For example, the purchase of Pure Digital bolsters Cisco’s video and nascent consumer electronics efforts while also giving the company a way to promote devices that create bulky files that consume great deals of bandwidth.

While the Starent purchase has a video element, it is primarily a sign that Cisco expects smartphones and wireless data plans to rise in popularity. In addition, the acquisition offers another door through which Cisco can approach telecommunications companies that have turned to Ericsson, Alcatel-Lucent and Huawei Technologies for networking equipment that feeds mobile devices.

In a research report, Mark Sue, a networking analyst with RBC Capital Markets, valued the mobile carrier infrastructure market at $47.5 billion.

Starent, based in Tewksbury, Mass., was founded in 2000 and has traded publicly since 2007. Last year, the company reported a 74 percent rise in revenue, to $254.1 million.

Matthew Robison, a communications analyst with Wedbush Morgan Securities, said Starent had made a name for itself by creating a single piece of networking hardware that could move data while also performing more complex management functions like handling user tracking and billing processes. “It’s almost like a router and a computer server in the same box,” he said.

Such technology has become desirable among the large telecommunications suppliers, which have either made similar acquisitions or tried to build their own hybrid systems. “Cisco needed to do this to have a good road map out to the next generation of products,” Mr. Robison said.

The all-cash deal is expected to close in the first half of 2010.
440 2009-10-14 The CIT Group, the troubled lender, said on Tuesday that its chief executive would resign at the end of the year, as the likelihood grew that the company would seek bankruptcy protection to lighten its onerous debt burden.

The departure of the executive, Jeffrey M. Peek, planned for Dec. 31, was not unexpected. Under Mr. Peek’s leadership, CIT transformed from a sleepy lender to small- and midsize companies around the country to a big financial player with aspirations of greatness — only to be laid low by the financial crisis last year.

Mr. Peek has spent the last several months seeking to rescue the firm. Two weeks ago, CIT unveiled a restructuring plan, involving a huge debt exchange intended to reduce its $30 billion in unsecured bonds and pushing out its bond maturities. The firm received a $3 billion lifeline from major bondholders this summer, averting a ruinous unplanned bankruptcy filing then.

At the same time, the company has been soliciting votes for a prepackaged bankruptcy, one meant to cut CIT’s time in Chapter 11 protection to perhaps a month and a half. Because of investors’ reluctance to sign onto the exchange offer, the bankruptcy option looks like the more likely path for the company, according to a person briefed on the restructuring plans.

Mr. Peek, who informed CIT’s board of his intended departure over the weekend, was not pressured to resign, according to people briefed on the matter. But it was clear that the company’s bondholders, who will likely take control of the lender through either the debt exchange or a bankruptcy filing, would select their own management team. CIT’s board is forming a search committee to find his replacement.

“CIT’s recently launched restructuring plan is designed to enhance its capital levels, bolster liquidity and return the company to profitability,” Mr. Peek said in a statement. “Now is the appropriate time to focus on a transition of leadership, and I look forward to working closely with our board during that process.”
441 2009-10-14 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea agreed to hold talks with South Korea later this week on nonmilitary matters, officials said here Tuesday, a day after the North tested short-range missiles off its eastern coast.

Officials from the two Koreas plan to meet Wednesday at a North Korean border city to discuss how to prevent floods in the Imjin River, which runs through their heavily armed border, the Unification Ministry in Seoul reported.

Six South Koreans were killed last month when North Korea released water from a dam upriver without notice, causing a flash flood. The North said the emergency release of water was necessary because rain and floodwaters had threatened to breach the dam. Afterward, the South demanded an apology in addition to talks to prevent such episodes.

Separately, the Red Cross societies from both sides were set to meet Friday to discuss reunions of families separated by the Korean War. Two weeks ago, they organized a round of family reunions for the first time in two years, furthering the prospects of reconciliation between North and South Korea, whose relations had chilled over the North’s nuclear and missile tests this year.

In the past, South Korea shipped food aid as a humanitarian gesture after such family reunions. North Korea is expected to seek food shipments during the new round of Red Cross talks this week while South Korea demands regular family reunions.

“The talks will become a turning point in inter-Korean relations,” said Yang Moo-jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul. “In that sense, the North’s missile tests are significant in their timing.”

Still, the test-firings on Monday were the first in three months and were seen as both a provocation and a puzzle — an ominous reminder of the North’s military muscle but also confounding because it had been trying to get Washington to start bilateral talks.
442 2009-10-15 A Q.&A. with the dark comedy “Open the Dark Door.”...
443 2009-10-15 Last year's last-minute deals aren't likely to be repeated as airlines trim flight schedules and raise fares....
444 2009-10-15 The Olympic gold medalist, the fastest man in the world, may take his reputation onto the racetrack with his car....
445 2009-10-15 Blogtalk: Housing deceptions; bacon battles; the return of a museum; and more New York links....
446 2009-10-15 Acer is now the No. 2 PC maker in the world, after Hewlett-Packard. Acer also moved past Apple in the American market....
447 2009-10-15 The N.L.C.S. is unlikely to be as much of a cakewalk for Los Angeles as its first-round sweep of the Cardinals was, because Philadelphia matches up significantly better against the Dodgers than St. Louis did....
448 2009-10-15 A key House committee voted on Thursday to regulate, for the first time, trading in the arcane financial instruments known as derivatives, which have been linked to the financial crisis that shocked Wall Street and cut into the savings of millions...
449 2009-10-15 Environmentalists worry about the growing use of charcoal -- a potent contributor to global warming -- as an energy source in Cambodia....
450 2009-10-15 Pilgrim's Pride said Thursday that the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice have cleared the way for its deal with Brazilian beef producer JBS, which would help pull the chicken producer out of bankruptcy....
451 2009-10-15 The McClatchy newspaper chain reporters a slower decline in revenues in the third quarter....
452 2009-10-15 A review of "Admission Matters: What Students and Parents Need to Know About Getting Into College,'' finds that the book largely delivers on its mission....
453 2009-10-15 Goldman Sachs reported a $3.1 billion profit for the third quarter, becoming the second major Wall Street firm to show strong earnings one year after the financial crisis....
454 2009-10-15 Cadogan Management, a hedge fund that saw top executives, including its chief, quit after talks over a management buyout fell through, will be spun off from Fortis Bank now that talks have resumed, The Wall Street Journal reported....
455 2009-10-15 Europe's oldest stock exchanges, under threat from upstarts, have been trying of late to reduce costs, upgrade their technology and improve relations with their clients....
456 2009-10-15 General Motors chief Fritz Henderson reiterated Thursday that the company would take part in any rights offer by its struggling South Korean unit....
457 2009-10-15 One in five hedge fund managers misrepresents their fund or its performance to investors during formal due diligence investigations, according to new research from New York University's Stern School of Business....
458 2009-10-15 Pfizer's $68 billion purchase of Wyeth will close Thursday after antitrust regulators in the U.S. and Canada cleared the deal, which will make Pfizer the world's largest drugmaker by revenue....
459 2009-10-15 The New York Stock Exchange and New York itself are being eclipsed by off-the-books private deals and upstart electronic markets....
460 2009-10-15 The report claimed that the hardest hit would be people without large group coverage — namely those who work for small employers or buy policies directly from insurance companies. It claims that their premiums would go up by 49 percent for individual purchasers and 28 percent for small employers — mostly because the proposed regulations would require insurers to accept all applicants without regard to health status, while the penalty for anyone who decides not buy insurance would be late and comparatively small.

As a result, the report argued, healthy people would find it easy to defer coverage, leaving only sicker people in the insurance pool, where their higher average medical costs would inevitably drive up premiums.

We agree with the industry that the mandate — the requirement that nearly all Americans buy insurance or pay a penalty — should probably be stronger, and we wish the subsidies offered were more generous. But the rest of the argument is deeply flawed.

First, under the legislation, anyone who currently has a policy that turns out to be cheaper than those sold on the exchanges will be allowed to keep it.

An analysis by Jonathan Gruber, a respected health economist at the , using data generated by the Congressional Budget Office, demonstrates that even in its current form the Finance Committee’s bill would actually save individuals and families who currently buy their own policies hundreds if not thousands of dollars in annual premiums.

This is because policies offered on the highly regulated, competitive exchanges would probably be cheaper than comparable coverage available on today’s overpriced individual market.

In a particularly glaring omission, the industry report made no effort to factor in the effect of proposed subsidies that would help millions of people to buy their own insurance on those exchanges. The subsidies would help people earning less than four times the poverty level, or about $88,000 annually for a family of four.

The industry report also claims that Americans who currently buy their insurance through large employers would see their premiums rise by 9 percent to 11 percent, depending on the form of coverage. It blames most of that on a new excise on high-cost insurance policies. Under the Senate Finance Committee’s bill, any insurance plan that costs $8,000 for individuals or $21,000 for families would not be taxed; any value above that would be taxed at a rate of 40 percent.

As much as Americans hate the idea of taxes, there is a strong logic to this approach. It is designed to encourage employers and their workers to buy less-expensive plans — and make a more rational calculation of what services they need versus what is “free” because it is covered — and encourage employers to shift compensation more toward higher wages.

The report does acknowledge that likely shift, but then it blithely calculates the impact of the tax as if no shift occurred.

The report also claimed that new taxes on health insurers and drug and device manufacturers would drive up costs and then premiums. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the impact of those new taxes on the cost of premiums bought on the exchange would be about 1 percent.

And the report contends that the Finance Committee bill’s sharp slowdown in payments to health care providers would cause those providers to charge more to privately insured patients, driving up premiums. That conclusion is disputed by many analysts, in part because many of the rate reductions are designed to prod providers to become more efficient and absorb the reductions without passing them on.

The report, notably if predictably, makes no mention of other valuable benefits from health care reform: the fact that all workers would benefit from greater security (knowing that they can buy insurance if they get laid off) and greater ability to change jobs without worrying about loss of coverage.

Finally, the report makes no mention of the legislation’s efforts to find ways to rein in the relentless spiral of health care delivery costs — the main culprit in today’s spiraling premium costs. In the long run, those reforms should reduce the cost of insurance for everyone.
461 2009-10-15 Treasury officials said they had not yet prodded any banks to repay the government, and they acknowledged that some institutions were still too troubled to be weaned from the support.

Officials said they did not want banks to reduce their capital buffers. But they said many of the big banks had greatly strengthened their capital positions and were positioned to replace their government money with funds raised through private capital markets. Officials said investors would generally view private capital more favorably than cushions based on taxpayer infusions.

The issue of getting banks to repay the government has political importance. The Obama administration must decide by Dec. 31 whether to extend the $700 billion financial rescue program for an additional year.

The Treasury does not need Congressional approval to extend its authority for another year, but it does need to notify Congress, and any extension would be intensely unpopular. If more banks repay their loans before the Treasury makes that announcement, the news could be much easier to present.

At the moment, Treasury officials say they have more than enough money left in the program to handle any immediate needs. About $200 billion remains either uncommitted or has been repaid, and that amount would increase sharply if more banks repaid the government. Administration officials are still exploring ideas to use some of that extra money to help small businesses get loans and to support the housing market.

But they said their main goal in extending the program would be to preserve some ammunition in case the financial system experiences another round of shocks.

As appealing as it would be to get more banks off the dole, the banking system still has plenty of problems. It is not clear whether federal banking regulators, especially the Fed and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversee the big banks and bank holding companies, are as sanguine as Treasury.

“The banking system remains fragile,” Daniel K. Tarullo, a Federal Reserve governor, told the Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday. “Although capital ratios are considerably higher than they were at the start of the crisis for many banking organizations, poor loan quality, subpar earnings, and uncertainty about future conditions raise questions about capital adequacy for some institutions.”

John C. Dugan, the comptroller of the currency, expressed similar caution. “We anticipate additional capital and reserves will be needed to absorb the potential losses in banks’ portfolios,” Mr. Dugan warned Senate lawmakers on Wednesday.

Some big banks are lobbying hard for permission to repay the government to free themselves from the restrictions as well as the taint of weakness that come with the money.

Bank of America, which has received a total of $45 billion and is still groaning from losses tied to Merrill Lynch and Countrywide Financial, has argued for months that it was strong enough to exit the program.

But other big banks have almost reversed roles with the Treasury, compared with a year ago. Instead of being reluctant to take government money, as some were when the program was started last October, they are now reluctant to part with it.

“Those who didn’t pay it back in the first wave have been concerned about preserving shareholder value,” said Wayne Abernathy, executive vice president of the American Bankers Association. “If you do it early, you have to go out and raise new money, which dilutes the value of existing shareholders. Whereas, if you do it according to the schedule agreed to by Treasury, you can repay it out of your earnings.”
462 2009-10-15 These upstarts are utterly unlike the old-school Big Board, which is struggling to make its way as a for-profit corporation after centuries of ownership by its seat-holding members. Last year, its parent company, NYSE Euronext, lost $740 million.

Wall Street’s judgment has been swift and brutal. Since January 2007, the share price of NYSE Euronext has lost nearly three-quarters of its value, even though stock trading over all has soared.

While the exchange has been under assault since the beginning of the decade, its decline has accelerated in recent years as aggressive competitors have emerged. Today, 36 percent of daily trades in stocks that are listed on the New York Stock Exchange are actually executed on the exchange, down from about 75 percent nearly four years ago. The rest of are conducted elsewhere, on new electronic exchanges or through dark pools.

The old Big Board was far from perfect. Its floor brokers — who occupy a privileged, and potentially lucrative, niche between buyers and sellers — have sometimes enriched themselves at their customers’ expense.

But changes inside the exchange’s grand Main Hall are startling. For decades, the New York Exchange was the kind of place where sons followed their fathers onto the trading floor. But half of the jobs there have disappeared over the last five years. Many of the 1,200 or so remaining workers retreat quietly to their computers shortly after the opening bell clangs at 9:30 a.m.

The Big Board has been forced to close one of its five trading halls, and it has repopulated two others with business from the American Stock Exchange, which NYSE Euronext bought last year. The Main Hall — the soaring, gilded room opened in 1903 — can seem little more than a colorful backdrop for CNBC.

“It has not been pretty,” said Benn Steil of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. “All the big established exchanges around the world have experienced the same phenomenon, but the New York Stock Exchange has taken the biggest beating.”

It is a remarkable comedown for the New York Exchange, and for New York. Once the undisputed capital of capital, the city is struggling to retain its dominance in finance as the industry globalizes. “Wall Street” seems to be no longer a place, but a vast, worldwide network of money and information.

The Big Board says that it is fighting back — and that its hybrid of computers and human traders can beat the new rivals. It slashed commissions and developed its own purely electronic exchange, Arca, in Chicago. Arca has captured about 11 percent of the market for Big Board-listed stocks. It is also winning business in areas like derivatives.

“What’s going on here is a reinvention,” said Lawrence Leibowitz, head of United States markets and global technology at NYSE Euronext. “How can you bring this institution forward into the 21st century?”

Proponents of the new exchanges and private trading systems contend that ordinary people benefit from the technologies whether they know it or not.

“Competition has benefited the average investor,” said William O’Brien, chief executive of Direct Edge, one of the new exchanges. “Their broker has so many choices available, on or off exchanges, anywhere in the world, and they can get their order executed in less than a second.”

Critics maintain that only the most sophisticated players are benefiting, able to execute their trades seconds before smaller investors and in private.

“There are tools now that certain investors have that give them an advantage over other investors,” said Joseph Saluzzi, who trades equities for institutional investors and hedge funds at his boutique brokerage, Themis Trading.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is beginning to take notice of such complaints, opening investigations into the new type of trading venues and promising action. It is worried, for example, that dark pools, with their scale unknown, could destabilize the market.

Unlike the Big Board, the new electronic exchanges are virtually unknown outside financial circles. Direct Edge, the largest, is in Jersey City. Another, the BATS Exchange, is based in Lenexa, Kan. Both are only about five years old. But each now accounts for about a 10th of daily United States stock trading.

In its fight to survive, the Big Board is building a new data center in New Jersey and another outside London. The Main Hall is being overhauled, in an attempt to lure business back to the floor. There is even a new coffee shop, Outtakes.

Even so, the world still watches — literally — what happens on the New York Stock Exchange. Twenty television networks broadcast live from the exchange, in nine languages.

But whichever way the market goes from here, many see a difficult road for the Big Board. The competition is unlikely to let up.

“There has been a sea change,” said Sang Lee of the Aite Group, a financial services consulting company. “I don’t envy what any of the exchanges have to do.”
463 2009-10-15 The military says the missile wing commander at Minot Air Force Base, Col. Christopher Ayres, has been relieved of his command. The Air Force says it lost confidence in Colonel Ayres’s ability to command the base’s 91st Missile Wing after recent incidents, including this summer’s rollover of a semitrailer carrying missile parts. It was the second crash of a base vehicle carrying missile materials in just over a year. He had been the base missile wing commander since May 2008.
464 2009-10-15 Acting quickly to stanch the loss of methane could substantially cut warming in the short run, even as countries tackle the tougher challenge of cutting the dominant greenhouse emission, carbon dioxide, studies by researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology suggest.

Unlike carbon dioxide, which can remain in the atmosphere a century or more once released, methane persists in the air for about 10 years. So aggressively reining in emissions now would mean that far less of the gas would be warming the earth in a decade or so.

Methane is also a valuable target because while it is far rarer and more fleeting than carbon dioxide, ton for ton, it traps 25 times as much heat, researchers say.

Yet while federal and international programs have encouraged companies to seek and curb methane emissions from gas and oil wells, pipelines and tanks, aggressive efforts like EnCana’s are still far from the industry norm.

As a result, some three trillion cubic feet of methane leak into the air every year, with Russia and the United States the leading sources, according to the Environmental Protection Agency’s official estimate. (This amount has the warming power of emissions from over half the coal plants in the United States.) And government scientists and industry officials caution that the real figure is almost certainly higher.

Unless monitoring is greatly expanded, they say, such emissions could soar as global production of natural gas increases over the next few decades.

The Energy Department projects that gas production could rise nearly 50 percent over the next 20 years as companies race to discover and tap new sources. In the United States, 4,000 miles of new pipeline was laid last year alone.

But the industry has been largely resistant to an aggressive cleanup.

The Bush administration, which opposed mandatory limits on greenhouse gas emissions, expanded an existing voluntary domestic program for capturing methane emissions and began a related international program — with both aimed at promoting profitable ways for businesses to cut methane emissions as a relatively easy first step to combat climate change.

In April the Obama administration signaled that it could adopt rules requiring the biggest American companies to report all of their greenhouse gas emissions. Oil and gas industry groups countered that the cost and complexity of dealing with some 700,000 wells were too great.

In September the E.P.A. announced that the obligatory reporting would begin in 2011 but that it excluded oil and gas operations, at least for the time being. (Agency officials say they plan to issue rules for oil and gas by late next year.)

Some scientists reject the industry arguments. “Further delay on finding and stopping such releases would be irresponsible, given the financial and environmental benefits,” said F. Sherwood Rowland, a Nobel laureate in chemistry at the University of California, Irvine.

Internationally, the amount of methane escaping from gas and oil operations can be only crudely gauged. But in 2006 the E.P.A. estimated that Russia, the world’s largest gas producer, ranked highest, with 427 billion cubic feet of methane escaping annually, followed by the United States at 346 billion, Ukraine at 225 billion and Mexico at 191 billion.

Reflecting the uncertainty in such estimates, Gazprom, Russia’s giant state gas monopoly, estimated its annual emissions at half that figure last year.

An E.P.A. review of methane emissions from gas wells in the United States strongly implies that all of these figures may be too low. In its analysis, the E.P.A. concluded that the amount emitted by routine operations at gas wells — not including leaks like those seen near Franklin — is 12 times the agency’s longtime estimate of nine billion cubic feet. In heat-trapping potential, that new estimate equals the carbon dioxide emitted annually by eight million cars.

In the routine operations, great yet invisible plumes of gas enter the atmosphere when new wells are activated, old wells are invigorated to boost gas flows and wells are purged of fluids by letting out cough-like bursts of gas.

In many gas fields, said Roger Fernandez, a senior methane expert at the E.P.A., fluid-clogged wells are still purged the old-fashioned way, by opening valves or using outdated equipment in ways that release a misty burst of gas directly into the air.

For the E.P.A. and environmental scientists, the challenge is convincing gas and oil producers here and abroad that efforts to avoid such releases often more than pay for themselves.

The use of infrared cameras is expanding as word spreads of the payoff in saved gas, said Ben Shepperd, executive vice president of the Permian Basin Petroleum Association, which represents 1,200 companies in the oil and gas business around West Texas.

“We would like to see more people doing it,” he said. “People are very surprised when they shoot their equipment with these cameras and they see that there are releases in places they wouldn’t have expected.”

The benefits are there not only for gas producers but also for companies handling oil. Thousands of oil storage tanks emit plumes of methane and other gases, said Larry S. Richards, the president of Hy-Bon Engineering in Midland, Tex., which is using infrared cameras to survey storage tanks in 29 countries and sells systems that capture the gas.

A clearer view of the worst methane emissions could come next year, when Japan plans to start releasing data from Gosat, a satellite that began orbiting the Earth in January. It may be able to identify the top hot spots within a few miles.

That may increase pressure on countries with particularly large leaks.

As the biggest methane emitter, Russia has begun seeking high-tech solutions. In April, for example, Gazprom, the Russian Defense Ministry and an Israeli aerospace company began discussing the potential use of miniature remotely piloted helicopters to monitor pipelines for leaks.

But gadgets alone will not halt the vast exhalation of methane from Russia, environmentalists say. There is some hope that a successor to the 1997 Kyoto climate change pact will include more incentives for money to flow to Russian methane-reduction projects.

Western companies that have captured methane point out the money that is often to be made by doing so.

Starting around 2000, BP began introducing methane-catching techniques at 2,300 well sites in New Mexico. At well after well, gas that would have otherwise escaped now flows through meters that field crews affectionately call the “cash register.”

Among other actions, BP engineers have fine-tuned a system for purging fluids that can stop up wells. The process uses the pressure of gas in the well to periodically raise a plunger through the vertical well pipe. This removes the liquids but typically allows gas to escape.

The new computerized process, which BP calls smart automation, tracks well pressure and other conditions to more precisely time the plunger cycles in ways that avoid gas emissions. From 2000 to 2004, emissions from BP wells in the region dropped 50 percent, the company says. By 2007, they had essentially ended.

On average, installing the systems has cost about $11,000 per well, but they have returned three times that investment, said Reid Smith, an environmental adviser for BP working on the project.

“We spend a lot of money to get gas to the surface,” Mr. Smith said. “It makes a huge amount of sense to get all of it through the sales meter.”
465 2009-10-15 The company began in 1996, patterned after Warhol’s Factory as a creative collective producing furniture, music and film, with fashion almost an afterthought. (The off-putting name is an acronym for Ambition to Create Novel Expressions.) Mr. Johansson, who had spent a decade singing and playing guitar and being fired from bands for being too flamboyant, initially made furniture (he built a shelving system from the metal sides of shopping carts), then crudely constructed T-shirts and jeans that he gave to friends in Stockholm’s creative underground in the city’s youth-centric south side. Magazines like Wallpaper and French Vogue, which were then exploring Scandinavian design, began to take notice. Last year, Interview called Acne “the leading fashion force for the next generation.”

“I didn’t have the education of a patternmaker,” Mr. Johansson said. “The luck for me was that when we started, you could actually sell a T-shirt that you had sewn in five minutes, and people would pay a lot for it. If I came into the fashion business now, I wouldn’t stand a chance.”

Acne’s headquarters are in a former bank building near Stockholm Palace, in the Old Town, where Mr. Johansson has fashioned an office from a small wood-paneled antechamber sandwiched between two grander rooms that are used as design studios. Its largest store, of 16 around the world, is in another former bank, the Kreditbanken, where a 1973 hostage situation gave rise to the term “Stockholm syndrome.” On Saturday, the store, at the tip of a busy shopping street, was crowded, and its pink plastic shopping bags dotted the streets like those of Abercrombie & Fitch in New York.

About 50 people work on the fashion brand, while another 50 work on film, commercials and special projects. One of them is a new collection of furniture, which includes a pink pastel denim couch based on a 1920s design, stretching it lengthwise so that it is less than a foot wide where you sit.

Another is a collaboration with Alber Elbaz, the designer at Lanvin, that resulted in some startlingly expensive denim dresses sold at Barneys New York this year. A denim shirtdress in the Acne fall collection costs $260, and some of the Lanvin styles were priced at more than $1,000. Yet the collaboration has drawn enormous attention to the company, which has annual sales of around $60 million.

“How we look upon fashion and how we consume creative ideas comes down to our generation,” Mr. Johansson said. “Instead of specializing, we are a bit everywhere. I really like that mentality. I don’t know if the whole industry is ready for it, but I think it is the way you have to go.”

The Acne style, fairly generic and based on classic jeans and work styles, is, in fact, quite Americanized, with a mash-up of influences from music and film. Mr. Johansson, in a convoluted way, compared his work to that of a musician, creating an emotion through color and variations of fit rather than notes and melody. To an outsider, it would seem to be more about anticipating the look of a particular moment, as when Acne’s drainpipe jeans all but wiped out the boot-cut style five years ago.

Mr. Johansson is not always so far ahead of the curve. When the company introduced a looser fit two seasons later, before the skinny trend had peaked, “Nudie came and cleaned the shop floor with us,” he said, referring to Nudie’s introduction of a high-waisted skinny style.

But that was also when Acne began to expand internationally. When Humberto Leon, an owner of the designer boutique Opening Ceremony in SoHo, visited the company in 2004, he was surprised by the collection’s depth. It inspired him to create a campaign around Swedish fashion at his store.

Mr. Johansson now considers himself a more educated designer. Part of what he learned was to work with people who knew more than he did, like Mr. Persson, who edits Acne Paper from the company’s offices in London. They met at a party given by Elle magazine. Mr. Persson was wearing a silver jacket and dancing wildly.

“I was really afraid of him,” Mr. Johansson said. They were introduced by the stylist Mattias Karlsson, and after Mr. Persson wrote a press release for the company that Mr. Johansson liked, they decided to start a magazine. It has included, among its many unexpectedly intellectual features, interviews with the M.I.T. linguist Noam Chomsky and Amy Greene, the widow of the photographer Milton Greene. (In the new issue, which has a spirituality theme, Sinéad Kehoe, the assistant curator of Asian art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, expounds on Buddhism and mandalas.)

Mr. Leon said Acne Paper is one of his favorite magazines, for both the interviews and the photography. “It doesn’t necessarily feel Swedish,” he said. “It feels European. You don’t sense that it is a salability they are going after. It’s something that is inherently whole and beautiful instead. That says a lot about a company.”

Very little of the fashion in its editorial features comes from Acne, which helped persuade contributors that it was not a promotional catalog. “I think the purity of it was appealing to photographers,” Mr. Persson said. “I think it’s cool to take these people into a fashion concept, not to go to the names, but to go to the knowledge.”

Mr. Johansson also prefers to keep the big names at a distance. So much about fashion is driven by a network of insiders, he said, that everything begins to look the same. Style in Tokyo looks much the same as it does in Paris or, for that matter, Stockholm.

“Sometimes you feel like you have to be in the fashion world to do good fashion,” he said. “Today, I think it is the opposite. You have to be local.”
466 2009-10-15 Ms. Howroyd is an entrepreneur in the traditional sense. She said she left Tarboro, N.C., in 1976 to work for a brother-in-law’s talent agency in Los Angeles and two years later started her own small employment firm. At the beginning, she said, she played off the fact that “I was a minority-owned business in two ways, as an African-American and a woman.”

Through the years, Act 1 has grown past its original role as an employment agency. One division, Agile 1, for instance, supplies and, in some cases, employs people for other businesses. One of its clients is MetLife, the giant insurance company. Jeffrey Hebert, strategic sourcing consultant at MetLife, explained: “An operation may need a new person but not have the budget to hire this year. So we get somebody from an agency like Act 1, which handles that individual’s payroll and benefits.”

While flexibility helps businesses, it means that workers are not insulated from hard times and insecurity.

Mr. Jonassen, who has founded half a dozen software and personnel companies over two decades, said he and his latest firm suffered a dry period starting in the fall of 2008 when the high-technology start-ups that he recruits for stopped hiring and began laying off people. “The venture capital outfits that backed them had ordered these entrepreneurs to stop following their visionary plans and cut back to where they could make a small profit, by doing research for others in digital technology and other routine work,” Mr. Jonassen said.

But, he said, “In July of this year, demand picked up for computer and mobile phone applications, and these entrepreneurs found they had cut too much.” Now, he said, they are scrambling to hire skilled people, and his recruiting business is thriving.

Joy Chen followed her own entrepreneurial career path. Ms. Chen, with a master’s degree in business administration from the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, had been a deputy mayor of Los Angeles and then went to work for Heidrick & Struggles, the management search firm. She left to start her own recruiting firm, Chen Partners in 2007, just as the economy started to slow. Business was initially scarce, she said. “Many employers were even then hunkering down.”

Then this year, Ms. Chen said, things changed. “Many companies noticed that after all the layoffs and uncertainty, skilled people were available at lower salary demands than in former years. And now business is very active.” The lesson of the economy’s ups and downs, she said, is that workers cannot let hard times or lower pay discourage them. “It’s a change in the market, not a depreciation of who you are as a person.”

Ms. Howroyd, whose Act 1 Group has grown in recent years as businesses have experimented with assembling staffs from a mix of full- and part-time employees, said she had noticed the same increase in demand. “We are growing this year,” Ms. Howroyd said, because “employers now recognize that they must decide how best to manage staffing, whether with independent contractors, temporary or full-time employees.”

Ms. Howroyd said temporary work used to be seen as a dead end but that that was not necessarily true anymore. “In the recent market, we see companies taking people on temporarily or as contract workers who could become full time when conditions improve,” she said. “It’s more flexible today and that’s smart, rather than hiring people on and then letting them go.”

Caris Diagnostics of Phoenix, which is also a client of Act 1, is a molecular testing company that employs cell biologists and skilled lab technicians. It does not routinely hire short-term help but occasionally needs to fulfill a special project, said Wendy Brown, the company’s human resources manager. “So we contract for as many as 40 scientists for limited periods.”

Scientists working as contract labor, part time, as needed — the old model of permanent positions and fixed employment has changed profoundly.

And workplaces will continue to do so, Mr. Jonassen predicted, because “recessions like this spawn entrepreneurs.” In the downturn of aerospace-defense industries in the early ’90s, he recalled, “many people had to rethink careers and become entrepreneurs.” Today, because companies can be formed cheaply thanks to cloud computing and mobile communications, he said, “I think we’ll see a new surge of entrepreneurs.”
467 2009-10-15 About a year ago, Georgette Blau, who runs On Location Tours in New York City, set up an AdWords campaign to promote tours that were timed for the release of the “Sex and the City” movie. In doing so, she says she made a mistake: She ran the ad on the Google AdSense network but failed to understand how quickly she could run through the money she had budgeted for her campaign. An ad placed on the Google network can quickly appear on hundreds of Web sites and generate thousands of clicks. While this can be a good thing, it can also run up quite a tab. “Our ads were showing up everywhere, and we spent $600 before I could shut it off,” she said. Ms. Blau now sets realistic monthly and daily budgets for her campaigns to promote a “Sopranos” or “Gossip Girl” tour.

When Apple first introduced the iPhone, Matt McCormick, who runs a phone-repair business called Jet City Devices, saw an opportunity. Knowing that the iPhone’s screen was prone to damage, Mr. McCormick began bidding on keywords like “iphone repairs” and waited for business to flood in. A problem soon became apparent: while his site was swamped with traffic, very few people were actually mailing in their phones to get them repaired. But, after changing his campaign to run only on searches initiated within 50 miles of Chicago and Seattle — cities where he had physical shops where customers could drop their phones off in person — Mr. McCormick says his conversion rate jumped to 10 percent: “If you’re in business in only one or two cities, then Google’s localization feature can save you a ton of money, reduce AdWords competition, and bring great traffic.”

Just as you might use quotation marks to limit the scope of a Google search, you can use brackets and quotes to focus your AdWords campaign. In fact, this is critical. If, for example, you select “widgets for sale” in quotes, your ad will show up anytime people search for those words — even if they search for, say, “blue or red widgets for sale.” If you use brackets to select [widgets for sale], on the other hand, only those people who search on the exact phrase will see the ad.

Catherine Wood, who runs an online designer clothing site called LaGrandeDame.com, suggests being selective about the keywords you place within those brackets or quotes. Ms. Wood said she followed Google’s guidelines when she set up her first campaigns this past April. “They tell you to try to choose the terms that will collect the most clicks,” she said. Ms. Wood began with 20 or so keywords such as “plus sized dresses” and “designer plus sized clothing” — somewhat general terms that she put in quotes. The result was that she received lots of traffic and quite a few customers. But, for the first four months she ran the campaign, she spent more than $5,000 a month, which meant she was spending more than $200 a new customer.

After learning her expensive lesson, Ms. Wood narrowed her keywords and used brackets to focus tightly on product names like [David Meister black dress] and [Anna Scholz Peacock Neru jacket] to drive very specific traffic to her site. She also learned the value of negative keywords — words you can specify (at no cost) so that people who search for them are blocked from seeing your ad. Ms. Wood, for example, stopped paying for clicks for anyone who searched for Halloween costumes.

Ed Scanlan credits AdWords with helping build his company, Total Attorneys, a firm based in Chicago that provides outsource support to small legal practices. He suggests creating specific landing pages tied directly to the ad you’re running to maximize your chances of turning visitors into customers. Sending a visitor to your all-purpose home page can leave them feeling lost or aggravated. By contrast, if Mr. Scanlan runs a campaign based on a term like “legal case support,” people who click on the ad attached to those words land on a specific page designed just for them. These pages should ask users to take an action, like signing up for a mailing list or filling out a survey, to capture the visitor’s contact information.

Stay on Top of Your Campaign ...

David Metcalfe has used AdWords to promote XNet, a data center in Chicago. About a year ago, he noticed something strange was happening — his click-through rates were going through the roof. That sounds promising, but he was getting traffic steered to his site from a Web site in Spain — even though he had set his campaign for the Chicago area only. Mr. Metcalfe eventually got his money back from Google, but it took him six months of daily contact to do so. While this was clearly a fluke — and possibly criminal on the part of the offending site — it demonstrates two things: Pay-per-click campaigns carry risks, and the burden of monitoring them falls upon the owner of the campaign. “When you’re an entrepreneur dealing with a major corporation like Google, it can be hard to get someone to have a conversation with you,” Mr. Metcalfe said. “I was grateful I caught it when I did.”

... or Consider Outsourcing It

Monitoring an AdWords campaign requires a lot of effort. That’s why some entrepreneurs, like Rick Smith, prefer to outsource the management of their campaigns. Mr. Smith, who sells kitchen supplies online at chefsresource.com, says he originally set his AdWords campaign on autopilot. But he realized that while he was spending a good chunk of money each month, he didn’t know what kind of a return on investment he was getting. After attending an S.E.O. trade show near his home in Laguna Hills, Calif., about two years ago, Mr. Smith hired a firm to run his campaigns for him. The firm now tries new keyword combinations or ad text based on Smith’s latest inventory of cookware or knives. They update or change the ads on pretty much a weekly basis, adding in seasonal or holiday hooks when appropriate, and they monitor the results. In return for a percentage of his monthly budget, the firm sends him a weekly spreadsheet showing how much he has spent and how much revenue has been generated. “I’m spending less than I did when I did it myself,” said Mr. Smith, “and I’m getting more sales as a result.”
468 2009-10-15 Thomson Reuters has struck a deal to buy Breakingviews.com, the business commentary site that produces columns for The New York Times and several other newspapers around the world, the two companies announced Wednesday.

The deal, whose price was not disclosed, will be put to a vote of Breakingviews shareholders, and the transaction is expected to be completed in December. The company said its directors, who own about half the shares, support the sale unanimously. Two outside companies each own more than 5 percent of Breakingviews: the Dow Jones unit of the News Corporation and Limeport, which is controlled by Peter Munk, the Canadian gold mining magnate.

The editorial staff of Breakingviews, which has about 15 people in several countries, will merge with the commentary team at Thomson Reuters, which has about 20 people, under the direction of Hugo Dixon, editor in chief and chairman of Breakingviews. Much of their work will be accessible only to the finance professionals who have Thomson Reuters terminals, but some will be available more broadly through Reuters.com.

“Instead of going to 15,000 subscribers on our Web site, we’ll go to their hundreds of thousands of subscribers,” said Rob Cox, United States editor and a director at Breakingviews.

Thomson Reuters said it was looking for a new job for the editor now in charge of commentary, Jonathan Ford, who is a co-founder of Breakingviews. Breakingviews will continue to produce business columns for 15 papers around the world, including The Times, The Daily Telegraph in Britain, Le Monde in France and The National Post in Canada.

Thomson Reuters, long known for providing news and data to people in finance and to news organizations, has been expanding its role in business commentary in the last year, hiring, among others, Mr. Ford; Felix Salmon, formerly of Portfolio.com; and Matthew Goldstein, formerly of BusinessWeek.
469 2009-10-15 Mr. Elmendorf suggested that the legislation could keep the lobbyists busy for many weeks since it is the subject of deliberations by at least four committees in the House and Senate, along with floor action in both chambers and then more meetings to reconcile competing bills.

“There will be a lot of opportunities and ways the bill can change,” he said. “This will be a long process.”

Gazing across a hearing room jammed Wednesday morning with lobbyists and lawyers, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made an observation about a proposed amendment that some lobbyists interpreted as a comment about the keen interest of their clients.

“Watching sausage being made and watching legislation being made isn’t always attractive,” Mr. Frank said.

Even though President Obama vowed to change the culture of corporate influence on Washington, the administration has contributed, albeit inadvertently, to making this a banner year for lobbyists. As the White House has awakened the alphabet soup of federal agencies from their deregulatory slumber of the previous eight years, lobbying shops have emerged to fight for their clients’ newfound interests.

In the case of financial overhaul legislation, the corporate interests have particular sway with moderate and conservative Democrats, whose votes are essential for the legislation to progress through Congress. So far the lobbyists have been moderately successful in influencing the contours of the legislation, judging by the ever-growing list of exemptions from tougher oversight of derivatives and from supervision by the proposed consumer financial protection agency.

The House Financial Services Committee, for instance, approved a provision on Wednesday that Mr. Frank said would exempt “the great majority” of businesses that use derivative instruments to hedge their business risks from trading such instruments through exchanges or clearinghouses. Senior officials at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission have been critical of the exemptions, saying they would create too large a loophole for financial instruments that were unregulated and played a central role in the economic crisis.

On Wednesday, the administration announced its support for the exemptions. Michael S. Barr, an assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions, said in a telephone briefing with reporters that, while the administration did not propose the exemptions, they were “reasonable ones” that would still permit aggressive oversight because the legislation would impose supervision on the dealers of derivatives instruments.

The new consumer protection agency has become a particular magnet for lobbying efforts. Bankers have waged a multimillion-dollar campaign to kill the agency or at least to substantially weaken the powers the administration would like it to have. The United States Chamber of Commerce, which claims a membership of more than three million businesses, is conducting a $2 million advertising campaign against the agency. The campaign has gained enough political traction to prompt President Obama to publicly chastise it as misleading.

The chamber joined 17 other trade associations, including the Financial Services Roundtable and the Business Roundtable, in a letter sent this week to House members opposing the agency.

The administration has proposed that the new agency protect consumers from abusive or deceptive credit cards, mortgages and other loans. But responding to the concerns that the agency could try to exert its jurisdiction over an array of other industries that lend money, like retailers and car dealers, Mr. Frank has made clear his intention to exempt many other businesses from oversight as part of his effort to steer the measure through Congress.

The political obstacles to the creation of a consumer protection agency are formidable. In the last decade, banking and other interests that now oppose the agency’s creation contributed more than $77 million to the members of the House Financial Services Committee, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research organization that studies the influence of money on policy.

Two of the largest recipients of money from the financial sector over the period have been Mr. Frank, whose campaigns have received more than $3 million, and Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the senior Republican on the committee and a leading critic of the administration’s plan.
470 2009-10-15 “This is a multiethnic place,” he told her as she gazed at a shimmering chandelier in the mosque. “There are plenty of mixed marriages.”

Mrs. Clinton praised Mr. Shaimiev for being “someone who is well known for fostering religious tolerance.”

The three-hour side trip to Tatarstan captured the ambitions and limitations of Mrs. Clinton’s approach to being secretary of state, nine months into her tenure. It was driven, her aides say, by her desire to get out of capital cities, to places where she could mingle with people.

But the stop in Kazan had a rushed feel to it, and Mrs. Clinton has little time these days for even brief forays. Minutes after her plane took off from Kazan, she holed up in her cabin to take part, by secure telephone link, in the White House’s latest meeting on Afghanistan.

Mrs. Clinton has managed to keep encounters with students on her schedule. Her talk in Moscow drew noisy applause, and she was asked questions about issues like the American role in the global economic crisis and the dispute between the United States and Russia over Georgia.

Asked to name the book that had made the biggest impact on her, she singled out “The Brothers Karamazov.” The parable of the Grand Inquisitor in Dostoyevsky’s novel, she said, speaks to the dangers of certitude.

“For a lot of reasons, that was an important part of my thinking,” Mrs. Clinton said. “One of the greatest threats we face is from people who believe they are absolutely, certainly right about everything.”

From there, it was a short rhetorical leap for Mrs. Clinton to encourage Russia to open its political system.

She even struck an implicit blow for diversity when she cut the ribbon on a statue of the poet Walt Whitman at the university. Local gay activists protested because one of the Russian officials on hand to honor Whitman, a gay icon, was Moscow’s mayor, Yuri M. Luzhkov, who has made hostile statements about homosexuals and banned gay pride parades in the city.

For her part, Mrs. Clinton noted that in his writing Whitman celebrated the similarities between Russians and Americans.

Yet Mrs. Clinton’s emphasis was on the new rather than the old. She told the students that they symbolized a new Russia, one that produced innovators like Sergey Brin, who was born in Moscow and helped to start the Internet search giant Google. And she praised President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia for charting a vision of the country’s future based on technological innovation rather than mineral wealth.

Mrs. Clinton’s visit underscores the Obama administration’s growing attachment to Mr. Medvedev, Vladimir V. Putin’s handpicked choice to succeed him as president. Last month, the White House made much of Mr. Medvedev’s support for its tough stance toward Iran.

After Mrs. Clinton’s meeting on Tuesday with the foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, in which he ruled out threatening Iran with sanctions, she went to see Mr. Medvedev at his dacha outside Moscow. American officials said that Mr. Medvedev was unstinting in his support for the administration.

But on a visit to Beijing on Wednesday, Mr. Putin told reporters that he believed that it was too early to consider tough sanctions against Iran, suggesting that threats would poison negotiations.
471 2009-10-15 Net income rose to 82 cents a share, far surpassing analysts’ estimates for the third quarter. The bank reported a profit of $527 million, or 9 cents a share, in the third quarter of 2008.

“The revenue growth was very impressive,” said Anthony Polini, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates. “They’re benefiting from a turn in the economy, and they’re asserting their dominance.”

The results also reflected the broader rebound in once-stymied financial markets, with companies again issuing stock, raising money from bond markets and signing merger deals. After being forced to take huge write-downs on the value of some its assets a year ago, JPMorgan said it booked about a $400 million gain on the sale of mortgage securities and buyout loans.

Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive, said the earnings reflected growth across several business lines, but he gave only a cautious outlook. “While we are seeing some initial signs of consumer credit stability, we are not yet certain that this trend will continue,” he said in a statement.

Consumer loss rates remain high, but there were upbeat signs in the bank’s numbers. Bank officials said they saw “a little bit of stabilization” in home values, especially for lower price properties and in states like California. And while delinquencies remain high, fewer borrowers were falling behind on mortgages.

Michael J. Cavanagh, the bank’s chief financial officer, called that a “hopeful sign” but stopped short of declaring that heavy losses were over. “We have to watch the economy and see where it heads,” he said in a conference call with reporters.

JPMorgan was the first of the nation’s biggest banks to report third-quarter earnings. Bank of America, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs also release results this week. As one of the first major banks to warn of troubles with subprime mortgages, home equity loans and credit cards, JPMorgan is seen as a bellwether for the financial industry.

Although the housing market and economy remain weak, analysts expect to see a slowdown in consumer loan losses at the biggest banks and for them to start setting aside less money in their reserves. Meanwhile, the troubles are quickly moving to commercial real estate loans, which will place a heavier burden on smaller lenders.

Mr. Dimon still must contend with several problems. His decision last month to replace the two co-heads of the investment banking division with a single leader, James E. Staley, raised concern within the ranks. JPMorgan’s credit card division is unlikely to turn a profit until 2011, and, like most of the industry, its consumer franchise has seen a fall-off in new mortgage lending.

Mr. Dimon also faces obstacles in Washington. He must balance paying bonuses to JPMorgan investment bankers based on blow-out earnings with public furor over Wall Street pay. New regulations on credit cards threaten to lower the profitability of that business, and lenders face other legislative efforts to curb bank fees and derivatives trading.

Despite repaying its $25 billion taxpayer investment in June, JPMorgan is still waiting for the government to sell warrants it was given last year. Their value, now at nearly $2 billion, has risen almost $800 million since rivals like Goldman Sachs cut deals to buy them back this summer, according to Linus Wilson, a finance professor at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. That could be a windfall for taxpayers but would not affect the bank’s capital.

Even so, JPMorgan is emerging from the crisis with renewed confidence. Its investment bank, which posted a $1.9 billion profit, reported strong trading revenue, though short of the record levels earlier this year when the markets were in constant flux and prices skyrocketed.

The bank’s consumer businesses are still bleeding from bad loans. Its mortgage and consumer banking operations posted a narrow $7 million profit, while its credit card division lost $700 million in the quarter. By next year, charge-offs could reach 11 percent of loan balances.

“You are seeing the underlying earnings power is there, albeit challenged by the need in this quarter to add to reserves,” Mr. Cavanagh said. “Stabilization is just the first phase; we need losses to return to more normalized levels.”
472 2009-10-15 1. Heat oven to 375 degrees. Place short ribs in roasting pan large enough to hold them in a single layer and roast 1 hour, turning once or twice. Pour off fat.

2. Place large stew pot on stove. Put in the short ribs, parsnips, turnips, 2 carrots, onions, 2 to 3 stalks celery, 1/2 cup parsley, salt and pepper. Add water to cover.

3. Bring broth to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 2 hours.

4. Let pot cool on stove for a half-hour or so to let flavors set. Strain broth, reserving ribs, and return strained broth to pot. Let cool to room temperature. Meanwhile, remove beef from ribs, reserving meat and discarding bones.

5. When broth is cool, skim fat. Return broth to stove, bring to a boil, and add barley and salt and pepper to taste. Reduce heat and simmer for 40 minutes, skimming frequently. Chop remaining carrots and celery, add to pot, and simmer for 20 minutes.

6. Add reserved beef and remaining parsley. Heat through, skim again, and serve.
473 2009-10-16 The hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, who is charged with participating in a $20 million insider trading scheme, made his way from Sri Lanka via Britain to Wall Street, where he now runs the Galleon Group....
474 2009-10-16 John Marshall Mantell for The New York Times
475 2009-10-16 Harvard University paid almost $500 million to investment banks to pull out of money-losing interest-rate swaps, according to the school's annual financial report, which was released Friday....
476 2009-10-16 Live analysis of Game 1 of the A.L.C.S....
477 2009-10-16 Recollections from a child of the Depression whose father, a lawyer, documented the struggles of those years....
478 2009-10-16 Photographs by Robert Peele for The New York Times
479 2009-10-16 The Dodgers have tied the series at a game each, winning 2-1....
480 2009-10-16 The Datsun 240Z first arrived in America on Oct. 22, 1969. Nissan announced it would release a limited edition 370Z 40th anniversary model to celebrate the occasion....
481 2009-10-16 A creamier version of a simple Roman pasta....
482 2009-10-16 If you have roof rights in your co-op, who is responsible for installing safety railings?...
483 2009-10-16 Eric J. Gleacher, Broadpoint Gleacher's chairman, told private equity firms on Friday that their business model is "broken" and needs fixing....
484 2009-10-16 If this year's Dodgers give Joe Torre his first pennant for a team other than the Yankees, it will be in spite of his managing, not because of it....
485 2009-10-16 O.K., any nation that indulges in the pastime of tea trolley dancing qualifies as eccentric. Why this should be so is usually attributed to England's island mentality. Or, as Kathleen Egan writes in T's winter fashion issue, out this Sunday: "Why ...
486 2009-10-16 Nissan and Infiniti are recalling about 143,000 vehicles because road salt could cause corrosion that could cause the tire-pressure monitors to malfunction....
487 2009-10-16 Hedge fund managers appear to have a new degree of clout on Capitol Hill in shaping legislation that will determine how they will be regulated....
488 2009-10-16 Reinsurance Group of America, the U.S. insurer, will buy part of the North American reinsurance operations of Dutch financial services group ING Group, freeing up $149.2 million of ING's capital....
489 2009-10-16 Volkswagen, Europe's largest carmaker, plans to seek shareholders' approval next month for a stock sale to help finance its purchase of Porsche's sports-car operations....
490 2009-10-16 Some claim that Medicare underpays hospitals, leaving private insurers to pick up the difference. An economist explains why many experts dispute this narrative....
491 2009-10-16 Japan Airlines shares slid 12 percent to a record low on Friday as investors suggested bankruptcy may be an option for Asia's biggest airline by revenue, even as the government again pledged to support the troubled carrier....
492 2009-10-16 It's been a full seven decades, but it's finally time: Berlin's Neues Museum (New Museum) officially reopened to the public on Saturday, Oct. 17....
493 2009-10-16 Lloyds Banking Group said it agreed to sell its loss-making Halifax estate agency business to LSL Property Services for 1 pound following a strategic review....
494 2009-10-16 Why do road teams do well at Giants Stadium? An analysis by a writer at ProFootballReference.com suggests it could be because teams play there more frequently than at other stadiums....
495 2009-10-16 “It gives us a chance to really go home looking good,” Phillies Manager Charlie Manuel said.

Even better than Thursday, when they blasted the Dodgers’ precocious left-hander, Clayton Kershaw, in a five-run fifth. They were silenced by three relievers until the left-hander George Sherrill’s aura of invincibility wore off in the eighth. Two straight walks, and a three-run homer by Raul Ibanez diluted Sherrill’s success this season against left-handers (.128 average, no home runs) and since joining the Dodgers in a July trade (two runs in 27 2/3 innings). It prompted Dodgers Manager Joe Torre to say, “I think that was a shock for everybody.”

Slightly less so was how Kershaw, the youngest pitcher (21 years 211 days old) to start an L.C.S. opener, fell apart in a 35-pitch fifth inning, uncorking three wild pitches. As much confidence as Kershaw inspired within the Dodgers, and as much as a left-handed starter seemed the prudent move against the Phillies’ dangerous lineup, he still has erratic tendencies that, once they appear, do not disappear. Even as Kershaw mowed through the Phillies, displaying little evidence of the pitcher who averaged an inefficient 17.7 pitches per inning, there was still a sense that one pitch or one hit could topple him.

And then it happened: a leadoff single in the fifth by Ibanez preceded a walk to Pedro Feliz, which gave way to a mammoth three-run homer by the No. 8 hitter, catcher Carlos Ruiz. After Ruiz’s blow, Kershaw issued a four-pitch walk to Cole Hamels, the Phillies’ starter. Torre showed enough faith to let Kershaw start, and he seemed determined to let him continue. With two outs, two on and another left-hander, Scott Elbert, warming up, Torre left Kershaw in for a batter too long. Ryan Howard clubbed a fastball down the right-field line for a two-run double, and the Phillies led, 5-1.

“I can’t put my finger on it,” Kershaw said. “When you get out of the strike zone, you should be able to make an adjustment in a pitch or two, but I wasn’t able to do it.”

If anyone could identify with Kershaw’s burden, it would be Hamels. He was thrust into the same role in Game 1 last year — a young left-hander counted on to anchor a decent, if unstable, rotation — and handled it with aplomb, guiding the Phillies to victory that night, and again in the clinching Game 5, exactly a year ago Thursday.

Hamels has always fared well at Dodger Stadium — “I love pitching in California,” said Hamels, a San Diego native — but he is a different pitcher now from the one he was then, encumbered by an uneven season, heightened expectations and, especially recently, diminished control. Turmoil engulfed his life over the last week — a poor division series outing against the Rockies, the birth of his son, working out alone in Philadelphia while his teammates gutted out comeback wins in Colorado. On Thursday, starting in the fifth inning, he once again faced a mountain of difficulties.

The deadly changeup and fastball command that ushered him through four splendid innings vanished without warning. He surrendered a double, then a one-out single, then a run-scoring groundout that, if not for Rafael Furcal’s hard slide into second, could have been an inning-ending double play. Instead, Hamels had to deal once more with Ramirez, who stared at two changeups — the pitch he flailed at his first time up — before golfing a third one beyond the fence in left-center field, and the Dodgers trailed by 5-4.

“That type of pitch, I would say, 9 out of 10 times gets a rollover, especially where that was,” Hamels said. “Who’s looking for a 2-0 changeup? Not too many guys. I think he was, though.”

Hamels escaped the fifth, but not the sixth. Consecutive one-out singles knocked him out, and the Dodgers ultimately loaded the bases and exhausted one reliever before J. A. Happ quelled the threat by inducing an inning-ending groundout from Furcal. As the game evolved into a bullpen duel, Manuel tried exploiting matchups.

So he turned to Park after the rookie left-hander Antonio Bastardo opened the seventh by allowing a double to Andre Ethier. A hamstring strain slowed Park over the final three weeks of the season and prevented him from pitching in the division series. He felt terrible, he said, while warming up in the bullpen, then pounded sinker after sinker to Ramirez, Matt Kemp and Blake. Three batters, two groundouts and one strikeout equaled one very happy Park. Asked when was the last time he pitched that well, Park quipped, “An hour and 20 minutes ago.”

But as a capacity crowd roared — the loudest Howard has ever heard it here, he said — the Dodgers, who defeated Cardinals aces Chris Carpenter and Adam Wainwright last round, had one final rally in them. They lashed three consecutive singles off Madson for one run, and a sacrifice fly by Furcal drew them within 8-6. Another single put the tying runs on base for Ramirez, who grounded out feebly to third. For three straight games, a Phillies reliever has faced the opponents’ best hitter in a crucial spot and won. Lidge prevailed twice against Colorado’s Troy Tulowitzki, and now Madson.

“It definitely breeds confidence,” Manuel said. “Anytime they can get somebody like that out, I think that’s really good.”

The Phillies’ karma has changed. They batter left-handed pitching. Their bullpen protects leads. And now, the Dodgers must figure out a different way to win.
496 2009-10-16 Bay Area commuters can expect an increase of at least $1 in the cost of crossing all seven local toll bridges beginning July 1, transportation officials say.

The Bay Area Toll Authority, which manages the bridges, is expected to make a decision in January on how to close a projected annual budget gap of $140 million. Every option before the authority raises tolls for passenger cars by $1, to $5.

In addition, members of the agency’s staff say they are leaning toward a first-time charge of $3 for car pools.

And if you use the Bay Bridge, brace yourself for the possibility of a $6 rush-hour toll.

Bay Area residents are joining in a countrywide scramble to refinance or take out new mortgages, local bankers say, as interest rates continue their enticing downward slide. As rates on 30-year fixed mortgages dropped below 5 percent, refinancing applications have flooded in, said Brad Blackwell, a Danville-based sales manager for Wells Fargo.

“We’ve seen as much volume in the last three weeks as we’ve ever had,” Mr. Blackwell said. In Antioch and Fairfield, sharp plunges in home values have pre-empted refinancings and there has been a surge in home sales, he added.
497 2009-10-16 The Syrian authorities have arrested Haitham Maleh, a 78-year-old dissident and prominent lawyer who is among the last vocal critics of the government inside the country, rights activists in Syria and London said Thursday. Mr. Maleh was taken to a security headquarters in Damascus on Wednesday and has not been heard from since, they said. He had been defending Mohannad al-Hassani, a fellow lawyer who was arrested in July and accused of “weakening national morale” after he called for the release of political prisoners.
498 2009-10-16 “The Republicans are trying to wage unfair political attacks against senators and other members of Congress,” the spokeswoman, Jenny Rosenberg, said. “Chairman Towns is focusing on going after companies that received bailout money to be certain they repay taxpayers.”

Ms. Rosenberg said the focus on Countrywide was misguided because the oversight committee had investigated Countrywide last year, and the Senate ethics committee, which investigated V.I.P. loans to Senators Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and Kent Conrad of North Dakota, both Democrats, concluded they had used bad judgment but had not violated any ethics rules.

Ms. Rosenberg said she was not certain whether Mr. Towns’s mortgage had been processed through the V.I.P. program. But she said he did not receive a reduced interest rate or any other preferential treatment.

“He went to his local mortgage guy and got a normal mortgage,” she said. “The guy’s from Brooklyn and doesn’t have much money and wasn’t prominent enough to be considered a V.I.P. Whether it was later transferred through the V.I.P. program, I don’t know. But he didn’t receive any favors.”

Ms. Rosenberg also said Mr. Issa had accepted $3,000 in campaign contributions from the company several years ago.

Records in Brooklyn and Hillsborough County, Fla., where Mr. Towns owns homes, show he has twice had mortgages with Countrywide since 2003, although he has not done business with it since 2005. The Wall Street Journal reported that his loan documents carried a code that corresponded to the V.I.P. program.

Countrywide employees have said the program was designed by the company’s former chief executive, Angelo R. Mozilo, and was intended to curry favor with officials who could help with policy or regulatory matters. Company e-mail messages and statements from former loan officers indicate that the program — nicknamed “Friends of Angelo” — offered reduced fees or below-market interest rates to high-ranking customers, including officials at the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Fannie Mae, a government-sponsored company that guarantees mortgages.

After a lengthy investigation of Senators Dodd and Conrad, however, the Senate ethics committee said that the program appeared to do little more than offer expedited service, and that it issued loans at market rates.

In a letter last month refusing Republican calls for the subpoena of Countrywide records, Mr. Towns described the V.I.P. program as a customer-loyalty initiative “similar to airline frequent-flier plans or supermarket discount cards.”

Republicans said they would continue to press for an investigation because they want to prevent attempts to weaken financial regulation by offering discounts to government officials.

The committee, Mr. Issa said, “needs to investigate Countrywide’s efforts to buy influence.”
499 2009-10-16 Cost-cutting and a favorable tax adjustment lifted profits for the newspaper publisher McClatchy Company, even as advertising revenue took a dive that displeased investors Thursday.

McClatchy, the publisher of The Miami Herald and 29 other dailies, is the first big newspaper company to report earnings for the third quarter. Shares of McClatchy and other publishers leaped in the quarter as investors bet that the worst effects of the recession were over for the newspaper industry.

Shares of McClatchy, which is based in Sacramento, Calif., fell 52 cents, or 13 percent, to $3.50 a share.

McClatchy’s quarterly profit did improve. The company said it earned $23.6 million, or 28 cents a share, up from $4.2 million, or 5 cents a share, a year earlier.

But some of the big profit increase came from an adjustment in McClatchy’s tax rate. Excluding one-time gains, McClatchy said it would have earned $11 million, or 13 cents a share. On a comparable basis, the company earned $10.4 million, also 13 cents a share, in the comparable period last year.
500 2009-10-16 In the case of Mr. Ruscha, “Fifty Years of Painting” contains some 80 canvases and chronicles his development as an artist from his early Pop Art years through 2007, when he created a diptych more than 27 feet long — “Azteca” and “Azteca in Decline” — that was inspired by a roadside wall in Mexico.

Standing in the Hayward’s galleries on Tuesday morning, Mr. Ruscha, 71, could be found staring at “Affiliation,” a particularly dreamy image from 1987: a blurry silhouette of a church set in a foggy landscape. He said he remembered making it at a time when he was “tired of paint strokes and wanted to do something that was out of focus.”

The show also includes many of his seminal canvases with just one word in the center, like two from the 1960s — “Noise” and “OOF” — as well as a later word painting titled “Sin — Without,” a 1991 canvas depicting a sun behind a cloud with only the word “sin” floating in the sky around it.

There are also nods to his native Los Angeles, like “The Back of Hollywood,” a 1977 painting with the Hollywood sign seen from behind, its beveled letters set against a glowing sunset. Nearby are canvases of crisply rendered gas stations. “I’m interested in glorifying things that we in the world would say don’t deserve to be glorified,” he said.

“A lot of my work comes from dreams or maybe nightmares,” he added. Others are inspired by road trips. “I like driving,” Mr. Ruscha went on, “being on a highway where there are no manmade things.”

For the past five years he has been working on his version of “On the Road,” because, he joked, “it’s so inspirational and right up my highway.”

Mr. Ruscha’s canvases fit seamlessly in the Hayward’s 1960s concrete galleries. Not so Mr. Hirst’s new paintings of skulls and sharks at the Wallace Collection: they have been primly hung against blue-striped silk walls with a view of Poussin’s 17th-century “Dance to the Music of Time” in the next gallery. (Mr. Hirst isn’t the first contemporary artist to invade the Wallace; in 2004 Lucian Freud also had a show there.)

“It’s exciting to see an artist doing something different in these galleries,” said Rosalind Savill, director of the Wallace Collection, who added that she hoped that the Hirst show, “No Love Lost,” would draw a new and younger audience.

Mr. Hirst’s Blue Paintings, as he calls the series that make up the show, have not been well received by the British press. Rachel Campbell-Johnston, writing in The Times of London, pronounced them “dreadful,” saying they were “utterly derivative of Bacon (give or take a dash of Giacometti) but they completely lack his painterly skill. And their metaphors are as ham-fisted as the application of pigment.”

The paintings had a more popular reception earlier this year in Kiev, where long lines formed to see them at the art center run by the Ukrainian billionaire Victor Pinchuk. According to officials at Science Ltd., Mr. Hirst’s company, the show attracted 337,000 visitors. Mr. Pinchuk bought about half of the works; Mr. Hirst still owns the rest.

To entice Ms. Savill to give him a show at the Wallace, Mr. Hirst paid more than $400,000 toward the renovation of the second-floor galleries where they are on view, updating the lighting, covering the walls with silk and renovating the wood floors.

He was on hand this week to discuss the exhibition and oversee finishing touches on the installation. “I used to bring my kids here to see the weapons,” he said, explaining the genesis of the idea to show his work there.

Now that he has given up spin paintings, dot paintings and butterfly paintings, he has shut two studios, one in Gloucestershire and one in London. He’s also concentrating on painting again rather than more sculptures of dead animals floating in tanks of formaldehyde or medicine cabinets filled with pills — works that made him famous more than a decade ago and caused a sensation last fall when he held a one-man auction at Sotheby’s here.

“Painting will always be around,” he said. All of the new canvases have a deep blue background against which familiar images emerge. Besides the skulls and sharks, there are dots and ashtrays and the shadow of an iguana, each rendered in different ways. The skulls and sharks bear eerie resemblances to Francis Bacon’s paintings of screaming popes, images caught in their own web of misery. “I don’t borrow ideas, I steal them,” Mr. Hirst joked.

He is already planning his next London show: a temporary exhibition of two 20-foot-tall paintings that are to be installed in St. Paul’s Cathedral next month. Though he declined to describe the works, he said he was excited about a new challenge. “I get bored easily,” he said. “It’s nice to keep changing things.”
501 2009-10-16 Hanne Tierney’s evocative puppet play “My Life in a Nutshell,” at Here Arts Center, is at once death-obsessed and jaunty, abstract and full of geometric precision.

The life-size puppets, made of burlap, dangle from strings suspended from the ceiling. Mostly those strings are invisible, but when light hits them they resemble a spider web, which seems fitting. The story Ms. Tierney tells is about lives entangled, then pulled apart and arranged in new combinations.

Ms. Tierney narrates the action in a pleasing deadpan. It goes something like this: A, who is “somewhat uptight,” loves C. B, who is not uptight  he even levitates  also loves C. D loves E. And the sixth character, Death, loves D, a not-very-successful performance artist, who has “an amazing way to perform the plays of Gertrude Stein.”

Death isn’t a puppet but two poles, which look like a pair of chopsticks on the prowl for their pound of burlap. (Death, we’re told, is not fond of Gertrude Stein.)

There’s a murder, multiple botched suicides and a deadly case of pneumonia arranged by  who else?  Death. D ends up living with A and B, and then alone with her Gertrude Stein routines. (Ars longa. ...)

The audience can see who pulls the strings here. Ms. Tierney and two others stand to one side of the stage, playing what she calls a “vertical keyboard” that operates a system of counterweights. The human team moves calmly and purposefully even when the puppets are agitated or herky-jerky. But usually the puppets move fluidly, almost like dancers, as when B levitates or C gracefully mounts a swing, neatly lifting her legs with her arm to scoot into a comfortable position.

Each puppet is distinct: A, for example, wears only a vest, exposing his little cloth penis; B is in shorts and has an Afro. But none have anything more than the suggestion of facial features, which lends Ms. Tierney’s frequently gnomic tale an eerie quality.

Ms. Tierney, who has said she wants her work to be a “seamless fusion of performance with the visual arts,” has chosen excellent collaborators here. The projections, by Hannah Wasileski, are used sparely and wisely. Especially good is a ghostly funeral cortege with white figures advancing slowly across a black background. (Natalie Jolivert made the cut-out figures.) Jane Wang’s affecting music, some of which she plays on a toy piano, is equal parts lyrical and strange. They’re all of a piece with Ms. Tierney’s dreamlike play.
502 2009-10-16 Some advertising industry executives said that Google’s relatively strong results came as no surprise, as advertisers have showed renewed signs of optimism in recent weeks.

“Now that marketers have seen the bottom, they are taking dollars off of the sidelines and plowing them into search advertising first and foremost,” said Bryan Wiener, the chief executive of 360i, a digital marketing agency. “We are seeing double-digit increases in budgets for 2010 from our clients.”

Analysts said that Google’s results, which are closely correlated with online spending, are likely to be celebrated across a broad swath of the industry.

“This should be bullish for everyone,” said Benjamin Schachter, a securities analyst with Broadpoint AmTech.

Google reported net income of $1.64 billion, or $5.13 a share, compared with $1.29 billion, or $4.06 in the period a year earlier. Revenue was $5.94 billion, up from $5.54 billion last year.

Net revenue, which excludes commissions paid to advertising partners, was $4.38 billion, up 8 percent, from $4.04 billion. Adjusted income, excluding the cost of stock options and other items, was $5.89, up from $4.92 a year earlier.

The results handily beat forecasts and shares of Google climbed 3 percent in after-hours trading to $546.25, a level not reached since July 2008. (In the last month, Google shares have climbed nearly 12 percent, outstripping gains of about 4 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and the Nasdaq.)

On average, Wall Street analysts expected Google to report adjusted income of $5.40 a share on net revenue of $4.23 billion.

“The stock would be up more, except that they said they would start to invest heavily again,” said Mr. Schachter, adding that the renewed investment could put pressure on profit margins.

To be sure, while Google’s revenue growth was strong when compared with the first half of the year, it was only a fraction of what it was in prior years. Google grew at 31 percent in 2008 and 56 percent in 2007. It hit the slowest growth rate in its 11-year-history, 3 percent, in the second quarter.

Google’s performance is closely watched in part because the company accounts for roughly a third of all online ad spending in the United States. In addition, Google’s fortunes are more closely aligned with consumer spending than those of rivals like Yahoo or AOL or Microsoft.

Unlike those companies, which receive a sizable portion of their advertising revenue from display ads, Google relies almost exclusively on text ads, which marketers use to lure consumers to their Web sites. Clicks on Google’s ads typically suggest that consumers are inclined to shop.

Some analysts said that a company whose business depends more on display ads might not see the same kind of turnaround as Google. And they said that Google’s own forays into display advertising remain a work in progress. Google executives described those efforts in upbeat terms, but they gave few specifics.

“They are looking very well poised for the rebound on the search side,” said Youssef Squali, an analyst with Jefferies & Company. “On the display, the jury is still out.”
503 2009-10-16 Still, the administration pointed to a recent statement signed by the two countries, as well as the United States, Britain, France and Germany, that threatened Iran with “consequences” if it did not negotiate over its nuclear program. Those countries presented the same message to Iran at talks in Geneva on Oct. 1.

Speaking of the Iranians, Ben Rhodes, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said, “They’ve heard directly in those meetings in Geneva that all the parties involved expect them to take action.”

The administration was also buoyed by what it viewed as a shift in Russia’s position when President Dmitri A. Medvedev said after a meeting with President Obama at the United Nations last month that “sanctions rarely lead to positive results, but sometimes, sanctions are inevitable.” He reiterated his views to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in Moscow on Tuesday, American officials said.

Yet some analysts said the administration should pay more attention to the first part of Mr. Medvedev’s statement than to the second. Russia has always had little faith in the value of sanctions, and his statement reaffirmed that skepticism.

“The administration overreacted to Medvedev’s comments,” said David J. Kramer, a trans-Atlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund. “Putin’s comments are the ones to focus on. And I would bet that Lavrov made sure his comments were in sync with Putin’s.”

The latest statements from Russia and China appear to expose a rift with the United States about how to press Iran in the negotiations. The United States wants to back up diplomacy with a credible threat of sanctions; Russia and China believe such an approach would backfire by pushing Iran into a corner.

China will continue to play a “constructive role” in finding a peaceful solution, according to Xinhua. Russia says the focus should be solely on diplomacy.

On Monday, Iranian officials will meet in Vienna with officials of several countries to discuss details of an accord reached in Geneva to ship most of Iran’s publicly declared stockpile of lightly enriched uranium to Russia, where it would be further enriched. It would then be returned to Iran, where it would fuel a research reactor in Tehran.

Iranian officials were in Beijing to attend a meeting of a regional security group that includes China and Russia. China has used the group to strengthen its ties.

This week, Mr. Wen and Mr. Putin attended the signing of a framework agreement by a state-run Chinese energy company and Gazprom of Russia to potentially build two pipelines carrying natural gas from Siberia to China.

China’s rapid growth has forced it to look at many foreign nations for energy. It sees Iran as a large provider of oil, and has ignored Western calls for sanctions or withdrawing business from other resource-rich nations.

It imports half its oil from the Middle East, and those shipping routes are secured by the United States. It will have to balance its desire to lock up energy supplies with its interest in ensuring those supplies can be shipped to China.

“The question is whether they can do this skillfully, because they haven’t been playing this global game for decades,” said Jon B. Alterman, the Middle East program director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
504 2009-10-16 A Palestinian effort to formally endorse the findings of a United Nations report on war crimes committed during the Gaza war last winter received a strong statement of support on Thursday from the top United Nations human rights official, Navanethem Pillay.

Opening a two-day meeting in Geneva of the Human Rights Council, Ms. Pillay, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, told the 47-member council that she concurred with the report’s recommendations and its call for “urgent action to counter impunity.”

The report found evidence that both Israeli and Palestinian actions amounted to war crimes but it was more harshly critical of Israel. It called on the United Nations Security Council to monitor the two sides’ compliance with its recommendation that they conduct credible investigations into accusations of war crimes and possible crimes against humanity in the three-week Gaza war. It also recommended that the International Criminal Court in The Hague consider prosecution if they did not comply.

The Palestinian push for an immediate vote on endorsing the report reversed an earlier decision, made under American and Israeli pressure. Some form of endorsement is expected on Friday.

In its three years of existence, the Human Rights Council has regularly issued resolutions that condemn Israeli actions in the Palestinian territories, as did the Commission on Human Rights, which it succeeded.
505 2009-10-16 Businesses with federal stimulus contracts have created few jobs in states with the worst unemployment rates, according to data released Thursday by the federal government.

The new jobs reported Thursday come from a small slice of a sliver of the $787 billion stimulus program: the roughly $16 billion worth of stimulus contracts that were awarded directly by federal agencies, of which about $2.2 billion has been spent so far. But the preliminary data represented the first time that the federal government has reported actual job figures, and not just job estimates, and they provided the most complete snapshot yet of how one component of the sprawling program — direct federal contracts — was shaping up.

One thing was clear: while the federal contracts have created or saved 30,383 jobs, they were not directed to states with the highest jobless rates. Businesses in Michigan, whose 15.2 percent unemployment rate in August was the highest in the nation, reported creating or saving about 400 jobs. Businesses in Nevada, which had the next highest unemployment rate, reported 159. And businesses in Rhode Island, which had the third-highest unemployment rate, 12.8 percent, reported the fewest jobs: just six.

More jobs, by contrast, were reported in some of the states with lowest unemployment rates. Businesses in North Dakota, whose 4.3 percent unemployment rate was the lowest in the nation, reported creating or saving 219. The most jobs were reported in Colorado, whose 7.3 percent unemployment rate was below the national average that reached 9.8 percent last month, and where businesses reported creating or saving 4,695 jobs.

In many cases federal agencies could not steer their contracts to high-unemployment areas: the stimulus act gave the agencies money for existing federal programs and priorities. So the roughly $6 billion that the Department of Energy was given to clean up nuclear sites, for example, which was the biggest source of federal contracts, must be spent where the nuclear waste is.

The data yielded some interesting political tidbits. While no Republicans in the House voted for the stimulus bill, the five Congressional districts that appeared to be getting the most money in federal stimulus contracts so far are all represented by Republicans. And though Democrats control the House, it appeared that more money was being spent for work in districts held by Republicans.
506 2009-10-16 Consumer prices edged higher last month after a summertime spike in gasoline and energy prices leveled off, the government reported on Thursday.

The report demonstrated that inflation was still a remote concern for the American economy, even as the dollar tumbles against other global currencies and jittery investors clamor to buy oil and gold. The figures backed up the Federal Reserve’s view that inflation will remain low as the economy grapples with high unemployment and low consumer demand.

The Labor Department’s consumer price index rose 0.2 percent in September, its smallest increase since July, when prices were flat. Consumers paid less for food, but slightly more for energy, gasoline and clothing.

New-car prices bounced back from declines a month earlier, when they fell amid a flurry of discounted buying as car buyers flocked to dealerships to take advantage of the government’s “cash for clunkers” rebate program. Prices for new automobiles rose 0.4 percent, and used-car prices climbed for a second month.

The so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, also rose 0.2 percent.
507 2009-10-16 Five men were convicted Friday in New South Wales of plotting terrorist attacks. Prosecutors said the men, all from Sydney, had stockpiled dangerous chemicals, firearms and ammunition to wage Islamist jihad against the Australian government. The d...
508 2009-10-17 Live analysis of Game 2 of the A.L.C.S....
509 2009-10-17 A panel at the New Yorker magazine festival discussed "Mad Men" for 90 minutes without once bringing up Don's love life, Betty's abortive affair, Sal's dilemma or Pete's caddishness....
510 2009-10-17 There was a time when choosing Miss, Mrs. or Ms. was a declaration, and a very big deal. Now, Ms. has become so ubiquitous that it's less a choice than a default....
511 2009-10-17 Efforts to stabilize the financial system also set the stage for financial titans to make fortunes in more lucrative areas than lending people money....
512 2009-10-17 Vaclav Havel, the former Czech president, is right on the money in questioning President Obama’s refusal to meet with the Dalai Lama recently. The Tibetan leader is nothing less than a modern-day Gandhi, a constant, necessary, moral thorn in the side of China.

To take its place among nations, China must confront its own recent past and acknowledge the real crimes committed against Tibetans, other so-called “nationalities” and its own dissidents. Our president would do well to pay heed to Mr. Havel’s warning that coddling of rights-abusing nations is a “road to hell.”

There is still plenty of time before the president makes his first official visit to China in November, and still plenty of hope left in his relatively young administration to make the necessary changes and recognize in real deeds the primacy of human rights in international affairs.
513 2009-10-17 ING Groep, the Dutch financial services company, agreed to sell its United States reinsurance business to the Reinsurance Group of America for an undisclosed amount in a move to increase its capital. The disposal will have a “limited positive impact” on ING’s 2010 results, while the transaction will probably free up about 100 million euros ($149 million) in capital, ING said. The transaction is structured as a reinsurance agreement, ING said Friday. ING, which received a lifeline worth 10 billion euros from the Netherlands last year, plans to raise as much as 8 billion euros and free up 4 billion euros of capital selling assets to repay the Dutch state. The bank and insurer agreed on Thursday to sell its Asian private banking assets for $1.46 billion to the Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation of Singapore.
514 2009-10-17 Merck, the drug maker, said Friday that federal regulators had cleared its vaccine Gardasil to prevent genital warts in boys and younger men, a new use for a product already approved to prevent cervical cancer in women. The company, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., said the Food and Drug Administration approved Gardasil for use in boys and men from 9 to 26. Gardasil already is approved for use by women to block four strains of the human papillomavirus that cause the majority of cervical cancers and genital warts. Merck has sold about 50 million doses worldwide, with more than $1.4 billion in revenue last year.
515 2009-10-17 “All of this is facilitated by the Federal Reserve and the government, who really want financial institutions to get back to lending,” said Gary Richardson, a research fellow at the . “But we have just shown them that they can have the most frightening things happen to them, and we will throw trillions of dollars to protect them. I have big concerns about that.”

Not all banks are doing so well. Giants like and , whose fortunes are tied to the ups-and-downs of ordinary consumers, are struggling to turn themselves around, as are many regional banks.

But the decline of certain institutions, along with the outright collapse of once-vigorous competitors like , has consolidated the nation’s financial power in fewer hands. The strong are now able to wring more profits from the financial markets and charge higher fees for a wide range of banking services.

“They are able to charge more for all kinds of services because companies need banks and investment banks more now, and there are fewer strong ones to help them,” said Douglas J. Elliott of the .

A year after the crisis struck, many of the industry’s behemoths — those institutions deemed too big to fail — are, in fact, getting bigger, not smaller. For many of them, it is business as usual. Over the last decade the financial sector was the fastest-growing part of the economy, with two-thirds of growth in gross domestic product attributable to incomes of workers in finance.

Now, the industry has new tools at its disposal, courtesy of the government.

With interest rates so low, banks can borrow money cheaply and put those funds to work in lucrative ways, whether using the money to make to companies at higher rates, or to speculate in the markets. Fixed-income trading — an area that includes bonds and currencies — has been particularly profitable.

“Robust trading results led the way,” said Howard Chen, a banking analyst at , describing the latest profits.

To prevent a catastrophic financial collapse that would have sent shock waves through the economy, the government injected billions of dollars into banks. Some large institutions, like Goldman and Morgan, have since repaid their bailout money. But most of the industry still enjoys other forms of government support, which is helping to stoke profits.

Goldman Sachs and its perennial rival were allowed to transform themselves into old-fashioned bank holding companies. That switch gave them access to cheap funding from the Federal Reserve, which had been unavailable to them.

Those two banks and others like JPMorgan were also allowed to issue tens of billions of dollars of bonds that are guaranteed by the , which insures bank deposits. With the F.D.I.C. standing behind them, the banks could borrow the money on highly advantageous terms. While some have since issued bonds on their own, they nonetheless enjoy the benefits of their cheap financing.

Granted, banks are also benefiting from a stabilizing economy. The fear that gripped the markets earlier this year, when doomsayers predicted a second Great Depression, has largely dissipated. Stocks, corporate bonds, even risky corporate i.o.u.’s — have all rallied from their bear market lows, some spectacularly so. The Dow Jones industrial average has soared 50 percent this year, and touched 10,000 this week for the first time since the crisis.

Banks that had marked down the value of the assets on their books during the dark days of the crisis are now enjoying a rebound in the value of many of those assets.

“Confidence has returned,” said Shubh Saumya, a financial services specialist at the Boston Consulting Group. “Some of the assets that bankers wrote down last year in the midst of the crisis, now they have got some of that back.”

As the number of banks has dwindled, the survivors are moving into the void left by rivals that are either dead or limping and unwilling to take risks.

A big reason for Goldman Sachs’s blowout profits this year has been the willingness of its traders to take big risks — they have put more money on the line while other banks that suffered last year have reined in such moves. Executives say there are big strategic gaps opening up between banks on Wall Street that are taking on more risks, and those that are treading a safer path.

Banks that have waded back into the markets have been able to exploit large gaps in the prices of various investments, a feature of the postcrisis financial markets. The so-called bid-ask spreads — the difference between the price at which banks are willing to buy things like bonds, and the price at which they are willing to sell — are roughly twice what they were two years ago.

Still, the newfound success is largely limited to the big securities houses on Wall Street. This week, Citigroup and Bank of America reported losses from credit card delinquencies and defaults — a sign of the lingering pain on Main Street.
516 2009-10-17 Rubenstein said the incident occurred when a real estate agent was showing an apartment in Tynan’s building to Gold-Von Simson and jokingly said to Tynan, “Don’t worry, they’re not Red Sox fans.”

Tynan reportedly replied, “I don’t care about that, as long as they are not Jewish.”

Rubenstein said that after admitting his remarks to the Yankees, Tynan, 49, called Ms. Gold-Von Simson to apologize.

“She said that if he gave a sincere apology she would forgive him,” Rubenstein said. “He did that to her satisfaction. He was very apologetic.”

Tynan has been singing “God Bless America” at Yankee Stadium for years. A former member of the Irish Tenors, he did not embark on his music career until he was 33 and had already earned a medical degree.

Tynan had both legs amputated below the knees after a car accident at age 20. But within a year he had entered the Paralympics, and in the 1984 and 1988 games won gold medals in the discus, the shot put and the long jump. Ronan sang at the Sept. 28, 2001, memorial for victims of Sept. 11. He first sang at the old Yankee Stadium in the 2000 season. When he will sing again at the new one is now unclear.

Mary Kay Messenger of the United States Military Academy Band at West Point sang “God Bless America” at the stadium Friday night.

SCHEDULING CONFLICTS The Yankees and the Los Angeles Angels waited four days to play Game 1 of the American League Championship Series on Friday. Now they are facing a possible time crunch between Games 2 and 3.

With a foreboding forecast for Game 2 on Saturday, the teams might have to play that game on Sunday, probably at 4:40 p.m. They would then travel overnight and play Game 3 on Monday at Angel Stadium at 4:15 p.m. Eastern. Baseball might move the start time later, but probably not more than a half-hour.

The commissioner’s office is aware that the Yankees would rather have Monday as a day off and play Games 3, 4 and 5 on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. The Angels would rather play the games as scheduled: on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday.

Commissioner Bud Selig has discretion on rescheduling the games, but he would do so in consultation with the networks. The easiest solution would be to keep the rest of the schedule the same and simply force the players to deal with a short turnaround.

“It’s 24 hours between game starts,” Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said. “We’ve done that plenty of times.”

If Game 2 is rained out, Fox will lose a prime-time telecast. Fox would be unlikely to reschedule in prime time because TBS has that time slot for the National League Championship Series on Sunday, Monday and Wednesday. TYLER KEPNER

RECALLING BIG TEN DAYS During his stretch of World Series with the Yankees in the late 1990s, Joe Girardi said, the team rarely played in bitter, raw conditions. But the way it felt Friday reminded him of his college days at Northwestern.

“I remember my first Big Ten series against Wisconsin, the first day we got snowed out in the fifth,” Girardi said. “We continued it the next day, and the next day it was 28 degrees with an 8-degree wind-chill factor. That was about as cold as I’ve ever played. And since then, Wisconsin’s dropped their program.” TYLER KEPNER

NO WORD ON GAME 2 CATCHER Joe Girardi said he had not told A. J. Burnett or Jose Molina which catcher he planned to use for Game 2. But it seems logical to stick with Molina, who guided Burnett through six solid innings in the division series.

“What I can tell you is that it worked very well last time,” Girardi said before Game 1. “We’ll put the lineup up tomorrow. I want our players to focus on this game and this game only, because tomorrow’s game doesn’t mean anything yet.” TYLER KEPNER

GIRARDI STICKS WITH MARTE There was some thought that the Yankees might replace the left-hander Damaso Marte, who had a 9.45 earned run average this season, with the right-hander Brian Bruney, whose E.R.A. was 3.92. The Angels have only one pure left-handed hitter, Bobby Abreu, and several switch-hitters.

But Joe Girardi said he kept Marte on the roster because two of the Angels’ switch-hitters, Kendry Morales and Chone Figgins, were better batting left-handed than right-handed. Morales hit .309 as a lefty, and .296 as a righty; Figgins had a wider split, hitting .323 left-handed and .246 right-handed. Because Figgins bats before Abreu in the Angels’ lineup, Girardi said, he might have a chance to use Marte or his other left-hander, Phil Coke, against two consecutive batters. TYLER KEPNER
517 2009-10-17 Figgins yelled Aybar’s name to see if Aybar was poised to catch the ball, but Figgins’s failure to vacate the area made Aybar think that Figgins was about to corral it.

“One of us should have called it,” Figgins said. “It’s as simple as that.”

So the pesky Angels, a team that is renowned for taking extra bases and making opponents nervous, played like a tense team. John Lackey, who crouched and screamed after Matsui’s ball fell in, made a throwing error. Juan Rivera sloshed around left field as if it were made of quicksand, and also tossed a ball away. Torii Hunter, who has won eight Gold Gloves, overran a ball in center.

Before the game, Angels Manager Mike Scioscia said anyone can play when it is 70 degrees and gorgeous. When teams play in frigid conditions, Scioscia said, “you have to keep your focus, keep your focus defensively.” That is exactly what the Angels did not do.

If any players were cold, the bats were not, literally. When Derek Jeter put his bat in the rack, it became the warmest thing in the first-base dugout. The bat racks are heated so that the wood stays toasty. Whatever modest amount that feature added to the Stadium’s $1.5 billion price tag, the players said it was worth it.

On a raw night when the game-time temperature was 45 degrees and seemed lower, Alex Rodriguez said he would stay near the heat between innings. There are seven heat vents on the walls in both dugouts, which is an improvement over the old Stadium dugouts, which had only air-conditioning.

The heat was important, but the Yankees and the Angels still outfitted their players as if they were skiing instead of playing baseball. When the teams took batting practice, many players opted for clothing like wool beanies, caps with ear flaps, ski masks, hooded sweatshirts, fleece pullovers and gloves.

Before Robinson Cano put on his helmet, he adjusted his ski mask so that it covered his chin. When Jeter saw Cano’s mask covering everything but Cano’s eyes, nose and mouth, he stretched the mask down so that Cano’s chin was exposed. Cano quickly lifted the mask back over his chin.

“We call those bank robber masks,” said Lou Cucuzza, one of the Yankees’ clubhouse managers.

Cucuzza explained how the Yankees had a storage room that had about six dozen caps with ear flaps, about three dozen beanies, about three dozen masks and several bulky parkas that were mostly used by the relievers who sit in the bullpen. The bullpen has a small, heated room that Chad Gaudin said “is like a glass house.”

The Yankees are better equipped to handle the bitter conditions in their new home. In the old Stadium, the Yankees had to walk up a runway to get to the warmth of the clubhouse or had to walk along a concourse to get to the batting cages in right field. In the new Stadium, the Yankees simply walk down a flight of stairs to get to a heated batting cage.

“It makes a difference,” said Rodriguez, who shunned a long-sleeve shirt during the game.

Mark Teixeira, Johnny Damon and Nick Swisher all wore caps with the ear flaps. Cano wore his trusty ski mask and seemed like a threat to sleep with it, too. Aybar also wore the ski mask, and probably wanted a mask that covered his whole face after letting a definite out drop in front of him.
518 2009-10-17 “This case should serve as a wake-up call for Wall Street,” Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said at a news conference on Friday. He added that the investigation was continuing.

Still stinging from criticism that they missed frauds like Mr. Madoff’s, securities regulators working with prosecutors repeatedly pointed to the recorded phone calls as a sign that they were tightening their grip on white-collar crime, comparing the investigation to those against the Mafia and drug cartels.

Mr. Rajaratnam was charged with four counts of conspiracy and nine counts of securities fraud. United States Magistrate Judge Douglas F. Eaton set bail at $100 million.

A lawyer for Mr. Rajaratnam, James Walden of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, said, “My client’s innocent and we’re going to fight the charges.”

Robert Khuzami, the S.E.C.’s director of enforcement, said of Mr. Rajaratnam in a news conference, “He is not a master of the universe,” outlining the civil case brought with the criminal case. “He is a master of the Rolodex.”

A spokesman for Galleon said the firm was “shocked” at the arrest and added that it had no knowledge of the investigation before it was made public.

Suggesting that problems may extend beyond a single hedge fund, the informants fed Galleon tips for cash or in some cases for other insider information, officials said. Among the tipsters was the Moody’s analyst, who was paid $10,000; an employee at an investor relations firm working for Google; and Robert W. Moffat Jr., an I.B.M senior vice president for systems and technology. Mr. Moffat, of Ridgefield, Conn., was among those charged. All six defendants are expected to plead not guilty.

One defendant, Rajiv Goel of Los Altos, Calif., told Mr. Rajaratnam in March 2008 that he was tired of working at Intel and would exchange information about a potential investment by the company in Clearwire for a job with one of Mr. Rajaratnam’s “powerful friends.” Mr. Rajaratnam made a profit of $579,000 from trading in Clearwire stock.

One main player in the scheme was Danielle Chiesi, a former Bear Stearns executive who worked at another hedge fund, New Castle Partners. She is accused of supplying tips about companies like Akamai and Sun Microsystems to Mr. Rajaratnam and of illegally trading on the information for her firm.

Closely cooperating with Ms. Chiesi was Mark Kurland, a former senior executive at Bear Stearns Asset Management who is now New Castle’s president and lives in Mount Kisco, N.Y.

Prosecutors say the scheme produced some wildly successful investments. Information leaked about Google’s quarterly results in July 2007 led Mr. Rajaratnam to bet against the company. The trade led to an $8 million profit.

In another trade, advance notice from a Moody’s analyst that Hilton was about to be bought by the Blackstone Group in July 2007 produced a $4 million profit.

Much of the often-salty telephone dialogue captured by federal investigators relates to Akamai and Advanced Micro Devices, the chip maker. Mr. Rajaratnam and Ms. Chiesi drew upon a wealth of insider sources for their investments in the two companies: Anil Kumar, a McKinsey executive working on A.M.D.’s reorganization and a Galleon investor; an unnamed Akamai executive; and Mr. Moffat, a friend of Ms. Chiesi’s who learned of A.M.D. developments through the chip maker’s business ties to I.B.M.

“Danielle, I have a major present for you,” the Akamai executive told Ms. Chiesi late on Oct. 10, 2008, according to court filings. “Information.”

Recorded conversations between Mr. Rajaratnam and Ms. Chiesi appear to show they were aware their information was far beyond what the market knew. “If the two of us weren’t close to the company as we are, would you be long the stock?” Ms. Chiesi asked Mr. Rajaratnam on Aug. 26, 2008, referring to A.M.D. “No. I wouldn’t be,” he responded. She added that she would not have touched the company with a “10-foot pole.”

The two also showed concern about the consequences of their schemes being discovered. On Aug. 27, Ms. Chiesi told an unnamed co-conspirator: “I’m dead if this leaks. I really am and my career is over.”

At one point, Mr. Rajaratnam grew worried that a former employee was wearing a wire, prosecutors said. Earlier this week, he booked a flight for Friday to London from New York. He was arrested at his Manhattan home at 6 a.m. Friday.
519 2009-10-17 As Ways and Means chairman, Mr. Rangel holds one of the premier positions on Capitol Hill for raising money for the party from individuals and groups looking to influence legislation moving through the committee, which writes the tax code and is involved in shaping major policy.

In the previous election cycle, Mr. Rangel contributed $3.5 million — more than any other member of Congress — to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and its candidates around the country, according to party officials.

A Rangel spokesman said that the congressman’s latest totals “are strong figures, especially considering the state of the economy and fund-raising across all sectors.” He added, “The congressman is working harder than ever to represent his constituents in Congress as he works with leadership to finalize health insurance reform legislation and further efforts to help our community and economy recover from this recession.”

Jennifer Crider, speaking for the House Democrats’ campaign committee, declined to comment on Mr. Rangel’s fund-raising beyond saying, “The D.C.C.C. is a member participation committee and we appreciate everything our members do for us.”

A Democratic fund-raiser said he and his company recently tried to arrange a fund-raising reception for Mr. Rangel, only to find that many people were wary of attending. “I had a ton of people e-mail me saying that they were not going to give to him because of the cloud hanging over him,” said the fund-raiser, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to antagonize the congressman.

“It’s not like the old days,” the person continued. “Donors now keep away from anyone who is under a cloud.”

Not only has Mr. Rangel’s fund-raising pace slowed, but what money he is raising is increasingly going to pay for lawyers defending him in the ethics inquiry. He spent $255,000 on legal fees in the last three months alone. As a result, he has far less money not only for his own political needs but to help other Democrats, a practice that helps veteran lawmakers build influence.

“At this point, most people know that he is spending a lot of money on legal fees,” said a senior Democratic official who supports Mr. Rangel but who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. “That makes it much harder to raise money.”

Mr. Rangel has been under investigation by the House Ethics Committee since last year after The New York Times reported that he rented four rent-stabilized apartments in Harlem for below market value. The inquiry was eventually expanded to include unreported income and unpaid taxes from a villa he owns in the Dominican Republic and questions about whether he improperly used his office to raise money for a center to be named in his honor.

Last week, the inquiry was expanded again to examine hundreds of thousands of dollars in income and assets that he failed to report in his financial disclosure forms for 2002 through 2006.

That announcement came a day after Republicans tried to force a vote on the House floor calling for Mr. Rangel’s removal as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. Democrats ultimately defeated the move.

Lawyers for Mr. Rangel have said that sloppy bookkeeping led him to file incomplete or inaccurate financial disclosure forms, and a spokesman has said that steps have been taken to correct the errors.
520 2009-10-17 Is the epidemic of cab gab near an end?

The city’s Taxi and Limousine Commission, fed up with cabdrivers who flout the decade-old ban on cellphone chatter, has proposed more stringent rules that would raise fines and prohibit cabbies from even wearing a hands-free headset. The rules, which would be enacted this year, aim to shore up a ban that has proven nearly impossible to enforce.

“We’ve tried everything else; there’s no other way we can make this work,” the taxi commissioner, Matthew W. Daus, said on Friday. “People have thrown their hands up in the air and given up.”

Cabdrivers are already prohibited from talking on their cellphones, even using headsets, but the practice is all but ubiquitous. In the first six months of the year, only one summons for cellphone use was issued for every 500,000 cab rides. Recent studies show that drivers using cellphones are four times more likely to cause a crash.

Under the revised rules, drivers would not be allowed to even wear a headset. Drivers often escape conviction on cellphone offenses by arguing that they were only wearing a hands-free device and not talking into it. The proposal would allow officials to issue a ticket regardless of whether the device was being used.

“Judges have been dismissing summonses because there’s no proof of conversation,” Mr. Daus said. “The drivers say they were talking to passengers. What are we going to do, subpoena the passenger? It’s crazy.”
521 2009-10-17 On Friday a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart said in an e-mail message that the company would “continue to adjust our pricing so that Walmart.com offers the lowest prices on these top pre-sellers in books.” Amazon declined to comment.

Wal-Mart has said for the moment that its $8.99 offer is limited to 10 titles that will officially be released in November. Once they are published, the company said, the price could go up. Still, publishing industry veterans were worried about the potential long-term effect on the consumer mindset.

“If readers come to believe that the value of a new book is $10, publishing as we know it is over,” said David Gernert, Mr. Grisham’s literary agent. “If you can buy Stephen King’s new novel or John Grisham’s ‘Ford County’ for $10, why would you buy a brilliant first novel for $25? I think we underestimate the effect to which extremely discounted best sellers take the consumer’s attention away from emerging writers.”

The immediate impact of the low prices was likely to be felt by other bookstores, including chains like Barnes & Noble and Borders. As of Friday, neither of the Web sites for those companies indicated that it was matching the $9 price. At BN.com and Borders.com, the titles were generally discounted by 40 percent.

A spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble declined to comment. In a statement Borders said the majority of its revenues did not come from best sellers. “Our model does not rely on being the lowest priced,” the company said in the statement. “It relies on offering our customers a true bookstore experience — the opportunity to explore a vast array of titles within a comfortable environment where shoppers can go where their interests take them.”

Independent booksellers have long struggled to compete with discounts offered by Barnes & Noble, Amazon and Wal-Mart. William Petrocelli, an owner of Book Passage, an independent company that has stores in San Francisco and suburban Corte Madera, Calif., said that for now he was relying on the loyalty of customers who valued staff recommendations and author events as much as prices. But, he said, if the low prices siphoned off too many customers and put independent stores out of business, it would ultimately affect what would get published.

“What this does is accentuate the trend towards best sellers dominating the market,” Mr. Petrocelli said. Without independents, decisions about what books to put on store shelves would reside in the hands of a few corporate executives rather than hundreds of idiosyncratic booksellers, he said.

“You have a choke point where millions of writers are trying to reach millions of readers,” Mr. Petrocelli said, “but if it all has to go through a narrow funnel where there are only four or five buyers deciding what’s going to get published, the business is in trouble.”

For now, Wal-Mart and Amazon will make a loss on the sales of the discounted titles because publishers generally charge retailers 50 percent of the list price.

Publishers hoping to sell large volumes of titles like “Going Rogue” or “Under the Dome” might see the discounts spur more sales. One publishing executive also said Wal-Mart’s move was welcome because it signaled that another large competitor was taking on Amazon, which currently dominates online sales of books. As long as the $8.99 price was promotional, rather than a permanent trend, this executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid commenting publicly about a customer, said there were some positive aspects to Wal-Mart’s move.

“If this is a short-term statement to let hundreds of millions of people know that they will be able to buy books from Walmart.com,” the executive said, “it’s a good thing.”

Rafi Mohammed, a consultant and author of “The Art of Pricing,” said he was surprised by the radical discounting because he could think of no other industry in which retailers cut the prices of the newest or most popular goods. “You always pay the highest price for the latest and greatest,” he said. (In fact, new music CDs are often discounted.)

Indeed, Mr. Patterson, who said that while he was glad to be included in the top 10 most popular preordered books at Walmart.com, he could not think of any other industry accepting such dramatic discounts.

“Imagine if somebody was selling DVDs of this week’s new movies for $5,” Mr. Patterson said. “You wouldn’t be able to make movies.” He added, “I can guarantee you that the movie studios would not take this kind of thing sitting down.”
522 2009-10-17 A two-judge panel of the High Court ruled Friday that American intelligence documents containing details pertinent to torture allegations by a former detainee at Guantánamo Bay should be made public. The former detainee, Binyam Mohamed, 31, says Britain’s domestic intelligence agency, MI5, knew he was being tortured when it worked with the C.I.A. on his case after he was arrested in Pakistan in 2002 and taken to a prison in Morocco. The Foreign Office said it would appeal the ruling, delaying any release. Mr. Mohamed, who was born in Ethiopia, was flown to London in February from Guantánamo on the grounds that he was a legal resident in Britain before leaving for Afghanistan and Pakistan in 2001.
523 2009-10-17 MONTCLAIR, N.J.  There are some artistic projects that are probably more interesting for the participants than for the audience. That’s the feeling you get from “Other Suns (A Trilogy),” an intermittently agreeable collaborative work by Margaret Jenkins and Liu Qi, which opened at the Alexander Kasser Theater at Montclair State University on Thursday.

Ms. Jenkins, responsible for the first and third parts of “Other Suns,” has been choreographing in San Francisco for nearly 40 years. Liu Qi , who created Part 2, is the deputy artistic director of the Guangdong Modern Dance Company. They met when Ms. Jenkins went to teach in China in 2004, and the piece was developed in both San Francisco and Guangzhou with each group of dancers visiting the other in turn.

Ms. Jenkins is quoted in the program extolling “adventures into others’ cultural and physical realities,” and press materials make much of the contrasts between the symmetrical movement instincts of the Chinese dancers versus the more eccentric impulses of Western performers. But as interesting as this idea of cross-cultural collaboration may be, onstage it doesn’t translate into much more than some well-executed, rather busy, choreography.

“Other Suns,” which is set to Minimalist-inclined music by Paul Dresher (played live by Mr. Dresher and three musicians), opens beneath a canopy of small lamps and a hanging sculpture of twisted metal rods by Alexander V. Nichols, also responsible for the artful lighting. In its first moments we see a woman (the impressive Amy Foley) leaning sideways into one man, then the straight line of dancers that forms at his side.

That line recurs numerous times ; so do the motifs that emerge as it breaks up. Ms. Jenkins is skilled at a certain kind of domino-effect group composition: as one dancer is flung into another’s arms, someone else in the ensemble dives to the floor, and a third is whirled into the air. Once you notice the technique, it’s a compelling, puzzle-solving kind of activity to work out what action seems to cause another.

But Ms. Jenkins repeats this formula incessantly, along with a strategy of double groupings  one near the back of the stage, the other near the front; one of these groups moving slowly, the other fast, then reversing. By Part 3, which uses dancers from both companies (all get choreographic credit throughout), the constant whirl of movement as people rush around expressing themselves ardently is a little exhausting. (Mr. Dresher’s amplified and hectically jazzy score doesn’t help.)

In contrast, Part 2, by Liu Qi, is simpler and clearer. Dressed in silvery pants and tops, the six Chinese dancers stay close to the floor for a long time, rolling and propelling themselves briefly into the air before beginning more complicated partnering sequences. The ending of this section  and the others  is weak, and it suggests a fundamental problem with this piece. It is generated by good will and hard work, but its artistic motivations are as vague as the idea of exploring, in dance terms, similarities and differences between cultures.
524 2009-10-17 “Inventing Avi (and other theatrical maneuvers),” a new comedy by Robert Cary and Benjamin Feldman being staged by the Abingdon Theater Company, is like a well-stocked party boat with no one at the wheel. Everyone’s having a great time for most of the trip, but eventually the vessel smacks into the shore and ends up in disarray.

The play is a screwy backstage tale in which David (Stanley Bahorek), an assistant to a theatrical producer (Alix Korey), has written a Broadway-caliber play but can’t get his boss to read it. He and two actor friends (Juri Henley-Cohn and Havilah Brewster) come up with a convoluted plan to get the thing produced that involves attributing the work to a fake writer-actor (the Avi of the title). But soon David finds that the phony writer he has invented is hijacking his script and the glory that it brings.

Mr. Cary and Mr. Feldman fill “Inventing Avi” with savvy topical jokes (there’s even a Ponzi-scheme reference), detours into the past and every conceivable sexual pairing. They also make it a potpourri of sly theater references. Some of the best humor comes when we get to hear snatches of David’s celebrated play: it’s terrible, and terribly acted. So of course it’s a hit.

The most sublime comedy, though, is provided by Ms. Korey, a veteran actress who turns the Jewish-mother caricatures she has played in the past into a delightful ditzy-producer caricature. Ms. Korey, under Mark Waldrop’s direction, brashly walks a tightrope: at first it seems as if she hadn’t quite got the part down. But eventually you realize that the scatterbrainedness is planned. At least, so it seems.

Ray Klausen’s set, evoking the writer’s craft with giant script pages, is a nice touch. The play, though, eventually begins to feel overstuffed, and toward the end, as Mr. Cary and Mr. Feldman rush to tie up all their loose ends, it starts to wallow and go off course. Where’s the lifeboat?
525 2009-10-17 In January 1931, a lawyer named Benjamin Roth, 38 years old, solidly Republican, a solo practitioner in Youngstown, Ohio, decided to start a diary. Realizing that he was “living through an historic thing that will long be remembered”  as he put it in one early entry  he wanted to keep a record for posterity.

Mr. Roth’s diaries have just been published in book form  “The Great Depression: A Diary”  edited by his son Daniel, who worked in his father’s law practice for many years, and James Ledbetter, the editor of The Big Money, a financial site run by Slate. It is an eye-opening read, though not necessarily in the ways you might think.

Because it was written in the 1930s, Mr. Roth’s diary is not the kind of tell-all we’ve come to expect in this less restrained age. Although he mentions repeatedly the struggles of lawyers and other “professional men” during the depression  Mr. Roth always uses the lower-case “d”  he never shares how his family struggled through it, or how he was able to send his daughter to college in 1937. (Daniel Roth told me that his father, who died in 1978, later divulged that he had had a good life insurance policy, which he borrowed against to keep food on the table.)

Instead, every few days  or every few weeks during some stretches  Mr. Roth jotted down his thoughts and fears as the Depression deepened. “Banks are absolutely terrible in their insistence on payments of notes and mortgages,” he wrote in 1931. “It is the old story of lending you an umbrella when the sun is shining and then demanding it back when it rains.”

He recounts painful conversations with friends and acquaintances who had accumulated some wealth by speculating in the stock market, and then lost everything when stocks plummeted and they couldn’t meet margin calls. He is obsessed with the stock market; he is constantly noting the prices of the blue chips of his day, and his writing shows him to have the instincts of a good value investor, a term that hadn’t yet been invented. But, as he also constantly points out, he never has any money to invest, much to his chagrin.

Mr. Roth is horrified when the local banks fail (“I still cannot believe that the Dollar Bank  the Gibraltar of Youngstown  has closed its doors”) and points out that even after the banks reopen, customers aren’t allowed to withdraw more than a small fraction of their savings. He explains how entrepreneurs with money buy up people’s frozen passbook accounts for 50 cents on the dollar and how barter and scrip come to replace the money people no longer have.

Events that we know about from the history books he was reacting to in real time. He was furious to learn, thanks to a series of highly publicized Congressional hearings, that some of the nation’s most prominent bankers did terrible things during the Roaring Twenties. (“By manipulation the officers boosted and unloaded on the public their own stock in National City Bank as high as $650 per share when its book value was only $60.”) But he makes no mention of the Securities and Exchange Commission, whose birth was the direct result of those incendiary hearings.

Mr. Roth is skeptical of President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal programs, and worries that the president’s fondness for deficit spending will ultimately be disastrous. He keeps thinking inflation is right around the corner. He worries about the rise of Hitler. He writes about gangs of farmers who threaten sheriffs, judges and anyone else who tries to foreclose on a farm. He watches the rise of unions, another trend he finds troubling.

Mr. Roth, of course, is writing without the benefit of hindsight. Today, when we look back on the Great Depression, we have a clear narrative in mind  a narrative that has been fine-tuned this last year or so, as we’ve re-examined it through the prism of the current crisis. On Wednesday, for instance, I attended a forum at Columbia University, where one of the speakers was the historian Alan Brinkley, who has written several fine books about the Depression.

“The only way to break the economic deadlock brought on by the Depression was to shock it back to life,” said Mr. Brinkley, who then added that for all of Roosevelt’s willingness to experiment and spend, the reason the Depression lasted so long was that the president didn’t spend enough.

That, of course, is what most people believe today  and that dogma is the reason the government last year threw literally trillions of dollars at the banking system to keep it from collapsing.

Mr. Roth’s diaries have no narrative. But they are compelling reading nonetheless, because they force readers to reflect on both the similarities and the differences between then and now. What particularly struck me was watching Mr. Roth, in his diaries, grope from day to day, and year to year, searching for an answer that wouldn’t be clear until long afterward. He’s like the proverbial blind man who feels an elephant’s trunk and thinks elephants look like a rope. Not unlike the way we are today, as we grope our way through our own financial crisis.

Mr. Roth’s inflation fears are one good example. A rock-ribbed Republican, he can’t understand why Roosevelt’s New Deal programs  and the spending they require  don’t bring with them the kind of scary inflation that had occurred in Germany after World War I. He keeps waiting for it, predicting it, ever fearful that it will make an awful economic situation even worse. He is baffled that inflation remained subdued. He can’t get outside of his mental framework and see  as we can today  that Roosevelt’s programs are the only things keeping the economy alive.
526 2009-10-17 Before breaking for dinner, he asked the cast members to practice their bows. Their new 140-seat theater at City Center, at 131 West 55th Street, has audience members surrounding the stage on three sides, unlike the more traditional design with a proscenium stage that they had become accustomed to downtown.

“A crisp turn,” he instructed the cast members, as they pivoted to face each section of the audience, “as if to say, ‘We are happy to do the show for you.’ ”

The move to 55th Street, in the works before Mr. Sullivan was named artistic director, gives the Pearl more exposure. With a subscription list of 2,100, the theater hopes to benefit from its new visibility. Many people who attend shows put on by the Manhattan Theater Club (from which the Pearl is renting Stage II), as well as those who attend the wide range of other offerings at City Center, will now walk by the Pearl’s signs and entrance. At the same time, Mr. Sullivan said that most of the troupe’s dedicated subscribers had followed them to Midtown.

While he has been entrusted to maintain the company’s legacy, Mr. Sullivan said, “I know I was hired to bring something new to the Pearl.” He is not unfamiliar with the need to walk a line between continuity and change. He started his own theater in Rockford, Ill., in 1972 and ran it for 22 years before turning it over to a new manager.

Having grown up there, Mr. Sullivan said he decided to leave because “I wanted to find out about myself in a larger world.” He moved to New York and ended up pursuing a freelance career as a director, which meant he was on the road eight to nine months a year.

He had been thinking how nice it would be to have a home base when Mr. Sobel asked him to have lunch in the spring of 2008, when Mr. Sullivan was directing “The Importance of Being Earnest.” “I thought: ‘Oh my God, something’s terribly wrong with the show. I’m going to be fired,’ ” Mr. Sullivan recalled. Instead, Mr. Sobel told him he wanted to recommend him to the board as his successor.

Mr. Sobel had sounded out the 11 members of the company about Mr. Sullivan, and they were enthusiastic.

Rachel Botchan, who plays the Widow Quin in “Playboy” and has been with the company since 2000, said of Mr. Sullivan: “Obviously he is going to make his own changes, but his aesthetic is the same. He believes in the company, in repertory and classical theater. I trust him.”

Still, the transition was bittersweet, she said. Ms. Botchan started as an intern at the Pearl and saw Mr. Sobel and his wife, Joanne, as mentors. “I feel personally that it’s a new phase in my life and my career,” she said. “It’s kind of like leaving the nest, though I’m still in the nest.”

Robert Hoch, a company member for 17 years, admitted that when he first heard that the Sobels were retiring and moving to Albuquerque, “My heart sank.” But having worked well with Mr. Sullivan before, he was reassured.

Mr. Sullivan knows one of the priorities is to get the Pearl on a more secure financial footing. This season, to save money, the company is presenting four plays (each costs about $400,000 to produce) instead of the usual five.

On the artistic side, he also plans to examine what the Pearl’s dedication to “the classics” means. “A classic should not mean an author who’s dead,” he said. He plans to institute a series in which new plays that have classical themes and pay particular attention to language can be read, adding that he is open to producing new work.

“I have to stabilize things, grow the audience and reinvigorate the company,” he said. “I think it’s important for me to challenge the existing company with new roles. It would be a missed opportunity not to push them forward to new territory.”

Mr. Sullivan acknowledged that he could hardly believe the new territory that he found himself in. Recently he attended a fund-raiser at a board member’s stunning Upper East Side apartment. Looking out the window toward Central Park, he said, he remembered thinking, “This is what you were always dreaming about when you were a kid in Illinois.”

He added: “This is the most exciting opportunity of my life, one I had ceased to believe would happen. And then it did.”
527 2009-10-17 PREDICTING THE FUTURE So why didn’t most financial planners see all of this coming? Weren’t the signs obvious?

“This question actually presumes that there is something wrong with not having seen this coming,” said Elissa Buie of Yeske Buie, with offices in Vienna, Va., and . “We live in a chaotic system, and chaotic systems are not predictable. But we know the range of possibilities, and this was always a possibility.”

Though most clients tend not to remember it years later, good financial planners will generally sit down at the beginning of a relationship, after clients have declared the sort of risk tolerance they think they have, and remind them how bad things can get in a truly outlying year. Well, 2008 into 2009 was one of those years.

Still, Ms. Buie said that even had she known the extent of the stock market carnage, it still might not have helped her clients’ performance much. “We wouldn’t have known when the turnaround was coming, so we wouldn’t have known when to change people’s portfolios.”

DIVIDING THE MONEY One of the most frightening parts of the recent market decline was that there was nowhere to hide. If you divide your assets among , bonds, real estate, commodities and other , they are not supposed to all fall in tandem. So is the idea of dead?

Tim Kochis, chief executive of Aspiriant, with offices in and San Francisco, rejects the premise of the question. “Asset allocation is not designed to protect against market movements in very short-term time horizons,” he said. “It’s designed to provide optimal performance results over very long periods of time, and there’s nothing to suggest that that expectation will not be fulfilled.”

For clients, it’s easy to blanch at something like this. Must they really wait decades to see whether their financial planner was right? Then again, getting set for and not outliving your money is generally the primary goal for clients who pay for financial advice.

Older investors still had to wonder early this year whether their portfolios would ever recover. The last six months have given them some comfort, though, assuming they remained in the stock market. Mr. Kochis notes that one of the primary tenets of asset allocation is rebalancing every so often. People who did that and picked up, say, cheap stocks in emerging markets earlier this year are probably glad they did.

ESTABLISHING CONTROL Still, given what we’ve learned about the unpredictability of the markets, is there anything related to money that is within one’s control?

This is a question that people ask almost out of desperation, while throwing up their hands in despair and disgust. But there are plenty of ways to answer it. Harold Evensky of Evensky & Katz in Coral Gables, Fla., noted that the expense of investing was controllable, and clients can also often control what they pay in and when.

Michael A. Branham of Cornerstone Wealth Advisors in Edina, Minn., the youngest financial planner on the panel, added an important point for midcareer professionals who are still employed. “They could control their savings rate,” he said. “They could choose how much more they wanted to add, so when we came out of this, they were able to really be ahead of the game.”

Ms. Buie said that after meeting with many clients in the last year, she found that the ones who felt best were the ones who had chosen to rein in their spending the most. “They probably felt more empowered than anyone else because they were doing something to make progress,” she said.

SNIFFING OUT THIEVES The economy was bad enough, but individuals who paid for financial advice also found themselves worrying about whether their adviser was the next . So how can people know for sure that they are not dealing with crooks?

The short answer is they can’t, and Ms. Buie noted that planners who had appeared at past conferences had themselves stolen client money later on. Still, Mr. Evensky noted that it could help to work with a financial adviser who kept client money with a third party like or Fidelity.

That won’t protect clients against, say, forged money transfer forms. Ms. Buie said she believed that the brokerage industry needed to do a better job of creating clearer monthly statements that alerted people when money moved out of their account.

“It should say, at the top, this is how much money left your account this month,” she said. That way, people who didn’t move any money out themselves could notice any transfers more easily. She added that people who were sick, old or otherwise distracted should have trusted friends or family members reading the statements each month on their behalf.

CHANGING FOREVER When things are at their worst, the natural response is to lower expectations. As a result, many financial planners have heard some version of this question over the last year: Do I have to change my lifestyle from this point forward, forever?

For clients living close to the edge financially, or those who were older, this analysis was fairly intense, according to Mr. Kochis. “But our conclusion was not to do anything that is irreversible,” he said. Take the decision to retire, for instance. “You can’t simply snap your fingers and get your job back.”

Ms. Buie suggested focusing on what individuals really meant by lifestyle. “Even if you have a little less money, do you really have a little less life?” she said. Her firm’s mailing to clients on meaningful activities that didn’t require a lot of money got far and away the most response of anything it had ever sent out, she said. She and her husband, for instance, have saved money on travel through home exchanges.

These dark moments have provided a good opportunity to remind everyone of the fundamental assumptions that inform financial planning, whether you are working with a professional or not. “We made it very clear to clients that we have a basic, underlying belief that over time, the domestic and world economy will go up,” Mr. Evensky said.

So to those who insisted that stocks would never again be appropriate and were grasping for guaranteed returns, he simply said this to the ones who did not yet have enough cash to live on comfortably forever: “You can be certain if you put your money in C.D.’s and money markets, but you can also certainly be sure that you’ll never be able to accomplish your goals and maintain your lifestyle. There is risk no matter what you’re doing, and our judgment is that the safe thing to do is to stay invested.”
528 2009-10-17 The surveys ask companies if their business is doing better or worse than in the previous month, with the three most important questions relating to new orders, production and employment. The index is set so that 50 indicates business is unchanged from the previous month, while figures above that indicate growth and figures below show a decline. The higher the index, the more pervasive are reports of growth.

In the accompanying charts, the index figures have been converted to show the number of points over or under 50 for each of 12 countries, from the end of 2007 through September. The September indexes for new orders, production and employment are also shown.

While details vary, the slump was sharp in nearly every country, reflecting the sudden decline that came after Lehman Brothers collapsed in September 2008. That worsened a credit squeeze, which meant some companies had no choice but to cut back on everything they could, from inventories to marketing expenditures to jobs. Others, fearing that the economic outlook could become much worse, cut back voluntarily.

It now appears that companies cut too much, and the surveys of manufacturing show that companies are expanding in most countries.

Over all, the surveys indicate that the manufacturing sectors of China, Taiwan, South Korea and India had begun to grow by April, but that the United States did not follow suit until August.

In Europe, France is reporting growth, and Britain is hovering near the midpoint, indicating the deterioration has stopped but growth has not yet begun. Although the German government estimates that its gross domestic product rose in the second quarter, the manufacturing survey indicates continued weakness in that country.

New orders and production have turned positive everywhere but in the three European laggards, Spain, Ireland and Italy. Spain and Ireland have been badly hurt by collapses in real estate markets, which had boomed, in part, because of easy credit. Mr. Williamson attributed some of Italy’s problems to a lack of confidence in its government’s ability to deal with problems.

But employment continues to lag in most countries outside of Asia. Mr. Williamson said he estimated that total job losses in the major developed countries — the United States, Britain, the euro zone and Japan — bottomed out at 1.9 million a month in March and are now about 500,000 a month. While many companies are still hesitant to hire, he says he thinks employment will begin to grow by the end of this year.
529 2009-10-17 WASHINGTON (AP) — Output at the nation’s factories, mines and utilities rose for a third consecutive month in September on higher production of automobiles and other goods, providing positive signs for the ailing manufacturing sector.

Higher output of motor vehicles and parts accounted for much of the increase, in part because the government’s cash for clunkers program stimulated buying. Still, steel and other sectors also posted gains.

“Thanks to the cash for clunkers program, replenishing inventories and exports, U.S. factories are getting back into business,” Jennifer Lee, an economist at BMO Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients.

The Federal Reserve said Friday in a statement that industrial production rose 0.7 percent last month. Wall Street economists expected a 0.2 percent rise.

August output also was revised to 1.2 percent from 0.8 percent.

Industrial output increased at a 5.2 percent annual rate in the July-September quarter, the Fed said, the largest quarterly gain since the first three months of 2005. It was also the first quarterly increase since the beginning of 2008.

Factory output, the single largest slice of industrial production, rose for a third month, increasing 0.9 percent. Much of that improvement resulted from higher auto manufacturing, which rose 8.1 percent.
530 2009-10-17 The bank also took a $2.6 billion loss stemming from the accounting treatment of its debt. And it spent more than $400 million to end a dispute with the government over an agreement to insure its most toxic assets so the bank could complete its acquisition of Merrill Lynch.

The loss of 26 cents a share was in contrast to a profit of $3.2 billion, or 33 cents, in the second quarter. Wall Street analysts had been expecting a loss of 12 cents a share. The bank earned $1.18 billion, or 15 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago.

Now, as the recession gradually fades, questions loom about who can pull Bank of America back to higher ground. Its chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, is under fire for the bank’s performance and the Merrill deal, and plans to retire by the end of the year. On Thursday, Mr. Lewis announced he would forgo his salary and bonus for 2009 after Washington’s executive compensation czar, Kenneth R. Feinberg, urged him to do so.

In a conference call to discuss the bank’s performance, Mr. Lewis struck an elegiac note. “I just wanted to say thank you for the support you’ve shown me during my time with you and the support you’ve shown the company,” Mr. Lewis said. “I have no doubt that Bank of America will thrive and my absence will not slow the momentum that is starting once again to move forward.”

The bank must search for a successor who can restore its tarnished image and open the door to repaying the government’s financial lifeline.

In addition to taxpayer bailouts, the bank has issued debts backed by the government. While rivals like Citigroup and Wells Fargo also remain on government support, stronger competitors like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase have already repaid their bailouts, freeing themselves of the scrutiny and stigma that came with accepting taxpayer money.

On Friday, Mr. Lewis declined to say when his replacement would be chosen, but said, “I can just say that there’s an appropriate sense of urgency but combined with wanting to obviously make the best decision.”

While Merrill’s brokerage business may be helping Bank of America’s bottom line, investigations over the deal are still a source of legal tangles and publicity headaches. Regulators, members of Congress and shareholder lawsuits are examining the merger. They have raised questions over bonuses paid to Merrill executives on the eve of the deal and huge losses that accumulated on Merrill’s books.

Friday was the last time Mr. Lewis would hold court on a quarterly earnings conference call as chief executive, engaging in a ritual back-and-forth with analysts. In the last question, Mr. Lewis was asked whether he had learned any lessons from the last year, or the last 20.

“Oh, no,” he said. “I sit here at the moment thinking that we have built the best financial franchise in the world and that I look forward — it’ll be from afar, I guess — but I look forward to seeing it play out.”
531 2009-10-17 The Irish tenor Ronan Tynan, a fixture at Yankee Stadium for years with his stirring rendition of ''God Bless America,'' was scheduled to belt out the song again during Game 1 of the American League Championship Series on Friday. Instead, he was d...
532 2009-10-18 In an attempt to gain more traction among businesses for its Web applications, Google is expanding its advertising for its enterprise products....
533 2009-10-18 Fans will be allowed in to Yankee Stadium on Monday to watch Game 3 of the A.L.C.S. in Anaheim....
534 2009-10-18 But one week into their latest chemistry experiment, the Jets appear to have timed their trade for Edwards as perfectly as his leaping pirouette grab of a deep Sanchez throw against the Dolphins.

The Jets traded for Edwards when his value was its lowest. Now he has some familiarity with the offense at a time when his fellow receivers Jerricho Cotchery and Brad Smith are struggling with injuries and are doubtful for Sunday’s game against the Buffalo Bills.

Edwards’s first game came at night, on national television, where he always seems to shine the brightest. His second will come against the reeling Bills on the same Giants Stadium turf where he hauled in a one-handed touchdown pass against the Jets in 2007.

“If he has that impact every week, I’ll be happy,” Coach Rex Ryan said. “I don’t know what more he’s supposed to do. Oh, my goodness. It’s ridiculous.”

Midseason trades in the N.F.L. remain rare because they hold a certain amount of risk. Offenses in particular rely on timing, on the familiarity between a quarterback and his playmakers built by running the same plays hundreds of times, in minicamps, in training camp and each week during the season.

For proof, all Edwards has to do is look across the sideline Sunday. There, he will find another receiver with elite talent, an interest in acting and a reputation sullied by repeat transgressions as a less-than-ideal teammate. There, he will find Terrell Owens.

Owens and Edwards have had remarkably similar seasons. Edwards has 15 receptions for 203 yards and a touchdown. Owens has 12 catches for 202 yards and a score. Rumors had circulated this season that Edwards would be traded from Cleveland. Now, those same rumors suggest the Bills are exploring shipping Owens out of Buffalo.

The difference is that Edwards accomplished in one game with the Jets what Owens has not yet done this season with the Bills. Edwards injected hope, with his touchdown grab and his twisting catch and the 49-yard pass-interference penalty he drew.

Owens has yet to explode into complaint mode. But he has yet to explode on the field, either. According to Mike Pettine, the Jets’ defensive coordinator, the problem lies with the Bills’ depleted offensive line.

By struggling to run the ball, the Bills are forced into obvious passing situations. Once there, they have failed to protect quarterback Trent Edwards, eliminating many of the deep routes that Owens excels at running.

“A lot of people criticize Edwards for getting the ball out too fast,” Pettine said. “A lot of times, it’s out of necessity.”

In a league in which elite receivers are known as much for their ticking-time-bomb personalities as for the timing on their routes, trading for Braylon Edwards came with a risk for the Jets. To combat the risk of disruption, Edwards and Sanchez have often worked after practice, focusing on the nuances of pass routes.

In Sanchez, Edwards said he found a quarterback who exceeded his expectations, who plays “loose and confident and allows me to go out there and do what I do.” In Edwards, Sanchez found the big target the Jets lacked, particularly near the end zone.

The offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer said what Edwards showed on film — separation, leaping ability, size — helped give Sanchez confidence.

“It’s hard in a couple days to get that comfortable with one another,” Schottenheimer said. “When you watch Braylon make plays on film, it gives a quarterback who hasn’t thrown to him very much the confidence that the guy will go up and make plays. Mark believes in him.”

Two games ago, against the Saints, Sanchez racked up four turnovers, two resulting in touchdowns for the New Orleans defense. Against Miami, with Edwards in the lineup, Sanchez did not lose a fumble or throw an interception. Instead, he played the smart, ball-control game the Jets had hoped for, completing 12 passes for 172 yards.

Sanchez labeled his performance against the Dolphins his best game this season. He pointed to the Jets’ drive for a field goal near the end of the first half, to his lack of turnovers and his instant connection with Edwards.

“That’s who we all thought Mark was,” Ryan said. “That’s why we gave up a king’s ransom for him. That’s who he is.”

When Cotchery returns, the Jets will boast another elite receiver, a pass-catching tight end in Dustin Keller and two running backs who made the Pro Bowl last season. But the headliners will be the rookie quarterback and the new receiver, if their early returns prove true.
535 2009-10-18 Many have spoken about the need for a rebranding of America. Rebrand, restart, reboot. In my view these 36 words, alongside the administration’s approach to fighting nuclear proliferation and , improving relations in the and, by the way, creating jobs and providing health care at home, are rebranding in action.

These new steps — and those 36 words — remind the world that America is not just a country but an idea, a great idea about opportunity for all and responsibility to your fellow man.

All right ... I don’t speak for the rest of the world. Sometimes I think I do — but as my bandmates will quickly (and loudly) point out, I don’t even speak for one small group of four musicians. But I will venture to say that in the farthest corners of the globe, the president’s words are more than a pop song people want to hear on the radio. They are lifelines.

In dangerous, clangorous times, the idea of America rings like a bell (see King, M. L., Jr., and Dylan, Bob). It hits a high note and sustains it without wearing on your nerves. (If only we all could.) This was the melody line of the Marshall Plan and it’s resonating again. Why? Because the world sees that America might just hold the keys to solving the three greatest threats we face on this planet: extreme poverty, extreme ideology and extreme climate change. The world senses that America, with renewed global support, might be better placed to defeat this axis of extremism with a new model of foreign policy.

It is a strangely unsettling feeling to realize that the largest , the fastest Air Force, the fittest strike force, cannot fully protect us from the ghost that is terrorism .... Asymmetry is the key word from to Gaza .... Might is not right.

I think back to a phone call I got a couple of years ago from Gen. James Jones. At the time, he was retiring from the top job at ; the idea of a President Obama was a wild flight of the imagination.

General Jones was curious about the work many of us were doing in economic development, and how smarter aid — embodied in initiatives like President ’s Emergency Program for Relief and the — was beginning to save lives and change the game for many countries. Remember, this was a moment when America couldn’t get its cigarette lighted in polite European nations like Norway; but even then, in the developing world, the United States was still seen as a positive, even transformative, presence.

The general and I also found ourselves talking about what can happen when the three extremes — poverty, ideology and climate — come together. We found ourselves discussing the stretch of land that runs across the continent of , just along the creeping sands of the Sahara — an area that includes and northern . He also agreed that many people didn’t see that the Horn of Africa — the troubled region that encompasses and — is a classic case of the three extremes becoming an unholy trinity (I’m paraphrasing) and threatening peace and stability around the world.

The military man also offered me an equation. Stability = security + development.

In an asymmetrical war, he said, the emphasis had to be on making American foreign policy conform to that formula.

If that last line still seems like a joke to you ... it may not for long.

Mr. Obama has put together a team of people who believe in this equation. That includes the general himself, now at the ; the vice president, a former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; the Republican defense secretary; and a secretary of state, someone with a long record of championing the cause of women and girls living in poverty, who is now determined to revolutionize health and agriculture for the world’s poor. And it looks like the bipartisan coalition in Congress that accomplished so much in global development over the past eight years is still holding amid rancor on pretty much everything else. From a development perspective, you couldn’t dream up a better dream team to pursue peace in this way, to rebrand America.

The president said that he considered the peace prize a call to action. And in the fight against extreme poverty, it’s action, not intentions, that counts. That stirring sentence he uttered last month will ring hollow unless he returns to next year’s United Nations summit meeting with a meaningful, inclusive plan, one that gets results for the billion or more people living on less than $1 a day. Difficult. Very difficult. But doable.

The Nobel Peace Prize is the rest of the world saying, “Don’t blow it.”

But that’s not just directed at Mr. Obama. It’s directed at all of us. What the president promised was a “global plan,” not an American plan. The same is true on all the other issues that the Nobel committee cited, from nuclear disarmament to climate change — none of these things will yield to unilateral approaches. They’ll take international cooperation and American leadership.

The president has set himself, and the rest of us, no small task.

That’s why America shouldn’t turn up its national nose at popularity contests. In the same week that Mr. Obama won the Nobel, the United States was ranked as the most admired country in the world, leapfrogging from seventh to the top of the Nation Brands Index survey — the biggest jump any country has ever made. Like the Nobel, this can be written off as meaningless ... a measure of Mr. Obama’s celebrity (and we know what people think of celebrities).

But an America that’s tired of being the world’s policeman, and is too pinched to be the world’s philanthropist, could still be the world’s partner. And you can’t do that without being, well, loved. Here come the letters to the editor, but let me just say it: Americans are like singers — we just a little bit, kind of like to be loved. The British want to be admired; the Russians, feared; the French, envied. (The Irish, we just want to be listened to.) But the idea of America, from the very start, was supposed to be contagious enough to sweep up and enthrall the world.

And it is. The world wants to believe in America again because the world needs to believe in America again. We need your ideas — your idea — at a time when the rest of the world is running out of them.
536 2009-10-18 CHICAGO (AP) — A campus police chief hailed as a hero for leading his men into a Northern Illinois University classroom last year after a gunman opened fire is in danger of losing his job.

Criticism of the chief, Donald Grady, intensified recently after he was accused of threatening and shouting at the editor of the university newspaper during an interview. “It’s time for a change,” The Northern Star student paper wrote in an editorial calling for Chief Grady’s removal.

Chief Grady, 56, is on paid leave while a panel reviews the accusations by the editor in chief, Justin Weaver. The panel’s decision could result in Chief Grady’s dismissal.

Chief Grady said Thursday that he could not discuss the matter.

The newspaper said its main concern was Chief Grady’s strained relations with other area agencies, said Mr. Weaver, 22.

Sheriff Roger Scott of DeKalb County is among the officials who have publicly backed the call for Mr. Grady’s ouster, saying, “N.I.U. has isolated itself under his leadership.” But he also praised Chief Grady’s response to the attack on Feb. 14, 2008, in which five students and the gunman died.

Chief Grady ran the 400 yards between his office and Cole Hall against waves of screaming students fleeing the complex. He and several officers rushed into the classroom. Though the gunman, Steven Kazmierczak, 27, was already dead, survivors praised Chief Grady for bravery.
537 2009-10-18 The spokesman for Mr. Karzai’s campaign, Wahid Omar, denied that Mr. Karzai was rejecting the outcome of the audit but said that the campaign was concerned that the process was “being overshadowed by political discussions.”

“We will not be committed to a result that is decided on politically,” Mr. Omar said.

Three of the five members of the committee that is conducting the audit are United Nations-appointed experts, but the final results will be announced by the country’s Independent Election Commission, whose top officials are allies of Mr. Karzai.

A runoff could bolster the legitimacy of the election process and of the government it eventually produces. It could, however, take weeks or months, paralyzing the political process and leaving unanswered the question of who will be running the government, something the United States hopes strongly to avoid.

American officials say the latest an election could be held before winter made it impossible would be mid-November, and waiting until spring, one official said, “would be disastrous.”

Legally, there are few alternatives. The second round is mandated by the Constitution, but the Supreme Court managed to work around that document last spring when it ruled that Mr. Karzai was still president though his term had expired.

Mr. Karzai, who was credited with 54 percent of the vote before the fraud audit, opposes a second round. Mr. Abdullah said Saturday that Mr. Karzai had summoned the head of the election commission, Azizullah Ludin, and ordered him to reject any outcome giving the incumbent less than 50 percent.

Mr. Omar, the Karzai spokesman, denied that and said he could not confirm whether Mr. Karzai and Mr. Ludin had met.

There were also reports that foreign envoys were pressing both sides to work out a power-sharing deal. A senior American official noted that Mr. Karzai and Mr. Abdullah together won more than 70 percent of the votes cast in the first round, enough to give a unity government credibility.

But the Obama administration is adamant that it is not pushing for a deal.

“We’re not trying to prevent a second round,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter. “The issue is not about a runoff. The issue is getting a legitimate president.”

It was unclear how seriously either candidate was taking the idea of a unity government. Neither candidate has completely ruled it out, but each insists that the current process play out first.

Meanwhile, preparations for a second round of voting are well under way. Ballots for a second round were printed in London and shipped to Kabul, the American official said.

Also on Saturday, the United States military said three American soldiers were killed in Afghanistan on Friday.
538 2009-10-18 And according to Mr. Ozzie, we have entered an age that’s a far cry from that of the PC enshrined on his altar to beige-box antiquity. Consumers and workers have been gripped, he says, by a “gizmo revolution.”

But gizmos are only half the battle for Microsoft. True, fashionistas obsess over whether a new laptop will fit into their purses and what type of fashion statement the device will make. Corporate road warriors, meanwhile, exude pride as they whip ultrathin computers with exotic finishes out of their satchels. Yet the most desirable devices these days are those that also allow information addicts on the move to untether themselves from the desktop PC and communicate through the so-called “cloud.”

With the arrival this week of Windows 7 and a host of complementary, slick computers, Microsoft intends to undermine those Apple ads that mock PCs and their users as stumbling bores. Mr. Ozzie, who plays the role of visionary and strategist at Microsoft, says Windows 7 will let PCs keep pace with other computing devices and, in short, finally make them sexy.

In a play for its piece of the cloud, Microsoft plans to release a software platform, Windows Azure, next month that represents its bid to lure businesses with online services. While late to cloud computing in spots and a lackluster participant in the mobile market, Microsoft, Mr. Ozzie says, has a shot at reinventing itself and moving beyond the desktop.

“This gives us an opportunity as a software vendor to refresh our value proposition,” he says. “I just think it’s an exciting time for Microsoft.”

For many years, Microsoft and its leaders could make sweeping statements like this with little public pushback. Microsoft embodied the technology industry and was the grand arbiter of the tools people used to conduct business and navigate the digital era.

These days, however, Microsoft has legions of doubters. While it still commands a prominent and profitable position in computing, brand experts say consumers stumble when trying to define what the company stands for and whether it can create a grander technological future.

“Microsoft sort of disappeared from the scene,” says Regis McKenna, a Silicon Valley marketing and strategy expert. “Every once in a while, they have a delayed Windows release or something like that. By and large, I think the marketplace is focused on what Google and Apple are up to.”

Critics of Microsoft say it has hugely underestimated market changes and plotted a long and winding course toward irrelevance. It remains too fixated on its old-line, desktop-based franchises, they say — too slow, too predictable and too, well, Microsoft.

“They are trapped in their own psychosis that the world has to revolve around Windows on the PC,” says Marc Benioff, the C.E.O. of Salesforce.com, which competes against Microsoft in the business software market. “Until they stop doing that, they will drag their company into the gutter.”

While Mr. Ozzie welcomes the gizmo revolution, much of what it appears to entail runs counter to Microsoft’s historical strengths. The revolution stretches well beyond a fascination with the aesthetic appeal of a computing device; it also marks a transition in which the consumer, not the office worker, is the dominant force shaping the tech landscape.

Consumers now buy more PCs than businesses do, and their wants and desires for better-looking devices have invaded the cubicle. The current breed of consumer has shown an ability to turn something like the Apple iPhone into an overnight sensation, then demand that companies embrace it. Google, meanwhile, uses its influential Web search and YouTube properties to introduce people to its e-mail, document and Web browser software, and Facebook now provides inspiration to business software makers.

For Google, winning over consumers is crucial to its strategy of infiltrating corporations and deflating Microsoft’s core businesses. “We are the next generation,” says Dave Girouard, the president of Google’s business products division. “The big difference in technology here is the pace of innovation.”

While the Internet and network-connected devices are anything but novel, the ability to snatch data anywhere off of the Web — so-called cloud computing — has started to catch on with consumers and businesses in a more meaningful way. As such services become more popular, Microsoft’s grip on computing loosens, its critics say.

“They are not the company they once were in terms of market position,” says Bruce R. Chizen, a former Microsoft employee and former C.E.O. of Adobe Systems, the publishing software maker. “They no longer have a monopoly that is critical to the future of computing.”

Mr. Ballmer, Mr. Ozzie and others at Microsoft see things rather differently, and for the last year have argued that coming software releases for PCs, data centers, mobile devices and game consoles will confirm exactly how Microsoft will remain a pivotal force on the tech landscape.

Mr. Ballmer contends that Microsoft is the only company prepared and positioned to merge computing from both ends — the desktop and the cloud. “We’re just investing more broadly than everybody else,” he says, adding that, when it comes to software, “I want us to invent everything that’s important on the planet.”

Pundits and investors are ready to judge how well Mr. Ballmer lives up to these claims, and his tenure may ultimately be decided by how well his enterprise floats up to the cloud.

LIKE almost all companies in the PC industry, Microsoft has been punished by a historic decline in computer sales during the recession.

Over the past year, it has endured a string of humbling company firsts. In January, it began laying off up to 5,000 people — its first-ever broad personnel cuts. That followed its first declines in Windows sales and preceded its first yearly drop in revenue.

Despite such setbacks, Microsoft continues to produce profits that are the envy of the technology industry. In July, it ended its fiscal year with a 3 percent drop in revenue, to $58.4 billion, still bringing in a $14.6 billion profit. Microsoft has a war chest of $31.45 billion, including cash and short-term investments, and its shares have recovered from a low of $14.87 in March — its lowest price in more than 10 years — and now trade at $26.50.

Executives at Microsoft say it has gotten its house in order, putting an end to delayed, clunky products like the maligned and then ignored Windows Vista. If a broad economic recovery occurs, Microsoft’s fortunes will rise as they always have in rosier times.

“I do believe that Microsoft should be able to benefit dramatically as the economy comes out of its downturn,” said Marilyn J. Dicks-Riley, the chief executive of the Lynmar Capital Group, which bought more than 800,000 shares of Microsoft earlier this year. “We are of the view that Microsoft is committed to long-term innovation.”

Microsoft does, in fact, have a dazzling array of long-term bets. It has earmarked close to $10 billion for research and development spending over the next year. These funds cover work in desktop software, data center software, developer tools, health care systems, video game consoles and games, music players, phones and phone software, Web properties and office collaboration products. In Internet search, Microsoft has unveiled a well-received engine called Bing and has pledged to spend what it takes to make a meaningful dent in Google’s main business.

Some investors contend that Microsoft has its fingers in too many pies, developing too many products. The company is struggling to please consumers and workers at the same time. Despite its hunt for the next big thing in so many areas, Microsoft more often than not finds itself playing the role of follower, trying to buy its way into markets that other companies dominate.

“This used to be the company that everyone looked to for innovation and excitement,” says James R. Gregory, the chief executive of CoreBrand, a brand consulting company. “It has lost that edginess in a fairly convincing way.”

According to a new CoreBrand study, Microsoft’s reputation and the perception of its management and investment potential have been declining for over a decade, with the drop-off accelerating over the last five years.

Mr. Ballmer concedes that some Microsoft shareholders take issue with its long, costly pursuit of businesses like music players and search. Still, he remains committed to a broad course of action.

“I think a lot of companies in our business do give up on things too early, in my opinion,” he says.

But for Microsoft, just doing the basics has been problematic.

It released the Windows Vista operating system in 2007 to widespread ridicule. The software arrived years late and had lost many of its planned ground-breaking features.

Microsoft’s primary selling point over a narrow specialist like Apple has long been that it offers choice and caters to the masses. Yet Microsoft couldn’t get Vista to work well with partners’ hardware and software.

“We were trying to do too much change in too rapid a fashion,” Mr. Ballmer says. “And so, for me the issue isn’t that we know how to make hardware and software work together and the like. The question there was I think we attempted too much.”

Microsoft also faces hurdles in the mobile phone market. For many years, it has sold software for a broad array of phones, but Mr. Ballmer has been disappointed with his mobile division, particularly when devices like the iPhone blindsided his company.

While Microsoft has tried to bolster its phone business through acquisitions and internal development, it remains months away from announcing the fruits of a project, code-named Pink, to revitalize its phone technology. And former insiders contend that Pink, like so many Microsoft efforts, has been dragged down by bureaucracy and compromise.

Even worse, Microsoft’s top executives have fretted recently about the potential fallout with customers when the company lost personal data tied to T-Mobile USA’s phone services — especially any doubts the incident raised about its mobile, cloud and security claims.

But Microsoft can point to places where its big bets have paid off. Bing takes a new approach to search by giving customers a glossier interface and, often, more detailed results than they will find with Google. And the Xbox game console and Xbox Live service have put Microsoft at the forefront of online gaming.

MICROSOFT says the cloud acts as a natural complement to its traditional software products, and the company often talks about the “three screens and a cloud” strategy — which covers computers, phones and TVs all connected to common services.

“I would say there’s clearly a change in the fundamental platform of computing,” Mr. Ballmer says. “The cloud is now not just the Internet; it’s really a fundamental computing resource that’s getting thought about and looked at in a different way.”

But the cloud presents Microsoft with a host of challenges to its time-tested model of selling desktop and computer server software for lucrative licensing fees. Fast-paced rivals like Salesforce, Amazon and Google hope to undercut its prices while adding software features every few weeks or months rather than every few years, as Microsoft has done.

Microsoft executives acknowledge that the company had perhaps stalled, licking its wounds and trying to figure out how to behave while under scrutiny after years of antitrust court battles.

“We’ve moved to be a mature company, but maybe too nice a guy in some senses, and not maybe moving fast enough in things,” says Bob Muglia, a 20-year Microsoft employee and president of its server software business.

Rivals now simply dismiss Microsoft as a laggard rather than hitting it with the Evil Empire criticisms so familiar in the 1990s. In its place stands Google, which now has Microsoft’s mantle as a game-changing technology behemoth and is also increasingly perceived as a dominant competitor whose power warrants concern.

Google’s rise has cast Microsoft at least partly in the unfamiliar role of a white knight.

“Until recently, Microsoft was the only empire,” says Nicholas G. Carr, an author who has chronicled the rise of cloud computing. “Now, I think there are empires of the Internet as well as of the PC, and they are colliding.”

In an effort to continue remaking its image, Microsoft is courting young software developers and cloud computing start-ups. Company executives acknowledge losing touch with these crucial audiences as open-source software turned into the standard for people looking to create the next wave of applications and services.

These days, Microsoft gives away business software to students and will let certain start-ups use its software free.

“They got scared,” says Bryan Trussel, a former Microsoft executive and now head of Glympse, a mobile software start-up. “I think they get it now, but the question is how far behind they are.”

Microsoft executives freely take swipes at Google’s online office applications and its planned operating system, Chrome OS. They’re also quick to remind anyone who will listen that it’s still early in the cloud computing era, and that things like Amazon’s online data center services are but a nifty curiosity.

According to Mr. Ballmer, the public has a tendency to get caught up in the success of a device like the iPhone or Google’s search service and to underestimate the complexities that arise from trying to connect consumers and workers in today’s world.

There is a notion, he says, that “he who is strong in the one thing that works in the cloud should, by default, control the cloud. Or he who controls one device should control them all. None of that really works all that well.”

Microsoft has decades of experience creating software, courting developers and interacting with businesses on a scale that competitors have yet to encounter. Its investments in software for televisions, phones and computers surpass that of all rivals. And it intends to apply these strengths across an array of software and services.

For its part, Google says that it has two million businesses using its online applications today and that the business produces a “few hundred million dollars in revenue” a year and turns a profit. Amazon, meanwhile, has customers like Pfizer and Nasdaq tapping into its data center services, while Microsoft’s competing service remains weeks away.

“I think Microsoft is still moving pretty slowly as it shifts at least part of its business to the cloud,” Mr. Carr says. “Some of that is due to its corporate culture, but I think most of it is due to it trying to protect very lucrative businesses with high profit margins.”

Microsoft’s investors have started to put the company on the clock, expecting its traditional software to thrive and pay for a grander vision that needs to materialize sooner rather than later.

“I am willing to give the present management another 15 months,” says Ms. Dicks-Riley at the investment firm.

EVEN Microsoft’s loudest critics consider the company itself durable.

“They won’t fade away as long as there are PCs,” Mr. Benioff says. “But they are not delivering the future of our industry, either.”

Executives at Microsoft talk in far more pragmatic terms. Slick laptops, cloud services and fancy cellphones all play into its strengths of making software that hundreds of millions of people can use. The trends come and go, but Microsoft’s reach and ability to play on the grandest scale remain constant.

“We can never become complacent, because just when the services transformation has gotten to this point, the next transformation comes,” Mr. Ozzie says. “That’s the way our company works.”
539 2009-10-18 BANGKOK (Agence France-Presse) — About 17,000 people rallied in here on Saturday to demand that the Thai government move forward with a petition for a royal pardon for former Primer Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted in 2006.

Thai authorities deployed 2,000 police officers and invoked a harsh internal security law to ensure that the rally in front of the government offices did not turn violent.

The demonstrators, known as “red shirts,” want the government to speed up the process of their petition, which they say at least 3.5 million people signed in support of Mr. Thaksin. He fled Thailand in 2008 to escape a two-year jail term for corruption.

“Red shirt people are rallying today to ask about the progress of our petition,” said Jatuporn Prompan, a protest leader. “We are here to send a signal to the government.”

The government has said it needs at least two months to process the petition, which must be submitted to King Bhumibol Adulyadej.

The nation is still deeply divided between Mr. Thaksin’s supporters and his foes. He enjoys huge support among the poor, particularly in Thailand’s rural north, but he is opposed by the Bangkok-based elite.

The king, who has been hospitalized for almost a month recovering from a lung infection and a fever, is considered the only figure able to unify the country.
540 2009-10-18 Migrants may typically be poor, often with little in their pockets except the scrawled telephone numbers of relatives who have migrated before them, but they have usually notified friends or relatives in the United States that they are on their way. To kidnappers, those contacts are golden. “They beat me and kept beating me until I handed over my telephone numbers,” said the Salvadoran immigrant, interviewed at a center for migrants in Reynosa, just across the border with Texas.

In many ways, the man’s account was typical. A study by Mexico’s National Human Rights Commission released this year found 9,758 migrants who had been kidnapped as they tried to cross the border into the United States between September 2008 and February 2009. The commission noted that migrants were typically terrified to report such crimes out of fear of being deported by Mexican immigration authorities and that the actual number of victims was probably much higher.

The stories the commission heard in interviews with victims were alarming. There were frequent rapes of female migrants. Fierce beatings were carried out. As a lesson to other captives, the kidnappers killed some migrants who did not hand over the telephone numbers of their relatives.

“They said that if they did not receive payment, they would take away my kidney afterward and throw me into the river so the big lizards would eat me,” a Honduran man who was kidnapped in Tabasco State told commission investigators.

He said he had been kidnapped along with 60 or so others, all Central Americans. The men who took them said they were coyotes, or human smugglers, and promised to feed them and help them cross into the United States. Instead, the men forced the captives over 30 days to call relatives in the United States and extract thousands of dollars from them in order to be released.

The amounts demanded ranged from $1,500 to $10,000, sizable sums on top of the several thousand dollars that the migrants had already paid smugglers to make the crossing.

One victim, a Honduran man kidnapped in Nuevo Laredo at the Texas border, told investigators that he was close to reaching the United States when he fell for a swindle. Two women approached and offered him a day job for about $10, money that he desperately needed.

But there was no job awaiting him at the house where he was taken. Instead, he and a half dozen other migrants were beaten over the course of two weeks and frequently photographed. The captors demanded the e-mail addresses of relatives and sent the desperate-looking photos in order to extract ransoms, he said.

The man said his relatives paid what the kidnappers had demanded, so he and others who had come up with the ransom money were blindfolded one evening and taken to the bank of a river. Dumped alongside them was the body of a Salvadoran migrant whom the captors had killed. The kidnappers fired several rounds at the ground and demanded that everyone jump into the river, the man said. The group never made it across, though, and was later picked up by the Mexican authorities.

Human rights workers say Mexican migrants are not singled out by kidnappers as often as foreigners, mostly Central Americans, but also Ecuadoreans, Brazilians, Chileans and Peruvians. The foreigners are more vulnerable, less familiar with their surroundings and less likely to report what happened to them to the authorities, advocates say.

“If people don’t come forward, we don’t know the extent of the problem,” said Angélica Martínez, a state prosecutor in Tecate, a border town east of Tijuana, where the authorities were pursuing a kidnapper who goes by the nickname “El Gato,” who was believed to prey on migrants.

Complicating the problem, migrants complain that the police are sometimes in league with the kidnappers, rounding up victims and handing them over to kidnappers for a fee. Mexican law enforcement officials acknowledge that some individual officers may be involved in organized crime, but they say the problem is not as widespread as often portrayed and is being combated on a national level.

The Salvadoran victim who was kidnapped in Reynosa said he had first been to the United States in 1999. He had stayed three years, working in the fields and in a furniture store in North Carolina, before returning to El Salvador. After what he had endured, he said he was mulling whether to give up the opportunity of higher wages in the United States and return home.

“There was danger of robbery back then,” he said of his first crossing 10 years ago. “It’s always been dangerous. But now it’s gotten even worse. We’re poor and we’re trying to get ahead. We’re doing this for our kids. I’d advise people to be careful and to pray to God.”
541 2009-10-18 Sharon Olds, an award-winning poet whose work has appeared in The New Yorker, The Atlantic and The Paris Review, will give the Royal and Shirley Durst Distinguished Lecture on Monday at Purchase College.

Ms. Olds, who was New York’s state poet from 1998 to 2000, is a chancellor at the Academy of American Poets and a teacher at New York University. She is working on her 10th volume of poetry.

In 2005, Ms. Olds drew national attention when she declined an invitation to dine with Laura Bush. In an open letter to Mrs. Bush published on The Nation’s Web site, Ms. Olds wrote, “I knew that if I sat down to eat with you, it would feel to me as if I were condoning what I see to be the wild, high-handed actions of the Bush administration.”

The Royal and Shirley Durst Chair in Literature was established in 2001 to promote the connections between literature and the performing and visual arts. Ms. Olds was selected in part to connect with Purchase’s 2009-10 campuswide theme, “Agents of Change.”

“Her work is personal but taps into the larger culture,” said Louise Yelin, the interim dean of the School of Humanities at Purchase and a professor of literature. “She emerged in the 1960s and has been a witness to and participant in the social movements since.”

Ms. Olds will answer questions in the middle of reading from her work, a practice she prefers. “She considers a reading to be experiential rather than academic,” Professor Yelin said. “She really pours herself out.”
542 2009-10-18 The bridegroom’s stepmother is a school psychologist at the Hardy School in Wellesley, Mass. His stepfather was until 1997 the president of Rich’s Department Stores, in Salem, Mass.

The couple met on May 18, 2008, at the Greater Boston Food Bank where they had signed up as volunteers for Mitzvah Day sponsored by the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Greater Boston.

Dr. Schopick, being a nephrologist, was debating whether to do that or a walk for the National Kidney Foundation that morning. But a friend convinced her to join her for community service at one of the Mitzvah Day sites.

Mr. Robinson had a breakfast date with someone who was supposed to join him at the food bank, but he said that at the last minute she joined her friends on another project.

“I would thank her profusely if I ever see her again,” Mr. Robinson said with a laugh.

Instead Dr. Schopick stood next to him at the food bank for three hours while they packed whatever donations came their way, including Spam, Tic Tac mints and cans of beans. They also managed to get some kibitzing, and joking in, particularly about Spam.

“I kept pretending to put things in my pockets,” Mr. Robinson said.

They left without exchanging phone numbers or e-mail addresses, but met again an hour or so later at a bar near Fenway Park at an after-party given by the sponsor of Mitzvah Day. Mr. Robinson had gone there with no expectation of seeing her. Instead, he said he figured if he could find a parking space, he’d drop in and “see what’s what.”

She hadn’t planned on seeing him again, either. But once at the bar, he went right over to Dr. Schopick, who was there with her friend. Afterward, Mr. Robinson e-mailed Dr. Schopick, asking her out for Monday night trivia at a bar.

Dr. Schopick, an art history major at Dartmouth, was stumped on a question about “Whistler’s Mother,” but Mr. Robinson had the answer.

The next day she told her mother how impressed she was, and Dr. Schopick and Mr. Robinson soon began dating regularly.

When Dr. Schopick went to China for two weeks in September, they realized how much they missed each other. On the last night of Hanukkah in 2008, Mr. Robinson proposed to her, and they moved in together the next month. And, on the one-year anniversary of their first encounter, he presented her with assorted mementos he’d saved from their courtship — matchbooks, ticket stubs and even a box of Tic Tacs from their time together on Mitzvah Day.
543 2009-10-18 Homeowners are essentially guaranteed that when they sell their home, they will not lose money because of a market downturn, even if the sale price falls below the home’s value at the start of the contract.

When a customer buys a contract at equityprotection.com, the company takes a snapshot of the average home price in a customer’s ZIP code, as tracked by First American CoreLogic of Santa Ana, Calif., a consulting firm that compiles a local housing index.

Take, for instance, a $500,000 co-op apartment in Midtown Manhattan. If, after two years, the average property value in that homeowner’s ZIP code, as measured by the index, has declined by 10 percent, and the homeowner sells the property for 10 percent less than its value at the start of the Equity Protection contract, Working Equity would reimburse that amount, or $50,000, to the homeowner.

Taking into account the 1.5 percent, or $7,500, fee at the start of the contract, the homeowner keeps $42,500 of a possible $50,000 loss.

But the coverage doesn’t end here. Even if the homeowners sell the property for 5 percent less than what it was worth at the start of the contract, Working Equity still promises to pay them the 10 percent, because that was the average loss in value in the homeowners’ ZIP code.

There are exceptions. Owners can’t collect on the contract in the first two years. Craig Schmeizer, the chief executive, says the holding period is meant to deter speculators from buying contracts in rapidly declining markets. The property must also be the primary residence.

Working Equity’s executive group includes former senior executives from American Express and Washington Mutual, among other financial companies. Mr. Schmeizer said that to ensure that customers can collect their claims, the company maintains a reserve account and is in the process of backing the product with reinsurance.

The Equity Protection contract is not considered an insurance product, however, which means it is not covered by insurance regulations in most states.

Craig Focardi, an analyst with the Tower Group in Needham, Mass., likened the product to a put option, which protects a stockholder against lower stock prices, and as such should be considered by only financially sophisticated consumers.

“But I would look at it more closely if I was definitely planning to move in a few years,” Mr. Focardi said. “There’s a very strong scenario that says home prices will decline another 10 or 15 percent, and in that scenario, if you pay 1 percent for this and you sell your home in the next two or three years, it could be a good investment.”

Jonathan M. Satovsky, the chief executive of Satovsky Asset Management in Manhattan, said the new product was “definitely worth looking into, but you really have to think through the ‘what if’ scenarios.”

He said homeowners should be cognizant of their area’s housing prices and confer with real estate agents. “It could work out better for some people,” he said, “or it could work out a lot worse.”
544 2009-10-18 You are the queen of cool. Do you think it’s a Brit thing?

I do think that us Brits have a bit more of a relaxed style. But the British/Parisian mix is what I love about Chloé.

What about those tobacco suede shorts in your collection? It’s quite a look. I believe I even saw you backstage wearing shorts with high boots.

I like the idea in winter of still showing some flesh. You don’t feel vulnerable in shorts — it’s not the obvious sexiness of wearing a skirt. You can be active.

How has your own life changed since you started in fashion? Your clothes hint subtly at sex, drugs, rock ’n’ roll. Is that all behind you?

Now I’m 39 and I’ve definitely grown up. I suppose with the job — it’s quite serious.

At the moment I am really obsessed with luxury, quality and authenticity.You are another one of those big Mc’s: McCartney, McQueen, MacGibbon. What about Stella McCartney’s Chloé?
545 2009-10-18 The entourage entered the bazaar. The Afghans sensed that an important American had arrived, and they began to gather in groups inside the stalls. Then the general stopped and turned.

“What do you need here?” McChrystal asked.

“We’re working on that,” McChrystal said. “Those things take time.”

McChrystal walked some more, engaging another group of Afghans. He posed the same question.

“Security,” a man said. “We need security. Security first, then the other things will be possible.”

“That is what we are trying to do,” McChrystal said. “But it’s going to take time. Success takes time.”

The questions kept coming, and the answer was the same. After a couple of hours, McChrystal put on his helmet and flak jacket, boarded the Black Hawk and flew to another town.

Success takes time, but how much time does Stanley McChrystal have? The war in Afghanistan is now in its ninth year. The Taliban, measured by the number of their attacks, are stronger than at any time since the Americans toppled their government at the end of 2001. American soldiers and Marines are dying at a faster rate than ever before. Polls in the United States show that opposition to the war is growing steadily.

Worse yet, for all of America’s time in Afghanistan — for all the money and all the blood — the lack of accomplishment is manifest wherever you go. In Garmsir, there is nothing remotely resembling a modern state that could take over if America and its NATO allies left. Tour the country with a general, and you will see very quickly how vast and forbidding this country is and how paltry the effort has been.

And finally, there is the government in Kabul. President Hamid Karzai, once the darling of the West, rose to the top of nationwide elections in August on what appears to be a tide of fraud. The Americans and their NATO allies are confronting the possibility that the government they are supporting, building and defending is a rotten shell.

In his initial assessment of the country, sent to President Obama early last month, McChrystal described an Afghanistan on the brink of collapse and an America at the edge of defeat. To reverse the course of the war, McChrystal presented President Obama with what could be the most momentous foreign-policy decision of his presidency: escalate or fail. McChrystal has reportedly asked for 40,000 additional American troops — there are 65,000 already here — and an accelerated effort to train Afghan troops and police and build an Afghan state. If President Obama can’t bring himself to step up the fight, McChrystal suggested, then he might as well give up.

The magnitude of the choice presented by McChrystal, and now facing President Obama, is difficult to overstate. For what McChrystal is proposing is not a temporary, Iraq-style surge — a rapid influx of American troops followed by a withdrawal. McChrystal’s plan is a blueprint for an extensive American commitment to build a modern state in Afghanistan, where one has never existed, and to bring order to a place famous for the empires it has exhausted. Even under the best of circumstances, this effort would most likely last many more years, cost hundreds of billions of dollars and entail the deaths of many more American women and men.

And that’s if it succeeds.

A few days after McChrystal filed his report, I sat down with him in his headquarters in Kabul. He seemed upbeat and relaxed. The report was still secret — it hadn’t yet leaked to the public. The ensuing furor was still to come, as was talk that McChrystal was considering resigning, which he was forced to publicly dispel. The atmosphere was not tense — not yet. Only urgent.

“I took this job because I was asked to take it, and because it is very, very important,” McChrystal told me. “Admiral Mullen” — head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — “specifically said to me: ‘You go out, you decide what needs to be done, and you tell me whatever you need to do that. Don’t constrain yourself because of politics. You tell me what you need.’ ”

“I didn’t get any assurances from anyone that I would be given any amount of time,” McChrystal said. “I didn’t get any assurances from anyone that I would be given any amount of resources. I didn’t ask for any assurances.”

“I don’t feel like the lonely man in the arena,” he said, “with all the pressure on my shoulders.”

THE MARINES WERE walking along the sandy road when the Afghans lined up to watch the bomb.

The Marines, members of Echo Company of the Second Battalion, Eighth Marine Regiment, had plodded through a mile of sodden cornfields in the heat of Helmand Province and climbed a rock promontory to an observation post once manned by soldiers of the Soviet Union. They arrived in early July as part of the big push ordered by President Obama; General McChrystal had visited their command post in Garmsir, 12 miles up the road, three days before.

The Marines had been in plain view for more than two hours. And when they moved down from the old Soviet lookout and walked up the dirt path that runs alongside the hamlet of Mian Poshteh, the Afghans started to come out.

At first, a lone man walked along the edge of one of Mian Poshteh’s mud-brick houses. Then he stopped and turned and stood, watching. Then another man, this one in an irrigation ditch, stuck his head up over the ledge. A pair of children stopped playing. They turned to watch.

“Something’s going down,” Sgt. Jonathan Delgado said. He was 22 and from Kissimmee, Fla.

“Watch that guy,” said Lance Cpl. Joshua Vance, pointing. He was also 22, from Raleigh, N.C.

Two more Afghans arrived. They stopped and stood and looked at a spot just ahead of the Marines. A man on a motorcycle drove past, driving slowly, turning his head. Then the bomb went off. It had been buried in the path itself, a few feet under the sand, a few feet in front of the Marines.

The blast from the bomb was sharp and deep, and a dirty cloud shot up a hundred feet. Waves from the blast shot out, toward the village and toward us. Ten Marines at the front of the line disappeared.

“We’re hit! We’re hit!” Delgado shouted, and everyone ran to the front.

Marines began staggering out of the cloud. They were holding their ears and eyes.

“God, I’m still here,” Cpl. Matt Kaiser said, rubbing his ears. Kaiser had been at the front, sweeping the ground with a mine detector. He was from Oak Harbor, Ohio. “I’m still here.”

The rest of the young men staggered out of the cloud while the Marines trained their guns on Mian Poshteh.

The Afghans were gone.

“My bell’s rung pretty bad,” Kaiser said. He was shaking his head and glancing up and down and half laughing.

The bomber had missed. The weapon had been what the Marines refer to as “command-detonated,” which meant that someone, probably in Mian Poshteh, had punched a trigger — on a wire leading to the bomb — when the Marines came up the path. The triggerman needed to remember precisely where he had buried his bomb. Clearly, he had forgotten. If he had waited five more seconds, he would have killed several Marines.

Delgado, Kaiser and the others gathered themselves and walked toward Mian Poshteh. On their radio, the Marines could hear voices coming from inside the village.

“Is everything ready?” a voice said in Pashto.

“Everything is ready,” another voice said. “Let’s see what they do.”

The Marines stayed back. Earlier in the war, they would have gone into Mian Poshteh; they would have surrounded the village and kicked in doors until they found the bomber. Most likely they would have found him — and maybe along the way they would have killed some civilians and smashed up some homes. And made a lot of enemies. The Marines are a very different force now, with very different goals. They walked to within 50 feet of Mian Poshteh, and Lt. Patrick Bragan shouted: “Send us five men. Five men.”

Minutes passed, and five Afghans appeared. They were unarmed and ordinary looking.

“I have no idea who did that,” an old man named Fazul Mohammed said.

“Maybe they came at night,” a man named Assadullah said.

“I only heard the explosion,” a man named Syed Wali said.

The face of Lieutenant Bragan was pink from the heat and from pleading.

“All you have to do is tell us,” he said. “We’re here to help you.”

The Marines gave up. Near sunset, they started back the way they came, through the head-high corn. Delgado turned to one of his buddies, Cpl. John Shymanik, 22.

“They didn’t get us today,” Delgado said.

“They’re still trying, though,” Shymanik said.

STANLEY MCCHRYSTAL SAT at the head of a U-shaped bank of tables in a sealed room at Bagram Airfield, a main hub of the war. He was surrounded by five giant video screens. On each screen was another general — American, German, Dutch, French, Italian — each commanding a different part of Afghanistan. It was McChrystal’s morning briefing, known as the commander’s update.

One by one, the generals scrolled through the events from the day before: a roadside bomb in Khost, small-arms fire in Ghazni, a British soldier killed in Helmand Province. Then one of the European generals started talking about an airstrike. A group of Taliban insurgents had attacked a coalition convoy, and the soldiers called for air support. A Hellfire missile, the European general said, obliterated an Afghan compound. The general — he cannot be named because of the confidentiality of the meeting — was moving on to the next topic when McChrystal stopped him.

“Can you come back to that, please?” McChrystal said.

McChrystal’s voice is higher than you would expect for a four-star general.

“We just struck a compound,” McChrystal said. “I would like for you to explain to me the process you used to shoot a Hellfire missile into a compound that might have had civilians in it.”

The European commander looked at an aide and muttered something. The killing of Afghan civilians, usually caused by inadvertent American and NATO airstrikes, has become the most sensitive issue between the Afghans and their Western guests. Each time civilians are killed, the Taliban launch a campaign of very public propaganda.

“Were there civilians in that compound?” McChrystal asked. He was leaning into the microphone on the table.

The commander started to talk, but McChrystal kept going.

An aide handed the European general a sheaf of papers.

“I’m sorry, but the system is not responsive enough for us to get that kind of information that quickly,” the general said.

McChrystal’s face began to tighten. Generals tend to treat one another with the utmost deference.

“We bomb a compound, and I don’t know about it until the next morning?” McChrystal said. “Don’t just tell me, ‘Yeah, it’s O.K.’ I want to know about it. I’m being a hard-ass about it.”

The European general looked down at his papers.

“It seems it was not a Hellfire missile but a 500-pound bomb,” he said.

McChrystal took off his reading glasses and looked around the room — at the video screens and the other American officers.

“Gentlemen, we need to understand the implications of what we are doing,” he said. “Air power contains the seeds of our own destruction. A guy with a long-barrel rifle runs into a compound, and we drop a 500-pound bomb on it? Civilian casualties are not just some reality with the Washington press. They are a reality for the Afghan people. If we use airpower irresponsibly, we can lose this fight.”

LATER THAT DAY, during a drive through Kabul, McChrystal told me that he had decided to drastically restrict the circumstances under which airstrikes would be permitted: for all practical purposes, he was banning bombs and missiles in populated areas unless his men were in danger of being overrun.

“Even if it means we are going to step away from a firefight and fight them another day, that’s O.K.,” McChrystal told me.

McChrystal’s missive was the first in an array he has drafted aimed at radically transforming the way America and its allies wage war here. In his first weeks on the job, McChrystal issued directives instructing his men on how to comport themselves with Afghans (“Think of how you would expect a foreign army to operate in your neighborhood, among your families and your children, and act accordingly”); how to fight (“Think of counterinsurgency as an argument to win the support of the people”); even how to drive (“in ways that respect the safety and well-being of the Afghan people”). At the heart of McChrystal’s strategy are three principles: protect the Afghan people, build an Afghan state and make friends with whomever you can, including insurgents. Killing the Taliban is now among the least important things that are expected of NATO soldiers.

“You can kill Taliban forever,” McChrystal said, “because they are not a finite number.”

That strategy is underscored by an extraordinary sense of urgency — that eight years into this war the margin for error for the Americans has shrunk to zero. “If every soldier is authorized to make one mistake,” McChrystal said, “then we lose the war.”

While Afghanistan is not Iraq, McChrystal’s plan does resemble in some ways that of General David H. Petraeus, who took command of American forces in Iraq in early 2007, when the country was disintegrating in a civil war. For four years, the American military had tried to crush the Iraqi insurgency and got the opposite: the insurgency bloomed, and the country imploded.

By refocusing their efforts on protecting Iraqi civilians, American troops were able to cut off the insurgents from their base of support. Then the Americans struck peace deals with tens of thousands of former fighters — the phenomenon known as the Sunni Awakening — while at the same time fashioning a formidable Iraqi army. After a bloody first push, violence in Iraq dropped to its lowest levels since the war began.

“It was all in,” Petraeus told me about that time.

And so if it was Petraeus who saved Iraq from cataclysm, it now falls to McChrystal to save Afghanistan.

Petraeus and McChrystal are in fact close — their bond solidified in the crucible of Iraq. Petraeus, now head of the U.S. military’s Central Command, with overall responsibility for both Iraq and Afghanistan, pushed McChrystal for the job. “He was a key part of the team in Iraq,” Petraeus told me.

Now 55, Stanley McChrystal is the son of Herbert J. McChrystal Jr., an Army general who served in Germany during the American occupation and fought in Korea and Vietnam. Stanley McChrystal was the fourth child in a family of five boys and one girl; all of them grew up to serve in the military or marry someone who did. “My dad was always the soldier I wanted to be,” McChrystal said.

He graduated from West Point in 1976, at the Army’s post-Vietnam nadir. Over the next 30 years, McChrystal ascended the ranks, mostly by way of the elite, secretive wing of Special Operations, in units like the Rangers. He served as a staff officer and an operations officer in the first gulf war and did stints at Harvard and the Council on Foreign Relations (where he is remembered for running a dozen miles each morning to the council’s offices on the Upper East Side).

With his long and gaunt face and his long and lean body, McChrystal looks almost preternaturally alert — coiled, hungry. He pushes himself mercilessly, sleeping four or five hours a night, eating one meal a day. He runs eight miles at a clip, usually with an audiobook at his ears. “I was the fastest runner at Fort Stewart, Ga., until he arrived,” Petraeus told me recently. “He’s a tremendous athlete.” On a recent daylong helicopter trip touring bases around the country, McChrystal yawned throughout the day — the only evidence of his exhaustion. He drank regularly from a large mug of coffee, black.

As McChrystal drives himself, he sometimes affords little tolerance to those who do not.

MCCHRYSTAL WAS ONLY a month into his new job when he strode into the area inside NATO’s International Security Assistance Force headquarters in Kabul known as Destille Gardens. A collection of one-story buildings with a courtyard and patio, it is the only thing at headquarters that resembles a lounge or a recreation area. Soldiers and Marines — most of them staff officers — would gather there for coffee and even, if they were European, a glass of beer or wine. It’s a world away from Helmand Province.

McChrystal was coming for a haircut, and as he walked through the courtyard, he passed a table of coalition officers chatting and drinking. According to several officers present, his face showed immediate disapproval, but no one noticed and he kept on going. Twenty minutes later, when McChrystal walked back across the courtyard, his hair freshly trimmed, the officers were still at their table. Some of them had dozed off. The general’s mouth tightened. He walked over to their table.

He woke one officer and said: “Good afternoon, I’m Stan McChrystal. Is there a problem with your office space?”

He turned and walked off. Six weeks later, McChrystal issued an order banning alcohol from I.S.A.F. headquarters.

Yet for all his asceticism, McChrystal displays a subtlety that suggests a wider view of the world. “If you were to go into his house, he has this unreal library,” Maj. Gen. Michael Flynn, McChrystal’s intelligence chief and longtime friend, told me this summer. “You can go over and touch a binding and ask him, ‘What’s that one about?’ And he’ll just start. His bad habit is wandering around old bookstores. He’s not one of these guys that just reads military books. He reads about weird things too. He’s reading a book about Shakespeare right now.”

Also on his recent reading list this past summer: “Vietnam: A History,” Stanley Karnow’s unsparing account of America’s defeat.

When McChrystal decided to come to Afghanistan, a lot of people signed up to come with him. “I first worked for him in the gulf war, and General McChrystal was the sharpest, fastest staff officer I have ever come across — and I had been serving for 20 years at that point,” said Graeme Lamb, a retired British general and former commander of the Special Air Service, Britain’s equivalent of Delta Force. “He could take ideas, concepts, directions, and he could turn them into language, into understanding, and pass it out at an electric rate.”

Lamb was getting ready to retire earlier this year when McChrystal asked him to join his team. Lamb flew to Washington to talk it over, and the two men sealed the deal at a Mexican restaurant in Arlington, Va. “I don’t think there is a Brit that could have made the same call,” Lamb told me.

One big question hovering over McChrystal is whether his experience in Iraq truly prepares him for the multiheaded challenge that faces him now. For nearly five years, McChrystal served as chief of the Joint Special Operations Command, which oversees the military’s commando units, including the Army Delta Force and the Navy Seals. (Until recently, the Pentagon refused to acknowledge that the command even existed.)

As JSOC’s commander, McChrystal spent no time trying to win over the Iraqis or training Iraqi forces or building the governing capacity of the Iraqi state. In Iraq (and, for about a third of his time, in Afghanistan), McChrystal’s job, and that of the men under his command, was, almost exclusively, to kill and capture insurgents and terrorists.

The rescue of Iraq from the cataclysm that it had become by 2006 is an epic tale of grit and blood and luck. By February of that year, Iraq had descended into a full-blown civil war, with a thousand civilians dying every month. Its central actors were the gunmen of Al Qaeda, who, with their suicide bombers, carried out large-scale massacres of Shiite civilians; and the Shiite militias, some of them in Iraqi uniforms, who retaliated by massacring thousands of young Sunni men.

Breaking the cycle of attack and revenge was crucial to stopping the civil war, and it was here, McChrystal and his colleagues say, that JSOC played a critical role. In a series of operations that climaxed in 2006 and 2007, McChrystal’s commandos set out to destroy Al Qaeda of Mesopotamia.

“The aim was to go after the middle of their network — in a regular army, their senior noncommissioned officers. We tried to cause the network to collapse,” McChrystal told me. “We took it to an art form. It really became a machine.”

McChrystal said that as early as the fall of 2006 — when Al Qaeda was at its murderous peak — it looked like the group was coming apart. “We sensed that Al Qaeda was going to implode,” he said. “We could just feel it. We were watching it and feeling it and seeing it.” In addition to driving the civil war, Al Qaeda gunmen were seen as a main obstacle to Iraq’s Sunnis’ reconciling with the Americans and the Iraqi government. By degrading Al Qaeda, McChrystal and others say, they helped significantly reduce the civil war, and by so doing created a space that allowed a broader movement of reconciliation — the Sunni Awakening — to succeed.

“What General McChrystal was doing with the forces he had under command in Iraq was absolutely essential to setting the conditions that allowed the Awakening to move forward,” Lamb, the former S.A.S. head, told me.

The most significant moment in McChrystal’s tenure was on June 6, 2006, when a crucial piece of information came across one of JSOC’s video screens. For months, according to sources involved in the operation (though not McChrystal), McChrystal and his commandos had been hunting Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordanian head of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. Zarqawi, of course, was the man responsible for the murder of many hundreds of innocents in car bombings and suicide attacks. McChrystal was so desperate that he created a separate task force to get him. The task force narrowly missed Zarqawi several times; a few months before the June sighting, the operator of a Predator drone, a pilotless airplane, had spotted Zarqawi in a taxicab in Anbar Province. He lost him — and Zarqawi jumped out — when the operator changed the focus on the Predator’s camera lens.

This time, McChrystal believed, Zarqawi was in his sights. The tip was long in coming, a result of thousands of hours of intelligence work, but according to several sources, it boiled down to this: Under interrogation, an Iraqi insurgent who was a member of Zarqawi’s inner circle pointed to an Iraqi named Abd al-Rahman, who, the insurgent said, served as Zarqawi’s spiritual adviser. Whenever Rahman was preparing to meet Zarqawi, the source told the Americans, he would send his wife and family out of Baghdad the day before.

McChrystal and his JSOC team watched Rahman for 17 consecutive days. Then, on June 6, 2006, it happened — Rahman’s family was seen piling into a vehicle and leaving the city. The next day, a Predator drone followed Rahman himself as he made his way northeast out of Baghdad, to a small house in a palm grove near the village of Hibhib. Rahman went inside. McChrystal had a commando team on the ground, 18 minutes away.

As McChrystal and his staff watched through the Predator camera, a man, dressed in black, walked from the house to the edge of the road. The man looked to his right, then to his left. It was Zarqawi. He walked back inside. They were sure it was him.

At an operations center, a senior Special Forces commander, realizing that time was short, ordered an airstrike. Two F-16’s were dispatched; one of them was hooked up to a refueling plane; the second jet was told to go alone. A pair of 500-pound bombs killed Zarqawi. McChrystal and his staff were waiting at JSOC’s headquarters in Balad when the corpse came in.

McChrystal’s tenure as JSOC’s commander was not flawless. JSOC never got its most wanted quarry, neither Osama bin Laden nor Ayman al-Zawahiri. One of JSOC’s units, Task Force 6-26, was cited for abusing detainees, many of them at a site known as Camp Nama, in Baghdad. McChrystal himself was not implicated, but at least 34 task-force members were disciplined. “There were cases where people made mistakes, and they were punished,” McChrystal told me. “What we did was establish a policy and atmosphere that said that is not what you do. That is not acceptable.”

He also signed off on the Silver Star recommendation for Cpl. Pat Tillman, the N.F.L. star and Army Ranger killed in Afghanistan in April 2004. The medal recommendation erroneously suggested that Tillman was killed by enemy fire; in fact he was killed accidentally by his own men, which McChrystal suspected at the time. The medal was awarded at a memorial service for Tillman, in which he was lionized as a man killed by the enemy.

McChrystal said he did indeed sign off on the recommendation for Tillman, because he believed it was warranted. The award was for valor, and Tillman had been extraordinarily brave, regardless of who killed him. McChrystal said he never intended for Tillman’s death to be exploited politically or to convey an incorrect impression about his death. “I certainly regret the way this came out,” McChrystal told me.

As for his current job, McChrystal said there are two lessons from Iraq that apply to Afghanistan. The first is that his role — killing insurgents — worked there only because it was part of a much larger effort to not only defeat the insurgency but also to build an Iraqi state that could stand on its own. “Ours was just a supporting effort,” he said. The second lesson is perhaps more startling. It is that no situation, no matter how dire, is ever irredeemable — if you have the time, resources and the correct strategy. In the spring of 2006, Iraq seemed lost. The dead were piling up. The society was disintegrating. One possible conclusion was that it was time for the United States to cut its losses in a country that it never truly understood. But the American military believed it had found a strategy that worked, and it hung in there, and it finally turned the tide.

“One of the big take-aways from Iraq was that you have to not lose confidence in what you are doing,” McChrystal said. “We were able to go to the edge of the abyss without losing hope.”

SHORTLY AFTER HIS ARRIVAL in Afghanistan in June 2009, McChrystal sat down with the commanders of the 82nd Airborne Division, which oversees a broad swath of eastern Afghanistan. The briefing, given by the 82nd’s officers, was sophisticated but sobering: corruption in the Afghan government is pervasive, the officers said; the insurgency, supported from Pakistan, is resilient. Every valley and every village is different, each its own patchwork of ethnic groups and tribes, each with its own history. The Americans are having to learn them all.

“The environment is so complex that there is no overarching solution,” Brig. Gen. William Fuller told McChrystal.

When the briefing was finished, McChrystal looked around the room. “Gentlemen, I am coming into this job with 12 months to show demonstrable progress here — and 24 months to have a decisive impact,” he said. “That’s how long we have to convince the Taliban, the Afghan people and the American people that we’re going to be successful. In 24 months, it has to be obvious that we have the clear upper hand and that things are moving in the right direction. That’s not a choice. That’s a reality.”

In a tour of bases around Afghanistan, McChrystal repeated this mantra to all his field commanders: Time is running out.

Yet even if McChrystal’s plan succeeds, even if he can turn the Afghan venture around, neither he nor anyone else in the upper echelons of the military believes that the job — the one President Obama has given them to do — will be finished then.

“It feels like Iraq in 2004,” said Michael Flynn, McChrystal’s deputy. “Part of it is that the insurgency is stronger — we didn’t realize how strong it was. What we are trying to do is make sure everyone understands what it is we are facing — a much stronger insurgency, certainly much more capable. Their capacity to lay I.E.D.’s on the battlefield, for instance — it’s just stunning.”

I asked General Flynn to imagine the future here. “We are going to go in and ask for some resources,” he told me. “If those resources are brought to bear in a timely manner, I believe that it’s probably going to take us three years to really turn the insurgency to the point where it’s waning instead of waxing. To do that we have to fix the Afghan security forces, we have to build their capacity and capability, and we have to absolutely culturally change the way they operate. And then I think beyond those three years, we are looking at another two years when the government of Afghanistan and the security forces of Afghanistan begin to take a lot more personal responsibility. The challenge to us is: What can we do in 12 months? What should we expect? If people’s expectations are that we are going to have the south turned around, for instance, it’s not going to happen.”

The strategy that McChrystal, Flynn and the other senior commanders want to employ in Afghanistan has two main prongs: one hard, one soft.

In the military arena, McChrystal wants to put as many of his men as close to the Afghan people as he can. That means closing some of the smaller bases in remote valleys and opening them in densely populated areas like the Helmand River valley. Here, at least, military force will play a central role, at least in the early phase of his strategy, as the Americans fight their way into areas they have not been in before.

“The insurgency has to have access to the people,” McChrystal told me. “So we literally want to go in there and squat among the people. We want to make the insurgents come to us. Make them be the aggressors. What I want to do is get on the inside, looking out — instead of being on the outside looking in.”

“There will be a lot of fighting,” McChrystal added. “If we do this right, the insurgents will have to fight us. They will have no choice.”

And that’s the rub: the population-focused strategy requires more troops — as many as 40,000 more. This is the decision that confronts President Obama and his advisers now.

The other part of the military option is one with which McChrystal is familiar but does not completely control. It’s his old portfolio — killing and capturing insurgents and terrorists. Much of that is being carried out in Pakistan, where Al Qaeda’s leadership has gathered in havens just across the border from Afghanistan. Both bin Laden and Zawahiri are believed to be hiding there.

In Pakistan, a C.I.A.-led program using Predator drones to hunt down and kill leaders of Al Qaeda and the Taliban has proved remarkably successful, even if controversial inside Pakistan itself. To date, American officials say, they have killed 11 of the top 20 Al Qaeda leaders, without having to launch large-scale military operations across the border.

With its 180 million people, several dozen nuclear warheads and havens for Al Qaeda and the Taliban, Pakistan is one wild card in McChrystal’s campaign. “If we are good here, it will have a good effect on Pakistan,” he told me. “But if we fail here, Pakistan will not be able to solve their problems — it would be like burning leaves on a windy day next door. And if Pakistan implodes, it will be very hard for us to succeed.”

The softer side of McChrystal’s strategy has two main thrusts: training Afghan soldiers and police and persuading insurgents to change sides. It is here where the best chances of long-term success in Afghanistan may lie.

The first of these is a vast, expensive and painstaking project. In the ninth year of the war, Afghan forces are neither large nor able enough to take over for NATO. The Afghan Army has about 85,000 soldiers, and the police force has about 80,000 men. McChrystal wants to boost the size of the army to about 240,000 and the police to 160,000. “I think we can do it,” he told me.

But experience suggests that it won’t be easy. In Iraq, the building of the security forces was fraught with disaster: in 2004 and 2005, Iraqi soldiers and the police disintegrated whenever they came under attack. In later years, Iraqi forces became more sectarian, with some Shiite-dominated units carrying out massacres of Sunni civilians. It was only much later — by early 2008 — that the Iraqi Army and the police began to show promise.

And Iraq was an urban and literate society. Afghanistan is neither. The Afghan police are widely seen as corrupt and complicit in the opium trade — the world’s largest. And while many Afghan soldiers have shown themselves willing to fight, it usually falls to the Americans and their NATO allies to pay them, feed them and support them in the field.

Earlier this year, Maj. Gen. Richard Formica, who oversees the training of the Afghan security forces, spoke to me about the difficulties of creating an army in a country where only one in four adults is literate. “What percentage of police recruits can read?” Formica asked when we met at his headquarters in Kabul. “When I was down in Helmand, where the Brits were training police officers, they said not only could none of them read but they didn’t understand what a classroom was. How can you train officers if they can’t write arrest reports?”

Perhaps McChrystal’s most intriguing idea is his belief that he can persuade large numbers of Taliban to change sides. Coaxing insurgents back into the fold was, after all, one key to pulling Iraq back from the brink of apocalypse. Beginning in late 2006, tens of thousands of Sunni tribesmen, many of them former insurgents, agreed to stop fighting and to come onto the payroll, usually as policemen. Almost overnight, the Iraqi insurgency was reduced to Al Qaeda fanatics and a handful of others who could be targeted by McChrystal’s commandos in JSOC. This shaky — very shaky — arrangement is still keeping what peace there is in Iraq today.

McChrystal says he intends to begin a similar effort in Afghanistan. The idea, he said, would not be to try to flip the Taliban’s leaders — that’s not likely — but rather its foot soldiers. The premise of the program, McChrystal says, is that most of the Taliban’s fighters are not especially committed ideologically and could be brought into society with promises of jobs and protection. “I’d like to go pretty high up,” McChrystal said, referring to the Taliban’s hierarchy. “It could be people who are commanders with significant numbers of troops. I think they can be given the opportunity to come in.”

The effort, McChrystal said, is based on his own reading of the Taliban and of Pashtun culture: most of the people fighting the United States, he argued, are motivated by local and personal grievances. They want more of a voice in local governance, for instance, or they want jobs. “Historically, the Pashtuns are very practical people,” McChrystal told me. “Pashtun culture adjudicates disagreements in a way that mitigates blood feuds. The Pashtun people go out of their way not to do things that cause permanent feuds. They have always been willing to change positions, change sides. I don’t think much of the Taliban are ideologically driven; I think they are practically driven. I’m not sure they wouldn’t flip to our side.”

To help him achieve this, McChrystal recruited his old friend Graeme Lamb, who played a similar role in Iraq. The trick in Iraq, Lamb said, was timing: by late 2006, many Iraqis, even the insurgents, had grown tired of fighting. “What we did in Iraq in mid-2006 — had we tried to do it in mid-2004, it would have crashed and burned,” Lamb told me. “Because at the end of the day, people hadn’t exercised their revenge. They hadn’t stood at the edge of the abyss and looked into it.”

Lamb said the time may have arrived for something similar in Afghanistan, if only because everyone is exhausted by so much war. “Now is a good time,” he said, “because people are very serious on all sides.”

The reconciliation plan might end up bringing into the fold some disreputable characters, but neither Lamb nor McChrystal has much of a problem with that. “In my view,” McChrystal said of the insurgents, “their past is not important. Some people say, ‘Well, they have blood on their hands.’ I’d say, ‘So do a lot of people.’ I think we focus on future behavior. They can enter the political process if they want to.”

The notion that large groups of Taliban fighters could be persuaded to quit is not new. Previous efforts have ended in failure, often because neither the Americans nor their allies were able to protect people who changed sides.

Earlier this year, for example, a local Taliban commander in Wardak Province named Abdul Jameel came forward with a group of fighters and declared that he wanted to quit. Wardak’s governor, Halim Fidai, accepted his surrender and told him he was free to go home. Two weeks later, Taliban gunmen entered Jameel’s home and killed him, his wife, his uncle, his brother and his daughter.

“We had nothing to offer him,” Fidai told me.

In another case, Gulab Mangal, the governor of Helmand Province, told me that during a recent American military operation he got a telephone call from a Taliban commander. “He wanted to surrender,” Mangal said. And then the military operation was over — and the American troops went back to their bases. “He never called back after that,” Mangal said.

With more American troops, McChrystal told me, he would be better able to squeeze the insurgents into changing sides. “I think a lot of them need to be convinced that they are not going to be successful,” he said.

So many things could scuttle McChrystal’s plans: a Taliban more intractable than imagined, the fractured nature of Afghan society and, no matter what President Obama does, a lack of soldiers and time. But there is something even worse, over which neither McChrystal nor his civilian comrades in the American government exercise much control: the government of Hamid Karzai, already among the most corrupt in the world, appears to have secured its large victory in nationwide elections in August by orchestrating the stealing of votes. A United Nations-backed group is trying to sort through the fraud allegations, and American diplomats are trying to broker some sort of power-sharing agreement with Karzai and his main rival, Abdullah Abdullah.

But increasingly, McChrystal, as well as President Obama and the American people, are being forced to confront the possibility that they will be stuck fighting and dying and paying for a government that is widely viewed as illegitimate.

When I asked McChrystal about this, it was the one issue that he seemed not to have thought through. What if the Afghan people see their own government as illegitimate? How would you fight for something like that?

“Then we are going to have to avoid looking like we are part of the illegitimacy,” the general said. “That is the key thing.”

A GROUP OF American Marines were bumping along a sandy road in their Humvee as the twilight turned to dark.

“One guy lost his legs,” Sgt. David Spaulding said, riding in the front passenger’s seat. “They were walking in a field.”

The Humvee bounced along some more.

“You know the guy who got shot in the head?” Lance Cpl. Jeremy Dones said, from a seat in the back. “They got him to Germany. His parents flew to Germany. They took him off life support.”

“Apparently a guy got blown to pieces, and they can’t find all of him,” Spaulding said. “They don’t know if they have all the pieces.”

The men rode together in silence.

McChrystal’s plans come to earth along the banks of the Helmand River, where members of the 2/8 Battalion are trying to retake a 20-mile stretch of orchards and villages around the city of Garmsir. The 2/8 Battalion, about 800 men, is part of the 10,000 Marines dispatched to Helmand by President Obama earlier this year.

Since arriving in early July, the 2/8 has lost 13 men, most to homemade bombs. About five times that number have been wounded. The Marines here fight nearly every day.

Yet for all their difficulties, the battalion’s progress has been real. Garmsir, a district of about 90,000 people, boasts a functioning government with a governor and a local council. About 300 Afghan soldiers are deployed here, led by an Afghan colonel educated at the United States Army’s school for its best junior officers. About 250 Afghan police officers are stationed at bridges and checkpoints. An array of public-works projects is under way.

Most important, the town of Garmsir and the villages around it are quiet. They are part of an area, roughly six miles wide and six miles long, that has been secured by the Marines along the east bank of the Helmand. They call the area “the snake’s head” for its oblong shape. Outside of Garmsir, the Taliban roam and attack. Inside, life for local Afghans is remarkably sane.

Garmsir is a devastated and impoverished place; 30 years of war has seen to that. None of its roads are paved, leaving the farmers unable to sell their grapes and corn in markets outside of town. There are no cellphones, no electricity, no running water. Building a city here that could function on its own would take many years. But in Garmsir’s calm, the first hints of normal life are beginning to show.

One day in August, I tagged along with a group of Marines to the monthly meeting of Garmsir’s district council. Our leader was Capt. Micah Caskey, a civil-affairs officer from Irmo, S.C. At 28, Caskey had already done two tours in the hardest years of the Iraq war. In 2007, he left the Marines to begin a dual graduate degree in law and business at the University of South Carolina. He spent the summer of 2008 studying law abroad. But he stayed in the Marine Reserve, and a few months ago they called him back.

“I had a job all lined up for the summer,” Caskey said. “And now I’m here for seven months. I can’t tell you it was easy. Sometimes it really makes me wonder.”

Garmsir’s governor, Abdullah Jan, arrived ahead of the meeting, and he and Caskey and a group of Marines sat in the courtyard of the district headquarters in a circle of plastic chairs. Governor Jan is the beneficiary of Afghanistan’s strangely centralized political system; he was appointed by Helmand’s governor, Mangal, who was directly appointed by Karzai.

Caskey’s experience in Iraq shows immediately. He is unfailingly polite, even deferential, to Jan. And each time one of the councilmen enters, he stops the conversation and rises to shake his hand.

“Peace be upon you,” Caskey said to Jan. “It’s very nice to see you after so long.”

Jan, who grew up in the district, told Caskey not to worry about local support for the Taliban — there wasn’t any. But in the absence of a stable government, and with no guarantee of safety, ordinary Afghans were often forced to go along. “I can assure you that the people of Garmsir appreciate what you are doing here,” Jan said. “Unfortunately the people are held hostage by the Taliban.”

An Afghan — one of Jan’s assistants — arrived bearing a tray of tea and cakes while Jan talked.

“Ninety percent of the local people support the government,” Jan told Caskey. “Maybe 10 percent really like the Taliban.”

That seemed an overstatement; there were too many roadside bombs in the area — even inside the snake’s head. But the point Jan was making seemed valid enough: once there is law and order, public opinion begins to change.

“You guys,” Jan said, looking at Caskey and the other Americans, “you come in, you help and then you leave. The Afghan people are not 100 percent sure that you are going to stay. They are not sure they won’t have their throats cut if they tell the Americans where a bomb is.”

The council’s meeting began with its 16 members taking their seats on the floor of a large, airy room. Caskey and the other Americans sat in the back. The agenda for the meeting was to decide on a list of development projects, which the Americans would pay for. As Caskey explained, the Americans didn’t want to direct the projects — they wanted to strengthen the Afghan leaders by funneling the money through them.

“The Americans are only going to pay for projects that we decide on,” Jan announced. “It’s up to us.”

The Afghans — all men — began to talk. Their first choice was unanimous: the main sluice gates that lead to the irrigation canals off the Helmand River, built by American aid workers in the 1950s, were badly in need of repair. Some of the fields were going dry.

“It’s been 30 years since anyone did any work on that canal,” Hajji Anwar, one of the councilmen, said.

With the meeting under way, Caskey and the other Americans got up to leave. “I have one request,” Caskey said to one mullah. “Would you be willing to record a message that we can play over the radio station saying that fighting the government violates the idea of jihad — that it’s not jihad?”

Jan thought for a second and nodded. Caskey and the other Marines strapped on their helmets.

“May you have a son just like yourself,” Jan told him.

THE ABANDONED ELEMENTARY school in Mian Poshteh that houses the 240 Marines of 2/8’s Echo Company has no bedrooms, no beds, no electricity, no water. It’s a vacant, dirty building filled with tired and dirty men. They sleep on the floor, a dozen to a room, or they sleep in the dirt outside, shirtless in the heat. They fight every day. When the Marines don’t attack the Taliban, the Taliban attack the Marines.

No Americans have ever come this far south before, at least not permanently. With fewer than 8,000 British troops covering all of Helmand, there never were enough to go around. Garmsir is 12 miles up a single dusty road, where Echo Company’s supply convoys get bombed nearly every day.

Mian Poshteh is like Garmsir but worse. There is no government: no mayor, no city council, no police. Thirty Afghan soldiers live here, only 10 of whom leave the base at any given time. As in Garmsir, the Marines in Mian Poshteh have come to build a government — but they have to defeat the Taliban first.

“We’re not going to clear anything that we can’t hold onto,” said Capt. Eric Meador, Echo Company’s commander.

Even with 240 men, they can’t hold onto much. By the time Echo Company and the rest of the 2/8 leave at the end of October, Meador said, he would like to control a perimeter that extends perhaps a mile and a half around his fort. “I’d be doing pretty well,” he said. To the south, there isn’t another Marine base for miles.

When you see a place like Mian Poshteh — wild, broken and isolated — it’s not difficult to see why McChrystal believes he doesn’t have enough troops to do what President Obama has asked him to.

One of Echo Company’s typical days unfolded in late August, when the Marines set out on foot for a village named Tarakai. Led by a young lieutenant, Patrick Nevins, 24, from Chapel Hill, N.C., Echo Company’s First Platoon walked through a vast field of shoulder-high corn. The fields had been flooded recently, so they were filled with muck. The trek might have been easier had the Marines taken the farmers’ raised footpaths, but the Taliban had taken to laying land mines in those, so the Marines waded straight into the field itself. The mud below was crisscrossed by gullies and rows of broken ground. The helmets of the Marines bobbed above the top of the corn.

The fields, deep and green, were eerily empty of other men.

“I guess all the farmers took the day off,” Nevins said, hacking his way through the corn.

Helmand’s summers are long and merciless, and on this day the temperature hovered around 120 degrees. Crossing the fields, with all the muck, it was hotter still. Nevins and his men tromped through the corn in full gear, including helmets and flak jackets. In the heat, my own boots fell apart.

As he walked, Nevins talked a little about himself. He seemed an unlikely presence in the fields of Helmand. His father is a cancer researcher at Duke University. “My dad is really good at what he does,” Nevins said, hacking and pushing his way through the mud and corn. “I guess I didn’t want to compete with him.”

An hour later, Nevins’s platoon popped out on the other side. Behind them were trails of toppled corn. “Sorry about your field,” Nevins said to an Afghan man standing nearby.

We arrived at Tarakai. A group of Afghans lined up. They were talking about the Afghan presidential election, to be held only a few days later.

“We can’t vote,” said Hakmatullah, who, like many Afghans, has only one name. “Everybody knows it. We are farmers, and we cannot do a thing against the Taliban.”

The others said much the same. The Taliban had passed word that they would cut off the right index finger of anyone caught casting a ballot. Not that there was much chance of that: the area around Mian Poshteh was so anarchic that the Afghan government didn’t send anyone to register voters. The closest polling place was in Garmsir.

But there was more to talk about. “The children are frightened,” one of the men said.

And so were the adults. The Taliban owned Tarakai; they taxed the corn and kept watch over the town.

“When you leave here, the Taliban will come at night and ask us why we were talking to you,” a villager told Nevins. “If we cooperate, they would kill us.”

“They will cut out our stomachs,” another man said.

“Is there anything I can do for you?” Nevins asked.

“Don’t come close to our houses,” the first villager said. “Don’t try to negotiate with us.”

Nevins was polite but insistent. The Americans were here now, and they were going to stay. “I will try to be respectful, and I will try to keep my distance,” Nevins told the men. “But I have a job to do, and I need to be able to come by from time to time.”

An old man with a long white beard stepped forward. “We’re afraid you’re going to leave this place after a few months,” the old man said. “And the Taliban will take their revenge.”

“I promise you,” Lieutenant Nevins said, “we will be here when the weather gets cold, and when it gets hot again.”

Nevins shook hands with the Afghans and said goodbye. Then he turned, and his men disappeared into the cornfield.

IN AMERICA, the chorus is insistent and growing: scale back the Afghan mission. It’s too hard and too expensive, and we’ve overstayed our welcome.

George F. Will, the columnist, recently said as much. So did Rory Stewart, the British scholar-diplomat who has spent years in the region. Vice President Biden is said to favor such a choice.

The exact shape of a scaled-down commitment is not clear, but it goes something like this: American Special Forces units, aided by Predator drones, can keep Al Qaeda off-balance, while American soldiers stay on to train the Afghan Army and the police.

It’s an attractive argument, of course: it offers the hope that the United States can achieve the same thing — American security — at a much-reduced cost. (The fate of the Afghan people themselves is basically left out of this equation.)

Last month, I visited Richard Haass, one of the idea’s chief proponents, at his office in New York, where he is president of the Council on Foreign Relations. (Before that, through June 2003, Haass was director of policy planning at the State Department under President George W. Bush.)

Haass is particularly persuasive, in part because he does not pretend to have easy answers. After eight years of mismanagement and neglect, Haass says, every choice the United States faces in Afghanistan is dreadful. The weight of the evidence, he says, suggests that curtailing our ambitions is the option least dreadful.

“It’s not self-evident that doing more will accomplish more,” Haass told me. “And I’m skeptical about how central Afghanistan is anymore to the global effort against terror. I’m not persuaded that you can transform the situation there.”

The bulk of Al Qaeda’s leadership, Haass pointed out, is now in Pakistan. That’s where the United States should really be focused — in Pakistan, with a population six times larger than Afghanistan’s and with at least 60 nuclear warheads. “No one wants Afghanistan to become a sponge that absorbs a disproportionate share of our country’s resources,” he said.

General McChrystal and most of the rest of the Pentagon say that Haass’s argument is essentially an illusion. If the United States drew down substantially in Afghanistan, they say, much of the country would quickly be overrun by the Taliban, rendering the other things — training and counterterrorism — impossible. Al Qaeda would return, possibly to the place it had before the 9/11 attacks, and Pakistan would be likely to follow.

When I pitched McChrystal’s counterargument to Haass, he said he was glad that he wasn’t in Obama’s shoes. “Let’s not kid ourselves,” he said. “We’re not going to find some wonderful thing that’s going to deliver large positive results at modest costs. It’s not going to happen.”

Haass went on to say: “I keep going back to Yogi Berra. You know: ‘When you reach a fork in the road, take it.’ I bet there are days when Obama wakes up and sees the fork in the road and decides he’s not going to take it. Because both choices are so bad.”

DURING HIS TRIP to Garmsir, Stanley McChrystal took a moment to meet with Abdullah Jan, the governor. The two sat down in the same council chambers where Jan had met with Captain Caskey.

“Tell me how we can do better,” McChrystal said.

Jan thought for a second, then offered an unusual answer.

“You need to live in a building, not a bunch of tents,” he said.

“Everyone in Garmsir sees that you are living in tents, and they know that you are going to be leaving soon,” Jan told McChrystal. “You need to build something permanent — a building. Because your job here is going to take years. Only then will people be persuaded that you are going to stay.”

“We’ll stay as long as we have to until our Afghan partners are completely secure,” he said. “Even if that means years.”

McChrystal started to get up, but Jan wasn’t finished yet.

“The Afghan people are impatient,” he said. “We’ve been waiting for 30 years! We don’t want to wait any longer. We’re impatient!”

“Believe me,” he told Jan. “I work for a lot of impatient people, too.”
546 2009-10-18 David Richenthal and Jack Viertel, the lead producers of the new “Finian’s,” said they had been interested in reviving the musical for years but had heard over and over from directors and investors that for all of the beautiful standards in the show — “How Are Things in Glocca Morra?” and “Old Devil Moon,” among others — the Harburg-Saidy book was deeply problematic for modern audiences.

“The use of blackface really cursed ‘Finian’s,’ but over the years the show developed an even greater reputation as unrevivable due to matters of race, even though ‘Finian’s’ was so progressive,” Mr. Viertel said. (Another production this fall, Eugene O’Neill’s “Emperor Jones,” at the Irish Repertory Theater, has also faced trouble over the years, because of its characterizations of blacks as violent and lazy.)

Some regional productions of “Finian’s” have tried tinkering with the book or making other changes to mute the treatment of race. Other attempts to revive it have ultimately derailed because of concerns that blackface is tantamount to racism, or that the book itself is overcrowded with subplots, from the Irish immigrant Finian’s fight with a leprechaun to two love stories. (Interestingly, a production has been playing in Prague for many years.)

Rather than tamp down racial aspects that might make some audience members uncomfortable, the producers and the director of the current revival said they were staging the musical as they believe Harburg, Lane and Saidy would have wanted, in consultation with their relatives. In perhaps the greatest change from past productions, the character of Senator Rawkins no longer falls to the floor when he turns from white to black; instead, a white actor and a black actor, with similar builds and mannerisms, play the senator.

“The Harburg estate suggested the idea of a white actor and a black actor, and I think it clarifies the racial politics of the show quite nicely,” said Warren Carlyle, the production’s director and choreographer.

Another scene that has been retained shows a racist white character showing a black servant how to “shuffle” his feet in the stereotypical manner of a house slave. In the current production, the servant, Howard, is given a fuller back story, working in the job because he needs money for college; the white character is a buffoon, meanwhile, and the senator comes across as a corrupt blowhard, quite similar to the humorously offensive Boss Hogg character in the 1980s television show “The Dukes of Hazzard.”

Cloaking ideological viewpoints in satiric musical comedy was part of Harburg’s aesthetic — “to go for the soft underbelly and make people laugh and sing, rather than hit people over the head with politics,” said Arthur Perlman, a scholar of Harburg’s work, who adapted the original “Finian’s” book for the revival, incorporating elements of David Ives’s Encores! adaptation.

This version has a running time that is roughly 40 minutes less than the 1947 production, Mr. Perlman said, although the Harburg-Saidy book was not radically altered in any way, but rather carefully trimmed: passages of blarney from Finian have been pared as has a subplot involving a credit-busting spending spree by Finian and the white and black sharecroppers, which leads to a confrontation with business tycoons named Shears and Robust. (Harburg was an avowed socialist who sprinkled his anti-capitalist views throughout the musical, not least the parody of Sears, Roebuck & Company.)

Little of the dialogue related to race and bigotry has been excised, Mr. Perlman said. During a recent preview performance some audience members laughed nervously during the “shuffle” scene and at another moment when Rawkins says to the black sharecroppers, “Do you people belong to this property?” But the producers and the family members of the “Finian’s” creators said they believed that modern audiences would understand the satiric nature of these scenes.

“Only the most politically correct audience would have a problem with the ‘shuffle’ scene,” said Therese Malhame, Saidy’s niece, who joined a group of descendants of Saidy and Lane, who wrote the music, for an interview during the first week of previews. “The problem was, for a very long time, this country and Broadway were more politically correct than I think we are today.”

Mr. Richenthal said he believed that the election of President Obama, the son of a black father and a white mother, added an unintentional resonance to the character of Rawkins and the themes of racial unity in the musical.

“One of the senator’s lines, after he has been both white and black, is, ’I can see both sides of it now’ — which speaks very specifically, I think, to the age of Obama, to the ability to see both sides of the way people live in this country,” Mr. Richenthal said.
547 2009-10-18 THE Colombian-born fashion photographer Ruven Afanador has built a remarkable career out of capturing the raw and impassioned beauty of his subjects. His latest book, an homage to the women of flamenco entitled ''Mil Besos''  -- 1,000 kisses, in S...
548 2009-10-18 WEISS--Doris T. 10/16. Happy birthday, "But you have sailed into the sunset." Dearly beloved and missed forever in our hearts. Bernie...
549 2009-10-18 WEISS--Doris T. 10/16/30-8/30/03 In my heart today and always. Your Daughter, Wendy...
550 2009-10-19 A look at Raj Rajaratnam, the wealthy Sri Lankan expatriate who is accused of masterminding the largest hedge fund insider trading scheme ever, and how his arrest is sending chills throughout the hedge fund industry....
551 2009-10-19 City Planning Commissioner Amanda Burden, who recently was named the 2009 laureate of the Urban Land Institute’s J.C. Nichols Prize For Visionaries in Urban Development, will donate the prize money she received to create an award that honors pub...
552 2009-10-19 The nominees for the 19th Annual Gotham Independent Film Awards were announced on Monday by the Independent Filmmaker Project....
553 2009-10-19 Credit: Dean C. K. Cox for The New York Times
554 2009-10-19 Slow going for a process created by President Obama to aid work on a new climate treaty....
555 2009-10-19 Reader responses and further debate on the issue of academic freedom and the law....
556 2009-10-19 Scenes from the films nominated for best feature at tonight's 19th annual Gotham Awards.
557 2009-10-19 Warner Brothers' president of production to step down....
558 2009-10-19 Hedge funds were finally able to stem the tide of investor redemptions last quarter, recording a small, but symbolic, $1.1 billion net gain in assets under management -- the first such gain in a year, according to Hedge Fund Research....
559 2009-10-19 A relaxation of prosecutions involving medical marijuana use became one of the most talked about issues on Monday....
560 2009-10-19 Word to the wise (and Don Draper): Never leave the key to your secret life as an identity thief in your bathrobe when you aren’t the one doing the laundry....
561 2009-10-19 Ad industry heavyweights urge the Justice Department to quickly approve a search partnership between Microsoft and Yahoo....
562 2009-10-19 Both Joe Torre and Charlie Manuel wasted precious pitches from premier hurlers in Game 3 of the N.L.C.S....
563 2009-10-19 A new report finds that the second quarter of 2009 had the largest decline in state tax collections since at least 1963....
564 2009-10-19 Part 1 in a Q-and-A between readers of The Choice and Michael Barron of the University of Iowa....
565 2009-10-19 Verizon Wireless has begun an aggressive ad campaign promoting its new Motorola Droid smartphone by focusing on all the things that Apple's iPhone, which runs on the rival AT&T network, cannot do....
566 2009-10-19 Following the arrest of Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam on insider trading charges, federal investigators are gearing up to file charges against a wider array of insider-trading networks, Bloomberg News reported....
567 2009-10-19 Given the severity of the loss to the Saints, are the Giants still among the league's elite?...
568 2009-10-19 The prevailing wisdom is that new businesses create jobs because newly formed companies grow over time. It makes for a nice story, but it's not correct....
569 2009-10-19 Verizon will slash $15 a month from the bills of customers who add cellphones to a bundle that includes TV, broadband and a landline home phone....
570 2009-10-19 Britain's financial regulator plans to force mortgage lenders to check the income of all borrowers, scrapping so-called "liar loans" blamed for helping to fuel bad debt problems at the heart of the credit crunch....
571 2009-10-19 If you were the Jets' coach, would you have pulled Mark Sanchez?...
572 2009-10-19 Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times talks to Ann Curry of NBC about the early days of the financial crisis and his new book "Too Big to Fail".
573 2009-10-19 The American Association of Intensive English Programs has been in the forefront of lobbying Congress to tighten these requirements so that only nationally or regionally accredited schools, colleges and universities may issue the I-20 document (necessary to obtain a student visa) and monitor student progress while the students are attending programs in the United States.

With several hundred thousand foreign students in this country, it would seem that both Congress and the Department of Homeland Security would want only upstanding, qualified, accredited schools to be issuing these very important documents and monitoring students who are here. While a number of legislators seem interested in this, we have yet to get a bill passed in Congress to make this a reality.

The writer is the former director of Language Studies International, an intensive English language school in Berkeley, Calif., and a former board member of the American Association of Intensive English Programs.

A “visitor” should have and display a return ticket when passing through customs. If the visitor has not checked out by visa expiration, the return ticket would be forfeited and the carrier required to notify the immigration authorities immediately.

Is there some reason the border agents admitting someone can’t hold his home-country passport until he wants to go home again? That might cause the person to keep in touch with the authorities so as to be sure to get the passport back.

So it might catch some of the offenders and intimidate others who may otherwise be up to no good.

Your article about the terror suspect Hosam Maher Husein Smadi, a 19-year-old Jordanian who overstayed his tourist visa, pointed up one failure of our immigration controls — no flagging of nonimmigrant visitors who fail to leave the country — but did not discuss a chain of other likely failures of the system.

First, the United States Consulate in Amman gave a visa to an obviously rootless young man, a frequent practice in diplomatic missions more concerned about offending the host country than about rigorous enforcement of the law.

Then Mr. Smadi apparently had no problem in satisfying two employers that he was eligible to work in the United States. You note that he had a California identification card, supposedly not given to tourists. And presumably he somehow acquired, or was given, the needed Social Security number, possibly victimizing a number’s rightful owner.

Use of the E-Verify system operated by the Department of Homeland Security in partnership with the Social Security Administration, which allows participating employers to electronically verify the employment eligibility of their new employees, might have prevented this, but it’s voluntary.

Eight years after the tightening up vowed after 9/11, Mohamed Atta would have no trouble pulling it off again.

The writer was a Foreign Service officer in the State Department from 1956 to 1985.
574 2009-10-19 News of Mr. Rajaratnam’s arrest has also shaken the secretive hedge fund world, in which intelligence on companies is often shared among Wall Street analysts, traders and other investors.

“The defendants operated in a cozy world of ‘you scratch my back, I’ll scratch your back,’ ” Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said on Friday. He added that the case should be a “wake-up call” for hedge fund managers who even think about insider trading.

Hedge funds often use lobbyists, investigators and other connected people to dig for information about a company or industry.

Most of the information is obtained legally. But the government’s use of wiretapping and confidential witnesses in the Galleon case raises questions about when investors can act on nonpublic information. The case also signals a new zeal by authorities to clamp down on Wall Street crime after failing to detect the $68 billion Ponzi scheme by Bernard L. Madoff.

At the center of this purported insider trading ring is Mr. Rajaratnam, who rose from a technology analyst to become a hedge fund billionaire.

Mr. Rajaratnam always remained close to his homeland, Sri Lanka, which was riven by fighting between its government and the Tamil Tigers, formally known as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. The hedge fund manager often reached into his wallet for causes related to the country. When the island was struck by a tsunami in 2004 — he had been there at the time, but was inland — he organized a charity to raise money to rebuild homes.

In 2004, he also helped raise $120,000 to buy dogs to detect land mines littered throughout Sri Lanka.

Yet his giving was not without controversy. In 2005 and 2006, the charity he created, Tsunami Relief, gave $1.5 million to the Tamil Rehabilitation Organization, a group officially dedicated to helping victims of the fighting. But prosecutors have since charged the Tamil charity with aiding the rebel group, and its nonprofit status has been suspended.

A criminal complaint filed in Brooklyn federal court in 2007 described an “Individual B” who donated $2 million to the terrorist group in 2000 and 2004. People briefed on the matter confirmed a report by The Wall Street Journal that Individual B was Mr. Rajaratnam, who was never charged. Several defendants in that case have pleaded guilty to raising money for the Tigers.

A lawyer for Mr. Rajaratnam, James Walden of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, said in a statement that his client was not a Tiger supporter and that the money had been spent on “rebuilding thousands of homes for Tamils, Sinhalese and Muslims without discrimination.”

Within the hedge fund industry, Mr. Rajaratnam was long known for his expansive contacts within the technology sector.

People close to the company describe the pressure within Galleon as intense, with Mr. Rajaratnam demanding long hours and highly detailed research reports.

By the time he was arrested, Mr. Rajaratnam had cemented his position as a member of New York’s financial elite. Forbes estimated his net worth this year at $1.3 billion, earning him a spot on its list of richest people in the world. He donated more than $30,000 to Barack Obama, Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democratic Party in 2008.

And he sat on multiple charity boards, including those of the Harlem Children’s Zone and the American India Foundation.

Mr. Rajaratnam built his fortune from the ground up: born in Sri Lanka, he was sent away for schooling, including at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He became a technology analyst at the investment bank Needham & Company, rising through the ranks to become president. In 1992, he began a hedge fund for Needham clients, many of whom were technology executives themselves.

Mr. Rajaratnam left the firm in 1997, but took the fund and called it Galleon, after the Spanish empire’s ships used to ferry gold and spices from the New World.

Several of Galleon’s employees had an engineering background, like him. Many outside analysts envied the extensive research reports their counterparts at Galleon produced, culled from regulatory filings, checkups on supply chains and sources within the companies they covered. At its peak, the firm managed $7 billion in assets, but that figure has since fallen to about $3.7 billion.

The firm made no secret that its investors included technology executives. Among them was Anil Kumar, a McKinsey director who did consulting work for Advanced Micro Devices and was charged in the scheme. Another defendant, Rajiv Goel, is an Intel executive who is accused of leaking information about the chip maker’s earnings and an investment in Clearwire.

Prosecutors also say that a Galleon executive on the board of PeopleSupport, an outsourcing company, regularly tipped off Mr. Rajaratnam about merger negotiations with a subsidiary of Essar Group of India. Regulatory filings by PeopleSupport last year identified the director as Krish Panu, a former technology executive. He was not charged on Friday.

Galleon has previously been accused of wrongdoing by regulators. In 2005, it paid more than $2 million to settle an S.E.C. lawsuit claiming it had conducted an illegal form of short-selling.
575 2009-10-19 The Energy Department vowed then to scrutinize its performance in evaluating the products that it oversees, like windows, dishwashers, washing machines and refrigerators.

The new audit, a copy of which was obtained by , indicates that the Energy Department has also fallen far short. Those shortcomings “could reduce consumer confidence in the integrity of the Energy Star label,” according to the department’s inspector general. The audit is to be submitted to Energy Secretary this week. While the Energy Department requires manufacturers of windows and L.E.D. and fluorescent lighting to have independent laboratories evaluate their products, the report said, companies that make refrigerators, washing machines, dishwashers, water heaters and room air-conditioners, which consume far more energy, can certify those appliances themselves.

One refrigerator manufacturer tipped off the Energy Department that some models from a competitor that carried the Energy Star label did not meet the criteria, the audit said. That problem was also described by Consumer Reports magazine in October 2008 about tests it had conducted. In a settlement last year, the manufacturer, LG of , agreed to modify circuit boards in the machines already sold, to reduce their consumption and to compensate consumers for the extra power consumed.

The report also noted that while the government said in 2007 that it would conduct “retail assessments” to ensure that all the products carrying the Energy Star logo deserved them, it is still not doing so for windows, doors, skylights, water heaters and solid-state lighting. And the department is not following through to ensure that when inappropriately labeled products are identified, the labels are actually taken off, the audit said.

In one category, , the government has certified nearly all existing products, the audit said. “When 90 percent of the products qualify, the consumer cannot easily judge the relative efficiencies of C.F.L. products,” the report said.

Jen Stutsman, an Energy Department spokeswoman, cited the recent agreement with the E.P.A., and said, “The Obama administration is strongly committed to ensuring that all Energy Star products provide American consumers with significant energy and cost savings, and has moved forward with steps to streamline and enhance the program.”

An outside expert, Lane Burt, the manager of building energy policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said some of the criticisms were justified.

“It’s been a tremendously successful program,” Mr. Burt said. “It’s grown by leaps and bounds, and any time you have that kind of growth, you’re going to have growing pains.”

Nonetheless, he said, “it’s crucial to make sure consumers are actually saving money and energy when buying an Energy Star appliance.” On Sept. 30, the Energy Department and the E.P.A. signed a memorandum of understanding that seeks to address some of the shortcomings detailed in the report.

Mr. Burt said the memorandum committed both agencies to having all of their products evaluated by certified independent laboratories, and to expand the Energy Star program to cover products that were not in common use when it began in 1996. No target date was set.

The memorandum called for a “super star” program within Energy Star to identify the top-performing 5 percent of products, ranked by efficiency, he said.
576 2009-10-19 A symposium preceding the book fair titled “China and the World — Perceptions and Realities,” became a major confrontation. Fair organizers withdrew invitations to two dissident writers the Chinese wanted to exclude, Dai Qing and Bei Ling, but welcomed them at the last minute after criticism by journalists and politicians. When the writers made statements, the Chinese delegation walked out, only to return after an abject apology by the fair’s director, Jürgen Boos.

“We did not come to be instructed about democracy,” declared Mei Zhaorong, China’s former ambassador to .

Unlike the exquisitely choreographed ceremonies during the Beijing Olympics, the fair presented a messier and more ambiguous portrait of China on the rise — a country still deeply uncomfortable with its own discordant voices, yet eager to become more competitive with the West in the realm of ideas.

China controlled its own massive display of books, artwork and authors at the fair, including even books from , to underline its assertion of “One China.” But it could not censor the 2,500 books about China displayed by others. And while Beijing had many consultations with the German government and arguments with the fair organizers, it ultimately did not push to prevent dissidents and critics — even representatives of the — from attending the event.

The book fair is not the Beijing Olympics and “cannot be controlled,” said Mr. Boos. He apologized for mishandling the symposium, but said: “It is the beginning of a cultural dialogue. And dialogue is not easy.”

Still, Chinese officials did not attend dissident events, “which were full of people who already agreed with the dissidents,” said the German novelist Tanja Kinkel. “They were preaching to the choir,” she said.

The Chinese themselves were annoyed. With SpiegelOnline headlining its coverage “China, the Unwelcome Guest,” several official Chinese delegates told colleagues that ’s politicians and news media were strongly biased.

Li Pengyi, a delegation member and vice president of China Publishing Group Corporation, said happily that China had sold nearly 900 copyrights here. But he complained about the coverage.

“We don’t feel we’ve been hospitably treated,” he said. “China sent more than 2,000 people to Frankfurt. And now this barrage of criticism.”

Zhao Haiyun, spokesman for China’s General Administration of Press and Publication, said that instead of focusing on literature, the media had focused on human rights and censorship. “The German media are very biased,” he said.

Even so, the Chinese did not pull out. The Beijing leadership sent Xi Jinping, China’s vice president and heir apparent to President , a measure of the political weight they attached to the event.

, a former German culture minister and now publisher and editor of Die Zeit, a prominent weekly newspaper, said German organizers misjudged the complications of honoring China in a year laden with controversy, including the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, the 20th anniversary of the crushed democracy movement and the 60th anniversary of Chinese Communist Party rule.

“I think the people who run the book fair were kind of naïve when they invited the Chinese,” he said. “But opening this enormous window of the book fair to Chinese writers, whether they are censored or not, will give them a way to sniff out the open forum of intellectual debate.”

Since 2004, China has pursued what it calls its “going out” policy on the cultural front, trying to square its economic influence and new status as a global power, while trying to defuse criticism on issues like , Taiwan and human rights.

There have been yearlong cultural exchanges with many countries; the opening of hundreds of language teaching centers known as Confucius Institutes; new foreign-language services from official media like Xinhua and CCTV; and new interest in foreign platforms like the and the Europalia festival in .

There have been other furors. When China was featured at the 2004 Book Fair, officials initially persuaded the French not to invite the Nobel literature laureate , a French citizen whose books are banned in China.

But Frankfurt, with its 7,300 publishers and 300,000 visitors, was a much riskier venture.

Jing Bartz has been the fair’s chief representative in Beijing since 2003 and negotiated strenuously with Chinese publication officials. “China has really wanted to use this platform to promote Chinese culture,” she said. “On the other side, they are worried because they can’t use Chinese rules to do it.”

What helped persuade China was the cultural trade gap. At the 2005 Beijing book fair, the Chinese were shocked that German publishers sold 600 copyrighted works to China while the Chinese sold just one to Germany, Mrs. Bartz said.

Chinese officials worried particularly that the Dalai Lama might attend, or that books would be displayed from adversaries like the banned movement .

The breakthrough came in 2006, said Mrs. Bartz, when Shi Zongyuan, then head of the General Administration of Press and Publication, told organizers: “We just have to make it very clear what is our guest of honor program, and what are the other events.”

China invested $15 million and managed nearly every detail of its exhibition. There was much argument over what translations to finance. The 20 new German-published volumes China financed include works by major writers, like Jiang Rong’s “Wolf Totem,” Yu Hua’s and Xu Zechen’s “Running Through Zhongguancun.”

Mr. Xu’s hit, about a migrant hawking pirated DVDs and fake IDs in the capital, was unexpected. But of some 100 newly translated titles that China promoted, most are banal introductions to China from state publishers.

“The government has not put on such a concentrated, large-scale event before to promote Chinese literature, so I think it’s a good opportunity,” said Mr. Xu, 31. “Because of the government’s involvement, there are inevitably going to be these ideological problems. But we just have to be responsible to ourselves.”

Since the uproar over the symposium last month, said Mr. Boos and Mrs. Bartz, China has appeared more relaxed. Officials eventually gave up protesting the attendance of those like the Uighur independence advocate ; the Dalai Lama’s envoy, Kelsang Gyaltsen; Ms. Dai, Mr. Bei or Mr. Gao.

“They tried to learn,” Mrs. Bartz said. But she confirmed that while the Chinese were “very satisfied with the business results” of the fair, “they don’t really feel they were welcomed as guests here.” The word went down from the top, she said, not to react to demonstrations or provocations from protesters or journalists.

Back in China, however, the fair has not brought any noticeable easing of restrictions.

Mr. Liao, the writer and musician, was imprisoned from 1990 to 1994 after he wrote a poem about the Tiananmen massacre. Despite an invitation here — he hoped to promote his book about China’s downtrodden, known in English as “The Corpse Walker” — the police would not lift a ban on his going overseas.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Liao said it was not a complete loss for him or other underground writers, given the publicity. “Only by going through these incidents, it seems, can we become known to the outside world,” he said.
577 2009-10-19 A YOUNG Taliban driver with shoulder-length hair got behind the wheel of the car. Glancing at me suspiciously in the rearview mirror, he started the engine and began driving down the left-hand side of the road.

It was some sort of prank, I hoped, some jihadi version of chicken  the game where two drivers speed toward each other in the same lane until one loses his nerve.

Which lane he drove down showed what country we were in. If he continued driving on the left, we had crossed into Pakistan. If he drove on the right, we were still in Afghanistan.

A mile down the road, traffic signs appeared in Urdu.

We’re in Pakistan, I thought to myself. We’re dead.

Eight days earlier, a Taliban faction had kidnapped me along with an Afghan journalist, Tahir Luddin, and our driver, Asad Mangal, during a reporting trip just outside Kabul. The faction’s commander, a man who called himself Atiqullah, had lied to us. He had said we were being moved to southern Afghanistan and would be freed.

Instead, on Nov. 18, we arrived in Pakistan’s tribal areas, an isolated belt of Taliban-controlled territory. We were now in “the Islamic emirate”  the fundamentalist state that existed in Afghanistan before the 2001 American-led invasion. The loss of thousands of Afghan, Pakistani and American lives and billions in American aid had merely moved it a few miles east, not eliminated it.

Through seven years of reporting in the region, I had pitied captives imprisoned here. It was arguably the worst place on earth to be an American hostage. The United States government had virtually no influence and was utterly despised.

Since 2004, dozens of missiles fired by American drones had killed hundreds of militants and civilians. The Taliban had held Afghan, Pakistani and foreign hostages in the area for years, trading lives for ransom and executions for publicity.

“We’re in Pakistan,” I said out loud in the car, venting my anger.

“How does he know it’s Pakistan?” the driver asked.

“Because you’re driving down the left-hand side of the road,” I answered.

“How do you know that?” he asked. “When were you in Pakistan before?”

Atiqullah smiled and appeared amused by the conversation. He knew I had been to Pakistan many times on reporting trips.

I was one of dozens of journalists who had written articles detailing how Al Qaeda and the Taliban had turned the tribal areas into their new stronghold after being driven from Afghanistan in 2001. I had watched the Pakistani government, then led by President Pervez Musharraf, largely stand by as the Taliban murdered tribal elders and seized control of the area.

Now, an abstract foreign policy issue was deeply personal. When my wife and family learned that I was in the tribal areas, their distress would increase exponentially. They would expect that I would never return.

We arrived in a large town, and I spotted a sign that said “Wana” in English. Wana is the capital of South Waziristan, the most radical area of the seven administrative districts that make up the tribal areas. We stopped in the main bazaar, and I was left alone in the car with the young driver.

Desperate rationalizations swirled through my mind. Our captors wanted a ransom and prisoners. Killing us got them nothing. The three of us would survive. They were all delusions, of course. Simply getting us this far was an enormous victory for them. We would be held here for months or killed.

Outside the car, dozens of Pakistani tribesmen and Afghan and foreign militants milled around. Each carried a Kalashnikov assault rifle on his shoulder and had a long, thick beard.

A man with a large turban stopped, peered at me in the back seat and asked the driver a question in Pashto. The driver looked at me and said a sentence that I thought included the word for martyr. I told myself the driver had said I was on my way to heaven.

Atiqullah got back into the car, and I felt relief. He had kidnapped us, but more and more I desperately viewed Atiqullah as my protector, the man who would continue to treat us well as other militants called for our heads.

OUR first Pakistani home was in Miram Shah, the capital of North Waziristan. Two large sleeping rooms looked out on a small courtyard. One even had a small washroom, separate from the toilet, for showering.

On the first day there, I went to the bathroom and returned to find Tahir with a fresh cut on his calf. It looked as if someone had drawn a line across his leg in red ink. A local Waziri militant had taken out his knife and tried to cut off a chunk of Tahir’s calf, saying he wanted to eat the flesh of an Afghan who worked with Westerners. One of Atiqullah’s guards had stopped him.

All day, a parade of random Pakistani militants stopped by the house to stare at us. I felt like an animal in a zoo. Among them was a local Taliban commander who introduced himself as Badruddin. He was the brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, who led the Haqqani network, one of the most powerful Taliban factions in the region. Miram Shah was its stronghold.
578 2009-10-19 Suddenly, it seems, New York has gone Xenakis-mad. For decades, the rhythmically complex, harmonically acerbic works of this Greek-French composer, who died in 2001, turned up only sporadically on new-music programs. You could attend concerts regularly for years without running into his music at all.

But now Xenakis programs are a hot ticket. Last fall, the Miller Theater opened its season with the American premiere of his otherworldly opera, “Oresteia,” and soon after, the Jack Quartet played his string quartets at Le Poisson Rouge. Both performances drew full houses.

So did the Xenakis program that opened this season’s Composer Portraits series at the Miller Theater on Saturday evening. The concert and a panel discussion on Friday evening were also the opening installments of “Iannis Xenakis in New York,” a season-long celebration that will include an exhibition at the Drawing Center in January and a few more Xenakis evenings.

The six works that the percussionist and conductor Steven Schick and the International Contemporary Ensemble played on Saturday were written from 1975 to 1997 and offer a glimpse of Xenakis’s late period, when the vast, dense sonorities of his earlier orchestral scores often gave way to greater refinement and focus. In most of the pieces performed here, stretches of old-fashioned melody are disguised but not entirely obscured by layers of dissonant harmony.

Not that harmony is always an issue in Xenakis’s music. Mr. Schick opened the concert with “Psappha” (1975), a high-energy percussion solo that evolves from a steady, unadorned beat into a whirlwind of rhythmic counterpoint and textural contrast: delicate, high-pitched melodies played on short metal tubing at one extreme and fortissimo bass-drum thwacks at the other.
579 2009-10-20 BusinessWeek's editor leaves, as Bloomberg appears to exert more control....
580 2009-10-20 The proposal is expected to include raising the cap on the agency's flagship 7(a) loan from $2 million to $5 million....
581 2009-10-20 Is Congress watering down the Obama administration's recommendations for regulating credit rating agencies? An aide for a key House committee denies this, despite a report that some significant changes have been removed from its bill....
582 2009-10-20 On Ning, users will be able to create, buy and give virtual gifts, like virtual birthday cakes or bloody chainsaws....
583 2009-10-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
584 2009-10-20 Military parents seek advice on maintaining relationships with children over many months and thousands of miles....
585 2009-10-20 Apple rolls out new products, including a mouse that borrows technology from the iPhone...
586 2009-10-20 Apple refreshes the iMac and Macbook and adds a new mouse. Is an Apple television next? It could explain a cryptic comment about falling profit margins....
587 2009-10-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
588 2009-10-20 In part 2 of a series, the admissions director of the University of Iowa answers reader questions about "falling in love'' with too many colleges and listing "undecided'' as one's intended major....
589 2009-10-20 The government has approved a controversial plan by Royal Dutch Shell to drill in Alaska's Arctic Ocean....
590 2009-10-20 Amid the furor over the levels of executive pay on Wall Street, Credit Suisse announced a new compensation plan for its 7,200 most senior staff on Tuesday....
591 2009-10-20 Target and Wal-Mart, trying to beat their online competitor Amazon, continue to lower book prices, albeit as slightly as possible. When one charges $8.99, the other shifts to $8.98. Is $8.97 next?...
592 2009-10-20 Airline passengers are finding that it is critical for their names to match exactly on each piece of identification....
593 2009-10-20 In the race to bring electric cars to market globally, Nissan confidently predicts it will be taking the checkered flag. The company's Leaf electric car is planned to go on sale by late next year. And the 2009 Tokyo Motor Show will mark the 2011 L...
594 2009-10-20 The Microsoft-Yahoo search partnership has received a boost from the American Association of Advertising Agencies, which is urging the Justice Department to approve the deal quickly....
595 2009-10-20 Several hedge fund managers currently in legal hot water apparently have more in common that their judicial woes: they were all Bear Stearns alumni....
596 2009-10-20 A judge has thrown out a lawsuit against Vice President Joe Biden's brother and youngest son over their 2006 purchase of a hedge fund firm, saying an investor failed to be specific enough in claiming that they cut him out of the deal....
597 2009-10-20 The Wall Street giants that received a financial lifeline from Washington may have no compunction about paying big bonuses to their dealmakers and traders, but their willingness to deliver "thank you" gifts to President Obama is another question a...
598 2009-10-20 Anil Kumar, charged with other executives over the biggest hedge fund insider-trading scheme, has sought leave from the board of a top Indian business school that he helped set up....
599 2009-10-20 Audit Finds Almost a Quarter of Afghan Vote Is Fraudulent

An international panel announced Monday the results of its audit of the Afghan presidential election, which was held in August, saying that it found fraud in enough ballot boxes to disqualify 23 percent of the vote. An analysis by The New York Times found that the number of Hamid Karzai’s votes ruled invalid would push his share of the vote below 50 percent, which would force a runoff between him and Abdullah Abdullah.
600 2009-10-20 The most precious commodity on Wall Street is information, and savvy players will do almost anything for it. But now some of the biggest hedge funds are watching nervously as prosecutors say that Raj Rajaratnam went too far in this relentless ques...
601 2009-10-20 Minnesota Timberwolves forward Kevin Love will have surgery on his broken left hand Tuesday and is expected to be sidelined at least six weeks. Love, who averaged 11.1 points and 9.1 rebounds last season, broke a metacarpal in his shooting hand in a game Friday.

¶The Detroit Shock, the W.N.B.A. champion in 2003, 2006 and 2008, is moving to Tulsa, Okla., a team official said. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make the announcement. Last week, investors in Tulsa said they would formally apply to the W.N.B.A. to buy a franchise.
602 2009-10-20 A survey of high school counselors and college admissions officers finds both groups working harder....
603 2009-10-20 The opening of the Portola Festival yesterday in San Francisco was celebrated by Californians at home and throughout the world as the moment to mark their city's recovery from the great earthquake and fire of 1906....
604 2009-10-20 Mr. McGarr’s account of the rise and fall of a Texas health care exchange raises two points that, taken together, strongly suggest a need for a public insurance option to ensure the long-term success of health system reform.

First, the enormous complexity of regulating private health insurers would require a large and no doubt very expensive oversight agency armed with significant enforcement authority.

Second, keeping such an agency effective would require both continuous funding from Congress and active support from all future administrations — the lack of which apparently contributed to the downfall of the Texas exchange.

The recent failures of federal agencies like the Food and Drug Administration and numerous financial regulators show how vulnerable they are to leadership whims and flat-line budgets.

Even if an effective health insurance regulator could be set up today, it would almost certainly be gutted under the next “conservative” administration, leaving private insurers free to return to their rapacious practices.

A public option, on the other hand, would be much harder to kill — maybe even impossible, as some Republican leaders have pointed out.
605 2009-10-20 AS the founder of , its active chairman for 20 years and now founding chairman emeritus, I must do something that I never anticipated: I must publicly join the group’s critics. Human Rights Watch had as its original mission to pry open closed societies, advocate basic freedoms and support dissenters. But recently it has been issuing reports on the Israeli-Arab conflict that are helping those who wish to turn into a pariah state.

At Human Rights Watch, we always recognized that open, democratic societies have faults and commit abuses. But we saw that they have the ability to correct them — through vigorous public debate, an adversarial press and many other mechanisms that encourage reform.

That is why we sought to draw a sharp line between the democratic and nondemocratic worlds, in an effort to create clarity in human rights. We wanted to prevent the Soviet Union and its followers from playing a moral equivalence game with the West and to encourage liberalization by drawing attention to dissidents like Andrei Sakharov, and those in the Soviet gulag — and the millions in ’s laogai, or labor camps.

When I stepped aside in 1998, Human Rights Watch was active in 70 countries, most of them closed societies. Now the organization, with increasing frequency, casts aside its important distinction between open and closed societies.

Nowhere is this more evident than in its work in the . The region is populated by authoritarian regimes with appalling human rights records. Yet in recent years Human Rights Watch has written far more condemnations of Israel for violations of international law than of any other country in the region.

Israel, with a population of 7.4 million, is home to at least 80 human rights organizations, a vibrant free press, a democratically elected government, a judiciary that frequently rules against the government, a politically active academia, multiple political parties and, judging by the amount of news coverage, probably more journalists per capita than any other country in the world — many of whom are there expressly to cover the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
606 2009-10-20 Cameras flashed faces from the crowd early and often, from when people started filing into the stadium from Gates 4 and 5 about 45 minutes before the game started at a little after 4 p.m.

The “Let’s go Yankees!” chants started more than 20 minutes before the first pitch tossed by Jered Weaver nearly 3,000 miles away. The festivities begin in earnest when Jeter began the game with a home run.

The seats behind first base filled, and spectators in the lower-level seats soon fanned out in both directions. Fans spread from the right-field foul pole, then wrapped around the field, beyond the third-base dugout. Fans were generally allowed to sit anywhere in the lower level, although a few empty seats were still cordoned off in the most expensive areas.

Marsel Mriza, 24, took the day off and came to the stadium with a friend.

“This is a good opportunity to explore the stadium as is,” Mriza said. “And the price for today was just right.”

In a statement, Hal Steinbrenner, the team’s managing general partner, called the opening a thank-you to fans for their continued support.

Kunzmann could send his own thank-you note to Steinbrenner. The afternoon offered him a new perspective and, perhaps, appreciation of the stadium. He has been to five games at the new park and sat on the third tier each time.

After hearing on television that the stadium would be open, Kunzmann hopped on a train after work.

“Some things don’t change,” he said. “When you watch it on TV and see the empty seats, it’s like a mortal sin ... excuse me — C’mon, Johnny!”

Johnny Damon promptly hit a solo home run off Weaver, extending the Yankees’ lead to 3-0. The crowd erupted. The chants alternated between “Let’s go Yankees!” and “Sweep!”

The crowd turned silent, then stunned when Howie Kendrick and Vladimir Guerrero woke up the Angels’ slumbering bats with home runs of their own.

The home crowd — or the only home crowd that mattered here — had one more chance to erupt, after Jorge Posada’s solo home run tied the game at 4-4 in the eighth. The evening came to an unnerving end with an Angels victory. For the price and the seats, it was a bargain that could not be beaten.
607 2009-10-20 To Mr. Walder, that simply does not make sense.

“In London, you carry nearly twice as many people in the bus system as you do on the Underground,” he said on Monday as he rode a packed B41 local along Flatbush Avenue toward Downtown Brooklyn. In New York, the opposite is true. “We must close the gap and make more of the bus system,” he said.

Mr. Walder’s plans include an expansion of dedicated bus lanes with stricter enforcement, aided by cameras mounted on street poles and on the buses themselves that can snap photos of offending cars. He wants to introduce the contactless fare cards — which can be quickly waved over a sensor — to the subways and buses, reducing boarding times. And he wants GPS devices on buses so passengers can tell when a bus is coming, even if the familiar bulky shape is not visible on the horizon.

“What I’d like you to think about is a train system with rubber-tire vehicles,” Mr. Walder said, peering out at the passing street. A single red car was parked in the bus-only lane on Flatbush Avenue, forcing the bus to merge into an adjacent lane and bringing traffic to a standstill.

“We’re on a bus right now where every seat is full,” he said. “How many people are on this bus? Seventy-five? But we haven’t prioritized this bus any differently than a car which has one person in it.”

In London, Mr. Walder and his team found that drivers simply did not believe that bus-lane restrictions would be enforced. Stricter fines, widespread cameras and an advertising campaign helped open up the lanes, leading to a significant increase in ridership.

“If I put train tracks down the street, you wouldn’t park your car on them. If I said this is a bus lane, somehow it becomes fair game,” he said. “One person’s use of a road impacts upon another person’s use of the road. My point is, if we have to make a choice, make the choice for the bus, not for the car.”

Buses have become cleaner, more efficient and graffiti-free since Mr. Walder moved to the Prospect Park area of Brooklyn in 1989 as a newlywed. But the congestion and lack of information for riders remains the same.

Waiting for the local just before 8 a.m., Mr. Walder assumed the perennial pose of the expectant bus rider: head cocked, eyes searching the busy street. Without any sort of GPS unit, the wait can seem like forever.

“Just not knowing when the bus is coming” can make riders much more anxious, Mr. Walder said.

Because of the way New York’s transit system is governed, carrying out some of these changes will require cooperation with City Hall, Albany, the Police Department, and even the courts — statewide legislation must be passed, for example, before the city can use cameras to enforce the bus-only lanes.

And Mr. Walder, who has been on the job for only two weeks, did not give many details about when his plans might take effect, or what could make these efforts more successful than those that fell short in the past. (Attempts to provide arrival times to bus riders have been tried as far back as 1996.)

But the chairman said “there is no separation on this issue” among the key entities, noting that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has cited improved buses as a top priority. And he pointed to recent successes, like countdown clocks installed this summer along 34th Street and a pilot program on Fordham Road in the Bronx that has raised bus ridership there by 30 percent.

On Fordham Road, buses can send signals to traffic lights that delay red signals, allowing a straggling bus to make it through the intersection. But Mr. Walder said he would like to begin with better enforcement, noting that more complicated technologies can come after riders start to see a difference.

“This is what moves New York,” he said, as a packed B41 lurched by.
608 2009-10-20 The Roman Catholic Diocese of Wilmington, Del., said Monday that it had filed for bankruptcy to manage the potential liability resulting from a flood of lawsuits on sexual abuse by members of the clergy.

The Chapter 11 filing, which freezes all pending litigation against the diocese, came as the first of some eight lawsuits was scheduled to go to trial in Kent County Superior Court.

Lawyers for the diocese and the plaintiffs spent much of the weekend in an effort to negotiate a settlement. The breakdown of those negotiations makes the diocese the first on the East Coast to file for bankruptcy, joining six other dioceses that have sought protection in bankruptcy under the weight of claims of sexual abuse.

The filing also represents a setback for the Delaware Child Victims Act of 2007, which was passed to bring justice to victims of sexual abuse, many of whom had been barred by the statute of limitations from filing suit against their accused abusers. The law permits victims to bring civil cases in Delaware Superior Court during a two-year window that expired in July.

“This is a painful decision,” Bishop W. Francis Malooly said of the bankruptcy filing, “one that I had hoped and prayed I would never have to make. However, after careful consideration and after consultation with my close advisers and counselors, I believe we have no other choice, and that filing for Chapter 11 offers the best opportunity, given finite resources, to provide the fairest possible treatment of all victims of sexual abuse by priests of our diocese.”
609 2009-10-20 “There are some obvious insider trading cases where people obviously have a duty, they’re obviously misappropriating information,” said Ms. Caldwell, the former chief of the task force that prosecuted the Enron cases. “In terms of money managers and other people, where the duty becomes a little less clear, the relationships become a little less clear, the motivations become a little less clear, it can become more and more challenging.”

Indeed, the case against Mr. Rajaratnam and his co-defendants appears to be far more complicated than a simple exchange of cash for information.

A close reading of the two criminal complaints filed so far, and an associated civil complaint filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, suggests a web in which hedge fund managers, analysts, corporate executives, and consultants and other people outside Wall Street traded tips — sometimes for money, sometimes for other tips, and sometimes for little more than the promise of unspecified future favors.

Not every trade that the complaint outlines was profitable. In fact, Mr. Rajaratnam’s hedge fund, the Galleon Group, lost millions of dollars buying shares of Advanced Micro Devices, the computer chip maker, after learning that the government of Abu Dhabi planned to invest in A.M.D., according to the complaint. The investment did occur, but A.M.D. stock plunged between August 2008, when Galleon began buying, and October 2008, when the deal was announced.

At other times, Mr. Rajaratnam received information from an unnamed witness who is cooperating with the government investigation. But the complaint does not state whether Mr. Rajaratnam knew the ultimate sources of the information he received from the witness. Nor does it allege that Mr. Rajaratnam paid the witness for the information.

Still, the existence of a cooperating witness — along with the fact that prosecutors wiretapped some of Mr. Rajaratnam’s conversations — gives them a great advantage in the case, said David S. Ruder, a law professor at Northwestern University and a former chairman of the S.E.C. The conversations may help show that Mr. Rajaratnam knew the information was valuable and that he should not be trading on it, Mr. Ruder said.

“It gets you around the mens rea, or state of mind question,” he said. “If you know it’s coming from an insider, or if you have strong reason to believe it’s coming from an insider, you’re in trouble.”

The S.E.C. has tried to combat insider trading for decades, relying mainly on tips and reports of suspicious trading in a single stock. Two years ago, the commission began to install sophisticated data-mining software that examines trading records, looking for patterns of trades across stocks that appear suspiciously profitable.

Unlike the inquiries conducted by stock markets like the New York Stock Exchange, which focus on individual stocks, the S.E.C.’s program aims to identify traders who pop up repeatedly, making surprisingly successful trades in many companies.

The S.E.C. has identified some insider trading cases through this project, but the investigation of Mr. Rajaratnam was not one of them.

Federal securities laws put limits on the race for information. Corporate executives are not allowed to give investors market-moving tips about their companies. Companies must disclose critical news, like quarterly earnings, to everyone at the same time. Investors who try to lock in guaranteed profits by, say, paying to see a news release an hour before a company posts it are engaging in illegal insider trading.

Those are the laws that prosecutors said on Friday were broken by Mr. Rajaratnam and five other investors and corporate executives.
610 2009-10-20 In 1971, Ms. Spero also returned to the interests of her Paris years in the introspective and tormented “Codex Artaud,” a series that interspersed images of broken bodies and hieroglyphic monsters with the transcribed writings of Antonin Artaud (1896-1948), the mentally ill French poet who viewed himself as an outcast from society and who spoke of human folly with a mocking rage. To some degree, the work reflected Ms. Spero’s own sense of exclusion from an art world that had the character of a men’s club.

By the time of the “Codex Artaud” her long involvement with the women’s movement had begun. Ms. Spero was active in the Art Workers Coalition, and in 1969 she joined the splinter group Women Artists in Revolution (WAR), which organized protests against sexist and racist policies in New York City museums. In 1972, she was a founding member of A.I.R. Gallery, the all-women cooperative, originally in SoHo, now in the Dumbo section of Brooklyn. And in the mid-1970s she resolved to focus her art exclusively on images of women, as participants in history and as symbols in art, literature and myth.

On horizontal scrolls made from glued sheets of paper, she assembled a multicultural lexicon of figures from ancient Egypt, Greece and India to pre-Christian Ireland to the contemporary world and set them out in non-linear narratives. Her 14-panel, 133-foot-long “Torture of Women” (1974-1976) joins figures from ancient art and words from Amnesty International reports on torture to illustrate institutional violence against women as a universal condition.

Ms. Spero considered this her first explicitly feminist work. Many others followed, though over time she came to depict women less as victims and more often as heroic free agents dancing sensuously.

Although Ms. Spero received relatively little art world attention during the early part of her career, she gained visibility in the 1980s and ’90s as socially concerned art came into favor. By this time her work had gained in formal complexity and variety, with its weavings of image and text, its time-consuming techniques of painting, cutting and stamping, and its adaptation of aspects of Pop, Minimalism and Color Field painting, styles she had previously distanced herself from.

Beginning in the late 1980s, she transformed the scroll format into site-specific wall murals. In 2001, she completed a mosaic installation for the 66th Street subway station at Lincoln Center in Manhattan. In 2006, despite painful degenerative arthritis that had crippled her for years, she executed wall paintings for “Persistent Vestiges: Drawing From the American-Vietnam War,” an exhibition at the Drawing Center in SoHo. For a concurrent solo show at the LeLong Gallery, she made a single printed-paper frieze that wrapped around the base of the gallery’s walls.

Titled “Cri du Coeur,” (2005) and adapted from an Egyptian tomb painting, the mural depicted a procession of mourning women. Some viewers saw in it a reference to the war in Iraq or to Hurricane Katrina; others understood it as Ms. Spero’s response to the death of her husband the previous year. Like her, he had created an art that insisted on balancing ethics with aesthetics.

Ms. Spero had solo exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1992 and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles in 1988. A traveling career retrospective was organized by the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse in 1987. In 1997, she was included in Documenta X in Kassel, Germany. She often exhibited in two-person shows with Mr. Golub. A Spero retrospective is planned for the Pompidou Center in Paris next year.

In addition to her son Philip, who lives in Paris, her survivors include her sons Paul, also of Paris, and Stephen, of Swarthmore, Pa.; six grandchildren; and a sister, Carol Newman, of Portland, Ore.

Kiki Smith, one of the many younger artists influenced by Ms. Spero, once said in an interview: “When I first saw Nancy Spero’s work, I thought, ‘You are going to get killed making things like that; it’s too vulnerable. You’ll just be dismissed immediately.’ ”

Ms. Spero herself, who experienced both being dismissed and celebrated, said simply of her work, “I am speaking of equality, and about a certain kind of power of movement in the world, and yet I am not offering any systematic solutions.”
611 2009-10-20 A Mexican human rights official who has accused the Mexican Army of abuses has been detained by United States customs officials and is being held against his will in El Paso, said his lawyer, Carlos Spector. The official, Gustavo de la Rosa Hickerson, who works in Juarez for the Chihuahua State Commission for Human Rights, was taken into custody by customs agents Thursday night as he tried to cross into El Paso with his border-crossing card to visit friends. Though Mr. de la Rosa told customs officers he was not seeking asylum, agents took him into custody anyway after he acknowledged that he had received threats because of his work. In a statement, Mr. de la Rosa said the officers had told him he was being detained for his own safety. A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement said he was being held “due to mandatory detention provisions” but declined to explain why.
612 2009-10-20 Prosecutors have reopened an investigation into charges that Vice President Francisco Santos sought to organize outlawed militias, an investigator said Monday. The attorney general opened an initial investigation in 2007 after a former paramilitary boss, Salvatore Mancuso, testified that Mr. Santos had proposed creating a paramilitary group in the late 1990s. The investigation was suspended for lack of evidence. Prosecutors said they reopened the investigation to put to rest any lingering suspicions.
613 2009-10-20 Among those who face higher premiums next year are new Medicare beneficiaries, high-income people and those whose Medicare premiums are paid by Medicaid. Premiums can be as high as $353.60 a month, or more than $4,200 a year, for Medicare beneficiaries who file tax returns with adjusted gross income greater than $214,000 for an individual or $428,000 for a couple.

The higher premiums will impose “an additional and significant burden” on states, which help pay Medicaid costs, along with the federal government.

The House bill was passed, 406 to 18, on Sept. 24. Among those who voted against it was the Democratic leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, who said he saw no need to help multimillionaires at a time when the nation was struggling to rein in entitlement programs.

While lawmakers considered whether to freeze Medicare premiums, a handful of senators met behind closed doors on Monday to work out a compromise health care bill to cover the uninsured.

One participant, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, said senators were considering new ideas to finesse disagreements over whether the government should offer its own health insurance plan, in competition with private insurers.

Under one proposal, he said, the government would create a public plan, but states could “opt out” if they wanted to devise and operate their own insurance programs.

The meeting, convened by the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, included Mr. Baucus and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, who presided over the health committee when it approved a sweeping health care bill in July.

Mr. Reid said he hoped to take a compromise bill to the Senate floor early next month. But that assumes rapid progress in negotiations and a quick analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, to confirm whether the 10-year cost of the bill is under the $900 billion ceiling set by President Obama.

The Finance Committee approved a detailed outline of a sweeping health care bill last week. Mr. Baucus formally introduced the bill, a 1,502-page document, on Monday.

The Senate is debating a separate bill to prevent deep cuts in Medicare payments to doctors. The bill would not offset any of the costs, estimated at $247 billion over the next 10 years.

Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate, said: “Of course, we need to fix doctors’ reimbursement. But it needs to be paid for. We can’t just add a quarter-trillion dollars to the national debt.”

Democrats said the bill simply recognized political reality. In recent years, they said, Congress has repeatedly stepped in to prevent cuts in Medicare payments to doctors, and it is likely to do so in the future.
614 2009-10-20 SAN FRANCISCO — Apple, in its recent history, has overcome nearly every obstacle thrown its way. Now it has surpassed another: the burden of high expectations.

Apple managed to surprise optimistic investors, posting a 47 percent increase in profit in the fourth quarter and handily beating Wall Street’s estimates. Renewed sales of Macintosh laptops and the continued popularity of the iPhone around the world helped to lift Apple’s bottom line.

“It’s a pretty impressive quarter given that consumers are still trying to figure out whether they want to spend again,” said Gene Munster, a securities analyst at Piper Jaffray.

Shares of Apple have already nearly doubled this year, and investors pushed up the stock throughout what appeared to be a profitable summer. On Monday, shares of Apple rose $11.58, or 6 percent, in after-hours trading, after closing at $189.96 in the regular session. Shares passed $200 for the first time since late 2007. Wall Street has been impressed by rebounding momentum in the Mac business and Apple’s leadership in the battle for smartphones — the versatile phones that make calls and run thousands of applications.

Moreover, the return of Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive, to the public spotlight at an Apple event in September to introduce new iPods has calmed fears about management turbulence at the company.

Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., posted particularly strong gains in the computer segment while many of its rivals were still struggling to recover from the recession’s impact on consumer spending. Apple said it sold 3.05 million Macs in the quarter, up about 17 percent from the 2.6 million it sold in the same quarter last year. Global PC sales rose 2.3 percent in the third quarter of the year, according to the market tracking firm IDC.
615 2009-10-20 Your article “The Collider, the Particle and a Theory About Fate” (Oct. 13) reminded me why physics was always my favorite science. In writing about the Higgs, which in accepted theory is responsible for imbuing matter with mass, Dennis Overbye details new theories postulating that the actual event of the first Higgs will essentially prevent us from being able to reproduce it, or that the almost recreated second Higgs somehow goes back just far enough to prevent itself — and cataclysm due to itself — from happening.

This is possible (maybe) because “while it is a paradox to go back in time and kill your grandfather, physicists agree there is no paradox if you go back in time and save him from being hit by a bus.” Mr. Overbye continues: “In the case of the Higgs and the collider, it is as if something is going back in time to keep the universe from being hit by a bus. Although just why the Higgs would be a catastrophe is not clear. If we knew, presumably, we wouldn’t be trying to make one.”

Somewhere Kurt Vonnegut and Douglas Adams are laughing.

Theism is often attacked for using an unwarranted “god of the gaps” strategy, in which unknown causal mechanisms in the natural order are attributed to God. It seems that science is appropriating that strategy.

In a series of papers, two theoretical physicists have argued that the reality of the Higgs boson and its causal role in nature may elude scientists because it “might be so abhorrent to nature that its creation would ripple backward through time and stop the collider before it could make one.” The nature of this gap in science, which may very well be explained by the existence of the Higgs boson, will never be known. The Standard Model appears to be left with a “science of the gaps” explanation.
616 2009-10-20 Recent efforts have made biking easier and safer. Hotels often offer bicycle rentals, and many American cities have created bike paths and lanes, improved markings on streets and installed bicycle traffic lights. And public-private bicycle sharing programs, based in large part on the success of European models, have begun or are in development in more than a dozen of the largest cities in the , Mr. Clarke said.

Most bicycle-sharing programs in offer fleets of sturdy bicycles at multiple locations that are ideal for “for getting around town, from one meeting to another,” Mr. Clarke said.

But Eric V. Swanson, program manager for the World Bank, said he had trouble in Europe because the machines at the kiosks could not read his American credit card. “I became frustrated on several occasions,” he said. He was in during the transit strike two years ago and “there were bikes in stands all over the city, and I couldn’t do it.” He ended up walking the three miles to his meeting and back.

Joshua Gaughen, who travels frequently as a government contractor, said he had faced hurdles as well in keeping up his bicycle habit. He said he stopped taking his full-size bicycle on airplanes because it was cumbersome and expensive. “It was just a nightmare,” he said. The bike case or disposable boxes he used had to be unpacked at the airport because they did not fit in the compact cars that the government required on business trips. For a business trip to in March, it would have cost $450 to fly his bicycle from . He said he recently bought a folding bike that fits into a regular suitcase. “It’s really the only thing that allows me to keep riding,” he said.

Mr. Gaughen and others recommend that bicyclists research baggage policies in advance because there is a huge variation in what airlines charge to transport bicycles.

Some avid cyclists say that the bicycles available at hotels are often poor quality and unsafe, and that finding local bike shops that rent can be a challenge.

Gill recalled trying unsuccessfully to rent a bike before a business meeting in several years ago. On the flight there, he remembers thinking, “There’s got to be a better way.” He said he wrote the beginnings of a business plan for a bicycle rental company on a cocktail napkin on the plane. Now the company, , offers a large selection of bicycles through local bike shops — from cruisers to carbon-fiber racing bikes — at an average cost of about $40 a day, in 181 cities in the United States and .

But even if a cycling enthusiast finds a good bicycle, safety is an issue, particularly in some foreign countries where laws and customs can be quite different.

Jim Langley, an author and cycling expert, receives e-mail messages asking about the pros and cons of bringing or renting a bike, whether to bring a helmet or not, or how to ride without dirtying clothes. “Many see it as a hassle, but if they do their homework, it’s worth it,” he said. “It helps me feel more centered and sharper in meetings. And the fastest way to get over jet lag quickly is a one-hour bike ride. It just brings you back to life.”
617 2009-10-20 “He is going to announce his intentions,” Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton told reporters at the State Department. “I am going to let him do that, but I am encouraged at the direction the situation is moving.”

But several administration officials cautioned that Mr. Karzai could still change his mind.

For Mr. Karzai, the decision to acquiesce to the demands of the international community puts him in the position of disappointing his followers, including people who showed up at the polls despite widespread threats from the Taliban to disrupt the elections.

“The dilemma for Karzai is that because of the tribal nature of Afghan society, if a constituency is angry at having a significant number of votes denied and reacts by withholding their vote in the next round, it could change the result,” said a senior administration official.

The United States, this official said, is sympathetic to Mr. Karzai’s concerns, but Mrs. Clinton urged him in calls over the last few days, to be a “statesman” and accept the results.

For the Obama administration, the decision prolongs an already lengthy election process that has left them with a variety of options, none of them ideal. There is a growing debate within the administration and among Western allies about whether to urge Mr. Karzai and Mr. Abdullah to try to form a power-sharing or unity government in lieu of a runoff, administration officials said.

But that prospect, too, is fraught with tension, since the two men have been fierce rivals during the presidential campaign and its long aftermath.

A second senior administration official said some American diplomats and allies were pressing for a negotiated settlement, but were trying not to be too involved for fear of looking like they are interfering.

“If you jam it, it has no legitimacy and you’re further behind,” the official said. So instead, the administration is “creating conditions” so that the Afghans come to see a negotiated deal as in their own interests. “If they want an election, an election it will be,” the official said.

A panel of experts appointed by the United Nations issued findings for the first time on Monday showing that fraud was so pervasive that nearly a quarter of all votes were thrown out, and that Mr. Karzai had not won the Aug. 20 election outright, according to an analysis of the findings by The New York Times.

The findings are a defining moment for Mr. Karzai, who initially received 54 percent of the vote, and who says he believes he is the rightful winner. Mr. Karzai initially indicated that he might reject the findings, a Western official said.

Besides Mr. Kerry and General Eikenberry, Mr. Karzai was also pushed hard by Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain during a telephone call on Monday, European officials said.

Obama administration officials have tried to use Mr. Obama’s pending strategy review on Afghanistan as leverage on Mr. Karzai, telling their Afghan counterparts that Mr. Obama will not make a decision to add to the 68,000 American troops in the country until Mr. Karzai agrees to accept the election outcome.

On Sunday, Mr. Obama’s chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, said in television interviews that the administration must first ensure it has a “credible” partner in the Afghan government before making a decision to send more troops. “That message has been conveyed to the highest levels of the Afghan leadership,” an American official said.

Legally, Mr. Karzai has few options. A runoff in two weeks is mandated under Afghanistan’s Constitution. But Mr. Karzai could use his broad influence over Afghan institutions — the Supreme Court and the commission that is formally required to certify Monday’s results — as a way of rejecting the results. It was that commission that had formally declared him as the winner in the first place.

And while officials from the commission, the Independent Election Commission, have declined to answer calls for comment, foreign officials involved in the election process said it was an open question what such institutions would decide. One official said, “The possibility of Supreme Court intervention has always been looming over this process.”

The Obama administration registered its concern. Mr. Kerry made a last-minute stop in Kabul on Monday night, en route from Pakistan, and met Mr. Karzai in the presidential palace, “to continue his discussions and consultations,” according to a spokeswoman for the American Embassy in Kabul.

A spokesman for Mr. Karzai’s campaign, Wahid Omar, denied Mr. Karzai had initially refused to accept results, saying he was waiting for the commission to certify Monday’s findings before acting. But a member of Mr. Karzai’s campaign, Mouin Marastyal, reiterated criticisms of the audit process, questioning its methodology. “They’ve changed the formula many times,” he said in a telephone interview.

An official from the foreign-led team who conducted the audit said they met with Independent Election Commission officials on Sunday to explain the methodology, and that those officials voiced no objections.

The deputy campaign manager for Mr. Abdullah, Mr. Karzai’s main challenger, said their camp was watching Mr. Karzai closely, and that they were preparing for a second round. “If Karzai doesn’t accept this, that means he’s ignoring the law,” said the deputy, Salih Muhammed Registani. “Afghanistan would face a legitimacy crisis.”
618 2009-10-21 When MCC Theater needed an actor to cover two performances for a cast member in its production of “Still Life,” it didn’t have to look far to find one....
619 2009-10-21 Seeking reader questions for Eric J. Furda, the dean of admissions for the University of Pennsylvania....
620 2009-10-21 Microsoft launches a new campaign for Windows 7, which it hopes will leave memories for Vista in the past.
621 2009-10-21 Two law professors are asked to discuss the constitutionality of San Francisco's sanctuary policy....
622 2009-10-21 C.C. Sabathia and Cliff Lee, teammates in Cleveland, were the starting pitchers on opening day at the new Yankee Stadium. Could they face each other in the World Series?...
623 2009-10-21 Sifting some tips on the college essay, for juniors in particular, from a conference of guidance counselors and admissions officers....
624 2009-10-21 The latest battery car from Nissan, announced at the Tokyo Motor Show by Nissan's president and chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, will be a luxury Infiniti to complement (and probably borrow some technology from) the forthcoming 2011 Nissan Leaf....
625 2009-10-21 A new San Francisco ordinance requiring residential and commercial recycling and composting officially kicks in on Wednesday, but growing evidence already suggests that the law has had an impact....
626 2009-10-21 The administration is said to have plans that would cut by 95 percent over last year the cash compensation of top executives heading companies receiving the largest bailouts....
627 2009-10-21 The president unveils some new plans he says will help small businesses....
628 2009-10-21 Something unusual happened at a recent conference with Iraqi officials in Washington, D.C. Rather than discussing troop levels and security, officials gathered to promote business investment in Iraq....
629 2009-10-21 Morgan Stanley is following a conservative strategy when it comes to risk-taking, but it is slowly embracing more risk....
630 2009-10-21 In this installment, the University of Iowa's admissions director discusses how an applicant might choose between Iowa and Iowa State and how Big Ten universities evaluate applicants....
631 2009-10-21 Microsoft is expected to announce integration of Twitter and Facebook status updates into Bing....
632 2009-10-21 A new San Francisco ordinance requiring residential and commercial recycling and composting officially kicks in on Wednesday, but growing evidence already suggests that the law has had an impact....
633 2009-10-21 In November, eBay's PayPal unit will open its platform to developers who want to build applications that use PayPal's online-payment technology....
634 2009-10-21 Some TriBeCa residents are trying find respite from the noise, exhaust and general exasperation they say plagues them whenever a 50-foot truck making deliveries to a nearby McDonald's clogs up their narrow block....
635 2009-10-21 A new series of Web videos document quarterback Jay Cutler's insights and experiences with Type 1 diabetes....
636 2009-10-21 The proposals happen to attract those previously made by a certain Republican senator from Maine....
637 2009-10-21 The chancellor of the main campus of the University of Illinois is the latest official to resign over an admissions policy that favored applicants with connections....
638 2009-10-21 The governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King, has warned banks that received government aid not to use the money to finance riskier activities even if they are more lucrative, indicating that one way to increase stability could be to split up ...
639 2009-10-21 For Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., more of a presidential tap on the shoulder than a hug....
640 2009-10-21 Recent research questions the claim that the financial panics themselves contributed to their contemporaneous and severe employment downturns, an economist writes....
641 2009-10-21 A California man on Tuesday formally pleaded guilty to failing to report more than $1 million he transferred to a Swiss bank account....
642 2009-10-21 Crown Castle International, which owns and operates cell phone towers, said Tuesday it has priced its public offering of $500 million in senior notes due in 2019, with an annual interest rate of 7.125 percent....
643 2009-10-21 President Obama plans to announce initiatives to encourage lending to small businesses, including increasing the caps for existing Small Business Administration loans....
644 2009-10-21 Wall Street swung lower on Tuesday after weaker wholesale prices and a tepid report on new-home construction highlighted the U.S. economy's lingering travails....
645 2009-10-21 New York State appears to be close to securing one of the first U.S. assembly plants for electric cars....
646 2009-10-21 Human Rights Watch was founded more than 30 years ago with the admirable aim of protecting dissidents from oppressive regimes, but today its leaders have lost sight of its original ethos. Nowhere is this more so than in regard to the Middle East.

In a region dominated by regimes that violate human rights in horrendous ways, Human Rights Watch has instead chosen to single out Israel for condemnation, often using highly unreliable witnesses to do so.

Not only has it failed to allocate proper resources to monitoring the dictatorships that are rife throughout the region, but senior Human Rights Watch officials even recently went to Riyadh to raise funds from people associated with the Saudi regime, emphasizing the group’s work demonizing Israel while doing so.

In order that Human Rights Watch can once again fulfill the role for which it was created, we call upon its board members to institute a full independent review of the organization for which they are responsible.

The writers are, respectively, the Nobel Peace laureate and the law professor at Harvard University, and are members of the International Advisory Board of NGO Monitor, based in Jerusalem. This letter was signed by five other board members.

Few would disagree with Robert L. Bernstein’s contention that Israel offers a more free and open society to its citizens (both Jewish and Arab) than almost any country in the Arab world. Yet the situation in the West Bank and Gaza is starkly different.

Failing to make the distinction between Israel and the territories helps Mr. Bernstein’s argument, but is ultimately a disservice to the countless human rights organizations — Human Rights Watch included — that rightly condemn the unjust treatment of Palestinians living under unwanted and illegal Israeli control.

Thanks to a brave Robert L. Bernstein for pointing out the negative effects of Human Rights Watch’s focus on Israel rather than on much worse regimes. The demonization of Israel has given a free pass to the many autocratic leaders for whom human rights is a foreign concept.

If other apologists for these repressive countries can look at Israel and its neighbors objectively, there can be real movement toward peace. Until then, there is no motivation for Israel to make concessions.

I disagree with Robert L. Bernstein on several counts. First, Human Rights Watch has issued dozens of reports and statements on human rights abuses in other countries in the region in the last two or three years, many more than on Israel. Second, the notion that democracies somehow get a free pass on human rights is absurd. Genocides have occurred in democratic societies, and lesser abuses are common; they are no less deplorable. The abuses of war and occupation are particularly troubling given the power imbalances and the lack of redress by the occupied.

Mr. Bernstein also repeats accusations about Iran as if this whitewashes Israeli conduct. Plainly, Israel has been abusive and should be held accountable, especially given its dependence on the United States. Crying that the “other guy” is worse is the ploy of a schoolyard bully.

The writer is executive director of the M.I.T. Center for International Studies.
647 2009-10-21 New York State appears to be close to securing one of the nation’s first assembly plants for electric cars.

Reva, an electric car company based in Bangalore, India, plans to work with Bannon Automotive, a new electric car company in Freeport, N.Y., to assemble a three-door plug-in hatchback, the NXR, at a still-to-be-determined site near Syracuse.

The plans were first reported by The Post-Standard, a Syracuse newspaper. Many details remained unclear on Tuesday; an official announcement is expected late in the week.

The NXR was introduced at the Frankfurt auto show in September, one of a new class of small electric cars from scrappy Indian and Chinese companies hoping to beat the big car companies to market. Other Reva electric models are already on sale in Europe and Asia.

Jeffrey Leonard, a board member of Reva, said that from the beginning the board had understood that “if you’re going to really sell and distribute this car in a big way in the U.S., you should have a production facility here,” for reasons both logistical and political. Speaking on condition of anonymity, officials involved in the discussions said the plant would receive $11.6 million in funding and incentives from New York State, with the companies putting in $26.5 million. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said the project’s backers were also seeking $52 million in loans and loan guarantees from the federal government. He acknowledged that he had been involved in discussions about the plant for several months.
648 2009-10-21 The Senate approved a measure on Tuesday that would end what has become known as the “widow penalty” — the government’s practice of annulling foreigners’ applications for permanent residency when their American spouses die before the marriage is two years old.

The measure, which passed 79-19, was contained in a conference report that accompanied an appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security. The House of Representatives passed the conference report last week. President Obama is expected to sign the bill into law.

While the foreign spouse of a United States citizen may be eligible for residency under American law, the government has argued that the spouse’s death before the two-year mark ends the marriage, canceling the foreigner’s right to be considered for residency and opening the door to deportation.

The new provision does not directly address the government’s definition of marriage, but it allows foreigners married to Americans for less than two years to submit their own petition for residency within two years of the spouse’s death, as long as they have not remarried and can prove a good-faith marriage.

The law is also retroactive; any immigrant whose citizen spouse died less than two years after they wed, no matter how long ago, would have two years from the law’s enactment to petition for residency.
649 2009-10-21 Crab apples are a rarity in markets, to say nothing of cookbooks. Small, sourish and not good raw because of their mealy texture, they usually go straight into jelly. But last week boxes of dazzling ruby and gold crab apples were at the Union Square Greenmarket, inspiring me to try to do better by this beautiful fruit.

Left to my own devices, I sautéed an ounce of diced pancetta in olive oil, removed it from the pan, added a dozen quartered and cored crab apples and lightly browned them, removed them and lowered the heat. I added a sliced onion, a quarter head of shredded green cabbage, the pancetta, a teaspoon each of sugar and curry powder, some salt and pepper, half a cup of chicken stock, and the apples.

I covered and braised it. In 30 minutes I had a terrific side dish for sausages.

Breezy Hill Orchard, at Union Square Greenmarket on Wednesdays and Saturdays; Inwood Greenmarket and Long Island City on Saturday, all $1.50 a pound, for several weeks. Locust Grove sells them for $2 a pound at 97th Street and Columbus Avenue on Fridays, and at Tucker Square at Lincoln Center on Thursdays and Saturdays.
650 2009-10-21 Bernard B. Kerik, the city’s former police commissioner, was sent to jail Tuesday by a federal judge who said Mr. Kerik had leaked sealed information from his future criminal trial as part of an attempt to generate public sympathy.

Judge Stephen C. Robinson of Federal District Court in White Plains revoked Mr. Kerik’s $500,000 bail and delivered a withering criticism of Mr. Kerik from the bench, describing him as a “toxic combination of self-minded focus and arrogance.”

“And I fear that combination leads him to believe his ends justify his means,” Judge Robinson said. “He sees the court’s rulings as an inconvenience, something to be ignored, and an obstacle to be circumvented.”

Mr. Kerik, 54, who was once President Bush’s top choice to lead the Department of Homeland Security, faces three criminal trials in federal court. Jury selection in the first trial  in which he faces corruption, conspiracy and tax fraud charges  is to begin on Monday.

Judge Robinson said Mr. Kerik had violated the terms of his bail in providing the sealed information to a New Jersey lawyer who has helped raise money for Mr. Kerik’s defense but is not formally part of the defense team.

The lawyer, Anthony K. Modafferi III, e-mailed the material to The Washington Times in an effort to generate coverage that would disparage prosecutors, Judge Robinson said. The judge did not reveal the nature of the information, which remains under seal, but said the newspaper did not publish any of it.

Mr. Kerik’s lawyers asked the judge to let their client remain free for 48 hours while they prepared an appeal, but Judge Robinson rejected the request.

At the end of the four-hour hearing, Mr. Kerik, who ran the city’s jail system before becoming police commissioner, methodically removed a tie and a gold medallion from his neck. He pulled a wallet and a few papers from his pocket, said goodbye to his lawyers and walked with federal marshals through a rear door of the crowded courtroom without glancing back.

Mr. Kerik’s lawyer, Barry H. Berke, said he planned to appeal the decision, but declined to comment further.

Interestingly, both the judge and the defendant worked under former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Mr. Kerik was appointed commissioner of the Correction and Police Departments by Mr. Giuliani and later worked at Mr. Giuliani’s private consulting firm. In the 1980s, Judge Robinson served as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Giuliani, who was then the United States attorney in Manhattan.

Mr. Kerik’s lawyers have described Mr. Modafferi, who did not return calls, as someone who occasionally provides free legal advice to Mr. Kerik.

A blog item posted under Mr. Modafferi’s name this year criticized the news media and prosecutors for going after Mr. Kerik and giving a pass to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who admitted during his confirmation that he had failed to pay more than $34,000 in federal taxes over several years.

“Kerik was, and is, a scapegoat for the anger of those who couldn’t stand Giuliani and were fearful that he would be the Republican nominee for president,” the posting said.

Prosecutors have alleged that while Mr. Kerik was correction commissioner, a construction company paid for renovations at his home in the Bronx in the hope that he would help the company obtain a city license.

Mr. Kerik also faces federal charges that he failed to report more than $500,000 in income while he was in charge of the Correction and Police Departments, and that he provided false information while being considered for the nomination as secretary of homeland security.

Mr. Kerik has pleaded not guilty to the federal charges. In 2006, he pleaded guilty to two misdemeanors in state court stemming from the apartment renovation.

The issue of leaked material in the first federal case had been brewing for some time.

Last year, prosecutors accused another lawyer, who was not formally involved in the Kerik case, of passing confidential information, which they said he had obtained from Mr. Kerik, to potential witnesses. At that time, Judge Robinson threatened Mr. Kerik with jail if he ever again violated the consent order barring parties in the case from revealing confidential information about it.

Last month, Judge Robinson asked the defense team to submit briefs about the e-mail message from Mr. Modafferi.

“My thought is the relationship between Mr. Modafferi and Mr. Kerik has little to do with legal counsel,” the judge said at the time. “He’s hired Mr. Modafferi as a propagandist and chief fund-raiser.”

On Tuesday, Michael F. Bachner, a lawyer for Mr. Kerik, argued that the consent order was vague. Defense lawyers said that the e-mail message that Mr. Kerik sent to Mr. Modafferi was labeled “confidential” and that Mr. Kerik believed that Mr. Modafferi would understand that it could not be made public.

“There is no way that Mr. Kerik would engage in conduct that was bound to be discovered, and he had no reason to anger this court,” Mr. Bachner said.

Mr. Bachner later added, “Mr. Modafferi ran with that ball on his own, which nobody condoned.”

Judge Robinson’s rejection of that position went on at considerable length. He quoted much of Shakespeare’s Sonnet No. 29 in likening Mr. Kerik to a man who, “in disgrace with Fortune and men’s eyes,” laments his “outcast state.”

Several people involved in the case said Mr. Kerik was to be held at the Westchester County Department of Correction jail in Valhalla, which has a section reserved for federal prisoners. A spokesman for the United States Marshal’s Service could not confirm his location.

Thomas A. Reppetto, who co-wrote a history of the Police Department, said Mr. Kerik was the first former city police commissioner to be put in jail, and would be the first to be convicted of a crime should he be found guilty.

“There have been investigations, but nothing like this,” said Mr. Reppetto.
651 2009-10-21 CHICAGO — The chancellor of the largest campus of the University of Illinois announced Tuesday that he was resigning, a move that university officials said they hoped would bring an end to the scandal over admissions at the state’s premier public university.

The chancellor, Richard H. Herman, was under pressure to step down after an outside commission, appointed by Gov. Patrick J. Quinn, found that the university gave admissions preference to unqualified applicants with connections. Mr. Herman, who led the university’s campus of more than 41,000 students in downstate Urbana-Champaign, was the “ultimate decision-maker” to help favored students, the state commission said.

Mr. Herman is the latest of several officials to leave as details of the scandal have come to light. The university’s president, B. Joseph White, resigned last month after the Faculty Senate approved a resolution supporting his removal and that of Mr. Herman. Most of the members of the university’s board have also resigned.

In his letter of resignation, Mr. Herman, 68, did not mention the controversy, and he was not available for comment Tuesday, university officials said. In the past, however, he has acknowledged making mistakes but said he hoped to keep his job.

In its report, the state commission cited several instances in which Mr. Herman lobbied successfully on behalf of politicians to have certain students admitted, including honoring a request by Rod R. Blagojevich, the indicted former governor.
652 2009-10-21 Caterpillar, the maker of bulldozers and excavators, posted third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates and issued a full-year forecast that exceeded the highest prediction.

Profit dropped to $404 million, or 64 cents a share, from $868 million, or $1.39, a year earlier, the company said Tuesday in a statement. The average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts was 5 cents a share.

Caterpillar has slashed inventories and production amid the worst decline in its markets since the Great Depression. The company cut about 18,700 full-time jobs and about the same amount of temporary workers since December 2008 as demand faltered. Sales fell 44 percent to $7.3 billion, from $12.98 billion in the third quarter of 2008.

“We believe the third quarter marked the low point for Caterpillar sales and revenues in what has been the toughest recession since the 1930s,” Jim Owens, the chief executive, said.

Caterpillar, which is based in Peoria, Ill., narrowed its 2009 forecast range to $1.85 to $2.05 a share, from $1.15 to $2.25. The average estimate was $1.48 a share. The highest prediction was $1.75. The revenue forecast is now $32 billion to $33 billion, compared with the previous forecast of $32 billion to $36 billion.

The company said Tuesday that it expected the world economy to improve in 2010 with growth of about 3 percent, the highest growth rate since 2007.
653 2009-10-21 In recent years, he has repeatedly gone to Congress to question the management of the nation’s nuclear laboratories and arsenal, saying his laser was needed to ensure weapon reliability. In theory, its tiny blasts could test arms dependability, eliminating the need for underground explosions.

The secrets of hydrogen bombs and laser fusion can be similar, and the federal investigation appears to center on whether Dr. Mascheroni broke federal rules in discussing his proposed laser with a man who called himself a representative of the Venezuelan government.

Venezuela has begun exploring for uranium, but its president, Hugo Chávez, has denied any interest in developing nuclear arms.

Dr. Mascheroni, a naturalized United States citizen and a native of Argentina, said in the interview that he tried to drum up foreign interest in his laser after Congress in 2007 rejected his pleas for a hearing. He said he had written to physics institutions in Britain, France and, because of its oil wealth, Venezuela.

Last year, he said, a man claiming to be a Venezuelan representative agreed to pay him $800,000 for a laser study. Dr. Mascheroni said he delivered the unclassified study but was never paid. He said his intent was never to build the laser in Venezuela but to use that country’s interest to pressure Congress and the federal bureaucracy into taking his ideas seriously.

Dr. Mascheroni said F.B.I. agents told him the bureau caught the man two weeks ago and found the laser study, prompting the wide seizures of his papers and property.

“They took 30 years of my work,” he said. “It’s horrible.”

Dr. Mascheroni said about 20 agents swept through his Los Alamos home from early morning Monday until late at night, removing about 50 boxes of files and papers. He lives with his wife, Marjorie, who worked as a writer at the weapons laboratory until Monday, when she was put on administrative leave.

“They took her badge,” Dr. Mascheroni said. “So she cannot go back to work.”

Federal and laboratory authorities have previously investigated him twice for security violations, Dr. Mascheroni said, adding that each time he was exonerated. He said he saw the disruptive episodes as harassment for his outspoken views.
654 2009-10-21 But the likelihood that Wall Street will enjoy big paydays as many ordinary Americans are struggling has angered some policy makers and created a public relations headache for banks. Many are struggling to defuse the resentment directed at the industry.

The Credit Suisse plan will cover roughly 2,000 employees in the United States. Top executives will receive a greater portion of their total compensation in the form of their monthly cash salaries, while bonuses will be split evenly between cash and stock.

The stock will vest over four years, and the cash portion will pay out in three. But both components will be adjusted based on the bank’s performance over that period, with a particular emphasis on its return on equity, a closely watched financial measure. The performance of an executive’s business will also be taken into account.

By tying payouts to a specific measure like return on equity, Credit Suisse will essentially be able to take back bonuses in the event the bank’s fortunes take a turn for the worse. Credit Suisse earlier introduced a bonus plan linked to some of the bank’s troubled assets.

Claw-back provisions are becoming increasingly common on postcrisis Wall Street. Critics say the industry’s decades-old bonus culture, which focused on short-term profits, encouraged the excessive risk-taking that led to the crisis. Morgan Stanley introduced provisions for a portion of its employees’ bonuses last year, and another Swiss banking giant, UBS, imposed similar rules on deferred pay.

But Credit Suisse executives and compensation experts said the bank’s plan was the most detailed and comprehensive yet to take back pay if senior executives — and the bank — failed to perform adequately.

“As far as we know, we are the first major bank to announce a compensation structure that is consistent with the best practices laid out at the recent G-20 summit,” Brady W. Dougan, chief executive, said in a statement.

The bank is also introducing a minimum share ownership requirement for members of management committees and the executive board to align the most senior executives’ pay with shareholders’ interests, although it did not specify the new thresholds.

Lynn A. Stout, professor of securities law at the University of California, Los Angeles, said Credit Suisse’s four-year stock deferral was at the outer limit of what many banks were considering.

She said many other banks were thinking of changing compensation practices along similar lines to rein in practices that made multimillionaires out of many financial executives during the housing bubble.

“You get a sense that there is a cultural shift in boardrooms and a new awareness about looking to the longer term,” she said.

At a meeting of the G-20 last month, leaders agreed on recommendations to defer bonus payouts for several years and reduce the incentives for people to take short-term gambles, although they avoided any explicit call for a ceiling on remuneration. The return to big profits at some banks and big bonus payouts, even at firms that received billion-dollar federal bailouts, has raised questions about whether compensation should be even more tightly controlled.

In the summer, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a financial industry trade group, put forward guidelines on best practices, which included tying bonuses more closely to long-term performance and a more independent role for bank compensation committees.

The Federal Reserve is now preparing to release its own guidance on compensation for the more than 5,000 banks it regulates. It would cover staff at all levels within banks, not just at the most senior levels, and would apply to Goldman and Morgan Stanley, which became bank holding companies last year.

In broad scope, the new rules being considered depart from the largely hands-off approach that dominated bank regulation in the United States for the last three decades. They give banks freedom in how they structure their compensation. The rules are intended to inhibit pay plans that encourage reckless behavior by rewarding only short-term gains. But they would not stop million-dollar pay packages or address issues of fairness.

The stimulus bill that President Obama signed into law this year restricts companies that accept federal bailouts from paying bonuses that exceed one-third of an executive’s total annual compensation.

Now, Kenneth R. Feinberg, the administration’s pay czar, is due to publish by Oct. 30 his finding on pay at the seven major banks that still have not returned large amounts of federal support.

His report will include judgments on the 25 most heavily compensated executives at each of the banks — citing pay levels and composition of pay, and whether compensation is properly aligned with performance.
655 2009-10-21 For bands traveling to CMJ Music Marathon from abroad, making it to the gig is often not a completely sure thing. On Tuesday representatives of the Very Best, an African-British hybrid whose showcase was one of the most highly anticipated, confirmed that the group would not play at CMJ because Esau Mwamwaya, the Malawian singer who performs in the Very Best with a British D.J. duo, “ran into unfortunate travel circumstances.” A statement from the band’s label, Green Owl, did not explain further, but said that Mr. Mwamwaya had a United States visa. Green Owl’s Wednesday showcase will continue as planned with the D.J. duo as well as Theophilus London and others, the statement said. The British rapper Speech Debelle, below, who won the Mercury Prize this year, also had visa problems. She canceled her American tour, which included a showcase at the Music Hall of Williamsburg and at least three other CMJ appearances. In a statement, her British representatives said that “visa laws have just recently changed and delayed a few of our artists from getting their visas this fall.” Other acts forced to cancel their CMJ appearances this year because of visas issues include the Swedish band First Aid Kit and the British singer VV Brown.
656 2009-10-21 PARIS — Prosecutors asked a Paris court on Tuesday to convict former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin of slander and hand him a suspended 18-month sentence and a fine of some $67,000, in a deeply political trial in which President Nicolas Sarkozy is a complainant.

Mr. de Villepin is accused of failing to stop a conspiracy in 2004 to defame Mr. Sarkozy and other politicians with falsified documents indicating that they were profiting from arms kickbacks. Mr. de Villepin has protested his innocence; on Tuesday, he accused Mr. Sarkozy of vengeance. “Nicolas Sarkozy has promised to hang me on a butcher’s hook; I see that the promise has been kept,” Mr. de Villepin said.

In 2004, the two men were ministers and bitter party rivals to succeed then-President Jacques Chirac; and Mr. Sarkozy ended up winning the nomination and later the election.

The prosecutor asked that Jean-Louis Gergorin, then working for a major aerospace and arms company, EADS, be sentenced to three years in jail, with 18 months suspended, and a fine of $67,000 for pursuing the conspiracy with Imad Lahoud, who allegedly falsified documents to show that Mr. Sarkozy and others had secret bank accounts with a Luxembourg clearing house called Clearstream. The prosecutor asked that Mr. Lahoud get two years in jail, with six months suspended.

The court has not yet set a date for its verdict.

Mr. de Villepin, 55, faced a possible sentence of five years in jail on charges of complicity to slander, use forgeries, deal in stolen property and breach of trust. His lawyer, Olivier Metzner, said that the prosecutors had acknowledged that Mr. de Villepin was not an active participant in the conspiracy. “We have just made it illegal to do nothing,” he said.
657 2009-10-21 The drug maker Pfizer posted a 26 percent increase in third-quarter profit on Tuesday as cost cuts made up for a sales decline.

Pfizer, which makes the cholesterol treatment Lipitor, the impotence treatment Viagra and the smoking cessation drug Chantix, slashed costs in manufacturing and marketing, research and development and more to produce net income of $2.88 billion, or 43 cents a share. That was up from $2.28 billion, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier, when the company had a big legal charge over improper promotion of its painkillers.

Pfizer completed its $68 billion acquisition of Wyeth on Thursday and said it planned to continue cutting costs.

The combined company is expected to eliminate nearly 20,000 jobs by the time integration is complete. Pfizer has cut 6,500 jobs so far this year.

Pfizer said that, excluding one-time charges, earnings per share would have been 51 cents. Analysts were expecting 48 cents on revenue of $11.41 billion, according to a Thomson Reuters survey.

Another drug maker, Biogen Idec, said its profit rose 34 percent in the third quarter, helped by increased sales of its multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri.
658 2009-10-21 Even as investors were bidding up the prices of commodities like oil and gold last month, wholesale prices in the United States were falling, reflecting weak demand at home.

The government’s Producer Price Index fell 0.6 percent in September after rising by 1.7 percent a month earlier, the Labor Department reported on Tuesday. The figures show that, despite a weakening dollar, inflation remains a remote concern as the American economy struggles to pull itself out of a deep recession.

“The demand for goods is still very soft; the United States economy is just barely recovering,” said Allen Sinai, president of Decision Economics. “In a weak economy where consumer spending is weak, businesses have been slashing left and right. This surprisingly deflationary result reflects that.”

Food and energy prices fell for the month, and prices were sharply lower than last year, when the financial crisis deflated a commodities bubble that had lifted gasoline prices to $4 a gallon and sent the dollar to record lows. In September, producer prices were down 4.8 percent from a year ago, and prices paid by consumers were 1.3 percent lower.

Last week, the Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September from a month earlier, reflecting small increases in energy prices.

In the latest report on prices received at the wholesale level, the government said that prices for crude goods fell 2.1 percent, showing that there was little inflation further down the ladder of production.
659 2009-10-21 So far, the earnings have bolstered investors on Wall Street. The major indexes are up about 3 percent for the month, their eighth consecutive month of gains, and shares of Apple are close to record highs.

“This is a broad-based rally,” said William Rhodes, chief investment strategist of Rhodes Analytics. “I did not find anything in the market this week that I could go out and short.”

But on Tuesday, investors seemed preoccupied by signals that the housing market remained sluggish and by signs that some industries were still hamstrung by lower prices.

“The bulls need to see the quality of earnings improve,” Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities, wrote in a note to clients. “The market is so far ahead of the economy that unless the quality of earnings improves, the broad market is due for a consolidation.”

Shares of basic-materials producers, utilities and energy companies fell the most, as prices of commodities like oil, copper and coffee receded. Crude oil futures fell 52 cents to settle at $79.09 a barrel in New York, but were still near their highest levels of the year.

Financial stocks also fell, a day before two big players in the world of investment and consumer banking were set to release their results. Those banks, Wells Fargo and Morgan Stanley, are announcing their third-quarter earnings on Wednesday before the markets open, capping the major financial earnings reports.

Earlier this month, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs reported big profits while Citigroup and Bank of America continued to struggle.

Caterpillar gained the most in the Dow’s roster of blue-chip stocks, rising 3.4 percent after its earnings topped estimates. The aircraft maker Boeing fell nearly 3 percent after analysts downgraded its stock, and the military contractor Lockheed Martin fell more than 6 percent after cutting its outlook.

Investors were wary of home-building companies like Brookfield Homes and Pulte Homes after the government’s latest report on housing starts and building permits. The Commerce Department reported that new-home construction rose slightly in September, but fell short of economists’ predictions.

Weakness in stocks reinvigorated the dollar for a day, and set off demand for safer investments like Treasury bonds. The 10-year note closed up 13/32, to 102 11/32. The yield fell to 3.34 percent, from 3.39 percent late Monday.

Following are the results of Tuesday’s Treasury auction of four-week and 52-week bills:
660 2009-10-21 NEW YORK, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Pfizer Inc reported higher third-quarter profit as aggressive cost-cutting helped offset unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and declining sales of drugs, including those facing competition from cheaper generics.

The world's biggest drugmaker, which completed its $67.3 billion acquisition of Wyeth last week, posted a net profit of $2.88 billion, or 43 cents per share in its last pre-merger quarter, compared with a profit of $2.28 billion, or 34 cents per share, a year ago.

Excluding items, Pfizer earned 51 cents per share. Analysts on average expected 48 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Sales declined 3 percent to $11.6 billion, but that topped analysts' estimates of $11.41 billion.

Pfizer's bought Wyeth to help soften the 2011 blow from the loss of U.S. patent protection on the cholesterol drug Lipitor -- the world's biggest-selling prescription medicine -- by adding Wyeth's lucrative vaccines and injectable biologic medicines.

Lipitor's worldwide sales for the third quarter declined 9 percent to $2.9 billion. They were down 12 percent in the United States, amid competition from cheap generic versions of rival cholesterol lowering drugs.
661 2009-10-21 Prosecutors asked a Paris court on Tuesday to convict former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin of slander and give him a suspended 18-month sentence and a fine of about $67,000, in a deeply political trial in which President Nicolas Sarkozy is ...
662 2009-10-21 WINEAPPLE--Irving Gerald, 94, Retired U.S. Navy CDR, of Haverhill, MA passed away Sunday in Boston. Born in Salem, MA on April 20, 1915, and educated at Tilton Academy and Boston University, during World War II he was stationed in the Pacific thea...
663 2009-10-21 Nancy Spero, an American artist and feminist whose tough, exquisite figurative art addressed the realities of political violence, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan.      The cause was respiratory complications of  an i...
664 2009-10-22 Officials of private and public colleges offer differing views of the impact of the economic downturn....
665 2009-10-22 This film doesn’t try for a universal theme or overarching lessons but, somewhat in the manner of a Peter Morgan drama like “Frost/Nixon,” magnifies the personal conflicts and conciliations that make for good storytelling.

Those were tense, high-risk discussions, and they couldn’t have taken place in a less likely setting — a stately manor in the English countryside — or been engineered by a less prepossessing éminence grise.

Michael Young (Jonny Lee Miller) is the back-channel hero of this film: a meek, earnest public affairs executive at Consolidated Gold Fields, a British mining company, who is given the task of evaluating company investments in South Africa and concludes that only dialogue can pull the country back from imminent disaster.

The film, which stars William Hurt and Chiwetel Ejiofor and was directed by Pete Travis (“Vantage Point”), is labeled a political thriller with some legitimacy, since it does have suspense, menace and even a scary car chase.

Facts are telescoped and trimmed without unduly distorting history, but what the narrative does best is frame a decisive moment and zoom in on the ordinary people who worked the sidelines of an extraordinary breakthrough.

Mr. Mandela, of course, looms largest even in the background. Clarke Peters, who played Lester on “The Wire,” is persuasively dignified and charming as Mandela, who in prison keeps up a civil, secret dialogue with the chief of security, Niel Barnard (Mark Strong), and also smuggles messages to Oliver Tambo (John Kani), then the head of the African National Congress.

Those were two covert channels of communication. The film mostly concentrates on another. Mr. Hurt is Will Esterhuyse, a philosophy professor who is recruited by Young to represent the Afrikaner viewpoint at the secret talks, mostly because more prominent public figures declined to take the risk. Mr. Hurt manages the South African accent credibly enough, but more important, he hits the half notes in a role that could too easily be conventionally righteous.

Mr. Ejiofor plays his counterpart, Thabo Mbeki, who at the time was the information officer of the African National Congress and went on to become president of South Africa after Mr. Mandela, from 1999 to 2008. Mr. Mbeki’s tenure may be most memorable for setting back AIDS prevention and slowing the distribution of antiviral drugs because he subscribed to a denialist theory that disputes a link between H.I.V. and AIDS.

Mr. Mbeki’s finer hours took place long before his rise to power, when he served as a go-between in the standoff between the government and the anti-apartheid movement.

In the film Young reports — behind closed doors — to the chairman of Gold Fields, Rudolph Agnew, played with a Dickensian flourish by Derek Jacobi. Agnew approves of the mission as long as it leaves him plausible deniability to accusations of meddling in South Africa’s internal affairs. Agnew keeps tabs on his aide while keeping him at arm’s length, warning him that should word of his mission leak out, “I shall have to deny all knowledge of it and disown you.” Agnew pauses, then adds throatily, “And I’ll be nothing if not convincing.”

Young brings two opposing delegations to Mells Park, a 16th-century country estate that was then owned by Gold Fields. And a little like the butler in the novel “The Remains of the Day,” Young earnestly preps the staff, assigns the chintz-covered guest rooms and keeps the postprandial Scotch flowing, a form of persuasion later described by Esterhuyse as “Glenfiddich diplomacy.”

The two sides have seemingly irreconcilable positions, and each man at the table has his own secrets and hidden agendas. It takes time, stealth and effort to overcome mistrust and build relationships, and throughout, Young’s tact and self-effacement —the un-Holbrooke school of diplomacy — help keep hostilities in check.

“It takes a big man to stay invisible,” Esterhuyse tells Young at the close of their final meeting. This film shines a light on the prim, humble businessman who risked everything to start a conversation — and kept his own mouth shut.

Produced by Daybreak Pictures; presented by Channel 4, Target Entertainment Group and Masterpiece; directed by Pete Travis; written by Paula Milne, based on “The Fall of Apartheid” by Robert Harvey; Liza Marshall, Arwel Reese, Ian Jones, Alison Rayson and Rebecca Eaton, executive producers; Hal Vogel and David Aukin, producers.

WITH: William Hurt (Prof. Will Esterhuyse), Chiwetel Ejiofor (Thabo Mbeki), Jonny Lee Miller (Michael Young), Derek Jacobi (Rudolph Agnew), Mark Strong (Dr. Niel Barnard), Clarke Peters (Nelson Mandela) and John Kani (Oliver Tambo).
666 2009-10-22 The back and forth between the White House and Dick Cheney on Afghanistan flares again....
667 2009-10-22 Sienna Miller and Jonny Lee Miller in an excerpt from the Broadway play. (Video: Roundabout Theater)
668 2009-10-22 California Energy Commission has big-screen displays in its crosshairs....
669 2009-10-22 Processed Bamboo is not the same as bamboo fiber, and cannot be sold as such, the F.T.C. said on Thursday....
670 2009-10-22 The retailer cut the price of the e-reader to $259, from $279, only a couple of weeks after sales began....
671 2009-10-22 More evidence that capturing a potent greenhouse gas can pay off with profits....
672 2009-10-22 The bank warns that the European Union's plans to tighten regulations could creating a two-tier playing field that could drive the industry out of the Continent....
673 2009-10-22 The Episcopal Church in New York has long been on the leading liberal edge of a worldwide body that has been itself growing steadily more progressive over the years....
674 2009-10-22 James Bond fans take note: a high-end British hotel with a famed spy history has reopened after an elaborate renovation....
675 2009-10-22 The chief executive of Credit Suisse, Brady W. Dougan, said that compensation at banks had bounced back "faster than anybody expected," as earnings from securities markets improved....
676 2009-10-22 In the fourth installment in a series, the veteran admissions director answers questions about whether it's possible to better one's percentile rank on the SAT by flying to a low-performing school district to take the test, and takes another stab ...
677 2009-10-22 The House Financial Services Committee supported the creation of an agency to protect consumers from predatory lending, deceptive credit card terms and other abuses....
678 2009-10-22 We'll celebrate National Chemistry Week with a quiz and a chance for you to win a copy of Theodore Gray's new book, The Elements. Mr. Gray is a self-described "element nut."...
679 2009-10-22 More evidence that capturing a potent greenhouse gas can pay off with profits....
680 2009-10-22 PlainsCapital has priced the 15 million shares of common stock it plans to offer in an initial public offering....
681 2009-10-22 Anglo American, the mining group that appointed a new chairman in August amid a takeover approach, announced a restructuring that will shed a quarter of overhead staff, divest it of some businesses and save $120 million a year....
682 2009-10-22 A new poll will show whether Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. has been able to narrow Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's considerable lead....
683 2009-10-22 Credit Suisse said Thursday it earned $2.4 billion in the third quarter as strong results at its investment banking unit helped it bounce back from a big loss in the same period a year earlier....
684 2009-10-22 Marshall & Ilsley, the regional U.S. bank, said Wednesday it would raise at least $750 million in a stock offering, and could use some of the funds to repay part of the $1.7 billion it received under the Troubled Asset Relief Program....
685 2009-10-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
686 2009-10-22 A family feud in Saudi Arabia is roiling banks worldwide, The Wall Street Journal reports, in a look at the bad blood between Maan al Sanea and his inlaws, the Gosaibis....
687 2009-10-22 Hedge-fund assets increased by about $34 billion in September, Bloomberg News reported, citing findings by Eurekahedge.com. The fifth straight monthly uptick was aided by improved investor confidence and global stock market gains....
688 2009-10-22 Altria, which makes Marlboros, said it shipped sharply fewer cigarettes in the third quarter than a year earlier. But the company may just be what value investors call a "cigar-butt" stock, Breakingviews writes....
689 2009-10-22 Inez Milholland, who graduated from Vassar in the spring, was approved for admission into Harvard Law by that school's dean and faculty, but Harvard's trustees and new president, Abbott Lawrence Lowell, upended her plans....
690 2009-10-22 After eight years, the artist Hunt Slonem is leaving Cordts Mansion, his 1873 Second Empire-style brick house in Kingston, N.Y., for Louisiana, where he plans to divide his time between his two plantations. And on Saturday, Stair Galleries in Hudson, N.Y., will auction his extensive collection of 19th-century furniture and decorative arts.

Expect to see plenty of vibrant color (especially pink), headboards, marble busts, urns, girandoles, pedestals and candelabras.The items include some of Mr. Slonem’s sentimental favorites: a collection of Gothic Revival-style perfume bottles (starting at $300 each), an American Renaissance Revival gilt-incised walnut, rosewood, burl ash and burr-thuya bedstead ($1,000 to $2,000), left, and a Louis-Philippe brass and gilt-bronze cathedral mantel clock ($3,000 to $5,000), far right.
691 2009-10-22 The son of another senior official close to Mr. Ahmadinejad, who is a student activist in Tehran but spoke on condition of anonymity to protect his father, said he and his father had for years avoided talking about politics.

“I know he has tried to protect me in the past and he tells me that whatever I do, I should not get into trouble,” he said. Last year, his father tried to send him to London to continue his studies and stay out of politics. But he refused to go and stayed to campaign against Mr. Ahmadinejad.

Mehdi Khazali, the son of Ayatollah Abolghassem Khazali, a senior cleric close to Mr. Ahmadinejad, criticizes the country’s top leadership on his blog, drkhazali.net. At one point, he wrote that his father supported Mr. Ahmadinejad and the conservatives only because he had been “cheated, lied to and taken advantage of for his religious beliefs.”

Because of the growing alienation of young Iranians, family dynamics could be complex, particularly among the families of elite government officials. “These children are more affected by society and even Facebook and Twitter on the Internet than their families,” said Alireza Haghighi, an Iranian political analyst at the University of Toronto. “The younger generation has been very frustrated with the political situation.”

In Ms. Kalhor’s case, her parents’ religious and political conservatism did not extend to daily life. Her father, who has been an adviser to Mr. Ahmadinejad since 2005, helped and encouraged Ms. Kalhor to become a graphic designer and a filmmaker.

Mr. Kalhor embodied other contradictions, having appeared as a campaigner for Mr. Ahmadinejad on national television in 2005 wearing his long hair in a ponytail — something that is frowned upon by conservatives — and saying that all Iranians in exile, including the son of the shah, would be allowed to return to the country if Mr. Ahmadinejad were elected.

Ms. Kalhor said that through it all she remained close to her father until a year ago, when he moved out after separating from her mother. But she was also developing her own political views, she said.

“My generation wants its most basic needs such as freedom of expression and personal freedoms,” she said. “We want to live, we do not want to face persecution for expressing our political opinion; as women, we don’t want to walk on the street with the constant horror that we could be intimidated for showing an inch of hair.”

She said she began participating in the rallies in favor of Mr. Ahmadinejad’s leading opponent, Mir Hussein Moussavi, before the elections and voted for him in hope of real change. Infuriated by Mr. Ahmadinejad’s re-election, which she called a “gross lie,” she joined the protests, during which, she said, she was beaten by the police and tear-gassed.

“This was an explosion of 30 years of suppression and intimidations of my generation,” she said of the protests. “I am happy that we finally found the courage to speak up.”

Ms. Kalhor went to a German film festival last week to show her movie “The Rake,” which is based on a Kafka short story about torture in prison, “In the Penal Colony.” While there, she made no secret of her support for the opposition movement at the festival, wearing a scarf of the opposition’s trademark green and appearing without the head scarf that is mandatory for Iranian women, even when they are outside the country.

She said she decided to apply for refugee status after hearing from friends that she faced arrest if she returned.

Her father reacted angrily and said that he was unaware of his daughter’s trip to Germany and that she had been tricked.

“I believe she has been tricked by the country’s enemies and has become a tool for propaganda,” Mr. Kalhor told the Mehr news agency. “As a father, I advise her not take a path that has no return and not become an instrument in the hands of the enemy.”

Ms. Kalhor brushed aside her father’s claims, saying she had no other choice.
692 2009-10-22 Nobody is suggesting that women stop getting mammograms or that men stop discussing prostate cancer screening with their doctor. Instead, the goal is to update public health messages to better reflect the benefits, risks and limits of various forms of cancer screening, Dr. Otis Brawley, chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, said in an interview.

In a news release issued Wednesday, the cancer society affirmed its current guidelines recommending annual mammography screening for women ages 40 and older, and the group advises men to discuss the risks and benefits of prostate cancer screening with their doctors. But understanding the limitations of screening, the statement said, will help researchers develop better screening tests.

“Cancer is a complicated disease,” Dr. Brawley said. “We shouldn’t try to fight it with simplistic messages.”

Overdiagnosis and overtreatment as a result of cancer screening are a major concern. It is estimated that for every 100 women who are told they have breast cancer, as many as 30 have cancers that are so slow-growing they are unlikely to be life-threatening.

In the case of prostate cancer, for every 100 men with diagnoses, as many as 70 have cancers that if left untreated would never have harmed them. Even for men with aggressive prostate cancer, whether screening improves the odds of survival remains a matter of debate.

“It’s not that screening doesn’t do any good,” said Dr. Laura J. Esserman, a professor of surgery and radiology at the University of California, San Francisco, and co-author of a new analysis of screening risks and benefits in The Journal of the American Medical Association. “But it’s not the answer for every kind of cancer, and it’s not going to fix all the problems.”

“If you get screened, there’s a chance you’re going to find a cancer that might not be dangerous, and you want to make sure you understand that so you don’t get overtreated,” Dr. Esserman added.

One goal of the screening community is to communicate cancer statistics better. It is a commonly cited fact that mammography screening for breast cancer lowers a woman’s risk of dying from the disease by 20 percent, compared with women who do not get screened. That sounds like a big benefit, but it does not fully communicate the extent to which an individual woman is helped by screening.

Another way to describe the benefits of mammography screening is this: You would have to screen 1,000 women ages 50 and older for 10 years in order to avert one additional death from breast cancer, compared to a similar number of women who are not screened.

For men screening for prostate cancer, the data are less clear. An American study showed no statistical difference in prostate cancer death rates among men who were screened, compared with men who were not. A European study showed that screening reduced the risk of dying from prostate cancer by about 20 percent. But in terms of individual risk, that is not a huge benefit. It means that a man who is not screened has about a 3 percent average risk of dying from prostate cancer. If that man undergoes annual screenings, his risk drops to about 2.4 percent.

Some doctors are worried that restating the public health message about mammography, in particular, will just confuse patients. “We don’t want to abandon what we have now or confuse people,” said Dr. Marisa Weiss, a breast oncologist and founder of the Web site BreastCancer.org.

Many patients do not understand why screening for cancer might be risky. But for every 1,000 healthy women who undergo annual mammograms, about half will have a stressful false positive within 10 years, and 180 of them will undergo a biopsy.

For men undergoing prostate cancer screening, the downside is even greater. Most prostate cancers occur in older men and are so slow-growing that the patient would die from something else before the cancer became a problem. Yet about 30,000 men do die each year of the disease.

It is impossible to distinguish between harmless prostate cancers and deadly ones. As a result, many of the 200,000 men who receive prostate cancer diagnoses annually are subjected to aggressive treatments that render them incontinent and impotent.

“Patients often are not aware that there are risks associated with cancer screening,” said Dr. Therese Bevers, medical director of the cancer prevention center at University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. “We need to have more conversations with our patients about that.”
693 2009-10-22 Mr. and Ms. Khan were also sued in 2005 in New York by Deutsche Bank for failing to repay a large promissory note, though all the details are not listed in the court documents.

In a letter released Wednesday, Mr. Rajaratnam wrote that he was innocent and would fight the charges. He added that he expected to return the $2.5 billion he now manages for outside investors by the end of the year. But he said he hoped to sell Galleon as a single unit so that his employees would not have to find new jobs individually.

Because most of Galleon’s holdings are in heavily traded companies, unwinding the fund should cause no disruption to stock markets, a person close to Galleon said.

Little public information about Ms. Khan is available. On a 2004 federal campaign donation form, she listed her occupation as stock trader. Until earlier this year, she and her husband lived in a 9,000-square-foot mansion with an assessed value of $13 million in Atherton, Calif., a Silicon Valley suburb of expansive estates. They moved out several months ago, according to neighbors, and the house was sold. Mr. Khan did not return phone calls or a respond to an e-mail message, and Ms. Khan did not respond to e-mail messages. A lawyer who represented them in the civil lawsuit filed by the housekeeper said he could not comment.

A spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan would not comment on Ms. Khan’s involvement.

In the criminal complaint against Mr. Rajaratnam and two other defendants, Ms. Khan is listed as “CW,” or “cooperating witness.” In a related Securities and Exchange Commission complaint, she is listed as Tipper A. According to the S.E.C. complaint, she worked for Galleon in the late 1990s. In late 2005, she approached Mr. Rajaratnam, saying she had financial difficulties and wanted to return to Galleon.

He did not rehire her, but over the next two years she provided him with tips about Google, Hilton Hotels, and Polycom, which he used to make $13 million in profits, according to the criminal complaint. The complaint does not say that she received any payment or anything of value in return for the tips. She made about $1.5 million on improper trades in the same stocks in 2006 and 2007, according to a civil complaint filed by the S.E.C.

In November 2007, Ms. Khan began to cooperate with the F.B.I., according to the complaint. She taped four phone calls with Mr. Rajaratnam and provided evidence against him. She agreed to plead guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud and cooperated “in the hope of receiving a reduced sentence,” the complaint said.

But as the investigation progressed, Ms. Khan and her husband faced another legal problem, a civil lawsuit filed by Vilma Serralta, who worked as their housekeeper in Atherton from 2002 to 2006. Ms. Serralta claimed she had been paid about $250 a week for 80 to 90 hours of work, violating labor laws.

Ms. Khan and her husband denied the allegations and in March 2009 produced a work schedule they claimed had been signed by Ms. Serralta in 2002, when she started to work for them.

But lawyers for Ms. Serralta said the document had been fabricated and Ms. Serralta’s signature forged. On Aug. 28, District Judge Claudia Wilken said she would “give the jury a strongly worded instruction about the fabrication of evidence.”

Less than a month later, just before the case was set for trial, Mr. and Ms. Khan settled the case with Ms. Serralta. Christopher Ho, senior staff attorney at Legal Aid Society-Employment Law Center, which represented Ms. Serralta, said he could not disclose the specific terms of the settlement but that they were favorable to Ms. Serralta.

The Khans and their business, Digital Age Capital Ltd., received a summons from Deutsche Bank Securities in 2005 in connection with what appeared to have been a default in an earlier settlement. Though the details are not in the public court filings, the Khans were supposed to pay $788,850. According to a court filing in June 2006, they agreed to pay a total of $803,850, including interest and lawyer fees, to settle the matter.
694 2009-10-22 No records show how many concussions Borich sustained while playing high school and small-college football outside Salt Lake City and then at Western Illinois. (His father, Joe, said in an interview that he recalled 9 or 10, but was unsure.) Regardless, the Borich case could continue to shift the spotlight away from merely concussions, which often go undiagnosed and whose records are scattershot, to the repetitive subconcussive blows in football that might contribute to C.T.E.

“The focus of the discussion of brain-trauma issue has been on the N.F.L. — it really needs to be on youth players,” Nowinski said. “Ninety-nine percent of football players in this country are college and below. They’re not being paid. They don’t have as good access to medical people. And the fact that they’re at risk for this disease should give us great pause.”

Tests for C.T.E.’s irregular protein deposits and neurofibrillary tangles can be conducted only after a person dies and brain tissue can undergo special examination.

Eight N.F.L. players who died between the ages of 36 and 52 — most exhibiting extreme emotional problems — have been diagnosed as having the condition. It has been found in every player of those ages examined by the two groups doing such research, the Boston University group and another led by Drs. Bennet Omalu and Julian Bailes of the Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute. Omalu and Bailes recently announced the seventh and eight cases of C.T.E. in N.F.L. players: Gerald Small, 52, and Curtis Whitley, 39.

The only high school football player examined for C.T.E. was an 18-year-old who showed vestigial stages that concerned researchers but allowed no conclusions. The Borich finding made them more confident that a young man playing through college, and perhaps only high school, could face similar risks as players at the professional level.

A message left at the offices of the N.C.A.A. was not returned. The Western Illinois athletic director, Tim Van Alstine, said in a statement: “We follow the practices that are set forth by the National Athletic Trainers’ Association. We rely on four full-time athletic trainers and the support of two team doctors.”

According to Nowinski’s research and interviews with friends and family, Borich began exhibiting signs of alcohol abuse while serving as receivers coach for the Chicago Bears in 1999 and 2000. Those signs continued while he was the offensive coordinator at Brigham Young in 2001 and 2002.

Joe Borich said that his son’s substance abuse became worse at Brigham Young and then, at the University of Arizona in 2003, he was asked to leave the program before the season. Borich never coached again, and as his depression mounted he abused various substances before he overdosed this February on a mixture of alcohol, cocaine and OxyContin, Joe Borich said.

“It never occurred to us that football could have these types of consequences,” added Borich, who played tight end for four years at the University of Utah. “Nobody had any idea — everyone figured the helmet was a panacea for anything like that. You’d come out of the game, shake your head and go back in. It bothered me when Mike or my other son, Joey, got a whack and had to come out of a game. But they went back in, just like I did. That’s what we did in those days. Unfortunately.”

McKee said she was convinced that the extreme encephalopathy found in Borich’s brain contributed to his downward spiral, because the disease kills brain cells involved in executive function and mood moderation. She said that research was continuing at her facility and elsewhere to learn what genetic factors might leave some people more susceptible to the condition, but also emphasized that only physical trauma can actually cause it.

“These changes are devastating — they’re extreme and they’re throughout the brain,” McKee said. “They’re in the cortex where we think and make judgments, where we do most of the thought that make us humans. It’s hard to imagine what the last few years of his life were like.”

She added: “Certainly we need more cases to evaluate. But this extreme case and the way it fits into the spectrum or pattern of professional players makes it very reasonable to think there are other cases out there that we haven’t recognized. We don’t need more right now to know there’s a problem. This is not a variation in normal.”
695 2009-10-22 After enduring months of criticism that his administration had done too little to help small businesses weather the recession, President Obama said Wednesday that “there’s still too little credit flowing to our small businesses” and unveiled initiatives he said would open the spigot.

The measures, announced by Mr. Obama at a small records storage company in Maryland, would allow smaller community banks to borrow at low rates from the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program. It would also raise the loan caps on several popular Small Business Administration programs. (For reaction to the presidents proposal, see The Agenda).

Under the administration plan, banks with less than $1 billion in assets could borrow from the program at a lower interest rate than financial institutions are required to pay.

In exchange, banks must demonstrate how they would increase lending to small businesses and follow up with quarterly reports. According to the White House, most business loans by the community banks that are eligible for the new rules are made to small businesses.

In addition, community groups that lend to small businesses in low-income areas under a Treasury Department program will be able to borrow relief money at just 2 percent annually for eight years. In the past, banks have been leery of such loans because the program allows the government to buy warrants for the banks’ common stock and because it requires the institutions to limit executive compensation. But the small banks probably will not have to issue warrants in that program rules contain an exception for infusions of less than $100 million. The proposal as described Wednesday caps the infusions at $20 million.

The small institutions would be subject to the same compensation rules as any other relief recipient, said Gene Sperling, senior counselor to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, in an interview. But, he added, “for these smaller community banks, the executive bonus restrictions will usually affect only their single most highly compensated employee.”

But some community bankers remain concerned. “I think that could be a damper on community bank involvement in this program”, said Cam Fine, president and chief executive of the Independent Community Bankers of America, a trade association. “Those family-owned banks are not going to want to subject themselves to compensation restrictions imposed by TARP, because it is their own personal money that is the capital of the bank.”

Changing the S.B.A. loan limits will require approval from Congress. The administration’s plans, which would raise the limit on the most popular loan to $5 million from $2 million, are identical to provisions of a bill introduced by Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine. She is the ranking Republican on the Senate Small Business Committee and is seen as perhaps the only Republican who may vote for a Democratic-led health care bill.

In a statement, Ms. Snowe indicated she appreciated the gesture. “These actions will help satisfy the capital needs of small businesses looking to start or expand their operations,” she said.

Unlike the S.B.A. proposals, the bailout plan can take effect at the administration’s direction.

“Our goal is to conduct a widespread consultation with the small business and small bank community for a few weeks, and get this operational as quickly as is practical,” Mr. Sperling said.
696 2009-10-22 The maker of the popular Flip pocket camcorders has added a premium $230 MinoHD (second edition) that’s packaged in a brushed metal case with rounded corners and offers twice the recording time and a slightly wider LCD screen than its predecessor.

That’s not a radical departure from the previous MinoHD, now priced at $200, but if you’re planning to buy a Flip, the eight gigabytes of on-board memory (versus four gigabytes on the standard MinoHD) is probably worth the additional $30.

And while the pocketable MinoHD is enormously fun and ridiculously simple to use, it would have been more tempting had its resolution been raised from 720p (1280 x 720) to the higher-definition 1080p (1920 by 1280), which is available on Kodak’s $180 Zi8.

The new MinoHD can store two hours of 720p footage at 30 frames a second. The case is notably slicker than its predecessor. The new model also has a larger two-inch antiglare LCD with an improved resolution of 960 by 240 pixels. It adds a mini-HDMI connector that will enable you to connect the device to your high-definition TV. RIK FAIRLIE
697 2009-10-22 As the dollar fell to $1.50 against the euro on Wednesday, its lowest level in more than a year, concerns swirled for businesses and policy makers on both sides of the Atlantic.

For the United States, a weakening currency makes foreign-made goods more expensive, and it raises troubling questions about whether the primacy of the dollar is being eclipsed by gold, oil and other currencies. For the 16 countries in the euro zone, a stronger euro puts exporters and manufacturers in countries like Spain, Germany and Greece at a disadvantage and could slow the flow of American tourists to European shores.

Stocks, meanwhile, sold off broadly on Wall Street after a noted banking analyst downgraded Wells Fargo to sell. On the flip side, the losses helped to cut some of the dollar’s earlier losses.

Over the last seven months, the dollar’s value has declined more than 15 percent as federal deficits in the United States rose to record levels, stirring fears that the government’s aggressive efforts to combat the recession would weaken the American currency and swamp global markets with Treasury bonds.

Now, inflation-wary investors have gone hunting for stronger returns by funneling their money into countries where interest rates are higher than the record low rates in the United States, or where rates seem poised to rise sooner. Interest rates are hovering near zero in the United States, and central bankers say they are unlikely to budge anytime soon.
698 2009-10-22 "It seems that while we may be heading out of a recession, the pace of recovery may be sluggish at best, and we could well see more profit-taking on the horizon," added Hughes.

The rally in stocks since March's lows have been predicated on hopes that the global economic recovery will be quicker and more substantial than valuations were implying.

Many now think that the valuations could be too optimistic, especially if governments and central banks think their job is done and start withdrawing some of the stimulus measures they have enacted over the last year or so.

Analysts at Calyon Credit Agricole noted that the markets may be too optimistic in their assessments and that as a result even good results are greeted with a poor reaction. However, they said that following Tuesday's declines on Wall Street, they may be in a better position to respond positively to any forecast-busting earnings.

So far, a large majority of U.S. companies have reported better-than-expected earnings and painted a fairly rosy picture for the coming months, helping many of the world's major indexes push back above the levels they were over a year ago before Lehman Brothers collapsed.

The rest of the session may well hinge on how investors respond to the next batch of U.S. third-quarter company earnings, in particular those from Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo & Co. and Boeing Co.

In Britain, there was interest in the minutes to the last rate-setting meeting of the Bank of England to see if there was any support for additional asset purchases from the central bank.

The pound shot higher against other currencies as investors reined in their expectations that the Bank would be requesting a further 25 billion pounds to spend buying up financial assets from banks. At the moment it is completing a 175 billion pound asset purchase facility.

The pound was up 1.1 percent at $1.6564 following the release of the minutes.

Other currency movements were fairly subdued. The euro was flat at $1.4930 while the dollar rose 0.3 percent against the Japanese yen to 90.92 yen.

Earlier in Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average slipped 3.45 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 10,333.39, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 66.85 points, or 0.3 percent, to 22,318.11.

South Korea's Kospi retreated 0.3 percent to 1,653.86, while Australia's index slipped 0.2 percent, Singapore's market was down 0.3 percent and China's Shanghai benchmark fell 0.5 percent.

Oil prices fell for a second day as investors eyed a bigger-than-expected U.S. crude inventory increase and weak economic data. Benchmark crude for December delivery fell 91 cents to $78.21 a barrel. The contract slid 84 cents to settle at $79.12 on Tuesday.
699 2009-10-22 The Boeing Company, which has been struggling with costly delays on two airplane programs, reported a larger third-quarter loss on Wednesday than analysts had expected and lowered its full-year profit forecast.

But the company said it still expected to begin flight tests of its 787 passenger jet, known as the Dreamliner, before the end of the year. And it could decide within the next two weeks whether to build a second production line for the plane at its plant in Everett, Wash., or in North Charleston, S.C.

Boeing’s net loss totaled $1.56 billion, or $2.23 a share, for the third quarter. That included $3.5 billion in previously announced charges to cover problems with the 787, the first commercial plane made mainly with lightweight carbon composites, and with the 747-8, a new freighter plane.

Analysts had estimated, on average, that the company would post a net loss of $2.10 a share.

The difference in that estimate and Boeing’s reported profit probably reflects 14 cents a share in additional costs, disclosed Wednesday, involving the first three 787s. Those planes have undergone so many changes that Boeing will not be able to sell them commercially.

The loss was in contrast to a profit of $695 million, or 96 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago, which was affected by a machinist strike. Boeing reduced its guidance for its full-year earnings to $1.35 to $1.55 a share from its earlier level of $4.70 to $5 a share.
700 2009-10-22 Here is an ingenious way to use the Swiss chard stems you’ve been tossing out....
701 2009-10-22 The celebrity event designer proves that having a good party need not be expensive -- or at least the accessories don't have to be.
702 2009-10-22 When I decided to tackle my first marathon this year, I did so for my health. I knew that setting a big goal like running a marathon would help me jump-start my exercise program.     But a spate of deaths during recent marathons has many people qu...
703 2009-10-23 A college financial aid director advises parents to encourage students to consider managing their money as part of the educational experience....
704 2009-10-23 Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund billionaire accused of insider trading, planned a trip to London to discuss a new Sri Lanka fund and attend a screening of an independent film he financed, among other activities, a person briefed on the matter told ...
705 2009-10-23 Beyond his revolutionary interest in pie-throwing, Soupy Sales, who died Thursday, also knew a lot about jazz, and was a pioneer in the history of jazz on American television....
706 2009-10-23 S.E.C. filings show that, as of the end of June, Steven A. Cohen’s hedge fund SAC Capital had sold all of its Sotheby’s stock....
707 2009-10-23 No other segment of industry pays out 50 percent of its revenues in bonuses, only Wall Street....
708 2009-10-23 I'm considering renting an apartment in a private house, but the owner says he is thinking about selling the house. If I have a one-year lease and the house is sold, do I have to leave?...
709 2009-10-23 Derivatives legislation being considered by Congress should be improved by requiring more transactions to go through clearinghouses, Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said Friday....
710 2009-10-23 It's not entirely clear that President Obama's small-business initiatives, announced this week, have the full support of key Democrats....
711 2009-10-23 In the fifth installment in a series, the admissions director of the University of Iowa answers readers' questions....
712 2009-10-23 Fortune Magazine to drop from 25 issues per year to 18....
713 2009-10-23 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
714 2009-10-23 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, prodded Congress on Friday to enact legislation overhauling the nation's financial regulatory system to prevent a repeat of the banking and credit debacles that thrust the country into crisis....
715 2009-10-23 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is expected to surpass his spending in his two previous runs for mayor by a large margin when campaign finance filings are released Friday....
716 2009-10-23 New Jersey taxpayers are sending almost $1 million a month to a partnership run by Goldman Sachs Group for protection against rising interest costs on bonds that the state redeemed more than a year ago....
717 2009-10-23 Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of construction and mining equipment, said Thursday that Douglas R. Oberhelman will become the company's next chief executive....
718 2009-10-23 EverBank Financial will acquire Tygris Commercial Financial Group in a stock-for-stock deal giving EverBank about $535 million in capital, The Jacksonville Business Journal reported....
719 2009-10-23 The top financial officer of insurance giant American International Group defended the federal government's $180 billion bailout of the company in a return to his alma mater....
720 2009-10-23 “Maybe people would wonder why you come here, but when I did the research and looked at the talent within a five-hour radius, the vision of the athletic director and a new president, I felt like we could build a winning program here,” Mullen said.

The tale of Mississippi State’s recent football history includes losses (two winning seasons this decade) and N.C.A.A. rules violations. Mullen is in charge of rewriting the narrative.

Mississippi State had a shot to beat Louisiana State in September, but was stopped four times after having first-and-goal at the 2 in the final two minutes. And the Bulldogs played the ranked opponents Georgia Tech and Houston to the wire.

With a patchwork roster that includes one of the SEC’s best tailbacks, Anthony Dixon, but had enough holes that Mullen installed five junior college transfers as starters, there has been consistent effort and an improved offensive game plan. After finishing No. 113 nationally in total offense last year (274.9 yards a game), Mississippi State is No. 53 this year (390.3).

“What Dan is allowing us to do is put us in position to win those games,” said Mississippi State’s athletic director, Greg Byrne, who is inspired by success in outposts like Blacksburg, Va. (Virginia Tech), Corvallis, Ore. (Oregon State), and Eugene, Ore. (Oregon). “We feel like we’re in a very positive position for the long term.”

Mullen’s overhaul began with his strength coach, Matt Balis, who was such an important piece that Mullen said he would have considered not taking the job if Balis had not come. The next step has come with recruiting, especially of local talent.

“We need to be the Oakland A’s,” the associate athletic director Scott Stricklin said, referring to the drafting of undervalued players by the frugal Oakland baseball team.

Mullen said that Mississippi State’s senior class featured just one of the top 20 high school players in the state during their senior year. He said Mississippi State signed 14 of the top 20 last year and had numerous top in-state players orally committed for next year. Mississippi is the No. 2 state in the country in most N.F.L. players per capita.

Mullen points out that perhaps the three greatest players at their position in N.F.L. history — Brett Favre (Southern Mississippi), Walter Payton (Jackson State) and Jerry Rice (Mississippi Valley State) — all slipped through the recruiting cracks here.

“What an impressive hall of fame that would be,” Mullen said. “That’s part of what we have to do. That’s the positive part for me. The negative is that it hasn’t happened. The positive is that it could have.”

Mullen said that as a rural university, Mississippi State should appeal to in-state recruits; most of Mississippi’s two million residents live in rural areas.

The university also has a progressive racial history in recent years, from hiring Sylvester Croom, the SEC’s first African-American head football coach and Mullen’s predecessor, to becoming the first SEC team to play a team from the Southwestern Athletic Conference, made up of historically black universities, when it beat Jackson State in this season’s opener.

“We want to make Mississippi State the destination for kids in Mississippi,” Stricklin said. “We think we best represent the demographics of the state. We have the highest minority enrollment of any school in the SEC. We can be the school that best represents the people of this state.”

Mullen is a New Hampshire native, but he and his wife, Megan, have felt welcome. Megan Mullen said that after the heartbreaking L.S.U. loss, 3,000 to 4,000 people were cheering and ringing their trademark cowbells as the Mullens drove away from the stadium.

“It made me tear up because they’re so darn good to him,” Megan Mullen said, adding, “To see people be that good to him, they know he’s going to turn it around and make winners here.”

Dan Mullen has practically gone door to door to let people know his plan. He said he went on such an intense monthlong speaking tour that at one point he ate catfish, hush puppies and cole slaw four consecutive meals.

That outreach helped rally the fan base. More than 31,000 people showed up for Mississippi State’s spring game, about 20,000 more than the previous high. With the Bulldogs coming off a four-win season, Mullen’s pitch helped season ticket sales hit a record high by more than 3,000. Mississippi State is also on track for its highest average attendance.

Mullen’s bosses attribute those numbers to his energy and vision, all of which he began applying after they hired him at 3 a.m. last December after a marathon interview.

And as Mullen looks across the field Saturday, he will see his mentor, Florida Coach Urban Meyer, and one of his favorite pupils,Tebow. Mullen said he spoke with Tebow after he sustained a concussion at Kentucky but had communicated with Meyer only through occasional text messages.

Although Mullen knows it is a long journey to make Starkville more than just a pit stop on the road to the national title, the next few weeks should offer a gauge of how far Mississippi State must travel.

“I took the job feeling that we could build a championship program here,” Mullen said. “That belief hasn’t changed.”
721 2009-10-23 Re “The Catastrophic Option” (column, The New York Times on the Web, Oct. 19):

Ross Douthat makes a case for medical insurance that would cover “catastrophic” events only. This kind of insurance would have many unfair consequences. People with chronic diseases would want to take out supplemental insurance, but healthy people would not, so premiums would be high.

Consider, for example, what might happen to a person with asthma, cystic fibrosis or rheumatoid arthritis who earns $50,000 a year. Costs of routine care could easily exceed 20 percent of his or her income. The person would have to choose among bad options: get inferior or no care, use up a large part of his or her income on medical bills or buy expensive insurance.

This system forces sick people to bear high costs for chronic illnesses over which they have little control. Only when we include everyone in the risk pool do we have an insurance system that does not punish individuals for being sick.

The writer is assistant clinical professor of medicine at Yale School of Medicine.
722 2009-10-23 “There is a growing sense that we need to lead on this issue and not wait for it to be offered on the Senate floor,” a senior Democratic aide said. “The idea is that it’s better to show some fight.”

As word of Mr. Reid’s intention spread Thursday, centrist senators from both parties said they had come together in an informal group to resist creation of a uniform nationwide public insurance program.

Leaders of the group, including Senators Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, and Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, said they wanted to be sure the bill was not rushed to the floor.

One of the centrists, Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, said: “I am pressing to get a government-run, taxpayer-supported public option out of the bill. I want to rely on a reformed private marketplace.”

Another member of the centrist group, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said: “There are a lot of senators from both sides of the aisle who have a sense of unease about all the bills that have been reported out of committees thus far. In a 60-vote scenario, it is the centrists potentially who will hold the balance of power.”

To get to 60, Mr. Reid would need the vote of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats. Mr. Lieberman, a member of the centrist group, has said he opposes a public option “right now,” but would judge specific proposals in the context of a larger bill.

The public plan is the most divisive issue in the health care debate, even though the Congressional Budget Office says it would probably attract no more than 12 million people. Critics say the public plan would have unfair advantages and could eventually dominate the market, leaving hardly any role for private insurers.

Mr. Reid has long said he personally favors a public plan, without saying if it would be in the bill he takes to the Senate floor.

In writing the Senate bill, Mr. Reid is working closely with White House officials and two other Democratic senators, Max Baucus of Montana and Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut.

“We have to make a decision pretty quickly,” Mr. Dodd said.

But Ms. Snowe said that in meetings with Mr. Reid she had emphasized “the necessity of taking it slow,” so senators fully understood how the bill would work and how it would affect consumers, businesses and their insurance premiums.

“We must not rush this train out of the station,” Ms. Snowe said. She noted that Democrats suffered a setback on Wednesday when they tried to secure swift approval for a bill increasing Medicare payments to doctors without offsetting any of the cost, $247 billion over 10 years.

“That’s a reflection of what could happen if the Democratic leaders do not smooth the pathway” for major health legislation, by giving senators time to study the details, Ms. Snowe said.

She was the only Republican who voted for a health bill approved last week by the Senate Finance Committee. That bill does not include a government-run plan, though bills approved in July by the Senate health committee and by three House committees do include it.

Ms. Collins, Mr. Nelson and Ms. Snowe said they did not like the idea of a uniform government-run insurance plan even if states could opt out.

Mr. Nelson, a former governor, said, “States should have the opportunity to deal with this without a national public option.” Individual states could set up public insurance programs if they want, he said, or they could band together and establish regional public programs.

In the House, Democratic leaders are so confident of their ability to round up the necessary votes that they have told members of their caucus to be prepared for action on the House floor before Veterans Day, Nov. 11.

But the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said he was skeptical. “This talk of the Democrats’ having 218 votes is nonsense,” Mr. Boehner said.

Ms. Pelosi and liberal Democrats favor a “robust” public insurance plan that would use Medicare rates as a basis for paying doctors and hospitals.

That approach received a boost Thursday when 13 House Democrats announced an agreement with Ms. Pelosi that would increase Medicare payments to their states, known for providing high-quality care at a relatively low cost. The states include Iowa, Minnesota, Oregon, Vermont, Washington and Wisconsin.
723 2009-10-23 PARIS — Faced with a growing stink about nepotism, the 23-year-old son of President Nicolas Sarkozy went on national television on Thursday night to announce that he would not seek the presidency of the organization that runs France’s most important business district.

Saying he did not want a “tainted” victory, Jean Sarkozy, a second-year law student and a regional councilor in his father’s old district, Neuilly-sur-Seine, said that he had made the decision after talking with his father, whose popularity, as measured in opinion polls, has suffered from the affair. “I have listened a lot,” he said. “I have thought a lot, and I don’t want a victory tainted by such suspicion.”

The attacks on Jean Sarkozy’s hopes to run ÉPAD, the quasi-governmental agency overseeing development in La Défense, the business district of high-rises on the western edge of Paris where about 150,000 people work, were both gleeful and bitter, with the political opposition talking of nepotism, of “Prince Jean” and the “dauphin,” the king’s heir.

Patrick Devedjian, the departing ÉPAD chief — who at 65 has reached mandatory retirement age and was denied a waiver to run again, presumably to make room for Jean Sarkozy — responded caustically by quoting the 17th-century dramatist Corneille: “For souls nobly born, valor does not await the passing of years.”

Jean Sarkozy said on television that his candidacy was legitimate and that he had been elected to a job that had always meant a seat on the board of ÉPAD. He said that he would seek election on Friday to the board, but that he would not seek the presidency of the board.
724 2009-10-23 In front of the reporters who circled him last Friday, two days after the fine was imposed, Arenas looked like a frustrated fourth grader being held from recess. He spoke while looking down and avoiding eye contact. He alternated between crossing his arms and picking at something seemingly both imaginary and bothersome on one elbow.

The disposition strayed sharply from the persona that Arenas created through his blog and his actions. He called himself Hibachi because of his hot shooting and Agent Zero, a play off his uniform number, 0. He predicted when he would score 50 points, relayed pranks played on teammates and even discussed dropping his baby girl on her bottom. He would toss his jersey into the stands after games. The eccentricity developed its own categorization: “Gilbertology,” coined by the former Wizards coach Eddie Jordan.

“He lets the rain wash his car,” said Larry Hughes, a former teammate on the Wizards. “One-hundred-thousand-dollar car and he doesn’t get his car washed. He lets the rain do it.”

The quirkiness started long before Arenas came to Washington. In 2001, the Golden State Warriors drafted him in the second round out of the University of Arizona. By midseason, Arenas predicted he would be a starter. He was.

He lived in Alameda, around the corner from Otis Smith, then the Warriors’ executive director of basketball operations. The two discussed all topics of life and tugged back and forth on issues. Most of the time, Arenas could not be shaken from his original stance.

“He comes off as kind of crazy, but he’s crazy like a fox,” said Smith, who is now the Orlando Magic’s general manager. “He knows exactly what he’s doing all the time. Exactly.”

After two seasons with the Warriors, Arenas signed with the Wizards as a free agent in August 2003, not long after Michael Jordan was dismissed as the Wizards’ president of basketball operations. Once Arenas joined the Wizards, the ledger started to tip; Arenas began to be seen as part entertainer, part basketball player. As a result, the Wizards developed the personality of an Amateur Athletic Union squad. They were young, talented and mostly juvenile, and only once, in 2005, were they able to get past the first round of the playoffs.

The low point came last season when Washington went 19-63, tied for the second-worst record in the N.B.A. The injured Arenas made cameo appearances in only two games. He also began toning down his outsize persona.

This off-season, the Wizards cleaned house. They hired Coach Flip Saunders, who has a past of deftly handling such diverse personalities as Stephon Marbury and Rasheed Wallace. The Wizards traded for Mike Miller and Randy Foye and signed Fabricio Oberto. Arenas, Brendan Haywood and DeShawn Stevenson, all hampered with injuries last season, are scheduled to return.

As the off-season progressed, Saunders dined with Arenas in Chicago, where Arenas rehabilitated with the renowned trainer Tim Grover. They talked and texted throughout the summer. In Saunders’s offense, the point guard is crucial and ball-dominant. One of the first questions Saunders posed was how Arenas wanted to be viewed — as a blogger or a basketball player.

“When they mention him, they mention that he’s the guy who gives away jerseys after games,” Saunders said. “He wants to be known for the dominant player that he is.”

To some degree, that probably explains Arenas’s new reticence. But beneath the almost silent facade, a more outgoing Arenas probably still remains. After a recent preseason game, teammates joked while he slowly fidgeted with his shirt buttons before he finally addressed reporters. “You ran out of buttons,” Haywood playfully called from an adjacent locker.

Arenas is now grudgingly talking with reporters because he presumably doesn’t want to be fined again. To him, the same reporters who crafted columns and television segments around his uniqueness then turned on him, chiding him for what they saw as his insufficient emphasis on getting healthy and playing. So the blog went, along with some good cheer.

“My blog was entertainment,” Arenas said. “I never really actually gave you guys good quotes. You just took it off my blog and went from there.”

Arenas is still having fun, Wizards General Manager Ernie Grunfeld insisted, and at some point this season, a teammate may wind up with a car full of popcorn, compliments of you know who. But Arenas also seems conscious of his mortality as an athlete and of the limited time to leave a basketball legacy.

“It’s just his two inner selves fighting with each other,” Smith said. “He painted himself into a corner. He doesn’t want to be the crazy guy that always gives the quotes.”

Nick Young is entering his third season as a Wizards swing man. Arenas has been injured so long that Young has not seen the Arenas who wants the ball in his hands as time dwindles, the one who scored 60 points against Kobe Bryant and the Los Angeles Lakers.

“But,” Young said of Arenas’s performance in the exhibition season, “I’ve been seeing it now.”

The more he sees of this more serious Arenas, the less the public may see of the other.

“I’ve loved the game the same as before I got hurt to now,” Arenas said. “That’s why I just want to play it instead of just doing interviews every day about nothing.”
725 2009-10-23 DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — The deputy speaker of Iran’s Parliament appeared on Thursday to reject a draft plan to have Iran ship its uranium abroad for processing, based on comments broadcast by the official news agency IRNA.

The deputy speaker, Mohammad Reza Bahonar, made his remarks a day after Iranian negotiators agreed to a tentative deal after three days of talks with world powers in Vienna. The deal would delay Iran’s ability to build a nuclear weapon for about a year, buying time for the United States and its allies to search for a broader diplomatic solution to the Iranian nuclear standoff.

Mr. Bahonar said the terms of the deal, under which Iran would ship its uranium abroad and receive processed nuclear fuel in return, were “not acceptable,” IRNA reported. But he went on to note that “we have announced that this draft plan has to be reviewed, and for the time being we are not saying whether we accept or reject it.”

Mr. Bahonar’s comments were not an official reaction to the deal, which awaits approval by Tehran and Washington by Friday, and the Iranian Parliament itself will not be voting on it.

However, his comments often reflect the views of the influential speaker of Parliament, Ali Larijani, who previously led negotiations on nuclear issues as the head of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. There has been no reaction to the proposed nuclear deal from the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, or from the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has final authority over affairs of state.

Some analysts said the plan could meet some resistance from Iranian leaders because it reduced Iran’s control over its stockpiles of nuclear fuel. But Ali Asghar Soltanieh, Iran’s representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency, described the proposal as an Iranian one, not something imposed by the West.

Under the draft agreement, Iran would ship about three-quarters of its known stockpiles of nuclear fuel to Russia, for conversion into fuel rods that could be used only in a civilian nuclear reactor. Iran has insisted that it has no intention of building nuclear weapons.
726 2009-10-23 Some new products do not get as extensive, or expensive, a start as “White Collar,” which stars Matt Bomer as a charming expert forger-thief who must work with the New York-based F.B.I. agent (played by Tim DeKay) who put him in prison.

The campaign uses several snappy lines to summarize the gist of the series, among them “The world’s smartest criminal is now the F.B.I.’s newest agent” and “To solve the hardest crimes, hire the smartest criminal.”

Such high-concept premises are par for the course at USA, which seeks shows that can fit comfortably under the umbrella of its image campaign, “Characters welcome,” created by Mono in Minneapolis.

“We won’t greenlight a show if it doesn’t feel it belongs on USA,” said Bonnie Hammer, president at USA as well as NBC Universal Cable Entertainment and Universal Cable Productions, units of the NBC Universal division of General Electric.

“What separates us from the others is that the characters have to be relatable,” she added, meaning they are “quirky, exceptional, just a little off,” without being “dysfunctional” or exuding “negativity.”

“It has to be blue sky,” Ms. Hammer said, and she meant that literally as well as figuratively: USA wants “more shooting outdoors” for its series like “Burn Notice,” she explained, which was relocated to Miami from its original setting of Newark.

And for “White Collar,” “we don’t want to go into the darker, bleaker world of thievery,” Ms. Hammer said, so the scripts present Mr. Bomer’s character, Neal Caffrey, as much more Robin Hood than white-collar crook.

The stakes are high as USA brings out “White Collar” because it is “the first time we’ve ever launched a new, original series in the fourth quarter,” Ms. Hammer said.

The fourth quarter is when the big broadcast networks start their prime-time seasons, flooding the airwaves with new series — and the media with ads to woo viewers for those series.

Historically, cable channels like USA had avoided fall premieres, but as cable ratings rise — and broadcast ratings decline — channels like USA, FX, TBS and TNT are emboldened to introduce shows when the broadcasters do.

“Premiering it now is a definite step in the right direction for cable, stepping up to the plate in fourth quarter and beyond,” said Marc Berman, television analyst for the trade publication Mediaweek.

Making that task easier, Mr. Berman wrote in an e-mail message, “White Collar” conforms to the USA template of shows that are original but “already have a familiar and easy feel.”

As a result, “I think ‘White Collar’ will absolutely work for USA,” he said. “In fact, I predict a record performance.”

To help “White Collar” stand out amid the fall flood of new shows, said Chris McCumber, executive vice president for marketing, digital and brand at USA, the premiere was scheduled after most of the new broadcast series had debuted.

“It’ll be a little easier to break through the clutter because the network marketing will have died down a bit,” he added.

Because of what Ms. Hammer called the “character-centric” approach at USA, the promotional efforts for its series require perhaps more participation from cast members than for shows on other networks.

That, however, is fine with Mr. Bomer, who joined the USA executives for an interview.

“It hasn’t felt like work at all,” Mr. Bomer said, which prompted Ms. Hammer to joke, “so we’ll book him more now.”

Mr. Bomer said the “Characters wanted” theme at USA meant that “everybody knows what race they’re running” as they introduce a series, including the marketing and public relations executives, the cast and top management.

“Of course there’s a certain pressure that comes with that,” Mr. Bomer said, particularly as “White Collar” puts the “USA hot streak on the line,” to quote a headline in Variety.

But “I trust these guys in putting us out there,” he added. “The rest is up to the zeitgeist.”
727 2009-10-23 Cities routinely look to one another for advice on public projects. But expenses rarely go much beyond the cost of a long-distance phone call, or a three-course lunch.

“In the normal course of business, you do check in with colleagues at other agencies around the world,” Mr. Soffin said. “This is a more intensive thing we’re talking about. It wouldn’t be in the normal course of business for someone to come over here for two, three, four weeks at a time.”

Arguably, the authority is already paying more than $600,000 annually for English expertise. Mr. Walder, who helped turn around the struggling London system with a series of high-tech innovations, is earning $350,000 a year as chairman, as well as retirement and housing benefits. He also hired a former London lieutenant, Charles Monheim, as his chief operating officer, at a salary of $285,000 a year. Several transit experts said the deal had to be handled with caution.

“A no-bid contract with a former employer could set a bad precedent,” said Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. “Mr. Walder has to bend over backwards here to explain what exactly these people will bring to the table that we can’t get through the expertise for which we’re already paying him.”

Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign, a riders’ advocacy group, said that he could see why some might be cynical about the deal. “But I think he’s made a case that he’s going to get value for the deal,” Mr. Russianoff said, speaking of Mr. Walder. “He deserves a chance to do it on his own terms.”

The contract must be approved by the authority’s board. It is to vote at a meeting on Wednesday.

One application of London’s fare card technology gave discounts to riders during off-peak hours, like nights and weekends, a model that Mr. Walder has said he would look to introduce in New York.

Politicians and members of the authority’s board said on Thursday that they were open to the discounted fare idea, but that they would prefer more time to review it.

“Off-peak pricing makes sense in a lot of situations,” said Allen P. Cappelli, a board member appointed by Gov. David A. Paterson. “But you would have to look at how it impacts revenue.”

Susan G. Metzger, a board member from Orange County, said, “I want to sit back and see what it really entails for us.” She said she wondered if the discounts would really encourage more people to use mass transit on weekends. “Many people who use the subway don’t really have an alternative. The only alternate would be a taxi, and our subway pricing is pretty good.”

A spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who controls 4 of 14 votes on the authority’s board, said that the mayor had previously supported similar off-peak discounts for Port Authority bridges and tunnels and would consider Mr. Walder’s idea.

Straphangers asked about the plan on Thursday said they would welcome the lower fares. “It would save New York money; we deserve it to be lowered,” said Shakiba Hickman, 31, of the Bronx, who commutes on the subway to her job at the Hotel Beacon. “We want lower fares, but better service. We have to be working around the M.T.A., not the M.T.A. working around us.”

But others said they were skeptical that off-peak pricing could change the way they use the transit system.

“There’s the comfort factor,” said Alan Chung, 28, as he waited for the Times Square shuttle. “If it’s a late night, you’re out with your girlfriend, she’s in her high heels, you’re not going to hop on the train.”

His companion, Theresa Khuu, 24, of San Francisco, agreed. “You’re asking people to change their lives,” she said.
728 2009-10-23 The American Express Company posted stronger-than-expected quarterly earnings Thursday as it trimmed costs, a decline in consumer spending stabilized, and bad loans eased.

Net income fell to $640 million, or 53 cents a share, from $815 million, or 70 cents a share, a year earlier, the company said.

Excluding a gain of $180 million related to foreign subsidiaries, American Express earned 44 cents a share, topping Wall Street forecasts for 38 cents a share.

The company said expenses declined 17 percent, to $3.9 billion, as it trimmed jobs and cut expenses for marketing and its rewards program.

Total card spending fell 11 percent in the United States from the third quarter of 2008. However, it showed an improvement against a 16 percent contraction in the second quarter.

“Overall billings have stabilized during the last few months and we saw indications that spending by corporate card members is beginning to pick up,” the chief executive, Kenneth Chenault, said in a statement.
729 2009-10-23 Every stock market spree is sustained by soothing illusions. Investors in the ’20s took comfort from the creation of the Federal Reserve System in 1913. Now buttressed by a central bank, Wall Street believed that the business cycle had been repealed, and the presumed safety net encouraged investors to buy the dips and ride out the most turbulent fluctuations. Three consecutive Republican presidents — Warren Harding, Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover — cut taxes, weakened antitrust laws and promised not to meddle with Wall Street.

The stock exchange was a rigged market that made no claims to fairness. Speculators operated more than a hundred “pools” that openly manipulated individual stocks and sometimes bribed financial journalists. Their flamboyant managers — William Crapo Durant, Michael Meehan, Joseph P. Kennedy and Jesse Livermore — became folk heroes, their raffish exploits reported in gossip columns, giving Wall Street a louche glamour. Hot stock tips, circulated by waiters and bootblacks, made old-fashioned research superfluous. For many participants, a whiff of sin only enhanced the stock market’s seduction. Small investors imagined that the large speculators who dominated the exchange could, if necessary, levitate the market and prevent unpleasant crack-ups.

Even as the stock boom captured the national imagination, most Americans sat safely on the sidelines. In a population of 125 million, fewer than two million took a flier in stocks, but their impact was magnified by half a million margin accounts. Under the lax standards in effect, investors could plunk down a small fraction of a stock’s value and borrow the rest. Banks showered this brokers’ loan market with funds, and many corporations channeled spare cash there as well. Since much of this money was raised on the stock exchange in the first place, it created a self-perpetuating speculative machine. Margin loans equivalent to one-fifth the value of listed stocks poised the market on a tall but shaky scaffolding.

Compounding the leverage problem was the vogue for mutual funds, known then as investment trusts. Their managers were supposed to shelter small investors from speculative swings, but these professionals proved as faddish as everyone else. Pumped up with borrowed money, they invested in other highly indebted trusts in a never-ending chain of speculation.

Those who questioned the New Era gospel were ostracized as knaves or fools. The most persistent spoilsport was the economist Roger Babson, whose gloomy forecasts were mocked even as the economy stagnated in the sweltering summer of 1929. On Sept. 5, 1929, Babson reiterated his doomsday cry: “Sooner or later a crash is coming, and it may be terrific.” This time, instead of yawning, the market sold off sharply in what was dubbed the “Babson Break” — the first sign of market fragility. President Hoover turned to Thomas W. Lamont, the senior partner of J. P. Morgan & Co., for reassurance. Five days before Black Thursday, Lamont obliged him with this stunning bromide: “The future appears brilliant.”

ON the morning of Thursday, Oct. 24, 1929, the stock market imploded from the sheer weight of its own excesses. Stocks suffered such precipitous drops that there were tearful scenes on the exchange floor and the visitors’ gallery was cleared. Wall Street was thronged by distraught investors, who emitted a haunting moan as their life savings evaporated.

At noon, the crowd thrilled to the sight of Wall Street titans hurrying up the steps of the House of Morgan. Led by Lamont, the emergency meeting included Charles Mitchell and Albert Wiggin of Chase National Bank. Conspicuously missing were any government figures; it was a throwback to earlier panics, when financiers orchestrated their own rescues. The bankers pledged $240 million to stabilize the market. At 1:30, Dick Whitney, acting president of the stock exchange, strode ostentatiously to the United States Steel trading post and barked out a bid for 10,000 shares at a price several points higher than the previous trade. To cheers, he re-enacted this inspirational scene with other stocks. Such was the residual mystique of Wall Street bankers that the market rallied vigorously and closed only marginally lower. The next day, The Wall Street Journal ran a hopeful headline: “Bankers Halt Stock Debacle.”

This first act of the 1929 crash suggested that the smart money was powerful enough to tame an unruly market. Heavy selling on Monday, however, convinced investors that Thursday’s turbulence hadn’t been a fluke, but the first tremor of an earthquake. At Tuesday’s opening, tremendous waves of selling set off pandemonium on the trading floor. The overloaded ticker tape lagged two and a half hours behind trading as 16.5 million shares changed hands. When the final numbers were in, stocks had lost a quarter of their value in two days. The shock and pain were manifest in photos of ruined men standing on Wall Street. This time, the notion that somebody would save them — the bankers, the Fed, the big-time speculators — had proven a cruel mirage.

On farms and in small towns, the crash was greeted with puritanical glee: the city slickers had gotten their comeuppance. Exaggerated accounts of investors taking fancy dives from upper-story ledges underscored the urban nature of stock investing in the ’20s. Unlike the 2009 crash, the 1929 debacle didn’t topple major banks or corporations. It simply wiped out a generation of speculators.

In retrospect, the 1929 crash stands as the dark gateway to the Great Depression, though not its direct cause. In its aftermath, government moved with unwonted vigor to shore up the economy. George Harrison, head of the New York Fed, bought large amounts of government bonds and slashed the rediscount rate. President Hoover pleaded with business to preserve wage levels, and some major companies increased their dividends. In mid-November, a tremendous rally drove stocks up 25 percent in a few days. By February 1930, The New York Times editorialized that “the patient” was now headed for a complete recovery. The next month, Hoover predicted that the “worst effects of the crash” would soon be over, and by April the stock market had recouped almost half of its October losses.

The cheerleading proved premature. In the fall of 1930, cascading bank failures signaled a full-blown economic disaster. The stock market began to sink, not with huge selling bursts, but in an unrelenting slide that whittled stock prices daily, shaving almost 90 percent of the Dow’s value from its September 1929 peak to the summer of 1932. Aside from those bankrupted by margin calls, the worst calamities occurred not among investors who sold in panic after the crash, but among bargain-hunters who swooped down afterward in what had seemed a once-in-a-lifetime buying opportunity.

Starting in 1933, a secret history of the crash was unearthed by Ferdinand Pecora, the chief counsel of the Senate Banking Committee, who interrogated witnesses in sensational hearings. He revealed that Charles Mitchell and other National City executives had cushioned their stock losses by tapping interest-free loans from a special bank fund, while Albert Wiggin made millions selling short his own bank’s shares. Such revelations dashed forever the notion that Wall Street could effectively police itself. With Pecora’s help, the Roosevelt administration created a transparent regulatory framework that has shaped financial markets to the present day.

New Deal financial reformers were fortunate that the crash had followed the satisfying script of a morality play, with sin and repentance followed by redemption. The wicked ways of Wall Street in the ’20s could be comfortably told in a fireside chat. Franklin Roosevelt had a bunch of rich rascals to chastise — unscrupulous individuals rather than irresponsible institutions, as in our own recent decline. The blatant stock market abuses were comprehensible to ordinary citizens, quite unlike the exotic credit derivatives and mortgage-backed securities that baffle us today. And the Great Depression that followed the 1929 crash fostered a climate for reform that has proven hard to replicate.

However severe, our current predicament seems mild compared to the calamitous unemployment of the early 1930s. Hence, average Americans, mystified by the complexities of finance today, still await a new season of financial reform.
730 2009-10-23 “Marin has always wanted to limit growth, and certainly water has been one way to do that,” said Phyllis Faber, a biologist who has been a leader in land preservation fights in the county. “The beauty of this place is outstanding. It’s almost a European culture where people go hiking and biking on weekends, and people want to preserve that.”

Today, the county is richer, whiter, older and slower-growing than most of the rest of the region.

In more arid parts of the world like the Middle East, desalination, a variety of techniques that remove salt from water, has been an accepted means of producing potable water for decades. More than 100 such plants exist, and recently the first large-scale desalination plant on the West Coast, proposed on a site north of San Diego, cleared a major hurdle.

At the same time, four other Bay Area water agencies are conducting joint tests to find an appropriate site for another plant.

But if desalination comes to Marin County, it will involve a battle.

Though the Marin Municipal Water District only recently approved the plant’s environmental impact report, and the facility still needs several agencies’ approval, an environmental group has already filed a lawsuit to block the plant.

Frank Egger, board president of North Coast Rivers Alliance, which is the lawsuit’s lead plaintiff, said that if people “properly manage water resources, there is no need for a desalination plant in Northern California.”

“The bay is in decline,”Mr. Egger said, “and it can’t afford this amount of water being extracted” without further hurting the fisheries.

Cliff Waldeck, a desalination supporter who is the former chairman of the Bay Area’s regional water board, said: “When I talk to people in the water supply world, they all say Marin is in deep trouble. The county now depends on a quarter of its water from the Russian River, and Sonoma County, which sells us the water, is growing and will soon need that water, especially as decisions favoring fish habitat further restrict available supplies.”

The water district maintains that its water supply — drawn mainly from seven reservoirs on the county’s wet, western flank — does not meet water needs, and that without new supplies by 2030 it will be short water for about 21,000 households. Conservation programs have cut district residents’ use by 15 percent in the last two decades, and the average Marin household uses just 283 gallons a day, which is about three-quarters of the average household use in the Bay Area.

The district’s general manager, Paul Helliker, says it needs more water to weather another severe drought like the one in 1976-77, when the district had to build a pipe across the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge and import water it bought elsewhere.

While the battle over the $105 million Marin plant heats up, few may recall a crucial choice made by the water district when it opted in the 1960s to rely on its reservoirs and to buy Russian River water instead of State Water Project supplies.

“One vocal element in Marin was like ‘not in my backyard,’ ” said Art Winslow, a veteran state civil engineer. “They didn’t want Los Angeles-type growth, and they felt if they restricted water, that would restrict growth.”

In the last three decades, other counties around San Francisco have bulged with newcomers, while Marin has grown the least, up less than 20 percent to about 258,000 people.

Compared with other Bay Area counties, Marin’s average home price is the highest — $713,000, according to DataQuick, a firm that tracks housing prices.

Beyond fears of growth, many environmentalists believe a desalination plant on San Francisco Bay, one of the world’s richest ecosystems, would have a disastrous impact.

The Sierra Club wants more study of the plant proposal. One concern is that “these plants are very energy intensive at a time when California is attempting to lead efforts to reduce global warming,” said Jim Metropulos, the club’s water expert.

Mr. Metropulos added that other viable options should be explored, like improvements in the district’s conservation program and its water recycling program.

The proposed plant would use a “reverse osmosis” method of desalination, using high pressure to push saltwater through permeable membranes that filter out the salt. Once freshwater was extracted, leftover brine would be returned to the bay. Eventually, Mr. Helliker says, the plant could be expanded to produce 15 million gallons a day. The proposal also pledges to find ways to mitigate completely the plant’s carbon imprint.

One of the bay species put most at risk from the plant’s intake pipes would be herring, whose population has declined sharply in San Francisco Bay in recent years. Underscoring herrings’ fragile status, the state recently banned commercial fishing of the species in San Francisco Bay this winter.

Joe Dillon of the National Marine Fisheries Service says that if the district cannot find ways “to limit the mortality of species drawn into the plant intake pipes, it will have to mitigate those losses, and there’s plenty of opportunities, such as restoration of eelgrass beds where herring may lay their eggs.”

“It’s a matter of political will and money,” Mr. Dillon said.

At this stage, the district has not decided whether to have the public vote on the proposed plant. Cynthia Koehler, one of four elected Marin Municipal Water District members who would vote on any final plant proposal, said she was open to desalination but was not now a supporter.

In the long run, however, even though Marin County’s growth is predicted to be relatively slow, Ms. Koehler said she saw desalination on the horizon.

“My sense is desalination is likely in the Bay Area region at some point in the next 50 years as it becomes clearer the region’s reliance on Sierra snowpack has reached its limit,” she said, “and the state as a whole turns more to local sources of supply.”
731 2009-10-23 Credit Suisse reported its third consecutive quarterly profit Thursday, exceeding some analysts’ expectations. Strong earnings at its investment banking unit helped it rebound from a big loss in the same period a year earlier.

The profit was 2.4 billion Swiss francs ($2.38 billion) in the third quarter, in contrast to a loss of 1.3 billion francs in the same period last year. Credit Suisse’s investment banking business posted a pretax profit of 1.8 billion francs, up 5 percent from the second quarter, and a reversal from the loss of 3.2 billion francs it posted in the third quarter last year.

Record low interest rates have helped banks generate higher revenue from their fixed-income operations, and Credit Suisse’s private banking business benefited from large inflows of cash as its competitors struggled. Credit Suisse, which did not take government aid to survive the financial crisis, followed banks like Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase in reporting higher earnings in the quarter.

“Credit Suisse is definitely a winner,” said Guy de Blonay, a fund manager at Henderson Global Investors in London. “The business is in very good shape and it is very well capitalized.”

Credit Suisse is gaining market share in investment banking activities as some competitors remain paralyzed by a weaker capital position and a need to reduce risk. Credit Suisse’s earnings benefited from strong results in areas like bond and foreign exchange trading, cash equities, United States leveraged finance and secondary trading in United States residential mortgage-backed securities.
732 2009-10-23 The Doris Duke Charitable Foundation has donated the once-endangered objects to museums and has financed restoration. The Asian Art Museum is showing about 100 of its Duke gifts in “Emerald Cities: Arts of Siam and Burma, 1775-1950,” an exhibition that opens on Friday. In galleries painted smoky lilac, charcoal or bright green, inlaid glass chips gleam on upholstered benches, shadow puppets of monkeys fight demons and princes ride elephants on cloth paintings.

The museum staff spent 7,000 hours cleaning and repairing the Duke material. Videos at the exhibition show conservators fitting together jigsaw puzzles of fallen paint flakes. The videos also explain how the current displays are reinforced to withstand earthquakes: anchors and thin wires are woven into the mounts, and a lacy brass goose about five feet tall is posted on a plain boxy pedestal that conceals 1,600 pounds of counterweights.

Exhibitions about porcelain factories can make museumgoers, well, glaze over.

Yet four major shows this fall are devoted to single European ceramics manufacturers. The curators are bringing out the companies’ weirder products and placing them with mouthwatering accessories to win over visitors expecting cases full of floral teacups.

At the Hillwood Museum in Washington 18th-century Sèvres vases with elephants or goats for handles, as well as 1970s plates in polygonal or drip patterns, were unveiled on Tuesday in “Sèvres Then and Now: Tradition and Innovation in Porcelain, 1750 — 2000.” On Nov. 19 the Birmingham Museum of Art in Alabama is opening an all-Wedgwood gallery, where eerie Victorian black basalt figures of a hedgehog and a pauper will face 1960s monochrome vases with sags and bulges.

Even more varied Wedgwood — including a pastel blue telephone, pink high-heeled shoes and a white sink, all made of you-guessed-it — are on view in “Wedgwood: 250 Years of Innovation and Artistry,” at the Daughters of the American Revolution Museum in Washington. Chess pieces, bookends, an eggbeater and a hatpin also made it into the array of about 200 pieces. But the curators did run out of room for a Barbie doll wearing a Wedgwood medallion necklace, said Diane Dunkley, the museum’s director.

At the Metropolitan Museum of Art a gallery near the cafeteria stairs displays 18th-century Viennese porcelain from the little-known and slightly wacky Du Paquier workshop. Dragons and leaping fish protrude from vases and tureens. A panther crouches on a sweetmeats bowl, a salamander dangles from a tankard rim, and a bell for summoning servants is shaped like a chambermaid.

On a linen-covered table laden with sweets in the center of the room, the gold forks and knives have colorful Du Paquier handles. Between place settings the British culinary historian and sugar sculptor Ivan Day has arranged copies of 1740s sugar- paste decorations. The pavilions, flowers, lemons and figs “really stop a lot of people in their tracks,” said Jeff Munger, the show’s curator. “Something food related seemed perfectly appropriate here, for our captive audience of four million people yearly going to the cafeteria.”

At Hillwood in Washington, Mr. Day built sugar flower baskets and a classical temple around turquoise 1770s dessert plates. The show’s curator, Liana Paredes, said that the sight of sweets will keep visitors entertained, as will her restraint in showing just 90 Sèvres pieces with experimental forms and sometimes royal provenances. “I didn’t want people to go on overload,” she said.

After wealthy American women largely stopped busying themselves with needlework in the early 1900s, collectors started amassing the obsolete, luxurious sewing kits. That generation of early buyers, mostly women, is dying off, and large collections are breaking up. On Saturday Jeffrey S. Evans & Associates in Mount Crawford, Va., in the Shenandoah Valley, is auctioning 3,000 American and European sewing implements from the estate of a Florida collector named Anne Powell.

The lots, many of them with estimates in the $100 range, may find new audiences of folk art or pop culture collectors. Rarefied devices like spool knaves and tatting shuttles are made of gold and ivory and shaped like whiskey bottles and vacuum cleaners. “There are wonderful, whimsical things,” said Mr. Evans, the auctioneer, who also has high hopes for the toy machines from Singer’s Sewhandy line. “People just go crazy for those,” he said.
733 2009-10-23 The American Booksellers Association, which represents independently owned bookstores, has sent a letter to the Justice Department asking it to investigate what it describes as “predatory pricing” by Amazon, Wal-Mart and Target.

In the letter dated Thursday, the association argues that steep discounting on 10 hardcover titles by authors including John Grisham, Stephen King and Barbara Kingsolver “is damaging to the book industry and harmful to consumers.”

The price war began last week when Wal-Mart announced that it would offer Walmart.com customers who preordered any of 10 of the coming holiday season’s biggest potential best sellers the chance to buy the books in hardcover editions for just $10. Typically new hardcovers sell for $25 to $35, although some discounting is common.

Amazon.com quickly matched Wal-Mart’s preorder price on the same books, which include “Ford County” by Mr. Grisham, “Under the Dome” by Mr. King and “Going Rogue,” Sarah Palin’s memoir. Wal-Mart then lowered the price to $9, and Amazon followed suit. By late Friday afternoon Wal-Mart had cut another penny off the price.

On Monday, Target entered the fray by offering six of the preorder titles on Target.com for $8.99. By Tuesday Wal-Mart had lowered the price on those titles to $8.98.

The association’s letter, which is signed by the group’s nine board members, accused the retailers of “devaluing the very concept of the book” and effectively selling the books at a loss in an “attempt to win control of the market for hardcover best sellers.” Retailers typically pay publishers a wholesale price of half the list price of a hardcover book — so on a $35 hardcover, the retailer pays $17.50, meaning that it loses money on a $9 consumer price.
734 2009-10-23 LOS ANGELES — “Law & Order,” the long-running NBC series about crime and punishment, rarely shies away from inflammatory topics, and Friday night it takes on one of the most contentious — abortion — for just the third time in the program’s 20 seasons.

In the show’s customary ripped-from-the-headlines style, the new episode focuses on the murder, in a church, of a doctor who performs late-term abortions. Though the episode, which will be broadcast at 8 p.m. Eastern and Pacific time, begins with the disclaimer that the story “is fictional and does not depict any actual person or event,” its outlines closely track the case of Dr. George R. Tiller, a prominent provider of late-term abortions who was shot and killed in a church in Wichita, Kan., on May 31.

Leading up to what is essentially a character-driven debate about abortion, NBC has tread a fine line between promoting the episode and its topic to attract viewers to an otherwise slow night of television and trying not to draw too much attention to it.

The network ranks last this season among the four major broadcast networks in total viewers and among young adults. It has promoted its abortion episode to television writers, sending a screening copy along with a letter from Dick Wolf, the creator and an executive producer of the series, who called it “the most controversial episode of the series” since it first addressed the topic in its debut season.

The network similarly promoted an episode of “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit” that was broadcast on Wednesday that dealt with pedophila.

But Mr. Wolf and NBC executives declined to be interviewed about the decision to explore the topic of abortion. In response to questions, NBC and the producers issued a statement that said: “For 20 seasons the Emmy-winning ‘Law & Order’ has explored a variety of controversial topics, and the episode ‘Dignity’ does just that. Viewers will see a balanced, thought-provoking drama about abortion.”
735 2009-10-23 An accounting problem in the way some greenhouse gas emissions are calculated could critically hobble efforts to reduce them in coming years as nations move to combat global warming, scientists warn in a new report.

The accounting irregularity even gives the impression that clearing the world’s forests, which absorb and thereby diminish heat-trapping carbon dioxide, is good for the climate, the scientists write in an article published Friday in the journal Science.

The problem boils down to this: In emission calculations, all fuel derived from plants and other organic sources — including ethanol — is generally treated as if it has no effect on carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, even though though biofuels do emit carbon dioxide when burned.

This might make sense if the source of the fuel were, say, a crop of corn grown on barren land specifically for use as fuel, because the crop would have absorbed carbon dioxide as it grew, offsetting what it emits when ultimately burned.

But if an existing stand of forest land is cleared for fuel, its ability to absorb carbon dioxide is lost, and the net balance of the gas in the atmosphere goes up.
736 2009-10-23 FRANKFURT (Reuters) — The European Central Bank has warned that E.U. plans to tighten regulation of hedge funds and other alternative investors risk creating a two-tier playing field that could drive the industry out of Europe.

European governments and the European Parliament have the final say on a new law that will require a wide range of alternative investment fund managers to register and disclose information to supervisors if they want to operate in the 27-nation bloc.

In a legal opinion published on its Web site, the E.C.B. backed stronger controls for the lightly regulated sector but warned that unless other countries adopted similar rules, the plans would leave Europe at a disadvantage and could drive funds to shift to states with looser regimes.

“An internationally coordinated response is necessary given the highly international nature of the industry and the consequent risks of regulatory arbitrage and evasion,” the E.C.B. said.

“The E.C.B. urges the Commission of the European Communities to continue the dialogue with its international partners, in particular the United States, to ensure a globally coherent regulatory and supervisory framework.”
737 2009-10-23 “The dogs and horses rule around here,” said Ms. Leary, a writer who has developed a loyal following on her blog (annleary.com/blog) detailing the Learys’ life in the country.

They bought the 1850s farmhouse on 50 acres for $795,000 in 1997. “The first thing my husband did when he got famous was buy me a horse,” Ms. Leary said. The horse was boarded in Southbury, Conn., where the couple would ride then look at real estate. (Unlike Ms. Leary, who rides English, Mr. Leary takes western lessons. “Those tight English britches? I’m not doing that, no way,” he said.)

They wanted an old farmhouse that wasn’t directly beside a road. “The trouble with a lot of these great old houses is they’re not very private,” she said. “But we got lucky.”

The town decommissioned the half-mile dirt road that passes by the house they chose, making it the Learys’ private driveway, impossible to locate on an online mapping service or with a GPS. “It can be tricky for delivery people, but somehow they find us.”

After extensive renovations and additions the family started spending weekends in the 6,190-square-foot home 10 years ago. Ms. Leary spends more time in Roxbury than at the family’s sleek, sprawling SoHo apartment, but Mr. Leary can make it here only on weekends because “Rescue Me,” which he started in 2004 as a tribute to the New York firefighters who responded to the Sept. 11 attacks, is to end in 2011, and the cast and crew have until June to film the final two seasons.

“We’ve got 13 episodes to do by then, which is like shooting six movies,” Mr. Leary said. “We’ve got a lot of action sequences and fire stunts that are really hard to shoot. But it’s actually a total blast. We have way too much fun.”

Come Saturday mornings he makes the 90-minute drive to Roxbury, where he plays hockey on his backyard rink with his “Rescue Me” co-star Mike Lombardi, also of Roxbury, and various college and firefighter buddies (real firefighters and actors). The Learys’ 19-year-old son, Jack, a sophomore at his parents’ alma mater, Emerson College in Boston (they met when Mr. Leary was teaching a comedy-writing workshop), also plays when he’s home.

Jack, who was born premature while the Learys were on a trip to London in 1990, weighed just 2 pounds 6 ounces at birth, and is now 6 foot 5. Ms. Leary, 47, chronicled his birth in her memoir, “An Innocent, a Broad,” published in 2004.

She has also written a well-received novel, “Outtakes From a Marriage,” a composite of dysfunctional Hollywood. She just finished another, about an alcoholic woman on the Massachusetts coast, and is working on a fourth book, “about animals and their amazing relationships with people,” she said.

Mr. Leary, 52, wrote his best-selling book, “Why We Suck: A Feel Good Guide to Staying Fat, Loud, Lazy and Stupid,” in a converted barn by the house, a space filled with photos of the Boston Red Sox and at times strewn with cigarette butts and coffee cups.

He writes “Rescue Me” episodes from a laptop in the living room, often while watching a Red Sox or Boston Bruins game.

Saturday nights are for lively family dinners, with healthy portions of laughter and good-natured teasing. “You should see it at the dinner table,” said Devin, a senior at a Connecticut prep school. “We laugh nonstop, especially when Jack is here.”

In some ways Mr. Leary is continuing a family tradition. He was born in Worcester, Mass., the son of Irish immigrants who drove home an ethic of working hard and never quitting, he said. His large extended family would gather in the basement for Sunday dinners, and “we’d laugh and scream and argue and try to off each other all night.”

He caught the acting bug when he was just 11, after performing in a school production of “Mame.” As a freshman at Emerson, Mr. Leary formed a comedy troupe that still exists. He has appeared in about 40 films, including “The Sandlot,” “The Ref” and “Wag the Dog,” and was the voice of Diego, the saber-toothed cat in the animated “Ice Age” movies.

Yet it is his scabrous stand-up act that gives him the most satisfaction. “Stand-up comedy and comedy in general is the ultimate form of free speech,” he writes in his book, “because you get to poke holes in all the pretentious bubbles politicians and pundits and popes and pretenders try to float over our heads.”

His trademark sarcasm and world-weary persona aside, Mr. Leary is a generous philanthropist. He founded the Leary Firefighters Foundation after a cousin and a friend died fighting a fire in 1999, and it has raised over $10 million for fire departments and families of firefighters.

Mr. Leary grabbed a yogurt from the refrigerator and started ruminating about his plans once “Rescue Me” concluded. “I really want to do a western film,” he said. “It’s one of my favorite movie genres of all time.”

All three dogs huddled around him and licked the yogurt spoon. “But really,” he said, “my goal is to do nothing — nothing but sit here and watch sports and live off of Ann’s best-selling animal book.”
738 2009-10-23 But the effectiveness of the new policies — and whether they will curtail irresponsible business decisions designed to inflate bonuses — will ultimately be dictated by how the new rules are enforced. Even in Washington, there was skepticism about whether the government would be able to keep ahead of practices that have allowed top executives and others to reap huge financial rewards while their banking companies turned in poor or unsustainable performances.

The principles proposed by the Fed for the nation’s 28 largest banking companies are less strict than those from some European leaders and some members of Congress. They do not impose caps on pay or prohibit multimillion-dollar packages. One senior official predicted that they would do nothing to curtail the lucrative pay at firms like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both regulated by the Fed since becoming bank holding companies last year during the financial crisis.

Instead of pay limits, the Fed rules are intended to discourage pay packages that may encourage risky practices. The government wants to encourage pay packages that reward executives for long-term performance.

Officials acknowledged that it could be months before they would be able to tell whether the Fed’s changes would have the intended effect. Bank examiners will have to be trained on the ties between compensation and risk management. Moreover, compensation consultants have been adept at finding ways to get around pay restrictions.

The officials emphasized that the plan was not intended to make pay packages more socially equitable but was part of a broader effort by the Fed to shore up the stability of the banking system. That effort has included tighter supervision of lending and trading practices and higher requirements for capital held as a cushion against losses.

Even as the Fed was unveiling its plan, Kenneth R. Feinberg, the Treasury official in charge of overseeing pay practices at the companies that received the biggest government bailouts, was providing details about his decision to curb the compensation of the 25 top employees of each of those firms.

At those companies — which include Citigroup, Bank of America, the American International Group, General Motors and Chrysler — future bonus payments will be awarded only after senior executives set corporate performance goals in consultation with Treasury. The bonuses will have to be in the form of restricted stock that cannot be sold until the company repays the government. Executive perks of more than $25,000 for country clubs or corporate cars will need approval from Washington.

But, bowing to concerns that too heavy a hand could lead to a mass exodus of executives, both the Treasury and Fed policies will permit top earners to reap millions of dollars.

Mr. Feinberg said that all the companies had made unacceptable requests. In most cases, he restricted the cash salary to $500,000 and imposed new restraints on stock grants and bonuses tied to company performance over several years.

“I found that the numbers that were submitted by the companies were almost without exception to have been not in the public interest,” Mr. Feinberg said. “They were both too high and the wrong mix of stock and cash.”

Mr. Feinberg said he had made one significant exception to his policy of slashing compensation — for three senior executives at A.I.G. who had signed contracts long before his appointment for multimillion-dollar bonuses. And if Citigroup and Bank of America manage to heal, 22 of the top 34 earners could each wind up making more than $5 million over the next year.

The Fed’s plan, which will take effect some time after a 30-day comment period, will create a two-tier system of supervising pay, using different approaches for the nation’s 28 biggest institutions and the thousands of smaller banks, which would be subjected to a review with their regular bank examinations.

The money center bank holding companies, like JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, would have to present their compensation plans to bank regulators, who would then evaluate whether pay incentives properly balance goals of short-term growth and long-term stability. Bank regulators could demand changes, and would monitor pay practices as part of their regular examinations.

The plan would apply to senior executives and others, like loan officers and traders, whose individual or collective decisions could expose the firm to significant losses.

But the review, including discussions between regulators and the companies, would remain confidential, making it difficult for outsiders to glean any changes prompted by regulators

At Citigroup’s investment banking offices, traders shrugged off the pay rules imposed by Mr. Feinberg as affecting only a handful of the company’s 275,000 employees.

Eugene A. Ludwig, a former Comptroller of the Currency who runs a consulting firm that specializes in regulatory issues, said banking regulators had been reluctant to look at pay practices, thinking it is the province of management. Now, it is rising to the top of their agenda.

“That will change behavior,” he said.
739 2009-10-23 Mr. Obama immediately issued a statement lauding the committee action. “This bill has now passed a major hurdle, and this step sends an important signal to the American people that we will not stand by and allow big financial firms and their lobbyists to mobilize against change,” the president said.

“They are doing what they always do — descending on Congress, using every bit of influence they have to maintain the status quo that has maximized their profits at the expense of American consumers, despite the fact that recently those same American consumers bailed them out as a consequence of the bad decisions that they made.”

Later, the White House issued a statement calling passage of the bill by year’s end essential. “And we think a central part of regulatory reform is a consumer finance protection agency that looks out for, in all of this, normal, everyday consumers,” said Robert Gibbs, the president’s chief spokesman.

Mr. Gibbs said he understood that Senators Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the chairman and ranking Republican, respectively, of the Senate Banking Committee, were working “quickly and expeditiously to ensure financial regulatory reform is something that happens and is written into law.”

The House committee vote on creating a consumer financial protection agency was mostly along party lines. Two Democrats voted against the measure (Travis Childers of Mississippi and Walt Minnick of Idaho) and one Republican voted for it (Michael N. Castle of Delaware).

The vote came a day after the committee voted to give the federal government the power to block states from regulating large national banks in some circumstances. That vote came after committee members reached a compromise on how much authority state regulators should have.

The Obama administration opposed any efforts by the federal government to pre-empt state officials from imposing more rigorous banking standards. A group of Democrats with close ties to the banking industry sought a complete federal pre-emption, which would have the effect of sharply limiting any state regulation of banks.

Under the compromise offered by two House Democrats, Melvin Watt of North Carolina and Dennis Moore of Kansas, and approved by voice vote, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks, would be able to override the states, but only if it found that the state law “significantly” interfered with federal regulatory policies.

On another issue that has been hotly debated for months, the House Agriculture Committee on Wednesday approved a measure to regulate derivatives, the arcane financial instruments that have been linked to the current financial crisis. The Financial Services Committee approved a similar measure last week. (The agriculture panel has jurisdiction because many derivatives involve trading in farm commodities.)
740 2009-10-23 PEORIA, Ill. (AP) — Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment, said Thursday that Douglas R. Oberhelman will become the company’s next chief executive.

The company said Mr. Oberhelman, 56, will succeed the current chief executive, James W. Owens on July 1. Mr. Owens will stay on as chairman until he retires Oct. 31 under a mandatory retirement policy.

Mr. Owens, 63, told the company in 2008 he was planning to retire in the fall of 2010 and has worked with its board over the last year to develop a succession plan. He became the company’s top executive in 2004.

Mr. Oberhelman, a 34-year Caterpillar veteran, currently is the company’s group president, responsible for its engine and gas turbine businesses, human services, rail services and remanufacturing divisions. Earlier, he was its chief financial officer.

Shares of Caterpillar, which is based in Peoria, Ill., fell 73 cents, to $57.21, in early trading.
741 2009-10-23 Just as Congressional leaders are calling for an extension of a popular $8,000 for first-time homebuyers, or even an expansion to all homebuyers, government investigators reported Thursday that audits suggest widespread abuse and errors in the program.

A report from the ’s inspector general said that as of Sept. 30 the had identified 167 possible criminal schemes and opened nearly 107,000 examinations of potential civil violations.

On Wednesday, in the first successful I.R.S. prosecution, a tax preparer in , Fla., James Otto Price III, was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison for fraud in 2008. According to the Justice Department, he claimed the credit for ineligible clients, many of whom were unaware of the action, and electronically paid himself $1,000 of the credit’s value each time.

While government officials said many suspect claims could turn out to be simple errors, the report found examples of claimants who already owned homes or had not yet bought one. Some 582 taxpayers were under 18 years old — as young as 4. Of the 1.4 million people who have claimed nearly $10 billion in credits for 2008 and 2009, 60 percent had incomes below $50,000, raising questions about whether some could afford a home.

The report was released at a hearing of the oversight subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. The subcommittee’s chairman, Representative , Democrat of , announced afterward that he had introduced a bill to give the I.R.S. additional authority to detect and block questionable claims and to require that taxpayers provide documents with their returns to prove they had closed on their purchases.
742 2009-10-23 AT&T reported stronger-than-expected third-quarter profit on Thursday as the iPhone and the low-budget Tracfone service attracted a record number of wireless customers.

While AT&T faces home phone disconnections and a decline in business spending that led it to forecast a small drop in 2009 revenue, strength in its mobile service is offsetting much of the pain. Shares climbed 0.6 percent.

“This is becoming a grindingly familiar pattern with strength in wireless and weakness in wireline,” said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. Wireless service makes up about 44 percent of AT&T’s revenue.

While Apple’s iPhone is paying big dividends, some investors worry about AT&T’s increasing dependence on it because its exclusive right to sell iPhones in the United States is expected to expire next year.

But AT&T said that the iPhone accounted for only about a third of new customers paying monthly bills in the quarter.
743 2009-10-23 It would have been difficult to mistake New York City as a stronghold for the disaffected Anglicans -- upset about the church's acceptance of women and gays in leadership positions -- whom the Vatican this week announced  it would be wooing to joi...
744 2009-10-23 An accounting problem in the way some greenhouse gas emissions are calculated could critically hobble efforts to reduce them in coming years as nations move to combat global warming, scientists warn in a new report.     The accounting irregularity...
745 2009-10-24 The United States filed its extradition request in the Polanski case, and the possible outcomes are now whittled down....
746 2009-10-24 Capmark Financial Group, the big commercial real estate lender, filed for bankruptcy on Sunday afternoon, becoming the latest victim of the troubles in the commercial real estate market....
747 2009-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
748 2009-10-24 Among other things, President Obama criticized big banks for taking stimulus money and then failing to lend it to small customers....
749 2009-10-24 In the last part of a series, the admissions director of the University of Iowa answers readers' questions....
750 2009-10-24 ALBANY (AP) — A federal judge issued an order on Friday lifting an injunction on an expansion of the state’s bottle bill, meaning that nickel deposits will be imposed on bottled water starting Oct. 31.

All containers of water under a gallon will have a 5-cent refundable deposit, as beer and soda containers have had for years.

Gov. David A. Paterson pushed to include the expanded recycling law as part of the budget passed in April, and it was supposed to take effect in June. But it was stayed after a coalition of bottled water companies filed suit in May, claiming that the expanded law was unconstitutional. Laura Haight, a senior environmental associate at the New York Public Interest Research Group, praised the ruling, by Judge Deborah A. Batts of United States District Court, saying the new deposits would result in more recycling and less litter.

The Food Industry Alliance of New York State, a trade group representing groceries, has said the expansion will increase the cost of a 24-pack of water by $2.

Governor Paterson issued a statement on Friday saying that 80 percent of unclaimed deposits would go to the state as much-needed revenue.
751 2009-10-24 Giuliani said he worries daily that the city might revert “to the way it was before 1993,” the year he was elected mayor. He then pointedly added, so that no one within earshot could mistake his not-so-coded meaning: “And you know exactly what I’m talking about.”

It was vintage Giuliani, as subtle as a , deliberately fanning the fears of a community that has long been the locus of tensions between blacks and Jews. And Mayor Bloomberg sat there, allowing that lousy message to be delivered on his behalf.

Mr. Bloomberg has had many opportunities to disavow Mr. Giuliani’s remarks, to say that as a city we’re better than that, to repudiate (as he has before) the very idea that exploiting fear and division for political gain is acceptable in this great city. But he has chosen not to. He chose instead, later that same day, to raise the specter of one of the worst big-city tragedies in American history: , which was laid low by every ill you can imagine, including a catastrophic race riot in 1967.

Detroit, said Mr. Bloomberg, “went from a great city with lots of good-paying jobs to a city that’s basically holding on for dear life.”

Well, that’s true. But what’s that got to do with , or this year’s mayoral election? New York is not an incipient Detroit. New York will not become Detroit if Mike Bloomberg is not re-elected.

The mayor disingenuously said that Detroit’s decline was more about economics than “some other things.” But anyone who knows the sad history of Detroit knows about those “other things.”

This had all the appearance of Mayor Bloomberg piggybacking on Giuliani’s fear-mongering. He picked the worst-case urban scenario available, a crime-ridden, destitute city from which most whites have long since fled, and offered it as a suggestion of what might be in store for New York, a thriving metropolis filled with people from virtually every ethnic group on the planet.

Open a window, please. Some fresh air is in order.

The Mike Bloomberg that New Yorkers came to know during his first two terms as mayor was not the same man who remained shamefully silent last Sunday, willing to benefit politically from Mr. Giuliani’s toxic remarks.

Many of us have seen New York convulsed over the decades by one racially charged controversy after another, sometimes violently convulsed. They come easily to mind: The Central Park jogger case, the police killings of Eleanor Bumpurs, and Patrick Dorismond, the vicious racial attacks in Howard Beach and Bensonhurst, the Tawana Brawley affair, the Crown Heights riot and on and on and on.

The Bloomberg administration has helped shield the city from similar . That the mayor is now willing to lock his principles in a safe deposit box and start riding the broomstick of ethnic politics suggests that he’s worried about the outcome of his race against Mr. Thompson (even though public opinion polls and most of the people I talk to expect Bloomberg to win).

One of the ironies at work here is that it is during the toughest economic times that a city, more than ever, needs a mayor who is committed to bringing people together, not playing them off against one another for short-term political gain. This is absolutely the worst time for that point to have slipped Michael Bloomberg’s mind.
752 2009-10-24 The Environmental Protection Agency, resolving a lawsuit aimed at cutting the flow of mercury and other toxic substances from coal- or oil-burning power plants, has agreed to develop standards by late 2011 for limiting such emissions.

Environmental and public health groups that had sued the agency in pursuit of a deadline for issuing the standards said the agreement set the stage for closing longstanding gaps, which persisted through the Clinton and Bush administrations, in clean-air rules for power plants.

But groups representing the energy industry and companies that require large amounts of electricity warned of higher energy bills and predicted more litigation when the rules emerge.

According to the E.P.A., American power plants emit close to 50 tons of mercury a year, about a third of the nation’s total emissions of the metal, along with traces of arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, dioxins and other toxic substances.

Under the new agreement, made final in a consent decree issued late Thursday by the Federal District Court in Washington, the deadline for setting standards limiting those substances is Nov. 16, 2011.

John Walke of the Natural Resources Defense Council, one of a dozen groups involved in the litigation, said that as of last December, when the suit was filed, only 28 percent of the coal-burning power plants in the United States had basic scrubbers for such pollution, which he called “a two-decade-old technology.”
753 2009-10-24 Despite the edge Swisher handed him, Fuentes did not take advantage. He ran the count full, leaving himself a pitch away from walking in the tying run.

Fuentes has described himself as a “pretty average” pitcher who succeeds because his deceptive three-quarter delivery can baffle batters. But with a 3-2 count and no open base, there was nothing deceptive about what Fuentes had to do. He had to throw a pitch over the plate.

He did, with a pedestrian 89-mile-per-hour fastball on the outside corner. Swisher jumped on the pitch, but popped it up to shortstop. The Angels had survived a game with dizzying reversals of fortune.

“Obviously, a big hit like that erases a lot of things,” said Swisher, who is now 3 for 29 (.103) in the postseason. “But, hey, it didn’t happen for me. If I get up in that situation again, I’ll be ready.”

If the Angels can win the next two games and advance to the World Series, the Yankees will have an off-season full of regrets. At-bats like the one Swisher had in the ninth inning will be chief among them.

Since Joe Saunders, a left-hander, is starting Game 6 for the Angels, it is unlikely that Manager Joe Girardi will bench Swisher, a switch-hitter. Girardi’s option would be to start Brett Gardner, a left-handed hitter, in center and move Melky Cabrera to Swisher’s position in right.

Asked about the Game 6 lineup at a team workout at Yankee Stadium on Friday afternoon, Girardi was noncommittal, saying he would “sleep on it.” He said it was obvious Swisher was struggling, but that he had done a lot of good things for the Yankees.

“And you look at the matchup against Saunders, he’s had some hits off of Saunders,” Girardi said.

Actually Swisher is 5 for 21 (.238) against Saunders in his career and has more at-bats against him than any other Yankee. He was 1 for 2 with a walk against Saunders in Game 2. Gardner is an energetic player who was 16 for 55 (.291) against left-handers this season.

When Swisher was asked Thursday night about the support Girardi has shown for him by keeping him in the lineup to this point, he became testy. Swisher wondered if a reporter was trying to “stir anything up” by asking about his status.

“I didn’t expect to be out of the lineup, if that’s what you’re asking,” he said. “We feel pretty confident about where we are. This thing is going to come around.”

Because Rodriguez has had a monstrous postseason (.400, 5 home runs, 11 runs batted in) and Derek Jeter has been typically reliable (.314, 3 homers, 5 R.B.I.), they have helped obscure how Swisher, Mark Teixeira (.174), Cano (.212) and Johnny Damon (.211) have often struggled.

Unlike Swisher, however, Teixeira and Cano had big hits in the Yankees’ two-out, six-run rally in the top of the seventh Thursday night, giving them something to build on in Game 6.

Swisher does not have that same foundation. The quick-talking, head-bobbing right fielder, who has added personality to the Yankee clubhouse all season, was visibly subdued after Thursday night’s game, trapped in a postseason slump that he could not escape when he desperately needed to.

“I wanted to come clutch,” he said. “It just didn’t happen.”
754 2009-10-24 Department stores reduce prices when business is typically slow, like right after Christmas. Why couldn’t, say, the impose a congestion surcharge for those rainy Sundays when its exhibits are teeming with more life forms than seems advisable?

If the ever-crowded Shake Shack raised the price of Hand-Spun Shakes to $6.25 from $5.25 on perfect spring days, its customers would surely feel they had been shaken down; then again, they probably already do, and at least on those perfect spring days the higher prices might be spiritually offset by the time saved in shorter lines. Fairway should consider offering a bargain rate on, oh, brie and Earth’s Best baby food from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., in the hope of reducing the number of elbows in its aisles from 5:30 to 7 p.m.

M.T.A. officials considering the lower off-peak fares cite the increased subway use on weekends after the introduction of unlimited-ride monthly MetroCards as evidence that a sense of a bargain might entice more people underground.

Dan Ariely, a behavioral economist and author of “Predictably Irrational,” said in an interview that monthly passes increase subway use partly because they let consumers skirt what’s known as the “pain of paying.” When people do not have to shell out cash for every transaction, it hurts less, and encourages more use, Mr. Ariely explained; in , he noted, authorities have found that people will drive through toll booths more often for shorter trips when they’re using ’s answer to our E-ZPass.

Shelling out the $89 for a monthly , on the other hand — that hurts. And once you’ve done it, you want to swipe that card as often as possible, not so much because you are avoiding the pain of paying, but because it feels like beating the house, even if it means taking four different subways rather than a reasonably priced cab ride. A reduced subway fare on the weekend would not offer that same pleasure, although for someone undecided — should I walk those 10 blocks or be lazy and hop on the subway? — it might tip the balance (and undo whatever Mr. Bloomberg has accomplished by banning hydrogenated fats).

In Mr. Ariely’s opinion, reducing fares on weekends and late hours “is unlikely to be an effective approach.” Instead of reducing all fares by 50 percent on weekends or late at night, he suggested, maybe the transit agency should make every other fare during those hours free, turning a turnstile into a slot machine of sorts. He remembered an experiment he was part of years ago at the , rigging a vending machine so that every third candy bar was free. Sales increased by 30 percent.

The fare card that Mr. Walder helped usher in in — the Oyster card — replenishes itself from the holder’s credit card whenever the balance is low. That kind of payment is convenient, modern, speedy — and savvy for the seller: It all but eliminates the pain of paying. For the physical and financial health of the city, let’s hope Shake Shack does not hit on that idea.
755 2009-10-24 This new structure heightens the center’s visibility. It was built under the guidance of the college’s president, Eduardo J. Martí, and received financial support from the city and New York State, along with private donations, including a $1 million gift from Harriet Kupferberg, a longtime supporter of the college. The center is halfway toward raising a $5 million endowment.

The curators of the new main exhibition are Mr. Flug and the center’s assistant director, Ayala Tamir. KPC Design conceived the displays, dividing the Nazi era into five chronological sections, each portrayed on a four-sided, freestanding column. You walk around them, assisted by a timeline that also becomes a multimedia screen. Each column displays photographs and facts, quotations from some of the survivors we meet in the videos, and artifacts, ranging from a Jewish teenager’s prewar diary to a Hitler Youth dagger.

“Full and Rich Lives; 1919” one is labeled, giving a portrait of Jewish life before the Nazi era; “Ghettos Formed; 1938; Kristallnacht” reads another, on which we read about the “forced isolation and control” of the ghettos. “Extermination; 1943; Germany Declares Itself ‘Judenrein’ ” reminds us that 18,000 people were killed in just one day in 1943 in the camp at Majdanek, Poland.

The survivors in the videos may provide some of the most indelible images. Steve Berger, who was forced by the Nazis into work as a machinist, recalls being taken to replace his broken glasses. He had to choose from thousands piled in one room; they had been shipped from Auschwitz. Rabbi Fabian Schonfeld remembers a rare train conductor in the midst of the relocations of the Jews, who fished Mr. Schonfeld’s phylacteries out of the trash where an SS officer had tossed them and returned them to the young man.

Unfortunately, we are not given enough biographical material about these people to understand who they are or how their excerpted stories fit together. And while their accounts are powerful, it is frustrating that we are missing other specifics and have to guess so much, particularly because it is in the details that the full scale of the Holocaust can be felt.

But these survivors provide one reason for the center’s refusal to shroud itself in darkness. The exhibition opens with a slide show of European Jews before the Holocaust engaged in the most mundane activities: going on a picnic, shopping in a street, gathering for celebrations. All that was destroyed, but another set of photographs appears at the exhibition’s end labeled “Life After the Holocaust,” showing similar normality in the lives of survivors. This is an account of restoration, of emergence into light.

This is a little too glibly bright of course, and, unfortunately, to a certain extent, that is also true of the center’s larger vision, which is not that different from those of other institutions and educational treatments of the Holocaust, even at the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam. In his dedication speech Mr. Martí said that the building was “not a museum.”

“It is not a memorial,” he continued. “It is a laboratory.” It provides the tools to help the 15,000 students at the college learn the “lessons of the Holocaust.”

Those lessons teach tolerance, the importance of combating prejudice, the need to speak out when any group is mistreated. In videos here, students who served as interns and interviewed survivors describe how those talks have made them more enlightened, more aware of prejudice and hatred. One of the other exhibitions at the center shows just how difficult these lessons are, describing other genocides of the past century: in Armenia, Ukraine, China, Cambodia, Bosnia, Rwanda, Darfur.

The broad lesson of tolerance also provides one impetus behind the growth of Holocaust centers; it is partly why this one was placed at the forefront of the Queensborough campus, where students represent more than 140 nationalities. Mr. Flug explained in an interview how the center also helped develop a “hate crimes” curriculum now being introduced into New York City schools.

But this approach is worth examining. Similar lessons, after all, can be drawn from many kinds of injustice; here they seem inadequate to the scope of the evil. They also strip away the Holocaust’s particularity and may even encourage the proliferation of Nazi analogies. It isn’t only the Holocaust that becomes diffuse this way; a museum about black slavery I have seen ends with broad homilies about justice and prejudice.

Why, though, is it necessary to generalize so sweepingly? Does an art exhibition have to justify its attention to a painter with lessons about beauty? Isn’t there something in the particular that should be attended to because it is not general? Does it make sense to say that lack of tolerance is a major cause of the Holocaust? While tolerance might help prevent mass killing, intolerance does not necessarily lead to it.

Bland humanitarian lessons also make the scale of the events seem manageable, as if it were possible to eliminate hatred and prejudice with appropriate teaching. The idea of a “hate crime” fits with this view. It asserts that hatred itself is criminal and deserving of punishment, that it is something that can be eradicated as society takes on work once left for religion.

But the concept is misguided. Hatred does not make murder or assault worse; it only provides a motive. Hatred itself is not criminal. It is acting on the basis of hatred that is criminal. In other contexts, society punishes the act rather than the thought, attacking discrimination in deed, not prejudice in belief. That is how it should be here as well. Anti-Semitism helped cause the Holocaust, but it is in the workings of law and deed, in turning belief into practice, that the Holocaust turned exceptional.

Queensborough’s new center shouldn’t bear the burden of this criticism, since it doesn’t slight the Holocaust or its particularity. But as that history recedes and lessons become broadened and amplified, the risk is worth keeping in mind.
756 2009-10-24 Southeast Asian governments meeting in Thailand inaugurated their first human rights commission on Friday in what they hailed as a milestone for a region. The commission’s job will be to promote human rights, but it will have no power to investigate governments or impose sanctions. Human rights activists called it toothless, but Thailand’s prime minister, Abhisit Vejjajiva, said the commission’s creation was part of an “evolutionary” process. “The issue of human rights is not about condemnation, but about awareness, empowerment and improvement,” he said.
757 2009-10-24 The city opened the other center dedicated to a specific sector — transportation and warehousing — a little over a year ago in Jamaica, Queens, and there are more to come. Mr. Walsh plans to open a center focused on manufacturing, and hopes to create one devoted to tourism, hospitality and the culinary trades.

The health care center, at LaGuardia Community College in Long Island City, Queens, seems particularly promising: Officials say that their health care job placements have nearly doubled over the past year and now represent 21 percent of all city placements. But even though the field has proved to be nearly recession-proof — a bright spot of job growth in otherwise gloomy times — some economists warn that it cannot make up for losses in other sectors, like finance or law, where the jobs are often higher paid, generating more tax revenue and stimulating more economic activity.

Every job on Wall Street, where average compensation is expected to be $410,000 this year, generates three and a half other jobs in the city, said Doug Turetsky of the city’s Independent Budget Office. “A home health aide doesn’t earn enough to have anywhere near that kind of effect,” he said.

And James A. Parrott, chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group, said that growth in what is mainly a service sector cannot not make up for shrinkage in so-called export industries like finance, law, information and manufacturing. “It shouldn’t be seen as sufficient to diversify the economy or replace declining export sectors,” he said.

Nonetheless, Mr. Parrott and others said that the sustained creation of new jobs, many of them attached to hospitals and paying middle-class wages, was clearly a positive development for the city and one that was likely to continue, regardless of the fate of federal health care legislation.

Demographics is one reason: The city’s elderly population has grown consistently since the late 1990s, often faster than elsewhere in the nation, according to a recent analysis of the health care industry by Martin Kohli, the regional economist at the New York office of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Starting in 2002, the number of city residents age 65 and over has grown faster on average than New York’s overall population.

Because the elderly generally have more medical needs and access to health insurance through Medicare, Mr. Kohli wrote, health care spending for that group has tended to be at least twice as high as that for all age groups.

Indeed, Medicare and Medicaid spending in New York has helped finance the boom in health care employment, Mr. Parrott said. According to his analysis, medical benefits have generally grown as a share of personal income in the city since the 1970s, but increased sharply during economic downturns, like those in the early 1990s and after 2001.

Mr. Kohli’s analysis reported that from 1990 to last year, jobs in the city grew by 6.4 percent, but those in the health care sector — excluding municipal jobs — grew by 41.5 percent, to 402,200 from 284,200.

And spending is poised to stay high. Between 2000 and 2005, the Medicaid rolls nearly doubled as the state expanded programs and the city made it easier for people to apply. These days, the federal government is picking up a bigger share of the tab through the stimulus program, Mr. Parrott said, bringing more money into the city and helping finance new hospital jobs in recent months.

In addition, the trend toward outpatient care and the push to computerize patient records is creating a demand for new jobs with new skills.

“Technology has changed in health care, driving different kinds of care, so much more focused on outpatient services and so much more focused on health information technology,” said Kathleen Kearns, a senior vice president at Continuum Health Partners, which operates major hospitals in the city, and an executive of the city’s Workforce Investment Board, which oversees employment efforts. “If I had a niece who had any capacity and interest in this, I would push her into I.T. because health care I.T. is definitely a growth area for us.”

The new health care employment center, which aims to harness all that growth and make sure New Yorkers have the skills to get the jobs, is located at LaGuardia Community College because the college has a health care training program, officials said. The center is working closely with health care businesses and providers to stay on top of their job needs, as well as to market the city’s ability to find them qualified workers.

The notion of creating sector-specific centers and linking them to the city’s community colleges and their professional education programs grew from the Bloomberg administration’s antipoverty commission’s goal of helping people up to the first rung of a career ladder.

Mr. Walsh wants to take that idea further and connect the centers to vocational high schools, where students often plan to take the skills they have learned straight into the work force rather than attend college.

“If we build out these career centers, and we make links with the community colleges, the next logical step would be to make a further link” with career/technical education schools, he said. “That has not been there, and I think we can play a role given that we now have career centers that have relationships with a good variety of sectors.”
758 2009-10-24 But when it comes to longer distances, cheap air travel has always been a more difficult proposition, mainly for reasons of cost and logistics — not to mention passenger comfort.

So far, the only region where the low-cost, long-distance business model has truly taken off has been the so-called backpacker routes connecting Asia and Australia. Over the last couple of years, several airlines — including Air Asia X, a unit of the Malaysian budget carrier Air Asia; Tiger Airways, 49 percent owned by Singapore Airlines; and Jetstar, a Qantas subsidiary — have built up sizable networks, drawing on the brand familiarity — and deep pockets — of their parent companies.

Flying long distances on a low-cost carrier can mean savings of 50 percent or more in economy class compared with the fares charged by a conventional airline, but the ticket buys little other than a seat — and not much leg room. Airlines will usually allow passengers to take a single carry-on bag, but checked luggage is subjected to extra fees. Passengers can choose to buy meals on board or bring their own, while extras like in-flight entertainment are similarly subject to additional charges. Those with checked luggage and a connecting flight usually have to recheck the bag at the transfer airport themselves.

Some Asian low-cost airlines have tried to make the jump to Europe and North America, but few have succeeded.

Oasis Hong Kong Airlines survived just 17 months in operation flying to London and Vancouver, before it collapsed late last year.

Air Asia X began offering five direct flights a week from Kuala Lumpur to Stansted Airport in London in March, and has said it expects to keep at least 75 percent of the seats on its Airbus A340s filled. This month, Air Asia X won French government approval to fly to Orly Airport in Paris, suggesting that demand is strong enough to justify further expansion.

“The challenges for low-cost airlines are the same as they have always been, but the fact that Air Asia X has been able to make a go of it has changed things,” said David Bentley, a managing director at Big Pond Aviation, a low-cost consultant in Manchester.

Feel Air, a Norwegian start-up that plans to begin low-cost services from Oslo and Stockholm to John F. Kennedy Airport in New York and Bangkok International Airport next spring, is one of the companies convinced that the economic crisis will play in its favor.

“A downturn is actually a really good time to start an airline,” said Feel Air’s chief executive, Kai Holmberg. “We regard the risk as much less now than some years ago.”

Lease rates on wide-body jets like the Airbus A330 have fallen by almost 20 percent in the last 12 months, Mr. Holmberg said, and jet fuel prices, while still high, are well off their 2008 peak. Scandinavian Airlines, Feel Air’s only local long-distance competitor, is saddled with losses and retrenching deeply.

“We do not see this as a crisis,” Mr. Holmberg said. “One man’s loss is another’s gain.”

Iceland Express, an established low-cost operator that already flies between Reykjavik and more than a dozen cities in continental Europe, has said it will start a trans-Atlantic service to Newark Liberty International Airport in June. The carrier will use its base in Reykjavik to enable connections to Newark from several cities, including London, Berlin and Warsaw, at fares that will be 30 to 40 percent cheaper than Icelandair, which already flies similar routes.

“People are more price sensitive than in the past,” said Matthias Imsland, chief executive of Iceland Express. “We will compete on price but offer quality as well.”

But analysts said the operating challenges for low-cost carriers were the same as they had always been.

Those include the fact that it is almost impossible for an airline to recoup its operating costs by filling a 300-seat plane — which burns as much fuel and pays the same airport taxes and fees as a conventional airline — with cheap economy-class tickets.

“If you give up on the premium seats, you stand to lose an awful lot of money,” said Mr. Morris of Ascend. “Even when first and business class make up just 20 percent of the seats in the aircraft, they still generate more than 50 percent of the revenue.”

Most of the successful long-distance, low-cost airlines operating today, including Air Asia X, do offer a small number of premium-economy and business-class seats on their planes to subsidize their cheaper fares. But even then, the logistics of long-distance airlines mean that an airline is not able to make as many flights a day, limiting the ability to make up in volume some of what it gives up on the ticket price.

Stephen McNamara, a spokesman for Ryanair, said service across the Atlantic Ocean was still on the airline’s agenda, but conceded that it was unlikely for another three to four years. The airline, which had originally envisioned a start in 2010, says the prices of Boeing and Airbus wide-body jets are still too high.

“We had expected the bottom to fall out of the market for long-haul aircraft, but so far that hasn’t happened,” Mr. McNamara said.
759 2009-10-24 Fortune magazine will drop from 25 issues a year to 18 in 2010, and it is being redesigned, executives at Time Inc. said on Friday, as the magazine joins the crowded ranks of publications looking for cost savings and strategic advantage in hard times.

Fortune will focus more on “long-form, deep-dive journalism, great narrative stories,” said its managing editor, Andy Serwer. Plans call for an additional 8 to 12 pages per issue, including a new section advising readers on managing their careers.

The magazine recently hired a well-known designer, John Korpics, to alter its visual style, moving to a less cluttered look, fewer portraits of chief executives on its covers and heavier paper stock. Some of the changes have taken effect already, and others will appear from now to January.

The changes are part of another round of budget cuts at Time Inc., the nation’s largest magazine publisher. Some layoffs were expected by year’s end, though the executive said the number had not yet been determined. The news was reported in Friday’s Wall Street Journal.

Through September, ad pages across the magazine industry have fallen 27.3 percent this year, but business magazines fared much worse. Fortune, down 34.9 percent, was among the hardest hit, while its closest competitor, Forbes, was down 30.8 percent. Fortune’s paid circulation, just over 850,000 in the first half of this year, has changed little in the last decade.

Time Inc. would not say whether the magazine turned a profit.

Mr. Serwer said he was not concerned that publishing less frequently would lower Fortune’s profile, adding, “We do have a Web site that is going to be more active than ever, we have live events and our journalists are on TV all the time.”
760 2009-10-24 But the report showed weakness in the service sector, where output fell 0.2 percent; industrial production, down 0.7 percent; and construction, off 1.1 percent.

Britain is starting to further lag behind the 16-member euro area, where France and Germany are leading steady improvements in manufacturing, services and consumer demand.

Jean-Michel Six, chief European economist at Standard & Poor’s, cited consumer indebtedness as the main factor undermining a recovery in Britain.

“U.K. consumers are coming out of a period of very significant leveraging, and the process of unwinding that is long and painful,” he said. “You would expect savings rates to grow and credit demand to fall, weighing on the economy.”

Meanwhile, German business confidence in October rose to its highest level in 13 months, according to the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich.

Its business climate index, which surveys 7,000 executives, rose to 91.9, from 91.3 in September. The index touched a recent low of 82.2 in March.

“The third quarter was a good quarter for the German economy,” said Carsten Brzeski, an analyst at ING. “Probably even an excellent quarter.”

He said German companies were benefiting from the pickup in global activity, stock rebuilding, stimulus-driven private consumption and tax relief.

Another report, from the data firm Markit, showed that a composite index of manufacturing and services industries in the euro area improved to 53 in October, from 51.1 in September.

The reading was the highest in 22 months, Markit said.

Chris Williamson, Markit’s chief economist, said the data indicated that the euro-zone economy had entered the fourth quarter on a strong note and were consistent with gross domestic product rising at a quarterly rate of around 0.4 percent in October.

In France, the national statistics office, Insee, said that consumer spending jumped 2.3 percent in September from August, well above expectations of a 0.5 percent rise.

Another release Friday, from the European Union data agency Eurostat, showed that industrial orders in the euro area increased by 2 percent in August from July, but were down 23.1 percent from a year earlier.

Still, Mr. Six of S.& P. cautioned that smaller euro-area economies like Spain, Ireland, Greece and Portugal had not shown the resilience of the two largest members of the currency bloc.
761 2009-10-24 Asked about Mr. Cheney’s criticism during a half-hour interview at the American ambassador’s residence here, Mr. Biden responded indirectly at first, saying leaders in the region now agree that the Obama plan will be more effective. “They believe that the new architecture is better,” the vice president said.

But as he warmed to the discussion, he became sharper in his rebuttals of Mr. Cheney. “I think that is absolutely wrong,” he said of the “dithering” charge. “I think what the administration is doing is exactly what we said it would do. And what I think it warrants doing. And that is making an informed judgment based upon circumstances that have changed.”

Mr. Biden shrugged off Mr. Cheney’s point that the old administration had left behind a review of Afghanistan.

“Who cares what — ” he said, and then stopped himself to find another way to put it. (“I can see the headline now,” said the famously free-wheeling vice president. “I’m getting better, guys.”)

But he went on to dismiss the Bush-Cheney review as inadequate. “That’s why the president asked me to get in the plane in January and go to Afghanistan,” Mr. Biden said. “I came back with a different review.”

Moreover, he said, the Bush-Cheney review is now dated. “A whole lot has changed in the last year,” Mr. Biden said. “Let’s assume they left us a review that was absolutely correct. Is that review relevant and totally applicable to today in light of the changes that have taken place in the region, in Afghanistan itself? So I think that is sort of irrelevant. Not sort of — I think it’s irrelevant.”

The interview was the first time Mr. Biden had publicly talked about Afghanistan in the weeks since the president began intensively rethinking his strategy and considering Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal’s request for about 40,000 more troops. Mr. Biden has been a forceful skeptic of General McChrystal’s request and an advocate for keeping troop levels roughly the same while focusing attention on hunting down Al Qaeda in Pakistan.

Mr. Biden said that Mr. Obama had lived up to a pre-election pledge to take his vice president’s views seriously and added that he would not be upset if the president rejected them at the end of the Afghanistan policy review. “He has sought my opinion not generically but in detail,” Mr. Biden said. “And if he reaches a different conclusion than I do, that’s O.K. He’s the president.”

The vice president acknowledged that at every stop on his trip through Eastern Europe he ran into uncertainty from allies about whether America was going to stay the course in Afghanistan. “What they wanted to know was, ‘Are you leaving?’ ” he said, adding that they were satisfied with his reassurances that America was not withdrawing.

Mr. Biden wrapped up his trip on Friday with meetings with Czech leaders. Jan Fischer, the prime minister, said his country would participate in the new antimissile shield. “I used the opportunity to express our readiness as a NATO member to participate because the new architecture is going to be NATO based and the Czech Republic is ready to participate,” Mr. Fischer said.

Mr. Biden said a high-level defense team would visit Prague next month to discuss how to structure that participation. While Poland agreed to host SM-3 interceptors, the Czech Republic might help with research and development or by hosting a command and control center. Yet the Czech commitment remains uncertain since Mr. Fischer is a caretaker prime minister until elections next spring.

Still, securing Polish and Czech involvement in the new system may go a long way toward reassuring the region of America’s commitment to its security. Both Poland and the Czech Republic were supposed to host parts of the Bush system and the Obama administration did not inform them of his decision until just before the announcement. As news of his decision was leaking last month, Mr. Obama scrambled to reach Mr. Fischer by telephone after midnight to tell him first.

Mr. Biden acknowledged that the announcement was not handled well. “Could it have been done better?” he asked. “Yeah. Obviously it could have been done better.” He added, “That’s the reason for the trip.”

He said Eastern European leaders were reassured. “There is an understandable reason for the anxiety here. You’ve got a new administration.” But he added, “Missile architecture was more sort of a metaphor for ‘Are we committed?’ ”
762 2009-10-24 We now return you to this year’s episode of “The Manager Follies,” American League Championship Series version, featuring the Yankees’ Joe Girardi being pilloried for sticking with his starter too long while the Angels’ Mike Scioscia, even in victory, is being poked by long rhetorical knives for giving up on his too soon. It is a rare feat for managers on either side of a thrilling 7-6 Angels victory in Game 5 to receive such a pounding, but such is the lure of the postseason, when roasting the managers becomes as natural as breathing.

We’d like to consider a few other possible factors in the outcome: the performance of actual players (no!), that all those things hanging around A. J. Burnett’s neck might be hindering his pitching motion, and that we suspect even the Rally Monkey cannot bear to watch Brian Fuentes pitch.

No, forgive our lapse. It must be the managers. The New York Post’s Joel Sherman runs to the front of the bashing-Girardi line for leaving Burnett and his ample neckwear in to pitch the bottom of the seventh, while ESPN.com’s Jim Caple writes that it was probably the smart move, even if it blew up in Girardi’s face. The Daily News’s John Harper makes the radical contention that it might have been Burnett’s fault, but he clearly missed the postseason memo about omnipotent managers. Foxsports.com’s Ken Rosenthal returns the spotlight to Girardi and Scioscia, while ESPN.com’s Jerry Crasnick marvels at how the Angels overcame their manager’s bungling.

Those getting past the urge to blame Girardi and Scioscia for everything short of global warming include SI.com’s Joe Posnanski, who simply marvels at what a spectacular game it was, and The Post’s Kevin Kernan, who nods at the grittiness of the Angels, who consider themselves the Smurfs of this series. Gregg Doyel of CBSSports.com wonders how the Yankees can spend so much on their payroll and yet have only three credible starters and no set-up men in the bullpen.

While the A.L.C.S. still has some thrills left, the Phillies wait quietly back in Philadelphia for a World Series opponent and the Dodgers stretch their implosion into their off-season, with Frank McCourt, the team owner, firing his wife, Jamie, as chief executive in the middle of a divorce that may get even uglier, writes Bill Shaikin of The Los Angeles Times.
763 2009-10-24 The company was bullish on Windows 7, in part because of vigorous advance sales. Indeed, the company deferred $1.47 billion in revenue from presales. Without that deferral, Microsoft said it would have earned 52 cents per share in the first quarter instead of 40 cents.

The financial results were released before the market opened, and investors pushed Microsoft’s shares up more than 5 percent Friday, to $28.02.

“We expected to see some positive impact from Windows 7, but this is the first time it’s been crystallized in the numbers,” said Kevin Buttigieg, a technology analyst at FTN Equity Capital Markets.

Microsoft expects to benefit not only from increasing demand but also from rising prices for consumers. A netbook maker will pay more to install Windows 7 than it would have for Windows XP. And in developed countries, Microsoft has eliminated the low-cost Windows Home Basic, forcing a shift to the more expensive Windows Home Premium.

Sales of business computers may be slower, but Microsoft said it saw some signs that companies would start to replace older machines with Windows 7 models over the next few years.

“With Windows 7, we have a great product for a recovering PC market,” Mr. Koefoed said.

Microsoft reported total revenue of $12.92 billion for the quarter, a 14 percent decline from a year ago.

Reported sales of Windows fell by 39 percent because Microsoft will not count revenue on computers sold with the promise of a free upgrade to Windows 7 until the current quarter. Adding the deferred sales back in, Windows sales were $4.1 billion, down 4 percent from a year ago.

The company’s sales of software for corporate servers were unchanged from last year at $3.4 billion. Sales of Office and other business software fell by 11 percent, to $4.4 billion. That is a lower decline than some investors had expected, Mr. Barnicle said.

Analysts were also pleased that the sales at Microsoft’s entertainment and device business were also flat for the year at $1.9 billion, buoyed by better-than-expected Xbox game sales.

Despite the huge investment in its Bing search engine, revenue from Microsoft’s online operations fell by 6 percent, to $490 million. That unit was Microsoft’s only division to lose money, and the loss of $480 million was 50 percent greater than last year.

Microsoft offered guidance in very broad strokes for the rest of fiscal 2010. It said sales of Windows would be in line with growth in the PC market. Sales of Office and other business products are expected to lag behind the overall PC market. Online ad sales are to match or exceed the online market. Server software sales are expected to grow slightly faster than server shipments. And sales of Xbox consoles, games and other consumer devices are likely to be flat next year.

Perhaps most significant to analysts, the company reduced its previous estimate for operating expenses slightly.

Microsoft, like many technology companies, has grappled with falling sales over the last year as consumers bought fewer new computers and as cautious businesses cut their investments in software and technology.

In a sign of how bad things had gotten, Microsoft announced in January that it would cut 5,000 jobs. It now has 4 percent fewer employees than it did last year.

Microsoft said that its operating costs fell by 6.9 percent in the quarter compared with a year ago, reflecting cuts to spending on research, sales, and marketing and administrative costs.
764 2009-10-24 Wall Street stumbled on Friday, even as home sales rebounded in September and two technology companies surprised investors with stronger-than-expected profits.

After passing 10,000 last week for the first time in a year, the Dow Jones industrial average ended the week below that benchmark, hurt by losses among big industrial producers and companies that make chemicals and other basic materials. The Dow fell 109.13 points, or 1.08 percent, to 9,972.18.

The Standard and Poor’s 500-stock index fell 13.31 points, or 1.22 percent, to 1,079.60 on worries that the stock market was getting too expensive.

Last week, a crucial measure of the stock market’s value — the ratio of stock prices to corporate earnings — hit its highest level in at least five years. Although corporate profits in the third quarter are largely surpassing expectations, some analysts say stocks are poised to fall as traders try to cash in their gains.

On Friday, traders unwound some of the recent bets on inflation and the momentum of world currency markets that had driven commodities higher while undermining the value of the dollar.
765 2009-10-24 PRAGUE — The Czech Republic agreed on Friday to host elements of the reformulated American missile defense system after Vice President Joseph R. Biden flew here to patch up relations damaged when President Obama canceled plans to deploy a sophisticated radar station on Czech soil.

Jan Fischer, the Czech prime minister, said his country would participate in the new anti-missile shield, although neither he nor Mr. Biden gave details about how. Poland agreed during an earlier stop in Mr. Biden’s swing through the region to accept some of the mobile SM-3 interceptors at the heart of Mr. Obama’s reduced plan.

“I used the opportunity to express our readiness as a NATO member to participate because the new architecture is going to be NATO-based and the Czech Republic is ready to participate,” Mr. Fischer said at an appearance with Mr. Biden. The vice president said a senior defense team would visit Prague next month to discuss how to structure that participation.

The deals securing Polish and Czech involvement in the new system may go a long way toward reassuring Eastern Europe of America’s continuing commitment to its security. Many in this region interpreted Mr. Obama’s decision to scrap former President George W. Bush’s missile defense system, which was to have been based in Poland and the Czech Republic, as appeasement of Russia, which had strongly objected to it as a threat to its own nuclear arsenal.

Mr. Obama denied that, but his administration did not inform Polish and Czech leaders of the policy shift until just before the announcement, fueling the discontent. As news of his decision was beginning to leak last month, Mr. Obama scrambled to reach Mr. Fischer by telephone after midnight to tell him first.

The Bush plan called for stationing 10 ground-based interceptors in Poland and a so-called X-band radar in the Czech Republic as part of a system aimed at shooting down any future Iranian intercontinental ballistic missiles. A new assessment last spring concluded that Iran was not advancing quickly in developing such long-range missiles but had made considerable progress in building short- and medium-range missiles.
766 2009-10-24 The meeting, which follows one in April that was canceled when Thai anti-government protesters stormed the summit venue, will address preparedness for natural disasters, the response to future economic crises and free-trade agreements, among other issues.

The leaders of several non-Asean members — Australia, China, India, New Zealand and South Korea — were scheduled to join the meeting later during the weekend.

In his opening address on Friday, Thailand’s prime minister, Abhisit Vejjajiva, emphasized the achievements of Asean, which was initially set up more than four decades ago partly as a bulwark against communism. In recent years, Asean has adopted a charter for the grouping, signed free trade agreements with other countries in the region and reduced tariff levels to negligible levels — although numerous other barriers to trade still exist between member countries.

“What remains is the onus that lies on Asean to prove that it can implement whatever has been agreed, declared, or envisioned,” Mr. Abhisit said, in an apparent response to criticism that the grouping is more talk than substance.

The human rights body inaugurated Friday appeared to reinforce that criticism. The job of the commission will be to promote human rights, but it will have no power to investigate governments or impose sanctions.

A statement distributed by the Thai government here said the commission would “promote and protect human rights by promoting public awareness and education.”

Mr. Abhisit acknowledged concerns that the commission’s scope was too limited but said it was part of an “evolutionary” process.

“The issue of human rights is not about condemnation, but about awareness, empowerment and improvement,” Mr. Abhisit said. “We shall not only demonstrate to the world that human rights is a priority but also show them realistic and constructive ways to deal with it.”

Yuyun Wahyuningrum, an Indonesian human rights delegate who walked out of the meeting with government representatives Friday, said human rights groups supported the creation of the commission, but were concerned that it was not independent enough. Commissioners were chosen by governments without outside consultation, she said.

“The process was very secretive,” she said.

Southeast Asia’s human rights record is blemished at best. Myanmar’s military government, which is a member of Asean, is currently detaining more than 2,000 political prisoners including Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the democracy leader whose party won a landslide election victory in 1990 that the ruling generals ignored. Cambodia’s parliament passed a law on Wednesday that bars demonstrations of more than 200 people. Malaysia’s government detains people it deems threats to domestic security without trial and maintains tight controls on television stations and newspapers.

Asean has ambitions to create a single market by 2015 among its 10 member nations, which have a combined population of nearly 600 million people, twice the population of the United States.

But its main challenge in recent months has been to tamp down long-running conflicts and disagreements. Relations between Thailand and Cambodia have worsened over a border dispute near an ancient hilltop temple, Preah Vihear. Over the past year, troops in the border area have skirmished several times, leaving seven people dead.

Cambodia’s nationalistic and authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen, regularly delivers diatribes against Thailand and has pointedly offered asylum to Thaksin Shinawatra, the ousted Thai prime minister who is sought by the Thai authorities on outstanding arrest warrants.

Soon after arriving at the meeting Friday afternoon Mr. Hun Sen said Mr. Thaksin would be allowed to stay in Cambodia and serve as his economic adviser.

“People talk about Aung San Suu Kyi from Myanmar. Why can’t we talk about Thaksin?” he asked.

The Cambodian government said Friday it would reject any extradition request from Thailand if Mr. Thaksin moved to Cambodia.

The host of the meeting, Thailand, deployed more than 30,000 security personnel for the summit to deter supporters of Mr. Thaksin from disrupting the event. Mr. Thaksin was removed from power in a 2006 military coup.

Elsewhere in the region, Indonesia and Malaysia have failed to resolve disputes over territory on Borneo island. Emotionally charged disagreements over the origins of songs, traditional dances and batik cloth-printing techniques have flared in recent months.

Territorial disputes also strain relations between the Philippines and Malaysia and Singapore and Malaysia. In the South China Sea, Brunei, Malaysia, Philippines and Vietnam all have claims to areas rich in natural gas deposits.
767 2009-10-24 Despite the edge Swisher handed him, Fuentes did not take advantage. He ran the count full, leaving himself a pitch away from walking in the tying run.

Fuentes has described himself as a “pretty average” pitcher who succeeds because his deceptive three-quarter delivery can baffle batters. But with a 3-2 count and no open base, there was nothing deceptive about what Fuentes had to do. He had to throw a pitch over the plate.

He did, with a pedestrian 89-mile-per-hour fastball on the outside corner. Swisher jumped on the pitch, but popped it up to shortstop. The Angels had survived a game with dizzying reversals of fortune.

“Obviously, a big hit like that erases a lot of things,” said Swisher, who is now 3 for 29 (.103) in the postseason. “But, hey, it didn’t happen for me. If I get up in that situation again, I’ll be ready.”

If the Angels can win the next two games and advance to the World Series, the Yankees will have an off-season full of regrets. At-bats like the one Swisher had in the ninth inning will be chief among them.

Since Joe Saunders, a left-hander, is starting Game 6 for the Angels, it is unlikely that Manager Joe Girardi will bench Swisher, a switch-hitter. Girardi’s option would be to start Brett Gardner, a left-handed hitter, in center and move Melky Cabrera to Swisher’s position in right.

Asked about the Game 6 lineup at a team workout at Yankee Stadium on Friday afternoon, Girardi was noncommittal, saying he would “sleep on it.” He said it was obvious Swisher was struggling, but that he had done a lot of good things for the Yankees.

“And you look at the matchup against Saunders, he’s had some hits off of Saunders,” Girardi said.

Actually Swisher is 5 for 21 (.238) against Saunders in his career and has more at-bats against him than any other Yankee. He was 1 for 2 with a walk against Saunders in Game 2. Gardner is an energetic player who was 16 for 55 (.291) against left-handers this season.

When Swisher was asked Thursday night about the support Girardi has shown for him by keeping him in the lineup to this point, he became testy. Swisher wondered if a reporter was trying to “stir anything up” by asking about his status.

“I didn’t expect to be out of the lineup, if that’s what you’re asking,” he said. “We feel pretty confident about where we are. This thing is going to come around.”

Because Rodriguez has had a monstrous postseason (.400, 5 home runs, 11 runs batted in) and Derek Jeter has been typically reliable (.314, 3 homers, 5 R.B.I.), they have helped obscure how Swisher, Mark Teixeira (.174), Cano (.212) and Johnny Damon (.211) have often struggled.

Unlike Swisher, however, Teixeira and Cano had big hits in the Yankees’ two-out, six-run rally in the top of the seventh Thursday night, giving them something to build on in Game 6.

Swisher does not have that same foundation. The quick-talking, head-bobbing right fielder, who has added personality to the Yankee clubhouse all season, was visibly subdued after Thursday night’s game, trapped in a postseason slump that he could not escape when he desperately needed to.

“I wanted to come clutch,” he said. “It just didn’t happen.”
768 2009-10-24 When the New York State Court of Appeals overturned some rent rules in place for more than nine years on Thursday, the decision opened a window for many market-rate New York City tenants, including some paying some of the highest rents in the country, to roll back rents and get the protections of the state government’s rent regulation system. Here are some questions and answers about the decision.

Q. What did the ruling say?

A. Landlords in rent-regulated buildings who received property tax abatements acted improperly when they deregulated apartments under state laws that allow for deregulation when the legal regulated rents rose above $2,000, according to the court decision. In 2000, the state’s Division of Housing and Community Renewal found that these owners could deregulate apartments. The case was brought by tenants at the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town complexes in Manhattan.

Q. How many apartments are affected?

A. As many as 80,000 market-rate tenants, mostly in Manhattan, may be affected by the decision. These tenants live in apartments in previously regulated buildings that received a tax abatement, known as J-51, intended to encourage owners to invest in their buildings. It is not yet clear whether tenants who have already moved out of apartments will be eligible for refunds for past overcharges.

Q. How do I know if my apartment is eligible for a rent reduction?

A. First check the history of your building’s participation in the city’s J-51 program by going through lists of J-51 buildings posted on the city’s Department of Finance Web site. If you know your building’s block and lot numbers, a quicker search is available. If the building has a J-51 tax break, check with the state’s Division of Housing and Community Renewal to confirm that the apartment was once regulated. Tenants can request a printout of an apartment’s rent history going back to 1984 at a state housing rent office, but they must show identification and a copy of the lease or a rent bill. Tenants can call local offices and request the rent history, which will be mailed to the apartment address.

Q. What would the reduced rent be?

A. It is not yet clear how the reduced rent would be calculated. David E. Frazer, a tenant lawyer, said the rent could be based on the legal rent at the time the apartment was deregulated, plus any annual rent increases, and any additional increases permitted when an apartment became vacant in the past.

But state rules, also under challenge in the courts, generally limit “lookbacks” to what the rent was four years before a complaint is filed, even if that rent is above $2,000. So an apartment could become rent-stabilized again with a rent well above $2,000. But the tenant would be eligible for protections like limited annual increases and guaranteed lease renewals.

Q. How much of a refund of back rent might I be eligible for?

A. The Court of Appeals left it to the lower courts to determine whether the decision would be applied retroactively, and this could take years of court hearings and legal maneuvering. “Tenants think they won the lottery,” said Adam Leitman Bailey, a lawyer who represents both tenants and landlords, “but it might not turn out that way.” Refunds, if paid, would include interest.
769 2009-10-24 Asked about Mr. Cheney’s criticism during a half-hour interview at the American ambassador’s residence here, Mr. Biden responded indirectly at first, saying leaders in the region now agree that the Obama plan will be more effective. “They believe that the new architecture is better,” the vice president said.

But as he warmed to the discussion, he became sharper in his rebuttals of Mr. Cheney. “I think that is absolutely wrong,” he said of the “dithering” charge. “I think what the administration is doing is exactly what we said it would do. And what I think it warrants doing. And that is making an informed judgment based upon circumstances that have changed.”

Mr. Biden shrugged off Mr. Cheney’s point that the old administration had left behind a review of Afghanistan.

“Who cares what — ” he said, and then stopped himself to find another way to put it. (“I can see the headline now,” said the famously free-wheeling vice president. “I’m getting better, guys.”)

But he went on to dismiss the Bush-Cheney review as inadequate. “That’s why the president asked me to get in the plane in January and go to Afghanistan,” Mr. Biden said. “I came back with a different review.”

Moreover, he said, the Bush-Cheney review is now dated. “A whole lot has changed in the last year,” Mr. Biden said. “Let’s assume they left us a review that was absolutely correct. Is that review relevant and totally applicable to today in light of the changes that have taken place in the region, in Afghanistan itself? So I think that is sort of irrelevant. Not sort of — I think it’s irrelevant.”

The interview was the first time Mr. Biden had publicly talked about Afghanistan in the weeks since the president began intensively rethinking his strategy and considering Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal’s request for about 40,000 more troops. Mr. Biden has been a forceful skeptic of General McChrystal’s request and an advocate for keeping troop levels roughly the same while focusing attention on hunting down Al Qaeda in Pakistan.

Mr. Biden said that Mr. Obama had lived up to a pre-election pledge to take his vice president’s views seriously and added that he would not be upset if the president rejected them at the end of the Afghanistan policy review. “He has sought my opinion not generically but in detail,” Mr. Biden said. “And if he reaches a different conclusion than I do, that’s O.K. He’s the president.”

The vice president acknowledged that at every stop on his trip through Eastern Europe he ran into uncertainty from allies about whether America was going to stay the course in Afghanistan. “What they wanted to know was, ‘Are you leaving?’ ” he said, adding that they were satisfied with his reassurances that America was not withdrawing.

Mr. Biden wrapped up his trip on Friday with meetings with Czech leaders. Jan Fischer, the prime minister, said his country would participate in the new antimissile shield. “I used the opportunity to express our readiness as a NATO member to participate because the new architecture is going to be NATO based and the Czech Republic is ready to participate,” Mr. Fischer said.

Mr. Biden said a high-level defense team would visit Prague next month to discuss how to structure that participation. While Poland agreed to host SM-3 interceptors, the Czech Republic might help with research and development or by hosting a command and control center. Yet the Czech commitment remains uncertain since Mr. Fischer is a caretaker prime minister until elections next spring.

Still, securing Polish and Czech involvement in the new system may go a long way toward reassuring the region of America’s commitment to its security. Both Poland and the Czech Republic were supposed to host parts of the Bush system and the Obama administration did not inform them of his decision until just before the announcement. As news of his decision was leaking last month, Mr. Obama scrambled to reach Mr. Fischer by telephone after midnight to tell him first.

Mr. Biden acknowledged that the announcement was not handled well. “Could it have been done better?” he asked. “Yeah. Obviously it could have been done better.” He added, “That’s the reason for the trip.”

He said Eastern European leaders were reassured. “There is an understandable reason for the anxiety here. You’ve got a new administration.” But he added, “Missile architecture was more sort of a metaphor for ‘Are we committed?’ ”
770 2009-10-25 SCRANTON, Penn. (AP) — The State Department’s internal watchdog concludes in a new report that the nation’s student foreign exchange programs need better federal oversight, after a scandal in which students were placed in shoddy homes in Pennsylvania.

The State Department’s acting inspector general, Harold W. Geisel, said in the report that the department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs had largely abdicated its responsibility to ensure the well-being of thousands of exchange students who come to the United States each year.

Instead, the sponsoring organizations themselves have been left to monitor their own programs and report problems to federal regulators, according to the report.

“There are insufficient dedicated resources at E.C.A. to conduct effective oversight of youth exchange programs,” it said.

The inspector general began the review in July after accusations that an employee of the Aspect Foundation, an exchange program based in San Francisco, had placed students in filthy homes around Scranton, Pa. The employee, Edna Burgette, was fired after being charged in July with five felony counts of criminal negligence.

In the wake of the Scranton case, the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs added staff members, established a separate unit to conduct site visits, sent e-mail messages to current students to inquire about their experiences and set up a database to track problems, among other efforts to improve oversight.
771 2009-10-25 The Fed has not put any caps on pay. It is concerned only with how wages and bonuses can be structured to encourage bankers not to take excessive risks. It has offered a menu of suggestions.

It suggests that if two traders generated the same amount of profit, the one who took more chances should be paid less. It suggests that big chunks of bankers’ remuneration could be paid out over time — to keep more skin in the game. And if a banker’s investments were to go sour and lose money a few years down the road, some of the remuneration should be clawed back.

These are all sound ideas. But they are only guidelines — not rules. For example, the Fed expresses concern that golden parachutes could also lead to risky behavior, but it does not ban them or say how they should be used. And while some European countries are drafting regulations to ensure that 40 to 60 percent of executive bonuses for top bankers are paid out over several years, the Fed only suggests that these kinds of deferrals might be an appropriate tool.

The Fed insists that there can be no one-size-fits-all rules for more than two dozen highly complex banks with different business strategies. That may well be true. Fed officials say that as their review progresses, they may identify some egregious practices to ban outright or salutary formulas to adopt.

We still worry about leaving all of these critical details up to the banks — even with a promise from the Fed to be more vigilant. During the last several decades, banks have been given far too much room to write their own rules. The economic disaster around us is the result.

The Obama administration and Congress have vowed to regulate derivatives, the complex and often highly speculative financial instruments that were at the heart of the meltdown. Two House committees have approved legislation, but — after heavy lobbying from the banking industry and corporate America— both versions are weak and unlikely to prevent another fiasco.

Right now, many derivative deals are executed as private one-on-one contracts, outside the view of the public or regulators. This lack of transparency — about participants, prices and volumes — proved disastrous. In the bailout of American International Group, tens of billions of taxpayer dollars went to pay the world’s biggest banks for derivative bets gone spectacularly wrong.

The bills require that many derivatives be traded on public exchanges, but then carve out far too many exceptions. One huge loophole would exempt derivatives from exchange trading for corporations that use them to hedge operational risks, say, an airline that wants to lock in fuel prices. The supposed logic is that corporate derivative users did not cause the crisis.

But such derivatives make up a big chunk of the $592 trillion industry. If they are exempted, potentially trillions of dollars worth of transactions could avoid the exposure — and stability — that comes with exchange trading. Even worse, under the current wording, this exemption could be read to apply to many more companies, including hedge funds and other investor groups.

The stated aim of the exemption is to keep transaction costs low when corporations use derivatives to hedge their various risks. But there is no compelling evidence that exchange trading will drive up costs. And even if the cost were to rise somewhat, transparency is a more important goal.

The bill approved by the Financial Services Committee has an additional weakness: it denies regulators powers they need to fully police the market. For instance, they would not have the authority to ban dangerous products and abusive practices. Bans are a heavy-handed tool. But the ability to impose bans on toxic instruments should be part of the tool kit.

Both versions must be improved, on the House floor and in the Senate. In a sign of what we hope will be tough battles ahead, Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington and a member of the Finance Committee, has written to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, asking him to explain the administration’s support for the flawed bill from the Financial Services Committee.

Insisting on strong derivatives reform is a matter of putting taxpayers first — ahead of the big banks and corporate America that are fighting hard for a return to risky business as usual.

A proposed new Consumer Financial Protection Agency is intended to protect Americans from abusive, deceptive and predatory lending in mortgages, credit cards and many other types of loans. So no one should be surprised that big lenders have been working the halls of Congress trying to weaken its powers.

The House Financial Services Committee passed a bill last week that would give the agency important responsibilities and at long last bring consumer protection under the watch of a single regulator focused solely on the best interests of consumers. But at the same time, it would weaken other protections and restrict the agency in ways that could undermine its effectiveness.

The biggest problem is that the bill would allow the federal government to block states from imposing their own tougher rules on many banks. Such pre-emptive power — which big banks lobbied for tirelessly — would be limited to instances in which state law is deemed to “significantly” interfere with federal regulatory power. But that is cold comfort. In the past, federal pre-emption of state laws has almost invariably led to a lowering of consumer protection standards.

Small banks also won their own dangerous concession, restricting the new agency’s ability to routinely examine the books of banks with assets under $10 billion. That could be an invitation for more bad lending.

The bill would also prevent the agency from regulating auto dealers who receive lucrative rewards from lenders for steering car buyers into often overpriced loans. And it would restrict the agency’s ability to impose rules on insurance products that are tied to credit, including title insurance and mortgage insurance. Such products are overpriced for the scant benefits they provide, but are heavily marketed precisely because they are so profitable for lenders.

The bill’s supporters say these concessions were necessary to win enough votes to move the bill out of committee, and they will be improved upon once the full House debates. We can’t remember many finance-related bills that improved during the legislative process.

One welcome exception was the recent bill that outlawed some egregious practices in the credit card industry. That benefited from the high-profile support of President Obama. The president has said that he is committed to the creation of a powerful Consumer Financial Protection Agency. If that is to happen, he and his aides will have to match the banks and their lobbyists blow-for-blow as the legislation advances.
772 2009-10-25 Andrew Sean Greer, 38, is best known for his second novel, “The Confessions of Max Tivoli,” which John Updike declared “enchanting.” Greer, who is working on a time-travel novel set in New York, lives in San Francisco with his spouse, David Ross, and their 3-year-old pug, Olive. (His words have been edited and condensed.)

SLEEPING IN I wake up at 10. I have coffee and then I spend a half an hour on the computer where I read newspapers and progressive blogs. I have to tear myself away or I’ll spend all day reading. Both David and I are addicted to the computer. I go to blogs like The Usual Suspects, Daily Kos, Crooks and Liars. I don’t read literary blogs. I used to read them, but it was upsetting when they would talk, in a snarky way, about my friends.

TORTILLAS y HUEVOS By 10, my brother Mike will have texted me to come over to breakfast. He lives a block away. He’s a great cook. He will make us Mexican breakfast. He makes tortillas from scratch. He’ll have avocado and eggs and things like that to put on them. I like to see my nephew, Arlo. He’s 5 months old. He looks a lot like my brother — who is my identical twin — which means he looks a lot like me.

THE GREAT OUTDOORS At that point, our friends will have come up with some ideas of what to do. We always do something outdoors. It might be going to Sonoma to pick apples to make cider. Last weekend, we went to a beer garden in Oakland for Oktoberfest. It was so fun. Everyone was in lederhosen and dirndls.

DOG TIME If we have no other plans, we go to Fort Funston and take Olive. It’s an old military installation on the west end of San Francisco. The view is spectacular. All the dogs are running around in the surf. I have never seen my dog happier than when she’s out there.

FAMILY DINNER Usually on Sundays I won’t cook because I’ll have dinner at my mom’s. She’s the provost of Mills College in Oakland and lives on campus. It’s a very beautiful school in a very bad part of town. Last Sunday we were walking the dog when we heard gunshots. Someone was robbing a gas station. It was very shocking.
773 2009-10-25 I WAS recently sitting at the bar of Le Petit Zinc talking to the owner, Charles Sorel, when he said something I found shocking: “I can’t imagine opening a business anywhere but Detroit.”

From a local, I would have just written it off as city pride, but Charles is, as he himself puts it, a citizen of the world. Born in the French Caribbean and reared in Paris, he ran a French joint in Brooklyn’s Fort Greene and lived in Brazil before winding up here. When I pointed out the risks of starting up in a city as troubled as Detroit, he shrugged it off. “When I moved to New York in the late ’80s there was not a day when someone in the city wasn’t robbed or beaten or killed,” he said. “This is so much better than that.”

A year ago, Charles opened Le Petit Zinc with the simple belief that there was a market here for a crêperie and cafe that served fresh organic food at a decent price. But that was certainly no guarantee of success. Not only was the economy cratering, but the building itself, an abandoned day care center tucked between a working-class Irish neighborhood called Corktown and a few abandoned warehouses, was on a street with no foot traffic. The only thing the place had going for it was a rundown playground out back that was good for outdoor seating. For the first five weeks after opening, when he was the cook, waiter, busboy and janitor, he had no idea what to expect.

Now, we are all raised to think of business as a sort of vicious spy-versus-spy, cutthroat activity where every competing establishment is out to stick a shiv into the other. You’d think that this kind of blood thirst would be even worse in Detroit, which  with Jimmy Hoffa’s disappearance, Eminem’s lyrics and our old, quaint Devil’s Night tradition of burning down houses  has acquired a certain reputation for toughness. But Charles discovered that the neighboring Detroit restaurants actually had quite a different reaction to a new competitor.

The owner of Slows, a barbecue place nearby, not only helped him get his permits, but also built tabletops for him at no cost. Jordi, the owner of the Cafe con Leche coffee shop, hooked him up with his coffee supplier. Dave, who had recently opened Supino Pizza, even dropped everything one day to get the paper Charles needed for his credit card machine.

Most surprisingly, just as Charles was starting up, Torya Blanchard was opening another downtown crêpe place called Good Girls Go to Paris. Instead of treating Charles like a rival, Torya happily exchanged recipes with him, even coming in one day to help make his batter, an act of crêperie solidarity that would surely have made Detroit’s founder, Antoine de Lamothe Cadillac, extremely proud.

“They want their neighbor to make it,” he says. “It’s different from anywhere I’ve been. Here, your success is their success.” Even his suppliers have shown a generosity he finds surprising: the Avalon bakery charges him wholesale prices even if he orders just one loaf.

In other ways, too, Charles seems to have timed things well, opening just when Detroit residents with an agricultural bent were beginning to take advantage of the 40 square miles of unoccupied open land here, an area almost the size of San Francisco. Greg Willerer, for instance, sells Charles spinach, flowers and zucchini at an affordable price, all grown within the city limits. Charles also planted his own garden out by the patio, putting in tomatoes, basil, peppers, thyme, parsley and beets.

Maybe it’s that adage that nothing brings a community closer than having a common enemy. For the restaurateurs, the residents, the urban farmers and the community activists now working to reshape the city, the enemy is Detroit’s own reputation. They know they will succeed only if they are a part of a larger, collective success, one that makes downtown a thriving destination again, and so they’re working together to make it happen.

Which leads to another entrepreneurial advantage Detroit possesses: instantaneous and automatic publicity. “Open a business anywhere else, and no one will notice,” Charles said. “Open it in Detroit and everyone talks about it.”

Sure enough, people are now driving in regularly from affluent suburbs like Bloomfield Hills and Grosse Pointe to try his smoked-salmon crêpes and ratatouille, a considerable achievement considering many suburbanites come downtown only for Tigers games or a night at the symphony. While I was there, the place was bustling with a diverse crowd that seemed more than satisfied.

“This is the best restaurant ever. I would eat here all the time if I had more money,” beamed a woman dining alone at the bar.
774 2009-10-25 One surprising smackdown occurred on Oct. 9 in federal bankruptcy court in the Southern District of New York. Ruling that a lender, PHH Mortgage, hadn’t proved its claim to a delinquent borrower’s home in White Plains, Judge Robert D. Drain wiped out a $461,263 mortgage debt on the property. That’s right: the mortgage debt disappeared, via a court order.

So the ruling may put a new dynamic in play in the foreclosure mess: If the lender can’t come forward with proof of ownership, and judges don’t look kindly on that, then borrowers may have a stronger hand to play in court and, apparently, may even be able to stay in their homes mortgage-free.

The reason that notes have gone missing is the huge mass of mortgage securitizations that occurred during the housing boom. Securitizations allowed for large pools of bank loans to be bundled and sold to legions of investors, but some of the nuts and bolts of the mortgage game — notes, for example — were never adequately tracked or recorded during the boom. In some cases, that means nobody truly knows who owns what.

To be sure, many legal hurdles mean that the initial outcome of the White Plains case may not be repeated elsewhere. Nevertheless, the ruling — by a federal judge, no less — is bound to bring a smile to anyone who has been subjected to rough treatment by a lender. Methinks a few of those people still exist.

More important, the case is an alert to lenders that dubious proof-of-ownership tactics may no longer be accepted practice. They may even be viewed as a fraud on the court.

The United States Trustee, a division of the Justice Department charged with monitoring the nation’s bankruptcy courts, has also taken an interest in the White Plains case. Its representative has attended hearings in the matter, and it has registered with the court as an interested party.

THE case involves a borrower, who declined to be named, living in a home with her daughter and son-in-law. According to court documents, the borrower bought the house in 2001 with a mortgage from Wells Fargo; four and a half years later she refinanced with Mortgage World Bankers Inc.

She fell behind in her payments, and David B. Shaev, a consumer bankruptcy lawyer in Manhattan, filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy plan on her behalf in late February in an effort to save her home from foreclosure.

A proof of claim to the debt was filed in March by PHH, a company based in Mount Laurel, N.J. The $461,263 that PHH said was owed included $33,545 in arrears.

Mr. Shaev said that when he filed the case, he had simply hoped to persuade PHH to modify his client’s loan. But after months of what he described as foot-dragging by PHH and its lawyers, he asked for proof of PHH’s standing in the case.

“If you want to take someone’s house away, you’d better make sure you have the right to do it,” Mr. Shaev said in an interview last week.

In answer, Mr. Shaev received a letter stating that PHH was the servicer of the loan but that the holder of the note was U.S. Bank, as trustee of a securitization pool. But U.S. Bank was not a party to the action.

Mr. Shaev then asked for proof that U.S. Bank was indeed the holder of the note. All that was provided, however, was an affidavit from Tracy Johnson, a vice president at PHH Mortgage, saying that PHH was the servicer and U.S. Bank the holder.

Among the filings supplied to support Ms. Johnson’s assertion was a copy of the assignment of the mortgage. But this, too, was signed by Ms. Johnson, only this time she was identified as an assistant vice president of MERS, the Mortgage Electronic Registration System. This bank-owned registry eliminates the need to record changes in property ownership in local land records.

Another problem was that the document showed the note was assigned on March 26, 2009, well after the bankruptcy had been filed.

Mr. Shaev’s questions about ownership also led to an admission by PHH that, along the way, it had levied an improper $450 foreclosure fee on the borrower and had overcharged interest by an unstated amount.

John DiCaro, a lawyer representing PHH at the hearing, was in the uncomfortable position of having to explain why there was no documentation of an assignment to U.S. Bank. He did not return a phone call seeking comment last week. Ms. Johnson, who couldn’t be reached for comment, did not attend the hearing.

According to a transcript of the Sept. 29 hearing, Mr. DiCaro said: “In the secondary market, there are many cases where assignment of mortgages, assignment of notes, don’t happen at the time they should. It was standard operating procedure for many years.”

Judge Drain rejected that argument, concluding that what had been presented to the court just did not add up. “I think that I have a more than 50 percent doubt that if the debtor paid this claim, it would be paying the wrong person,” he said. “That’s the problem. And that’s because the claimant has not shown an assignment of a mortgage.”

Mr. Shaev said he was shocked when the judge expunged the mortgage debt.

“We are in uncharted territory,” he said. “Right now I am in bankruptcy court with a house that has no discernible debt on it, yet I have a client with a signed mortgage. We cannot in theory just go out and sell this house because the title company won’t give a clear title on it.”

Among the next steps Mr. Shaev said he would take is to file an amended plan or sue to try to get clear title to the property.

Late last week, PHH appealed the judge’s ruling. But Mr. DiCaro and PHH are in something of a bind. Either they will return to court with a clear claim on the property — including all the transfers and sales that are necessary in the securitization process — or they won’t be able to produce that documentation. If they do produce it, they will then have to explain why they didn’t produce it before.

Oh, what a tangled web these mortgage lenders weave.
775 2009-10-25 Some openings are perennially popular. Others are rarely used, particularly among elite players, and often for good reason. The unpopular openings can be broken down into three categories.

The Bad: the Grob (1 g4), the Latvian Gambit (1 e4 e5 2 Nf3 f5) and the Sokolsky (1 b4) among them. They are risky and give opponents too many opportunities to seize the advantage.

The Ugly: Some openings are neglected not from any intrinsic failing, but because they are simply not faddish. In 1995, when Viswanathan Anand of India, the current world champion, played a title match against Garry Kasparov of Russia, he surprised his opponent with one of the Uglies, the Scandinavian (1 e4 d5). Though he lost the game, he got a good position out of the opening. But he has not played it since.

The Risky: They can offer a benefit because opposing players are often not well versed in their nuances. Usually, these openings are gambits, where a player sacrifices at least a pawn. But opponents who know how to handle them can obtain good positions. The Evans Gambit (1 e4 e5 2 Nf3 Nc6 3 Bc4 Bc5 4 b4), the Schliemann Defense (1 e4 e5 2 Nf3 Nc6 3 Bb5 f5) and the Smith-Morra Gambit all fall into this category.

Of that group, the Smith-Morra is among the most respectable. By investing a pawn, White obtains a significant initiative. Black can defuse this advantage, but it takes patience.

The dangers of the Smith-Morra were illustrated in a United States Chess League game last month between Marc Esserman (who was awarded the international master title this week) and Tom Bartell, a master.
776 2009-10-25 “In terms of my relationships with President Karzai, they’re fine, they’re correct, they’re appropriate,” he said Friday. “I have absolutely no problems with him, and it’s as simple as that.”

Mr. Mitchell, meanwhile, has been laboring fruitlessly to bring the Israelis and Palestinians together. Last week, Mrs. Clinton reported to Mr. Obama that the United States faced “challenges” in the region, a charitable way of saying that only minor progress had been made since the president issued an urgent call last month to jump-start peace negotiations.

If anything, the climate for talks has gotten even worse with the recent publication of a report alleging war crimes by both sides during Israel’s military strike on Gaza last winter. Israel says acceptance of the report would make negotiations impossible, while the Palestinian Authority has been weakened by its wavering reaction to the report.

Neither Mr. Mitchell nor Mr. Holbrooke is in any danger of losing his job; administration officials said both enjoy the confidence of their bosses. Indeed, they were hired precisely to take the arrows for Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, so these leaders do not expend their diplomatic capital too soon.

Still, the last few weeks have tested the fortitude of both men. Even a proven record in peacemaking — Mr. Mitchell helped broker the Good Friday Agreement in North Ireland; Mr. Holbrooke, the Dayton Accords for Bosnia — is no guarantee of success this time around.

Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former Middle East peace negotiator, said that while he had confidence in both men, they needed to seize greater control over the administration’s policy-making process.

“The problem is not merchandising or marketing, it’s the product,” said Mr. Kurtzer, who has advised Mr. Obama on Middle East issues. “If you don’t have a good policy, it doesn’t matter if you have a good envoy or not.”

Mr. Kurtzer played down Mr. Holbrooke’s relations with Mr. Karzai. “When you have good envoys, they ruffle feathers,” he said. But he added that the administration needed to settle on a policy for Afghanistan so that Mr. Holbrooke could deliver a coherent message to Mr. Karzai.

Some administration officials said there was a “good cop, bad cop” dimension to the administration’s Afghan strategy, with Mr. Holbrooke applying the prod to Mr. Karzai while the American ambassador to Afghanistan, Karl W. Eikenberry, cajoles the Afghan leader.

Mrs. Clinton has taken a similar “good cop” approach to Mr. Karzai. In a 40-minute call to him a week ago, she encouraged him up by recounting her own electoral setbacks and assuring him that he would emerge stronger from a runoff, according to a high-ranking official.

Mr. Mitchell, who has a much lower-voltage personality than Mr. Holbrooke, has avoided public spats with Israeli or Palestinian officials. A few Israeli commentators have called for his resignation, citing the lack of progress in the talks. But he remains on good terms with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.

Speaking to reporters last week in Maine, his home state, Mr. Mitchell sounded undaunted. “It is as difficult and complex and complicated as everyone told me,” he said. “But we are determined to hold the course.”

For the administration, though, the big question is how long it will stay with its current plan, which is to demand a freeze in settlement construction from Israel and a series of confidence-building measures from Israel’s neighbors, or try something completely different.

“There is increasing thinking about Plan B,” said a senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter.

The appointments of Mr. Holbrooke and Mr. Mitchell relieved Mrs. Clinton of the diplomatic heavy lifting, particularly in the Middle East, where her predecessor, Condoleezza Rice, spent many fruitless days and nights. But that may be about to change.

Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to make her first trip to Pakistan soon, and will stop in Morocco on the way home for a conference, where she will lobby Arab foreign ministers to take conciliatory steps toward Israel. There is no word on whether she will make a stop in Afghanistan, but it may be unlikely given the runoff.

In his briefing on Friday, Mr. Holbrooke said that when she traveled to Pakistan, Mrs. Clinton would try to see “as many people as she can in a limited period of time, within the limits of a very, very dramatic situation.”
777 2009-10-25 The Obama administration released a document last week outlining its strategy on Sudan, and in its midst was a sentiment that has become almost canonical in the first year of the administration: “We must engage with allies and with those with whom we disagree.” President Obama has pushed the “reset” button with any number of countries with whom we disagree, including Russia, Iran and Cuba. The question raised by the new Sudan policy is whether “engagement” can be a suitable paradigm in dealing with a regime accused of committing genocide.

The argument over engagement has a long pedigree, at least by the standards of a very young president. In 2007, Obama declared that he would meet without preconditions with the leaders of rogue states like Iran and North Korea, adding that it was “a disgrace” that the Bush administration had refused on principle to do so. In the face of withering accusations of naïveté — above all from his Democratic rival, Hillary Rodham Clinton — Mr. Obama reaffirmed that commitment, arguing that turning our back on adversaries had only hardened their resolve.

The administration’s special envoy on Sudan, Maj. Gen. J. Scott Gration, has thus been listening, and talking, to the government in Khartoum, whose president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, has been indicted by the International Criminal Court, accused of committing crimes against humanity in Darfur, where some 300,000 civilians have died in state-sponsored violence since 2003. The new policy seeks to bring the genocidal violence to an end; to implement the terms of a 2005 peace deal between the government and forces in the south, who fought a savage civil war for 20 years; and to ensure that Sudan does not become a haven for terrorists, as it was in the late 1990s. The policy offers to ease sanctions to help advance those goals, and threatens to impose “credible, meaningful disincentives” should the Sudanese government prove noncompliant.

There is no serious argument, from experts or from advocates, that the administration should not talk to Khartoum or that it should not offer a mix of incentives and threats. Even the most ardent activists no longer argue for a military intervention, as many of them did at the height of the violence in Darfur, five or six years ago. As John Norris, executive director of Enough, a group dedicated to ending genocide, says, “It is the conditions with which that engagement is undertaken that are really the sticking points.”

What does Mr. Bashir have to do to start emerging from international isolation? At what point does Mr. Obama further ratchet up the pressure? The practical meaning of the policy of engagement has been to change this balance — to accept the regime’s bona fides more than had been true before, to throttle back the language of accusation and threat.

Darfur advocates and other critics argue that General Gration has offered muted criticism of the Bashir regime, and has been willing “to give carrots for little confidence-building measures” rather than for real changes in policy, says Donald Steinberg, deputy president of the International Crisis Group. A long history of failed diplomacy shows that Mr. Bashir’s government will ignore any commitment that interferes with its goal of crushing opposition, in Darfur and elsewhere.
778 2009-10-25 New York state health officials recently laid out this wrenching scenario for a small group of medical professionals from New York-Presbyterian Hospital:

A 32-year-old man with cystic fibrosis is rushed to the hospital with appendicitis in the midst of a worsening pandemic caused by the H1N1 flu virus, which has mutated into a more deadly form. The man is awaiting a lung transplant and brought with him the mechanical ventilator that helps him breathe.

New York’s governor has declared a state of emergency and hospitals are following the state’s pandemic ventilator allocation plan — actual guidelines drafted in 2007 that are now being revisited. The plan aims to direct ventilators to those with the best chances of survival in a severe, 1918-like flu pandemic where tens of thousands develop life-threatening pneumonia.

Because the man’s end-stage lung disease caused by his cystic fibrosis is among a list of medical conditions associated with high mortality, the guidelines would bar the man from using a ventilator in a hospital, even though he is, unlike many with his illness, stable, in good condition, and not close to death. If the hospital admits him, the guidelines call for the machine that keeps him alive to be given to someone else.

Would doctors and nurses follow such rules? Should they?

In recent years, officials in a host of states and localities, as well as the federal Veterans Health Administration, have been quietly addressing one of medicine’s most troubling questions: Who should get a chance to survive when the number of severely ill people far exceeds the resources needed to treat them all?

The draft plans vary. In some states, patients with Do Not Resuscitate orders, the elderly, those requiring dialysis, or those with severe neurological impairment would be refused ventilators, or admission to hospitals. Utah divides epidemics into phases. Initially, hospitals would apply triage rules to residents of mental institutions, nursing homes, prisons and facilities for the “handicapped.” If an epidemic worsened, the rules would apply to the general population.

Federal officials say the possibility that America’s already crowded intensive care units would be overwhelmed in the coming weeks by flu patients is small but they remain vigilant.

The triage plans have attracted little publicity. New York, for example, released its draft guidelines in 2007, offered a 45-day comment period, and has made no changes since. The Health Department made 90 pages of public comments public this week only after receiving a request under the state’s public records laws.

Mary Buckley-Davis, a respiratory therapist with 30 years experience, wrote to officials in 2007 that “there will be rioting in the streets” if hospitals begin disconnecting ventilators. “There won’t be enough public relations spin or appropriate media coverage in the world” to calm the family of a patient “terminally weaned” from a ventilator, she said.

State and federal officials defend formal rationing as the last in a series of steps that would be taken to stretch scarce resources and provide the best outcome for the public. They say it is better to plan for such decisions than leave them to besieged health workers battling a crisis.

“You change your perspective from thinking about the individual patient to thinking about the community of patients,” said Rear Adm. Ann Knebel of the Department of Health and Human Services.

But some health professionals question whether the draft guidelines are fair, effective, ethical, and even remotely feasible.

Most existing triage plans were designed for handling mass casualties. They sort injured victims into priority categories based on the urgency of their medical needs and their potential for survival given available resources. Much of the controversy over the state plans focuses on two additional features.

These are “exclusion criteria,” which bar certain categories of patients from standard hospital treatments in a severe health disaster, and “minimum qualifications for survival,” which limit the resources used for each patient. Once that limit is reached, patients who are not improving would be removed from essential treatment in favor of those with better chances.

A version of these concepts was outlined in a post-9/11 medical journal article that suggested ways to handle victims of a large-scale bioterrorist event. The author, Dr. Frederick Burkle Jr., said he based his ideas in part on his experiences as a triage officer in Vietnam and the gulf war and on a cold war-era British plan for coping with a nuclear strike. Dr. Burkle said that during the gulf war he once instructed surgeons to halt an operation and work on another patient who was more likely to survive. Surgeons later returned to the first patient.

Dr. Burkle’s ideas were key aspects of guidelines Ontario authorities drew up after SARS to plan for avian flu and other pandemics. This approach and one by a team of Minnesota doctors were modified by groups developing similar guidelines in the United States.

There were important distinctions. Dr. Burkle’s original paper did not anticipate withdrawing care from patients and stressed the need to reassess the level of supplies “sometimes on a daily or hourly basis” in a fluid effort to provide the best possible care.

Some states’ triage guidelines are rigid, with a single set of criteria intended to apply throughout the severe phase of a pandemic. That disturbs Dr. Burkle. “I have said to my wife, I think I developed a monster here,” he said.

Recent research highlights the problem of a one-size-fits-all approach to triage. Many state pandemic plans call for hospitals to remove patients from ventilators if they are not improving after two to five days. Studies show that people severely ill with H1N1 flu generally need a week to two weeks on ventilators to recover.

There is also controversy over what values and ethical principles should guide triage decisions, how to engage the public, and whether withdrawing life support in the hospital and withholding it at the hospital door are distinct.

Normally, removing viable patients from life support against their or their families’ will would be considered murder. The New York-Presbyterian Hospital employees who participated in the recent exercise said they would not comply unless given legal protection.

They also never figured out what to do with that hypothetical patient who had his own ventilator, said Dr. Kenneth Prager, a pulmonologist and ethicist. “The issue of removing patients from ventilators,” he said, “was so overwhelming that it precluded discussion of further case scenarios.”
779 2009-10-25 Fair enough. But it allows born-females with adrenal tumors to compete as women, even though their bodies may have higher levels of testosterone than the average male. Not too consistent.

Simply stating which conditions disqualify an athlete would be a step in the right direction, especially if the list is based on standardized principles. But even that may not seem fair for some conditions, because two women with the same diagnosis may have different anatomies and physiologies.

So what is the I.A.A.F. to do? I put that question to three physician-scientists of the sort the I.A.A.F. should be consulting.

Eric Vilain, a professor of human genetics and pediatrics at U.C.L.A., specializes in sex development, so he knows that looking at genes will not tell you simply how a body is functioning. And what we care about is function. “The best biological marker, if you want a level playing field, would probably be functional testosterone,” Vilain said. “There is a good correlation between functional testosterone and muscle mass.”

Measuring functional testosterone would mean not only measuring how much a body is making, but also the level of effect. Some people’s cells react more to testosterone than others’. The challenge of this, Vilain was quick to point out, is not only that high-quality testing is invasive, but that sports officials would have to decide where to make the cutoff.

This could have interesting — and unintended — implications for other athletes. Vilain says he wonders if men with functional testosterone levels below the cutoff would be allowed to compete as women, even though they are men. Would women under the cutoff not be allowed to bring themselves up to the line, to level the hormonal playing field? (The World Anti-Doping Agency allows men with “low” testosterone to take more if they establish a medical need.)

Philip Gruppuso is a pediatric endocrinologist and associate dean for medical education at Brown. Like Vilain, he says the I.A.A.F. must acknowledge that all it can do is make a reasoned choice among many imperfect options. He offered the possibility of using the ratio of androgens (including testosterone) to estrogens.

Vilain and Gruppuso noted that hormone levels at the time of competition were not all that mattered. An athlete’s biological history matters, too. A transsexual woman may now have female-typical hormones, but her bones and muscles developed under male-typical levels. Vilain’s research has suggested that the biological differences between men and women may depend on more than hormonal differences.

Gruppuso said that the I.A.A.F.’s response to the Semenya case revealed that the sport’s officials understood how complicated this matter was.

“It was so obvious — when they brought together gynecologists, geneticists, endocrinologists, psychologists — that there was no way to meld all the various areas of mammalian biology to come up with a single cohesive answer,” he said. “You can’t come up with a single binary answer to that question.”

Perhaps it would be best, Vilain and Gruppuso suggested, to devise an algorithm, one informed by all the sciences available. Nigel Paneth, a professor of epidemiology at Michigan State, says he imagines the I.A.A.F.’s developing clearer rules involving combinations of genetics, endocrinology, anatomy and psychology. This, he said, “would be more scientifically defensible than using just one criterion.” However, he warned, tests will sometimes be wrong, “and some people would no doubt be misclassified.”

This, then, is just some of what the I.A.A.F. must struggle with as it reworks its sex policies. How can it be consistent, across conditions, with regard to what counts as an unfair advantage? What error rate is it willing to accept for tests? Will the policy for various disorders of sex development match, in philosophy, its policies on transsexualism so transgender women are not cheated or benefited? How will the policies also affect athletes competing as men? Can the I.A.A.F. justify biological restrictions regarding some inborn conditions, given that natural variation has long been accepted as inevitable and fair in sport?

No easy job. And on top of all that, the I.A.A.F. will need to think about how its decisions will affect the tens of thousands of people who will, by implication, be judged male or female by these “verification” policies.

Gruppuso said he wondered what it would mean for his pediatric patients with disorders of sex development and gender-identity questions if sports officials and the public were to continue confusing who you are — boy or girl, man or a woman — with what your cells do.
780 2009-10-25 President Obama, in his Saturday radio address, said the Democrats’ health insurance overhaul would help small businesses and stimulate the economy by providing relief from “the crushing costs of health care — costs that have forced too many small businesses to cut benefits, shed jobs, or shut their doors for good.”

The insurance industry has already been under sharp attack by Democratic lawmakers who favor creating a government-run insurance plan that would compete with private insurers. Without that competition, proponents say, insurers will continue to price coverage beyond the reach of many Americans.

Small businesses, which employ about 40 percent of the private labor force, are a big constituency for both parties.

The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, said the sharp rise in premiums for small businesses offered the latest evidence that Congress must act swiftly on health care legislation.

“This underlines the urgent need for health insurance reform, including a public option,” she said in an interview. “We need to have competition for the insurance companies to keep premiums down.”

Insurers say there is no need for a government-run insurance plan and argue that their health plans are already responsible for many of the initiatives, like programs to coordinate care for chronic conditions, that ultimately lower costs.

Insurers’ “profits are not responsible for increased health care costs,” said Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for the industry’s trade group, America’s Health Insurance Plans.

Like the insurers, Republican lawmakers, who portray themselves as champions of small business, argue that the proposed legislation would raise premiums across the board because sick people would be more likely to enroll than healthy people.

They also say the taxes and other ways of paying for the program would be passed on to employers in higher premiums, only making matters worse for small businesses.

The Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said in a response to the president’s radio address, “We can’t support a bill that will raise premiums.” The big insurance companies declined to comment.

With negotiations over next year’s premiums still under way, data on rate increases are mostly anecdotal. Formal surveys have not yet been completed by the health benefits consultants who track the figures. And in some parts of the country, experts say rates are not overly high.

But benefits consultants say there is no doubt that premiums are soaring for many small businesses. Edward Kaplan, a consultant with the Segal Company, said his clients were seeing renewals for coverage at prices 15 to 23 percent higher this year. Last year, he said, they typically faced increases of 7 to 12 percent.

The brokers and consultants say the price jumps seem hard to justify. “Frankly, I’m mystified by the size of the increases,” said one broker, Charles J. Newman, who works with small employers in the New York area.

Some say the threat of an overhaul may be at least part of the reason. Joshua Miley, a consultant with HighRoads, which analyzes benefit information for employers, said the “undercurrent of health reform is driving part of the renewal increases.”

HighRoads projects that premiums will rise 14.4 percent for an individual in a health maintenance organization plan at a typical small employer.

There is no question that insurers are under pressure from Wall Street. In recent years, insurers were often not quick enough to raise their premiums well above the rising cost of medical care.

But they have heard from angry investors disappointed by the companies’ earnings.

“There’s no one out there who hasn’t had to do a mea culpa to Wall Street,” said Sheryl Skolnick, an analyst for Pali Capital who follows the companies. While the industry is particularly vulnerable now in Washington, she said, “it seems like they’re more afraid of Wall Street.”

Michael A. Turpin, a former senior executive for UnitedHealth, the insurer, and now a top official at USI Holdings, an insurance brokerage firm, said insurers were now “under so much pressure to post earnings, they’re going to make hay while the sun is shining.”

Along with many Republican lawmakers, the insurers say the current Congressional proposals do too little to address the underlying reasons for high premiums — the unabated rise in medical costs and effects of a weak economy. Hospitals, for example, have been treating greater numbers of people who have lost their jobs and their insurance, and they are passing along some of those costs by charging higher prices to private insurers.

The industry also points to low government payments to hospitals and doctors, which insurers say result in higher prices for employer-based coverage to make up for the shortfall.

In an analysis released two weeks ago by America’s Health Insurance Plans, insurers said premiums would rise even faster under the legislation under study in Congress — an assessment fiercely disputed by Democratic Congressional leaders and some health care economists but shared by many Republicans.

Small businesses, besides having less negotiating leverage than big employers, tend to pay more for the same coverage because they cannot spread the cost of expensive medical conditions or hospitalizations over large numbers of workers. Premiums can be especially high if they have sick or older workers.

Owners of small companies say the lack of options is why they have been paying increasingly higher premiums for less and less coverage — this year perhaps more than ever.

In August, when Walter Rowen, who owns Susquehanna Glass in Columbia, Pa., sought to renew his company’s coverage for two dozen employees, he said his insurer demanded a 160 percent rate increase. Mr. Rowen said he was told his work force was “getting too old and very expensive.”

Mr. Rowen said his insurance broker found that any other health plan was likely to charge 30 to 50 percent more than he paid last year. He chose a less generous plan from a different carrier for 44 percent more.
781 2009-10-25 Campaigners against global warming have drawn on an arsenal of visually startling tactics over the years, from posing nude on a Swiss glacier to scaling smokestacks at coal-fired power plants.

On Saturday, they tried something new with the goal of prodding countries to get serious about reaching an international climate accord: a synchronized burst of more than 4,300 demonstrations, from the Himalayas to the Great Barrier Reef, all centered on the number 350.

For some prominent climate scientists, that is the upper limit for heat-trapping carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, measured in parts per million. If the gas concentration exceeds that for long, they warn, the world can expect decades of disrupted climate patterns, rising sea levels, drought and famine. The current concentration is 387 parts per million.

Organizers said their goal, in the prelude to global climate talks in Copenhagen in December, was to illustrate the urgent need to cut emissions by pointing out that the world passed the 350 mark two decades ago. Yet while agreeing that unabated emissions pose serious risks, some prominent scientists and economists focusing on climate policy said the 350 target was so unrealistic that the campaign risked not being taken seriously  or could convey the wrong message.

“Three-fifty is so impossible to achieve that to make it the goal risks the reaction that if we are already over the cliff, then let’s just enjoy the ride until it’s over,” said John M. Reilly, an economist at M.I.T.

“The message needs to be that there are risks at the current level, and those risks increase the further we push the system,” he said.

In a prominent recent study, scientists concluded that carbon dioxide levels were almost certainly headed beyond any levels experienced on the planet in the last 15 million years.

Michael Oppenheimer, a scientist previously at the Environmental Defense Fund who is now at Princeton, said it would be a herculean accomplishment to hold concentrations below 450 parts per million in decades.

But Bill McKibben, the author and activist who founded 350.org, the group coordinating the protests, defended its approach, saying that settling on a concrete goal articulated as a number was the only way to build a “global community” for climate action.

“We need to be thinking about reducing, not going up more slowly,” he said. “Three-fifty is the number that says wartime footing, let’s see how fast we can possibly move, and let’s hope against hope that it’s fast enough.”

Mr. McKibben spent Saturday morning in an office in downtown Manhattan with 20 volunteers coordinating an accelerating flow of videos and photographs from other time zones that captured demonstrations planned in 170 countries. Events focusing on the numberwere held on every continent and from pole to pole, with climbers unfurling a banner on a mountain peak in Antarctica and artists forming a 350 out of hunks of ice on a gravel beach in Greenland, in the Arctic.

The Cairo Cyclist Club posed with a banner and activists in front of one of Egypt’s great pyramids, while more than 350 roller skaters swept through Tel Aviv.

Some participants had gotten a head start. On Friday, thousands of students assembled in a plaza in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, waving “350” placards. Grinning American soldiers in eastern Afghanistan e-mailed photographs of a 350 fashioned from sandbags.

Robert J. Brulle, a sociologist at Drexel University who analyzes environmental campaigns, expressed a mixed view of the 350 campaign. It represents “a new wave of civic environmentalism” that has proved vital to solving problems, he said, but that approach was abandoned long ago by many big environmental groups that now focus mainly on legislation and litigation.

But Dr. Brulle questioned the core symbol and message of 350.org. He suggested that it might be too technical and that it focused on deeply cutting emissions without providing a clear path for accomplishing the task. Nonetheless, the effort has been endorsed by dozens of prominent figures, including James E. Hansen, a NASA scientist who has been most closely associated with defining the climate threshold as 350 parts per million. He has campaigned for halting emissions from coal burning altogether by 2030.

The demonstrations were also endorsed by Rajendra K. Pachauri, the chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and Desmond M. Tutu, the former leader of the Anglican Church in South Africa.

Mr. McKibben of 350.org said it was up to national leaders to assume a moral obligation to match their actions to the science.

On Saturday, as the pictures flowed in via e-mail and the Web, he noted that there were hardly any showing celebrities or officials. “Ordinary people are just haunted by this,” he said. “Now they’re saying one thing very loudly, and very beautifully.”

Gavin A. Schmidt, a climate scientist who works with Dr. Hansen and manages a popular blog on climate science, realclimate.org, said those promoting 350 or debating the number might be missing the point.

“The situation is analogous to people trying to embark on a cross-country road trip to California, but they’ve started off heading to Maine instead,” Dr. Schmidt said. “But instead of working out ways to turn around, they have decided to argue about where they are going to park when they get to L.A.

“If you ask a scientist how much more CO2 do you think we should add to the atmosphere, the answer is going to be none.”
782 2009-10-25 Style trumps substance in Oliver Goldsmith’s 1773 romp “She Stoops to Conquer,” and the McCarter Theater Center’s comically charged, visually resplendent new production takes that style to a new level. Nicholas Martin, the play’s director, skews costumes, set and even acting styles to express the work’s “confused identities of person and place,” yet never tampers with the text.

“Confused” is the operative word here. Goldsmith knew how to make audiences laugh, setting out to write a naturalistic “laughing comedy” rather than the formulaic, highly moralistic “sentimental comedy” that was all the rage. Still, one well-worn formula, involving variations on the theme of mistaken identity, must have seemed too ripe with comic possibilities not to exploit.

And exploit it he did, building an entire conceit on its wobbly legs. In “She Stoops to Conquer,” Mr. Hardcastle, a man of manners and substance with ambitious plans to marry off his daughter, is mistaken by his prospective son-in-law, Charles Marlow, for a lowly innkeeper. Charles confuses Kate, Mr. Hardcastle’s upstanding, self-possessed daughter, for a barmaid, and the family’s charming country manse for a public inn. He is a chameleon of a chap whose self-confidence waxes and wanes depending on the social station of the woman he is with.

A second couple, Constance Neville and George Hastings, find their plans to elope mired in confusion when a cask containing the jewelry that is the young woman’s inheritance falls into villainous hands, preventing her from leaving the home of the greedy aunt with whom she is staying. That same aunt, the eccentric and corrupt Mrs. Hardcastle, has a son named Tony Lumpkin, a reprobate, horse-loving playboy whom she tricks into believing that he has not reached his majority. He is therefore unable to choose his own future wife but must reluctantly woo the already committed Constance. And so on, and so on.

With David Korins’s spectacular stone Great Room — glowing hearth, timbered beams, imposing stairway — morphing ingeniously into a country alehouse and, later, into a leafy garden, Goldsmith’s colorfully etched characters find comic life in the hands of a skillful cast and director.
783 2009-10-25 A study done by the Otteau Valuation Group, which provides monthly market analysis to agents, brokers and builders, came to the same conclusion, based on statewide market data from last year.

Most recently, Jeffrey Otteau, the group’s president, announced his view that it will take until 2016 for prices to recover to their high point in 2006.

Over all, he added, it is “very difficult — and possibly too soon” to say whether prices have even stopped their decline.

For one thing, data on final sales prices are not available until sales close — usually two to six months after a contract is signed — so there is a lag time before conclusions can be drawn. For another, there is no tried-and-true analytical method for determining the direction prices are headed at a time of flux like this.

When pressed to consider what could be discerned from information now at hand, Mr. Otteau came up with this: The seasonal shift downward in prices that occurred from summer to fall was not as sharp as last year’s. This year, the downward shift from the second to third quarters was 7.4 percent; last year, it was 10.4 percent.

The median price for all of New Jersey went to $289,275 for the third quarter, ended on Sept. 30, from $312,437 in the second quarter. The median last year during that same time frame went to $279,885 from $312,405.

Mr. Otteau said his data suggested that “a ground is beginning to form in terms of prices,” and noted that the trend had occurred as government stimulus programs that were intended to stabilize the residential real estate market were taking effect.

No matter how good the numbers are in a particular community, however, realistic pricing is critical.

In Glen Ridge in Essex County, for example, Mr. Otteau says there is only a three-month inventory of homes that have been on the market for more than a month. In theory, at the current pace of sales, it would take only three months for all homes currently on the market to sell.

The three-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath colonial at No. 76 Oxford Street has been for sale since the spring of 2008. Suzanne Regan, an agent at Weichert Realtors, grew up in the house and is marketing it for her mother.

“Since the house is assessed in the low $600,000s, and Mom had made some improvements — including a new roof — we started out at $599,000,” Ms. Regan said. “After a couple of months, we reduced it to $583,000, and then the market dropped out.”

Now, Ms. Regan’s mother has made further improvements, and the house is listed at $557,500. It has a big “reduced” sign out front, which is something of a rarity these days, according to several agents.

Ms. Bigos says she never sees them in the Short Hills area, even though most brokers will suggest reducing the asking prices after a house has been on the market for at least two months. “People think it looks bad, and hurts the momentum,” she said. “Personally, I think that’s a mistake. Buyers in this market want to be sure they are getting a deal.”
784 2009-10-25 ny list of the most enduring American photographs of the past century is likely to include Joe Rosenthal’s “Flag Raising on Iwo Jima”; John Filo’s image of a young woman at Kent State kneeling in anguish over the body of a mortally wounded college protester; and Richard Drew’s “Falling Man,” showing the fatal descent of a solitary figure from a high floor of the World Trade Center on 9/11. But perhaps the most iconic image — gracing textbooks, hanging from dormitory walls, affixed to political posters, even adorning a postage stamp — is Dorothea Lange’s “Migrant Mother,” taken at a farmworkers camp in 1936. The photo shows a woman nurturing three young children, one in her arms, the others leaning on her for support. Her manner is strong and protective, yet her face shows the worry of someone overpowered by events beyond her control. She has trekked west from the ravaged Dust Bowl of , finding fieldwork where she can. Gazing into space, she represents the spirit of America itself in the midst of history’s worst economic disaster — the mix of courage and compassion that will lead a proud, invincible nation to endure.

“Migrant Mother” has a serendipitous history, as Linda Gordon makes clear in an absorbing, exhaustively researched and highly political biography of a transformative figure in the rise of modern photojournalism. Lange had been hired by the Farm Security Administration, one of the New Deal’s more progressive agencies, to document the plight of farmworkers in , a mandate that covered everyone from Southern black sharecroppers to Dust Bowl refugees to Mexican-American migrants in the fields stretching from ­ to California. Led by Roy Stryker, a phenomenal talent spotter, the F.S.A. photography project schooled the likes of , , Arthur Rothstein and Ben Shahn. Most came from urban backgrounds. “I didn’t know a mule from a tractor,” Lange admitted. What bound them together was their devotion to the principles of social justice represented by the New Deal.

Lange’s territory included all of California, which she covered by automobile. Driving north on Route 101 on a miserable winter’s day, she passed a hand-lettered sign reading “Pea-Pickers Camp” near the town of Nipomo. Lange drove on for 20 miles before something pulled her back. On the job for almost a year, she had come to understand the rhythms of migrant life, the periods of physically exhausting labor followed by even longer (unpaid) periods of emotionally draining inactivity. In the Nipomo camp, Lange met Thompson, 32, the mother of 11 children, five born out of wedlock. The family was in desperate straits, living off stolen vegetables from the fields. Lange took a half-dozen photos, putting Thompson and her children in different poses. She took the photos from just outside their tent, even moving a pile of soiled laundry aside, so as not to embarrass the subjects by noting their squalid living conditions. (Though Gordon doesn’t mention it, Lange may have decided to use only three of the children to avoid the public perception of “Okies” as irresponsible “white trash.”) For the key photo, she “made the unusual decision to ask the two youngsters leaning on their mother to turn their faces away from the camera,” Gordon writes. “She was building the drama and impact of the photograph by forcing the viewer to focus entirely on Florence Thompson’s beauty and , and by letting the children’s bodies, rather than their faces, express their dependence on their mother.”

Gordon, who teaches history at , is a leading scholar of gender and family in modern American life. (I teach part of the year at N.Y.U. but have rarely crossed paths with her.) Not surprisingly, she spends a fair amount of space on Lange’s personal life and role as a female photographer in a male-­dominated profession. Born in Hoboken, N.J., in 1895 to middle-class German-American parents, Lange faced two handicaps as a child: a severe bout with that left her with a permanently weakened leg and an absentee father who abandoned the family and never returned. As Gordon sees it, Lange overcame the physical handicap a lot more easily than the emotional one, though each increased her empathy for people on the margins of society. Showing little interest in school, Lange apprenticed herself to a string of portrait photographers in New York, where she learned the mechanics of the trade and the art of bonding seamlessly with her subject. “Photography was a new profession and therefore not defined as a uniquely male skill or tradition,” Gordon says. In , where Lange moved in 1918, she created a portrait studio “successful beyond her dreams.”

She was married twice: first to the artist Maynard Dixon, who introduced her to the wonders of nature; next to Paul Schuster Taylor, an economics professor, who kindled her interest in progressive reform. Gordon expertly analyzes the political culture of Depression-era California, where the enormous power of big agriculture kept tens of thousands of landless workers in peonage and despair. She portrays Lange as an ambivalent radical, deeply sympathetic to the plight of the migrants yet uncomfortable with the chaos that social conflict inevitably produced. Early in the Depression, Lange had tried but failed to photograph the labor protests that shook San Francisco. “Much of the action was so fast-moving and so violent that slow-moving Lange could not or would not get close,” Gordon writes. “This was the territory of the new breed of adventurous photojournalists.” Lange’s talent lay elsewhere.

Gordon is more in tune with the politics of , who believed in organized protest to redress economic grievances, than she is with Lange’s more passive approach. A portrait photographer at heart, Lange stressed the inner emotions of those facing injustice and deprivation. “Her documentary photography was portrait photography,” Gordon says. “What made it different was its subjects, and thereby its politics.” An individualist at heart, Lange provided an alternative to the photography of wretchedness, which centered on the misery of beaten-down victims, as well as to the Popular Front mythology, which showed earnest, well-muscled men and women laboring together in fields and factories to produce a Soviet-style paradise on earth. Lange saw America as a worthy work in progress, incomplete and capable of better. By portraying her subjects as nobler than their current conditions, she emphasized the strength and optimism of our national character. She became, in Gordon’s words, “America’s pre-eminent photographer of democracy.”
785 2009-10-25 AT the beginning of Richard Kelly’s new film, “The Box,” a mysterious parcel is delivered to a suburban family’s doorstep. Inside is a device with a button, which Norma (Cameron Diaz) and Arthur Lewis (James Marsden) soon learn will earn them $1 million if pressed. It will also cause the death of someone they don’t know.

The Lewises take the risk and push the button, plunging themselves into a world filled with zombielike mobs, a rash of bloody noses and one disturbingly deformed messenger (Frank Langella). Mr. Kelly has taken a risk of his own in making the film, and the consequences may well be more real if not so frightening. “The Box,” a Warner Brothers release with a mostly straightforward, linear story, is deliberately calculated to be commercial and, he hopes, keep him viable within the Hollywood studio system. “I have a lot riding on this film,” Mr. Kelly, 34, said over lunch at Greenblatt’s Deli, a Sunset Boulevard staple. “Until I have a theatrical hit, people aren’t going to keep giving me chances.”

It’s a sentiment that’s hard to imagine coming from Mr. Kelly, whose previous movies could never be described as straightforward or studio-friendly. Mr. Kelly, a University of Southern California film school graduate, earned cult status with his first feature, “Donnie Darko,” a 2001 psychodrama about a sleepwalking teenager (Jake Gyllenhaal, then unknown) who receives messages of the pending apocalypse from a man in a giant bunny suit. But six years later a three-hour rough cut of “Southland Tales”  an ambitious, postnuclear mishmash about commercialism, war, homeland security and Los Angeles, among many other things  made its debut at the Cannes Film Festival to a chorus of boos. The slimmer finished product fared little better with domestic critics (the words “fiasco,” “self-indulgent” and “disaster” were common, although Manohla Dargis in The New York Times found it a “funny, audacious, messy and feverishly inspired look at America and its discontents”) or audiences (it took in just $275,000 in the United States).

“It was incredibly painful,” Mr. Kelly said. He conceded that the film was self-indulgent but insisted he had no regrets. “It’s one of those things you can do only once in your career,” Mr. Kelly said. “I’m very proud of the movie.”

But he quickly realized that he needed to change perceptions about himself. His trippy films have made people assume he’s “like Edward Scissorhands living up in some weird castle,” he said, alluding to the Tim Burton-Johnny Depp film. “But that’s certainly not who I am.”

In person Mr. Kelly comes across like a former fraternity guy, his torn jeans and gelled hair complementing a T-shirt that reveals an obsessive weightlifter. “My dream is to be able to have thought-recognition software that, as I’m exercising, will just write the script,” he said.

His Twitter feed (with more than 5,000 followers) has revealed his love of University of Southern California football, beer pong and the Coen brothers’ movie “A Serious Man.” (“Oy vey! This goy is beyond smitten!” he tweeted.)

Everyone interviewed for this article mentioned the dissonance within Mr. Kelly. “A contradiction would imply something that would be understood,” Mr. Gyllenhaal said, “two things that would be a yin and a yang. He’s not that.” Mr. Gyllenhaal then took a moment to formulate an accurate description. “I sometimes feel like he’s out of the mind of John Hughes. He’s like the missing character in ‘The Breakfast Club.’ “

Though “The Box” is intended to be a crowd-drawing thriller, it returns Mr. Kelly to the setting and some of the themes found in “Donnie Darko”: Both are set in upper-middle-class Virginia suburbs (Mr. Kelly grew up in Newport News and Richmond) and pose questions through tales of a traditional family in an unusual circumstance. “The suburbs are emblematic of the life we pretend to enjoy,” he said. “All those houses that look like a gigantic machine just squirted them out. Obviously some people do enjoy that life, others do not, but they all try to pretend to.”

The screenplay is based on a 1971 short story by the sci-fi writer Richard Matheson (“I Am Legend”) called “Button, Button.” (The movie also evokes 1970s conspiracy theory movies like “The Parallax View” and “Three Days of the Condor.”) Mr. Kelly optioned that 11-page tale, which has also been adapted into a 1986 “Twilight Zone” episode, but he added a new layer to its minimal plot.

“I decided to take this gift of a short story and make it about people I care about and respect,” he said. “I’m not interested in telling a story about a couple of selfish jerks who push a button.”

So he adapted details of his parents’ lives. He set the film in 1976 because that’s when his father helped design the camera for the Viking project, which sent a robot to Mars. “I was in awe of my dad’s work,” said Mr. Kelly, who lobbied for a year to be granted the rare privilege of shooting on the Langley campus of NASA.

He mined a more personal aspect of his mother’s life for the film. When she was a teenager, Mr. Kelly’s mother had an X-ray taken of her foot. This normally routine assessment took a bizarre turn when the doctor left the room, accidentally leaving the machine on. Extended radiation exposure left Ms. Kelly in the hospital for months and without a number of her toes. “My mother actually endured and lived through something from a horror film, essentially,” Mr. Kelly said. “One of the reasons I wanted to make this movie was to pay tribute to that experience, pay tribute to her.”

“Richard has really commercial taste,” said the producer of “The Box,” Dan Lin, a former production executive at Warner Brothers, which has a tradition of making mainstream movies with artistic directors, like Spike Jonze’s “Where the Wild Things Are” and Steven Soderbergh’s “Oceans Eleven” series. “He can elevate the material without selling out. He still has his own style.”

Mr. Lin added, “There’s a real grounding in who these characters are as people, and I think actors really respond to that.”

Getting the go-ahead for the movie was helped along immensely by Ms. Diaz, the star of “What Happens in Vegas” and “In Her Shoes,” among others, agreeing to sign on. A close friend of Drew Barrymore, who produced and had a supporting role in “Donnie Darko,” Ms. Diaz was dating Justin Timberlake while he was shooting “Southland Tales,” so she was familiar with Mr. Kelly’s work. “I loved ‘Donnie Darko,’ ” she said. “Richard is an artist; he has such huge ideas.”

And having Ms. Diaz on board helped ground Mr. Kelly. “Cameron would police me,” he recalled. “She would say, ‘Richard, now you need to keep this focused, you need to explain this because this logic doesn’t work.’ ”
786 2009-10-25 The Obama administration and Congress have vowed to regulate derivatives, the complex and often highly speculative financial instruments that were at the heart of the meltdown. Two House committees have approved legislation, but -- after heavy lob...
787 2009-10-25 The Obama administration and Congress have vowed to regulate derivatives, the complex and often highly speculative financial instruments that were at the heart of the meltdown. Two House committees have approved legislation, but -- after heavy lob...
788 2009-10-25 Clifford P. Hansen, a Wyoming rancher who fought for Western interests as a governor and then a United States senator in what was popularly known as the sagebrush rebellion, died Tuesday  at his home in Jackson, Wyo. He was 97.     Retta Feller, w...
789 2009-10-26 For some students at one college, the swipe of an ID is all that will be required to acquire a course book....
790 2009-10-26 He has been released from a hospital and is under orders to rest, according to a statement released on his behalf....
791 2009-10-26 A new Nickelodeon series, “Victorious,” will be set in a Hollywood school for the performing arts and feature an ensemble cast that will sing, dance and act....
792 2009-10-26 Did Mark Sanchez need to apologize for eating a hot dog on the sideline during the Jets' rout of the Raiders?...
793 2009-10-26 In Macy's animated feature "Yes Virginia," which will appear on CBS-TV, the department store aims to answer kids' perennial holiday question: Is there really a Santa Claus?
794 2009-10-26 Microsoft said Monday that it had revoked its sponsorship of a forthcoming "Family Guy" special on Fox....
795 2009-10-26 The new book "Born to Run" has reframed the debate about the wisdom of distance running....
796 2009-10-26 In part 1 of a Q&A, Eric J. Furda of the University of Pennsylvania discusses early decision applications (compared to those in the regular round) as well as the relative weight of the essay and the campus visit....
797 2009-10-26 A survey finds that colleges have made few changes in response to the recession....
798 2009-10-26 About one in six Americans say they have been diagnosed with depression at some point, and the rate is nearly twice as high for lower-income people, according to Gallup survey data....
799 2009-10-26 Verizon still wants to sell Apple's iPhone, said the company's chief executive, as he discussed the phone company's better-than-expected earnings....
800 2009-10-26 Is C.C. Sabathia more valuable as a classic rotation workhorse, starting Games 1, 4 and 7 if necessary on three days' rest, or as a swingman, taking his regular turn in Games 1 and 5 and relieving in any number of other contests?...
801 2009-10-26 The CIT Group has extended and sweetened its debt exchange offer in an effort to stave off an uncontrolled bankruptcy, the troubled lender said in a regulatory filing on Monday....
802 2009-10-26 Christian Noyer, a member of the European Central Bank Governing Council, warned that banks are taking the same risks that led to the financial crisis and said they should preserve capital rather than pay it out to bankers and investors....
803 2009-10-26 ING Group, the Dutch financial services company, said Monday that it planned to break up its insurance and banking businesses and raise up to 7.5 billion euros, or $11.3 billion, in a stock issue, after reaching a deal with the government to repay...
804 2009-10-26 European antitrust regulators have given their blessing to the $41 billion merger of healthcare giants Merck and Schering-Plough....
805 2009-10-26 It may not be time to worry yet, but one can now begin to question whether the Giants are a true playoff contender....
806 2009-10-26 Maxis, Malaysia's biggest mobile service provider, aims to raise as much as $3.65 billion in the biggest initial public offering in the country, despite a cooling off in demand for Asian listings following China's flurry of offerings....
807 2009-10-26 Microsoft is perplexed that Google is giving away its Android smartphone software. Perhaps Google wants less to profit than to hurt Microsoft....
808 2009-10-26 The Jets' victory against the Raiders was what Rex-ball was supposed to be all about....
809 2009-10-26 Next month, Netflix subscribers will be able to play streaming movies and TV shows from the service through Sony PlayStation 3 game consoles....
810 2009-10-26 The editorial is correct in stating that clean drinking water is a precious natural resource. But it focuses only on New York City’s drinking water. While New Yorkers should be very concerned about drilling, every American has the right to clean water.

Drilling companies can use tens of thousands of gallons of sometimes toxic chemicals when they hydraulically fracture a site. States have uneven controls of this process, and local citizens often have no way of knowing what chemicals might find their way into their water. Residents of Pennsylvania, Colorado and Texas have as much right to trust the tap as New Yorkers.

If the Senate chooses to give incentives to natural gas in its new energy bill, it should also put controls on drillers to ensure that no Americans drink poisoned water.

We all recognize the importance of preserving our water supply, and natural gas companies operating under strict government regulations and using advanced technologies have protected our water while producing the energy our nation requires.

We can safely develop New York’s extensive clean-burning natural gas supplies while also providing jobs, growth and substantial revenues to the state.

Studies of hydraulic fracturing, a 60-year-old technology crucial to natural gas development and already widely used in New York, strongly suggest that the technology is safe despite recent concerns.
811 2009-10-26 LONDON — Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, is a billionaire who does business in more than 80 countries. So it is only natural that his interest in sports ownership also crosses continents.

After the Patriots defeated the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday, 35-7, Kraft said that he was unable to attend an English Premier League soccer game while he was visiting. He did say that he watched the day’s biggest sporting event in England, Liverpool’s 2-0 victory over Manchester United, on television.

Kraft has expressed interest in purchasing Liverpool, which is owned by George Gillett Jr. and Tom Hicks, but has said that he would not do so unless the league had a salary cap.

“We don’t want to be a business where the wallet determines what kind of player you have,” he told British reporters Friday.

On Sunday, he said generally of ownership in the Premier League, “At some point in the future there’s a good possibility we could be involved.”

He added: “I’m a very big fan of the Premier League. I would probably want to see some kind of salary-cap potential to get into it, but we have all kinds of opportunities come to us in this area.”
812 2009-10-26 WASHINGTON — Federal investigators on Sunday questioned the captain and first officer of the Northwest Airlines airplane that overshot its destination by 110 miles on a flight Wednesday from San Diego to Minneapolis-St. Paul, but the officials gave no immediate public comments on what the pilots had said.

While some aviation experts have speculated that the pilots were napping, officials at Delta Air Lines, which absorbed Northwest in a merger last year, said privately that they were skeptical that the two men had been asleep. The pilots had a layover of about 17 hours in San Diego, airline employees pointed out, and while staying alert is a problem at some hours of the day, the idea that both could fall asleep in the late afternoon did not seem likely.

The pilots have not given any detailed public accounting of what happened, but there have been reports from other sources that before they landed, they told air traffic controllers that they had been involved in a heated discussion of company policy and had lost track of everything else. The pilots have not said publicly what that conversation was about.

One Delta pilot said on Sunday that the hot topic of discussion in the cockpits of the company’s planes lately had been the integration of procedures between Delta and Northwest. Delta is standardizing its checklists and procedures, mostly by imposing its operating rules on the Northwest pilots, and this has given the Northwest pilots a lot of new information to absorb, the Delta pilot said.

The pilots of the flight, Northwest 188, Capt. Timothy B. Cheney, 53, of Gig Harbor, Wash., and First Officer Richard I. Cole, 54, of Salem, Ore., were interviewed in the Minneapolis area on Sunday.

Keith Holloway, a spokesman for the federal National Transportation Safety Board, said that investigators would interview the flight attendants in the next few days. People involved in the investigation said the pilots had been alerted by a flight attendant using the plane’s interphone system, who asked why they were not descending.
813 2009-10-26 The Capmark Financial Group, the big commercial real estate finance company cobbled together from pieces of GMAC, filed for bankruptcy on Sunday after struggling with a heavy burden of failing loans and debt stemming from its leveraged buyout three years ago.

Capmark is only the latest to fall victim to continued trouble in the commercial real estate market, which many analysts have said will continue to deteriorate. Many small banks have collapsed this year under the weight of commercial loans.

The company had warned last month that it might seek Chapter 11 protection after reporting a $1.62 billion quarterly loss.

Last month, the company agreed to sell its mortgage loan and servicing business to Berkshire Hathaway and Leucadia National for as much as $490 million. That agreement carried a 60-day expiration date, or around Nov. 2 — unless Capmark filed for bankruptcy, which would give it 60 more days to complete the sale.

Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, Five Mile Capital and Dune Capital bought GMAC’s commercial real estate businesses in 2006 for about $1.5 billion in cash, with GMAC retaining a 21 percent stake in the operation. K.K.R. has already written down the value of its Capmark investment to zero.

In a court filing on Sunday, Capmark said that it had about $20.1 billion in assets and $21 billion in liabilities as of June 30. About $10 billion of Capmark’s assets reside in a Utah bank the company owns, which will not be subject to a bankruptcy filing.
814 2009-10-26 Over the past two years, government officials and experts have seen an increasing number of children leave home for life on the streets, including many under . Foreclosures, layoffs, rising food and fuel prices and inadequate supplies of low-cost housing have stretched families to the extreme, and those pressures have trickled down to teenagers and preteens.

Federal studies and experts in the field have estimated that at least 1.6 million juveniles run away or are thrown out of their homes annually. But most of those return home within a week, and the government does not conduct a comprehensive or current count.

The best measure of the problem may be the number of contacts with runaways that federally-financed outreach programs make, which rose to 761,000 in 2008 from 550,000 in 2002, when current methods of counting began. (The number fell in 2007, but rose sharply again last year, and the number of federal outreach programs has been fairly steady throughout the period.)

Too young to get a hotel room, sign a lease or in many cases hold a job, young runaways are increasingly surviving by selling drugs, panhandling or engaging in prostitution, according to the National Runaway Switchboard, the federally-financed national hot line created in 1974. Legitimate employment was hard to find in the summer of 2009; the Labor Department said fewer than 30 percent of teenagers had jobs.

In more than 50 interviews over 11 months, teenagers living on their own in eight states told of a harrowing existence that in many cases involved sleeping in abandoned buildings, couch-surfing among friends and relatives or camping on riverbanks and in parks after fleeing or being kicked out by families in financial crisis.

The runaways spend much of their time avoiding the authorities because they assume the officials are trying to send them home. But most often the police are not looking for them as missing-person cases at all, just responding to complaints about loitering or menacing. In fact, federal data indicate that usually no one is looking for the runaways, either because parents have not reported them missing or the police have mishandled the reports.

In Adrian, Mich., near , a 16-year-old boy was secretly living alone in his mother’s apartment, though all the utilities had been turned off after she was arrested and jailed for violating her parole by bouncing a check at a grocery store.

In Huntington, W.Va., Steven White, 15, said that after casing a 24-hour to see what time each night the cleaning crew finished its rounds, he began sleeping in a store restroom.

“You’re basically on the lam,” said Steven, who said he had left home because of that increased after his father lost his job this year. “But you’re a kid, so it’s pretty hard to hide.”



Between Legal and Illegal

Survival on the streets of Medford, a city of 76,000 in southwest , requires runaways to walk a fine line between legal and illegal activity, as a few days with a group of them showed. Even as they sought help from social service organizations, they guarded their freedom jealously.

Petulant and street savvy, they were children nonetheless. One girl said she used a butter knife and a library card to break into vacant houses. But after she began living in one of them, she ate dry cereal for dinner for weeks because she did not realize that she could use the microwave to boil water for Ramen noodles. Another girl was childlike enough to suck her thumb, but dangerous enough to carry a switchblade.

They camped in restricted areas, occasionally shoplifted and regularly smoked . But they stayed away from harder drugs or drug dealing, and the older teenagers fiercely protected the younger runaways from sexual or other physical threats.

In waking hours, members of the group split their time among a park, a pool hall and a video-game arcade, sharing . When in need, they sometimes barter: a sleeveless jacket for a blanket, peanut butter for extra to start campfires on soggy nights.

Betty Snyder, the newcomer in the park, said she had bitten her mother in a recent fight. She said she often refused to do household chores, which prompted heated arguments.

“I’m just tired of it all, and I don’t want to be in my house anymore,” she said, explaining why she had run away. “One month there is money, and the next month there is none. One day, she is taking it out on me and hitting me, and the next day she is ignoring me. It’s more stable out here.”

Members of the group said they sometimes made money by picking parking meters or sitting in front of parking lots, pretending to be the attendant after the real one leaves. When things get really desperate, they said, they climb into public fountains to fish out coins late at night. On cold nights, they hide in public libraries or schools after closing time to sleep.

Many of the runaways said they had fled family conflicts or the strain of their parents’ alcohol or . Others said they left simply because they did not want to go to school or live by their parents’ rules.

“I can survive fine out here,” Betty said as she brandished a switchblade she pulled from her dirty sweatshirt pocket. At a nearby picnic table was part of the world she and the others were trying to avoid: a man with swastikas tattooed on his neck and an older homeless woman with rotted teeth, holding a pit bull named Diablo.

But Betty and another 14-year-old, seeming not to notice, went off to play on a park swing.

Around the country, outreach workers and city officials say they have been overwhelmed with requests for help from young people in desperate straits.

In Berks County, Pa., the shortage of beds for runaways has led county officials to consider paying stipends to families willing to offer their couches. At drop-in centers across the country, social workers describe how runaways regularly line up when they know the food pantry is being restocked.

In , city transit workers will soon be trained to help the runaways and other young people they have been finding in increasing numbers, trying to escape the cold or heat by riding endlessly on buses and trains.

“Several times a month we’re seeing kids being left by parents who say they can’t afford them anymore,” said Mary Ferrell, director of the Maslow Project, a resource center for homeless children and families in Medford. With fewer jobs available, teenagers are less able to help their families financially. Relatives and family friends are less likely to take them in.

While federal officials say homelessness over all is expected to rise 10 percent to 20 percent this year, a federal survey of schools showed a 40 percent increase in the number of juveniles living on their own last year, more than double the number in 2003.

At the same time, however, many financially troubled states began sharply cutting social services last year. Though ’s $787 billion economic includes $1.5 billion to address the problem of homelessness, state officials and youth advocates say that almost all of that money will go toward homeless families, not unaccompanied youths.

“As a society, we can pay a dollar to deal with these kids when they first run away, or 20 times that in a matter of years when they become the adult homeless or incarcerated population,” said Barbara Duffield, policy director for the National Association for the Education of Homeless Children and Youth.

‘You Traveling Alone?’



Maureen Blaha, executive director of the National Runaway Switchboard, said that while most runaways, like those in Medford, opt to stay in their hometowns, some venture farther away and face greater dangers. The farther they get from home and the longer they stay out, the less money they have and the more likely they are to take risks with people they have just met, Ms. Blaha said.

“A lot of small-town kids figure they can go to Chicago, or New York because they can disappear there,” she said.

Martin Jaycard, a Port Authority police officer in New York, sees himself as a last line of defense in preventing that from happening.

Dressed in scraggly blue jeans and an untucked open-collar shirt, Officer Jaycard, a seven-year police veteran, is part of the Port Authority’s Youth Services Unit. His job is to catch runaways as they pass through the Port Authority Bus Terminal, the nation’s busiest.

“You’re the last person these kids want to see,” he said, estimating that his three-officer unit stops at least one runaway a day at the terminal.

Pausing to look at a girl waiting for a bus to , Officer Jaycard noticed a nervous look on her face and the overstuffed suitcases that hinted more at a life change than a brief stay.

“Hey, how’s it going?” he said to the girl, gently, as he pulled a badge hanging around his neck from under his shirt. “You traveling alone?”

she replied, without a glimmer of nervousness. “I’m 18,” she quickly added before being asked.

But the girl carried no identification. The only phone number she could produce for someone who could verify her age was disconnected. And after noticing that the last name she gave was different from the one on her bags, the officer took her upstairs to the police station.

When she arrived, she burst into tears.

“Please, I’m begging you not to send me home,” she pleaded as she sobbed into her hands. While listening, Officer Jaycard and the social worker on duty began contacting city officials to investigate her situation, and found her a place at a city shelter. “You have no idea what my father will do to me for having tried to run away,” she said, describing severe beatings at home and threats to kill her if she ever tried to leave.

The girl turned out to be 14 years old, from . Shaking her head in frustration, she added, “I should have just waited outside the terminal and no one would have known I was missing.”

In all likelihood, she was right.

Lacking the training or the expertise to spot runaways, most police officers would not have stopped the girl waiting for the bus. Even if they had, her name probably would not have been listed in the federal database called the National Crime Information Center, or N.C.I.C., which among other things tracks missing people.

Federal statistics indicate that in more than three-quarters of runaway cases, parents or caretakers have not reported the child missing, often because they are angry about a fight or would simply prefer to see a problem child leave the house. Experts say some parents fear that involving the police will get them or their children into trouble or put their custody at risk.

And in 16 percent of cases, the local police failed to enter the information into the federal database, as required under federal law, according to a review of federal data by .

Among the 61,452 names that were reported to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children from January 2004 to January 2009, there were about 9,625 instances involving children whose missing-persons reports were not entered into the N.C.I.C., according to the review by The Times. If the names are not in the national database, then only local police agencies know whom to look for.

Police officials give various reasons for not entering the data. The software is old and cumbersome, they say, or they have limited resources and need to prioritize their time. In many cases, the police said, they do not take runaway reports as seriously as abductions, in part because runaways are often fleeing family problems. The police also say that entering every report into the federal database could make a city’s situation appear to be more of a problem than it is.

But in 267 of the cases around the nation for which the police did not enter a report into the database, the children remain missing. In 58, they were found dead.

“If no one knows they’re gone, who is going to look for them?” said Tray Williams, a spokesman for the Office of Child Services, whose job it was to take care of 17-year-old Randall.

On Feb. 6, Cleveland ran away from his center in and took a bus to . His social workers reported him missing, but the New Orleans police failed to enter the report into the N.C.I.C. Ten days later, Cleveland was found shot to death in Avondale, La.

“These kids might as well be invisible if they aren’t in N.C.I.C.,” said Ernie Allen, the director of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.

Invisibility, many of the runaways in Medford say, is just what they want.

By midnight, the group decided it was late enough for them to leave the pool hall and to move around the city discreetly. So they went their separate ways.

Alex Molnar, 18, took the back alleys to a 24-hour laundry to sleep under the folding tables. If people were still using the machines, he planned on locking himself in the restroom, placing a sign on the front saying

On the other side of the city, Alex Hughes, 16, took side streets to a secret clearing along Interstate 5.

On colder nights, he and Clinton Anchors have built a fire in a long shallow trench, eventually covering it with dirt to create a heated mound where they could put their blankets.

Building a lean-to with a tarp and sticks, Clinton lifted his voice above the roar of the tractor-trailers barreling by just feet away. He said they called the spot “paradise” because the police rarely checked for them there.

“Even if they do, Betty is not with us, so that’s good,” he added, explaining that she had found a friend willing to lend her couch for the night. “One less thing to worry about.”
815 2009-10-26 MOSCOW — A longtime opposition figure in the republic of Ingushetia was killed Sunday morning when his car was strafed with gunfire as he drove along a federal highway, adding another name to the list of activists who have been killed recently in the Northern Caucasus.

Maksharip Aushev, a businessman from a prominent family, was killed and a passenger was wounded when they were shot with automatic weapon fire from a passing vehicle in the neighboring republic of Kabardino-Balkaria, according to the Russian Investigative Committee. Russia’s prosecutor general, Yuri Chaika, said he would personally oversee the investigation.

Mr. Aushev’s life turned a corner in 2007, after his son and nephew were kidnapped. He blamed state security forces for the abductions and threw his considerable clout behind organizing public protests against then-President Murat Zyazikov.

Last year, after the opposition journalist Magomed Yevloyev was shot to death in police custody, Mr. Aushev offered to take responsibility for Mr. Yevloyev’s Web site, Ingushetia.org.

His killing is an unsettling signal, in part because the Kremlin last October removed Mr. Zyazikov and installed Yunus-Bek Yevkurov, who reached out to internal dissidents and seemed to offer them a degree of protection. Mr. Aushev was supportive of Mr. Yevkurov and felt optimistic enough to take a position on a human rights council set up by Russia’s federal ombudsman.

Magomed Mutsolgov, a prominent activist in Ingushetia, said Mr. Aushev’s killing called into question whether Mr. Yevkurov was able to control the violence. Mr. Yevkurov himself was nearly killed in June, when a suicide bomber swerved into his motorcade. “You see how they kill journalists and human rights workers, it continues, and there is no real investigation into any of them,” said Mr. Mutsolgov, whose organization, MAShR, tracks violence in the republic.
816 2009-10-26 In large part, Mr. Maliki’s popularity has rested on the belief that he has kept the country reasonably safe.

But the bombings at four high-profile, well-protected government buildings within a two-month span led some Iraqis to say Sunday that they were reconsidering their support for Mr. Maliki.

“We don’t want a government that does not provide us with security,” said Saif Adil, 26, who has been unemployed since graduating from college two years ago. “It was good for awhile, and now explosions happen less often, but they are having big effects — large numbers of dead in important places.”

Ali Hussein, 32, said the explosions had also caused him to question his support for the prime minister. “Why should I vote for Maliki?” he asked. “He has done nothing except bring explosions and corruption.”

On Sunday afternoon, spoke with Mr. Maliki by telephone to offer condolences, White House officials said. And in a statement, Mr. Obama condemned the attacks as hateful and destructive. “The United States will stand with Iraq’s people and government as a close friend and partner as Iraqis prepare for elections early next year, continue to take responsibility for their future and build greater peace and opportunity,” he said.

American were seen walking around the debris-filled streets after the attack. One Marine said the Americans had been asked by the Iraqi government to aid in the investigation.

Iraqi and American officials in Baghdad have repeatedly warned about a potential rise in violence as the Jan. 16 parliamentary elections approach, as political parties and their allies vie for advantage and insurgent groups redouble their efforts to destabilize the country.

In a rare personal appearance at a bombing site, Prime Minister Maliki arrived at the provincial council building about an hour after the explosion, his face ashen as he surveyed the carnage.

Around Mr. Maliki, paramedics carried the wounded to Red Crescent ambulances, workers wearing plastic gloves scooped body parts into plastic bags, and rescue teams pried open scorched cars in a desperate search for signs of life.

Surrounding streets had been blocked off and were under more than a foot of water because the blast had apparently also damaged a water main. Pools of water were red with blood.

Mr. Maliki did not venture far from his armored sport utility vehicle. He made no public comment before being driven away.

Mr. Maliki later issued a statement calling the attacks “cowardly” and blamed elements of the and the Sunni insurgent group . He said the attack would not affect the elections.

President said the attackers had sought to damage Iraq’s fragile democracy.

“The perpetrators of this have revealed publicly that they are targeting the state and its basic pillars,” Mr. Talabani said. “They want to hinder the political process or to stop it and to sabotage what we have built during six years with great sacrifice.”

The two government buildings, typically filled with officials as well as civilians seeking government help, are on Haifa Street in one of Baghdad’s most congested sections. Nearby are other Iraqi government buildings, embassies, the heavily fortified Green Zone and bridges crossing the Tigris River.

The explosion at the provincial council building collapsed a section of a 12-foot-high blast wall, crushing people underneath, witnesses said.

The Iraqi police said the first bomb struck the Justice Ministry building around 10:30 a.m. It blew out the building’s large windows that overlook Haifa Street, sending flying glass and shrapnel into passers-by. A plume of black smoke that rose over the city could be seen for miles.

“I was eating in a restaurant near the Justice Ministry when a huge explosion took place,” said Sa’ad Saleem, 28, an employee of Iraq’s state-owned television channel, who had shrapnel wounds in his neck and chest. “The entire scene was filled with bloody human flesh. Large pools of blood were everywhere, in addition to the remains of burned cars. It was horrible.”

At the provincial council building, Sheik Hadi Salih, 60, had been attending a meeting on the second floor when he heard the sound of an explosion, followed by the collapse of the ceiling.

“We tried to find our way out down the stairs, and as we went we found many dead bodies,” he said. “I’ve seen 20 bodies and more than 60 injured.”

Among the wounded were at least two American security contractors, a Embassy official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic ground rules.
817 2009-10-26 It's part of the peculiar magic around Apple that there's always more curiosity about what the company does not announce than what it does. And none of the products it announced last week -- a new MacBook, new iMacs with 21.5-inch and 27-inch disp...
818 2009-10-27 Combine the wish list of any Broadway producer with the hit list of any TMZ cameraman and you have the lineup for this year’s production....
819 2009-10-27 Ancestry.com has other businesses that could power sales, like its Family Tree Maker software. And the retirements of the baby boomers could bring new subscribers. But even these new historians may not prove very loyal. And on the downside, selling by existing shareholders and outstanding in-the-money options will dilute investors in the I.P.O., too.

Ancestry.com leads in its niche. But pricing its I.P.O. at what looks like an aristocratic premium isn’t the best way to preserve its reputation.

Don’t cry for investors with short memories. Bondholders who rejected Argentina’s efforts in 2005 to renegotiate the terms of $23 billion in outstanding debt now look set to roll over. With a credible new finance minister in Amado Boudou and a liquid market, the country may get a new debt deal done by the end of the year. Investors should remain wary, however; they’ve been here before.

True, Mr. Boudou is moderating the market-hostile policies of his predecessors. He intends to restore the credibility of official inflation statistics, which many economists suspect of seriously understating inflation since early 2007. September’s inflation was reported as 0.7 percent, the second successive relatively high official number.

He also wants to recover Argentina’s ability to borrow internationally. To do so, he must reach a plausible settlement with most holders of the debt who rejected the settlement imposed in 2005. The new terms proposed by Barclays, Citigroup and Deutsche Bank are hardly generous. The package is expected to result in a lower recovery value than the 30 percent in the last deal, and to require institutional debt holders to subscribe for $1 billion in new financing.

However, with the sponsoring banks controlling about 40 percent of the holdout debt, Mr. Boudou’s expectation of 60 percent acceptances may be low. While some investors might be tempted to await a more market-friendly government, President Cristina Kirchner’s term of office lasts until December 2011 and there’s no certainty that a friendlier government would replace her. Holding out on principle would risk being stuck with an illiquid asset for several years.

Argentina’s 2001 default was its fourth, after defaults in 1828, 1890 and 1982 and several near misses. Thus, investors in new Argentine bonds may be exhibiting unwarranted optimism about getting repaid. The paperwork for any registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission will also raise questions about official Argentine statistics.

In these liquid markets, however, the chances are that investors will subscribe enthusiastically if the yield is juicy. Either Argentina will show that it has learned its lesson and will honor its commitments, or investors will show again that they have not.
820 2009-10-27 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner found Tuesday that vanity was the topic du jour at his appearance at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association's conference in New York....
821 2009-10-27 The start-up Tilera has picked a daunting path by opting to tackle Intel in the server chip market with a new product that it claims is the fastest chip ever built....
822 2009-10-27 Eric J. Furda of the University of Pennsylvania explains why there may be less room for applicants from Scarsdale, N.Y., and why he sent an e-mail message to a high school senior encouraging him to apply....
823 2009-10-27 In an interview with CNBC's Darren Rovell, Randy Levine, the president of the Yankees, played down a New York Times article published over the weekend about cracks in the pedestrian ramps at Yankee Stadium....
824 2009-10-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
825 2009-10-27 JPMorgan Chase is looking to add financial advisers, its chief executive, Jamie Dimon, told a securities industry conference in New York on Tuesday....
826 2009-10-27 Part of the ceiling at the Emily Dickinson Museum in Amherst. Mass., collapsed on Sunday afternoon while the house was open for tours....
827 2009-10-27 From Executive Suite: Goldman Sachs responds to a column suggesting that it has the taxpayers to thank for its recent profits....
828 2009-10-27 When policy does not match public opinion on gay and lesbian issues, the policy usually ends up being more conservative than what voters say they want, according to a new academic analysis....
829 2009-10-27 Photo: Dave Yoder for The New York Times
830 2009-10-27 Wyoming has consistently come in last in state rankings on energy efficiency, but in an interview on Monday, Governor Dave Freudenthal ruled out statewide building codes and appliance standards....
831 2009-10-27 Goldman Sachs responds to a column suggesting that it has the taxpayers to thank for its recent profits....
832 2009-10-27 A new study says the United States could reduce its greenhouse emissions by nearly 8 percent in the next decade if Americans undertook a short list of behavioral changes....
833 2009-10-27 With more electronic devices on board, airlines are urging caution in case batteries catch fire....
834 2009-10-27 State leaders reveal details of water plan for the San Joaquin-Sacramento Delta, San Jose considers new restrictions on bike riders who pull their dogs on leashes and some faculty at University of California, Berkeley argue the campus should not c...
835 2009-10-27 Robert J. McCann, the former head of wealth management at Merrill Lynch who recently settled his lawsuit with Bank of America over the terms of his contract, was named Tuesday by UBS to head its North American wealth management business....
836 2009-10-27 Anonymous trading venues known as "dark pools" are an evolution that has benefited both institutional and retail trading by bringing down transaction costs, Goldman Sachs said in a memo to the Securities and Exchange Commission....
837 2009-10-27 United Technologies, the diversified U.S. manufacturer, is now the favorite in the bidding for General Electric's security business, Bloomberg News reported....
838 2009-10-27 FairPoint Communications sought bankruptcy protection Monday after struggling to absorb phone lines purchased from Verizon Communications....
839 2009-10-27 Ancestry.com seems to be aiming too high with its $100 million initial public offering, Breakingviews says....
840 2009-10-27 This week, American lawmakers are expected to bring the global debate about whether banks are too big to manage — or just too big — to the top of the regulatory agenda. Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the House Financial Services Committee chairman, plans to introduce proposals to make it easier for regulators to take control of large, failing financial firms, and if necessary, split them up.

Fear that new rules could make financial companies more stable, but potentially less lucrative to investors, sent bank stocks tumbling on Monday. The KBW index of bank stocks fell 4 percent.

Many analysts already see a drastic reshaping ahead in the finance industry, whether governments pressure banks to divest themselves of specific assets, or indirectly encourage downsizing with polices that require the banks to hold more capital.

“This is rippling across the world,” said Christopher Whalen, a managing partner at Institutional Risk Analytics. “Large banks are being forced to break up and sell assets because they do not have enough capital.”

Some prominent government officials say they do not believe the current efforts to reduce the size and activities of large banks with big trading businesses have gone far enough. Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, and Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, have questioned whether banks with retail deposits that are guaranteed by taxpayers should be allowed to use that money to place big trading bets. In a speech last week, Mr. King called the current arrangement “rather unworldly.”

The Obama administration’s position is toned down. It would still let banks engage in lucrative trading activities, but hopes to curtail them by requiring them to hold more capital. Many of the too-big-to-fail banks, like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, have posted three consecutive quarters of big trading profits.

But ING’s announcement may be a sign of where the global political winds are blowing.

“You are starting to see forced disposals,” said Meredith Whitney, a leading banking analyst who has been bearish on financial companies. “You can’t hold onto the Malibu Barbie house and go and get subsidies for your worst toys. If the government comes and helps you, you have to part with your best toys.”

After being propped up by the Dutch government over the last year, ING has come under increasing pressure from European officials to streamline its operations. Dutch taxpayers injected capital and agreed to guarantee a large pool of troubled bonds backed by mortgages issued to American borrowers. ING is based in Amsterdam.

European Commission officials cried foul, concerned that the terms of the guarantee had provided a generous subsidy to ING at the expense of its rivals. But analysts say that behind those remarks, there may been elements of financial nationalism. If European taxpayer money was now involved, why was ING bailing out its investments backed by real estate in the United States?

ING officials, meanwhile, concluded that a business strategy with banking and insurance under the same roof was no longer viable. “The costs of complexity now outweigh the advantages we once saw,” said Jan H. M. Hommen, the chief executive of ING. By 2014, he added, ING would become a “predominantly European bank” with a lower international profile.

As part of its deal with European Commission officials, ING agreed to accelerate the sale of its insurance operations and would repay half of the government bailout by raising about 7.5 billion euros ($11 billion) from selling new rights to purchase its stock. ING also agreed to shed ING Direct, its Internet banking unit in the United States, by 2013. It will also make additional payments to the Dutch government, tied to the insurance on the pool of troubled mortgage assets. And after years of aggressive growth, ING agreed to stop making acquisitions and “not be a price leader” until it repaid what it owed Dutch taxpayers.

The Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds Banking Group, both partly nationalized by Britain, are coming under pressure to begin selling assets. In June, Europe’s competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, said there was a strong “likelihood of significant divestments” for those two banks.

And in May, the European Commission approved Germany’s injection of 10 billion euros into Commerzbank, on the condition that it shrink its balance sheet by 45 percent by curbing its investment banking activities and selling a real estate unit.
841 2009-10-27 Ancestry.com has other businesses that could power sales, like its Family Tree Maker software. And the retirements of the baby boomers could bring new subscribers. But even these new historians may not prove very loyal. And on the downside, selling by existing shareholders and outstanding in-the-money options will dilute investors in the I.P.O., too.

Ancestry.com leads in its niche. But pricing its I.P.O. at what looks like an aristocratic premium isn’t the best way to preserve its reputation.

Don’t cry for investors with short memories. Bondholders who rejected Argentina’s efforts in 2005 to renegotiate the terms of $23 billion in outstanding debt now look set to roll over. With a credible new finance minister in Amado Boudou and a liquid market, the country may get a new debt deal done by the end of the year. Investors should remain wary, however; they’ve been here before.

True, Mr. Boudou is moderating the market-hostile policies of his predecessors. He intends to restore the credibility of official inflation statistics, which many economists suspect of seriously understating inflation since early 2007. September’s inflation was reported as 0.7 percent, the second successive relatively high official number.

He also wants to recover Argentina’s ability to borrow internationally. To do so, he must reach a plausible settlement with most holders of the debt who rejected the settlement imposed in 2005. The new terms proposed by Barclays, Citigroup and Deutsche Bank are hardly generous. The package is expected to result in a lower recovery value than the 30 percent in the last deal, and to require institutional debt holders to subscribe for $1 billion in new financing.

However, with the sponsoring banks controlling about 40 percent of the holdout debt, Mr. Boudou’s expectation of 60 percent acceptances may be low. While some investors might be tempted to await a more market-friendly government, President Cristina Kirchner’s term of office lasts until December 2011 and there’s no certainty that a friendlier government would replace her. Holding out on principle would risk being stuck with an illiquid asset for several years.

Argentina’s 2001 default was its fourth, after defaults in 1828, 1890 and 1982 and several near misses. Thus, investors in new Argentine bonds may be exhibiting unwarranted optimism about getting repaid. The paperwork for any registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission will also raise questions about official Argentine statistics.

In these liquid markets, however, the chances are that investors will subscribe enthusiastically if the yield is juicy. Either Argentina will show that it has learned its lesson and will honor its commitments, or investors will show again that they have not.
842 2009-10-27 Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican who has pressed the F.B.I. to improve its translation abilities, praised the bureau for its recent arrest of several terrorism suspects inside the United States but said that its linguist department remained “a big hole.”

“Today’s report appears to point to more of the same by the F.B.I. with its translation department,” Mr. Grassley said in a statement. “The F.B.I. needs their feet held to the fire in order to make substantive changes in the translation area.”

The inspector general report consisted largely of numbers — some of which were disputed by the bureau — and did not contain any specific examples of cases in which the bureau failed to detect a potential terrorist as quickly as possible because of a delay in reviewing material.

The report also contains new information about the bureau’s efforts to hire more translators. It showed that the number of the bureau’s linguists — both staff members and contractors — had fallen slightly to 1,298 as of September 2008, from a peak in 2005. It met its hiring targets in 2008 for only 2 of 14 targeted languages.

The process of hiring linguists has been slowed because of lengthy security vetting and competition with other intelligence agencies that are also trying to hire more translators, the report said.

The report did find “significant improvements” in some F.B.I. practices. In particular, for the past three years the bureau has reviewed every text — a fax or paper document — its agents have collected for top-priority counterterrorism investigations.

But the inspector general found that there were backlogs in reviewing audio recordings, including telephone calls, and electronic files, like e-mail messages and Web pages.

The F.B.I. and the inspector general disagreed over how to measure those backlogs. Mr. Fine’s office found that the F.B.I. had failed to review 7.2 million electronic files collected by counterterrorism investigators. Nearly all of that backlog dates from 2008, when the bureau’s intake of such materials for all types of investigations nearly tripled, to 46 million files, the audit said.

But the F.B.I. argued that as the volume of such files had increased, its analysts increasingly used sophisticated computer searches of databases to find high-priority files rather than opening each individual file by hand.

The inspector general report, citing field office reports, also said there might be as many as 47,000 hours of counterterrorism audio recordings that were not reviewed as of September 2008, which would be a more than fivefold increase in the backlog since 2003.

But the F.B.I. argued that the inspector general report was double-counting duplicate recordings. The bureau said that its primary system for storing counterterrorism recordings had only about 4,470 hours waiting for review, and that it had reduced its backlog in that system by about 40 percent since 2003.

But the F.B.I. also acknowledged that some counterterrorism materials were stored in other systems, and that it could not say what their status was. It agreed to overhaul its tracking of such materials as well as act on 23 related recommendations in the report.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which oversees the F.B.I., called the report “troubling.”

“While the F.B.I. has made progress in this area,” Mr. Leahy said in a statement, “I remain concerned that the bureau’s ability to adequately review this material is still seriously deficient.”

“The ability to quickly and thoroughly translate and review these materials is essential to our national security,” he added.
843 2009-10-27 BAGHDAD — As the measure of success in Iraq shifts from peacekeeping to reconstruction, one showcase for American aptitude is the new United States Embassy, the most expensive in the world. The embassy compound, which cost more than $700 million to build, covers 104 acres along the Tigris River and was built in a rapid 34 months amid often unstable conditions.

But according to a report issued last week by the State Department’s inspector general, the complex is a monument to shoddy work and incompetent oversight. Walls and walkways are cracking, sewage gas flows back into residences, wiring is substandard, fire protection systems are faulty and other safety provisions are not up to contract specifications.

The report says that construction “was significantly deficient in multiple areas” and may not meet safety codes. It called on the State Department to seek $132 million in damages from the main construction company, First Kuwaiti General Trading and Contracting, which received $470 million for work on the embassy.

The department’s Bureau for Overseas Building Operations is considering whether to seek reimbursement, said a spokesman, Jonathan Blyth, who added in an e-mail message that “the deficiencies noted in the report are not adversely affecting embassy operations.”

The embassy’s scale is massive; its aesthetic appeal is minimal. The campus, at the edge of the fortified Green Zone, comprises 27 buildings in boxy, tan concrete, including apartments for 1,100 people. Outside the buildings are “duck and cover” pillboxes and patches of brown dirt.

Rockets fired from across the river have periodically landed near the compound, including during a recent visit by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
844 2009-10-27 “We are not in active discussions to buy ‘Area 51,’ ” said Katie Martin Kelly, a Paramount spokeswoman.

Similarly, DreamWorks, whose executives brought “Paranormal Activity” to Paramount during their tenure there; Overture Films, which has a modest hit with “Law Abiding Citizen”; and Lionsgate, which has made money on lower-budget movies like the “Saw” series, have not been active bidders for “Area 51,” according to people who are involved with the sale but spoke on condition of anonymity to minimize interference with bidding.

Spokesmen for Warner Brothers, Sony Pictures, Universal Pictures and 20th Century Fox either declined to comment or did not respond to queries.

So far, excitement over a potentially hot property is being tempered by caution at seeing traditional industry economics quickly push the price, and perhaps lower the profit potential, of what on the surface appears to be another guerrilla-style property from Mr. Peli.

Reached on the set of “Area 51,” which is shooting in Utah, Jason Blum, a producer of the movie, declined to comment. Stuart Ford, chief executive of IM Global, also declined to discuss “Area 51.” Missy Davy, a spokeswoman for Creative Artists, confirmed that her company was representing the film but did not elaborate.

In contrast to “Paranormal Activity,” which Mr. Blum in an earlier interview said had been made for roughly $10,000, “Area 51” cost a little less than $5 million, according to people who worked on it. Trying to capitalize on the heat around “Paranormal,” Mr. Ford’s company, which was involved with the sale of that film and backed “Area 51,” has been looking for bids of $10 million or more for domestic rights to the new movie. (DreamWorks and Paramount paid only about $300,000 for “Paranormal Activity.”)

While the number is not large by major-studio standards — in August Sony, after a bidding war, agreed to pay $60 million for rights to “This Is It,” the Michael Jackson concert film — it puts risk back into the equation. One problem is that studios will not be able to push the new movie as a sleeper hit, the way Paramount did with “Paranormal Activity,” whose Web campaign required audiences to “demand” the film before it would be shown in theaters.

“In a world of grass-roots wildfires, Hollywood realized that this would not have the same force without the underlying buzz — the confusion between reality and drama — that the rough original film clearly delivered,” said Peter Dekom, a longtime entertainment lawyer and co-author of “Not on My Watch: Hollywood vs. the Future.”

Mr. Ford and his allies have an extra incentive to land their deal for “Area 51,” about a visit to the famous focal point of U.F.O. conspiracy theories, this week: foreign rights to “Area 51” will be on sale at the American Film Market, scheduled to begin on Nov. 4 in Santa Monica, Calif.

For years sales have been soft in global film markets. A big Hollywood deal for “Area 51,” matched by the growing ticket sales for “Paranormal Activity,” would give hundreds of foreign buyers an added incentive.

But, Mr. Dekom pointed out, the success of impromptu hits like “The Blair Witch Project” or “My Big Fat Greek Wedding” can be almost impossible to duplicate, because Hollywood itself gets in the way.

“Paramount faces the same barriers as it approaches the sequel to a film that worked particularly well because it was not a Hollywood film,” he said.
845 2009-10-27 It didn’t take the rave reviews that Bernard Haitink and the London Symphony Orchestra garnered in London for their account of Mahler’s Ninth Symphony to whet the appetite for a repeat performance in Avery Fisher Hall on Sunday afternoon.

You had only to recall another occasion on which an aging, increasingly frail-looking maestro had brought this great valedictory statement to New York — the conductor Herbert von Karajan, in 1982 at 74, with the Berlin Philharmonic at Carnegie Hall — to realize how electric the atmosphere might be.

Not that Mr. Haitink, at 80, is announcing any farewells just yet or wallowing in self-pity. But he has always been the most level-headed and realistic of maestros, and with a history of health problems in recent years, he must have known that this would be one of his last encounters with this musical landmark: one with special meaning for him, since he was a central figure in the Mahler boom of the 1960s, a conductor who has continued to re-examine his approach in interpretations that have only deepened with time.

This was the last of three concerts by Mr. Haitink and the orchestra, opening the Great Performers season at Lincoln Center, which also included Mahler’s Fourth Symphony and “Das Lied von der Erde” paired with works by Schubert. That Fourth Symphony, on Wednesday, raised minor concerns with a certain weariness of pace and laxness of ensemble in the first movement and some less than stellar playing from the solo wind players throughout.

Those concerns were allayed from the outset on Sunday. Mr. Haitink, with the score in front of him and a stool behind, showed a firm grip and immediately established an involving tempo despite the distraction of near-shouted talk from a balcony during the opening measures.

You can tell a lot about what awaits you in a performance of the Mahler Ninth from the warmth (or lack of it) in the first sighs from the strings, and the London Symphony strings, as expected on the basis of the Fourth, were superb there and throughout the afternoon. Gordan Nikolitch, the concertmaster, again provided fine leadership, and he was matched in his touching solo work by Edward Vanderspar, the principal violist.
846 2009-10-27 Heart disease patients with depression did not benefit if they took supplements containing omega-3 fatty acids in addition to a standard anti-depressant drug, according to a new clinical trial.

The patients were randomly assigned to a combination of sertraline, an anti-depressant, and either omega-3s or a corn oil placebo. After 10 weeks, there was “absolutely no difference” in depression remission rates between the 59 patients taking omega-3s and the 56 patients taking the placebo, said Robert M. Carney, lead author of the study, which appeared in the Oct. 21 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association.

“It was very disappointing,” he said.

The trial was launched because patients with heart disease are at greater risk of dying if they are depressed, Dr. Carney said. Depressed patients are known to have low levels of omega-3s, which are a risk factor for heart disease, as well.

But, Dr. Carney said, studies evaluating the effects of omega-3 supplements on depression so far have produced mixed results.

“In terms of its effects on depression, the evidence isn’t strong enough to make any recommendations in my opinion for people with or without heart disease,” he said.
847 2009-10-27 Then, suddenly, the doctor was paying attention to something else. Patients were suspicious, they were cowed, and they were impressed. Soon they were demanding the stethoscope’s attentions on all occasions, even though what they felt and reported was now somewhat less important than the sounds coming through the tube. And so a new device had fundamentally changed the phenomenon of illness — a pattern that was to hold remarkably consistent for future innovations.

Technology distances doctors from patients. It creates a compelling alternative reality composed of facts that may or may not be accurate (note all the false alarms created by spurious X-ray findings and aberrant blood tests). It incites considerable public backlash (shortly after X-rays were developed, stores in London were selling X-ray-proof underwear to preserve genital privacy). Then wild enthusiasm takes over (as exemplified by those X-ray shoe-sizing machines of the 1940s).

Medical professionals tend to be the opposite: first enthusiastic and then less so, as the limitations and drawbacks of the toys become clear. At a 1960 medical conference unveiling a new Teflon shunt for long-term kidney dialysis, the audience of doctors and scientists actually rose and cheered. But soon enough they were faced with the painful task of allocating what proved to be an extremely limited resource.

In Seattle, the job of deciding who would live on dialysis and who would die of kidney failure fell to a seven-member committee of laypeople dubbed, in a 1962 article in Life magazine, “the life-or-death committee.” Sound familiar? Only after the 1972 decision to extend Medicare to dialysis patients were these decisions no longer necessary.

A different dilemma followed the development of the automated respirator, which can substitute not only for the lungs but also for the breathing center of the brain. The big problem soon became not so much when to use a respirator as when to turn it off. It was the respirator that touched off the medical, political and religious dialogue on the definition of death, a debate that continues.

Technology may spawn elevated philosophical discussion, but it also has mundane needs. It needs a home — hence the morphing of the hospital from a sad rest home to its present gleaming industrial self. It needs expertise — hence the evolution of the medical sub-sub-specialist and the slow demise of the generalist. It needs regulation — injudicious use can be, in the words of 17th-century midwives describing the new technology of forceps delivery, “extraordinary violence in desperate occasions.”

And of course, technology needs to be paid for, bringing us directly to the honking horns of today’s stalemate, with all movement stymied by the conflicting needs and mandates of machines we cannot do without.

If Dr. Reiser takes the bird’s-eye view of technology — the helicopter traffic report, as it were — then a roadside view is provided by Dr. Robert Marion, a veteran medical writer and practicing geneticist. In the last few decades, Dr. Marion has seen his field grow from a small backwater of pediatrics to a force with the potential to drive all of medicine.

That potential is still largely unrealized: the essays that make up Dr. Marion’s latest well-told collection are about diagnosis rather than treatment, as genetic screening identifies aberrant genes and missing proteins both before and after sick children are born. A few do well despite significant handicaps; most suffer a tragic downhill course. When the human genome starts to inform clinical practice, that pattern will certainly change.

Dr. Marion can almost taste the difference. “What a great time it is to be in this field!” he enthuses. Time will tell how that enthusiasm survives.
848 2009-10-27 Some airlines have agreed to special training for handling batteries and were allowed to carry spares, Mr. Bonanti said. But other airlines, like Delta and JetBlue, figured it was safer to avoid carrying extra batteries altogether.

“They’re not charged onboard the aircraft and batteries aren’t removed from these devices while onboard,” Bryan Baldwin, a JetBlue spokesman, wrote in an e-mail message.

While no fires from credit card readers have been reported, the list of spontaneous combustion events with other devices reads like a thriller. Last month, a portable DVD player was dropped on an American Airlines flight, causing a fire. In March 2008, a United Airlines employee placed a flashlight in the storage compartment of a Boeing 757 at the Denver airport. A report said the flashlight exploded “like gunshots,” turning the on-off switch into a projectile. On a flight to Miami that same month, eight people were injured when a small battery fell against a metal seat frame. In the ensuing explosion, debris singed a passenger’s ear and hair and the smoke sickened seven crew members.

In 2004, an ABC News camera exploded on a plane being used by the presidential candidate John Edwards. A seat caught fire, causing an emergency return to the airport. Even more events go unreported, the authorities said.

“If you have an issue in the air there’s not a whole lot you can do to recover from it,” said Gerald McNerney, a vice president at Motorola, which provides hand-held devices to airlines. “You put your brand at risk if one of your devices has an issue with the battery. What we’ve done is look at creating backups, duplicity in development so that you’re not going to have an explosion.”

Figures from the Consumer Product Safety Commission Web site show that at least 400,000 portable device batteries have been recalled so far this year, an indication that manufacturing problems are sometimes to blame. Batteries are also becoming more powerful, so that even the smallest have the potential to unleash a lot of heat.

“The battery industry is trying to squeeze more juice into these batteries for longer life,” said Joe Delcambre, a spokesman for the hazardous materials agency. “Smaller battery, more life, with a terminal that can overheat the product — it’s a risk.”

Considering that problems with batteries are occurring on passenger planes at a rate of one every four months, Merritt Birky, formerly a fire and explosions expert with the National Transportation Safety Board who is now a private consultant, suggests they should be kept where passengers can keep an eye on them and out of overhead storage bins.

“Any time you have a fire on board it’s alarming, especially in the overhead bin,” Mr. Birky said. “That area is chock full of luggage and coats so you have lots of fuel for a fire and it’s going to go undetected for quite some time.”

The Transportation Department has created a Web site that includes the rules on traveling with lithium batteries, and it works with the manufacturers of portable electronic devices to spread the word about the hazards. But the transportation safety board estimated that only one person in every 170 to 190 travelers had actually visited the Web site.

“Most air passengers and flight crews are likely unaware of the fire risks posed by rechargeable lithium batteries,” the board wrote in 2008 in recommending a more aggressive approach to educating the public. The F.A.A. plans to follow that suggestion when it begins broadcasting public service announcements in airports next year, Mr. Bonanti said.

“There’s a whole slew of things that can go wrong with a lithium battery,” he said, adding that no matter how comfortable people are with their devices, caution is the best course of action.
849 2009-10-27 Across Europe there are some 2.5 million acres of beet fields that will produce 16.7 million metric tons of sugar this year for an industry worth 7 billion euros. Last year the European Union spent 475 million euros in price supports for sugar, including export subsidies. Then it spent another 1.3 billion euros on restructuring aid to reform a subsidy regime so that lavish it even prompted cold-weather Finland to start producing more sugar.

Sugar producers across the Continent cashed in — from Italy, where Italia Zuccheri collected more than 139 million euros, to France, where a handful of sugar producers received 128.5 million.

With this much money at stake, critics and some analysts say, the sugar subsidy system is like a cookie jar waiting to be pilfered. Europe’s antifraud division, called OLAF, reported that from 2005 to 2008, 67 million euros worth of sugar subsidies were tainted by irregularities and fraud. Many countries have been penalized millions more over the last few years for lackluster sugar inspections. In 2008, OLAF pursued 34 cases of sugar fraud involving 4.4 million euros, a figure they describe as the icing on the cake because so many of the schemes go undetected.

"There’s a whole world of commercial fraud, which goes under the radar for most people," said James Byrne, a law professor at the George Mason University School of Law in Virginia who has studied the global sugar trade. “It is a parallel universe that mimics the real world of commerce and finance."

Critics have long said that Europe’s subsidy system distorts the market, skewing competition and driving up prices. That is especially true for sugar, which in Europe has traded at roughly double the world market rate for almost two decades. European sugar prices are the highest per capita of any region in the world and about 20 percent higher than in the United States.

But investigators say that fraud and rule-bending also contribute significantly to higher costs, because of the millions lost in uncollected revenue and in the payment of undeserved subsidies.

"Sugar has been an area of concern for several decades,” said Jörg Wojahn, a spokesman for OLAF. “We have seen problems of fraud with imports, exports and transit of sugar. Substantial amounts of taxpayers’ money and revenue are at stake.”

As one example, in 2003 Serbian producers were found to be buying cheap cane sugar on the world market for about 210 euros per metric ton, then repackaging it as domestic produce to sell in Europe at subsidized prices, which at the time was 630 euros per ton. The markup contributed to higher prices for the consumer.

In addition, there are continuing investigations in Germany, Hungary and Belgium into cartel activity aimed at fixing prices and dividing up customers and territory.

Sugar companies claim their activities are misinterpreted because they are governed by a byzantine European Union system that invites confusion. “It’s very complicated” and difficult for anyone to understand, said Dominik Risser, a spokesman for the Südzucker Group, a German company that is the industry giant in Europe and owns 40 factories in 10 nations, including those of Beneo-Orafti.

Südzucker, which reaped agricultural subsidies this year of almost 448 million euros for all its subsidiaries, declined to comment on the investigation of Beneo-Orafti.

Europe acknowledges its sugar problem and has been instituting reforms intended to reduce sugar subsidies and the fraud that comes with them. In the meantime, dozens of sugar-related raids have been conducted in Greece, Germany, Belgium and elsewhere, including Croatia, where scams were so rampant that the country was disqualified from the rebate system in 2003. Investigators cited Croatia’s role in so-called carousel’ trades, in which export subsidies were claimed for cheap sugar shipped to Croatia from countries inside Europe, and then sent straight back.

Perhaps the most common scheme used to game the system is to mix in cheap cane sugar from abroad with European beet sugar, which lowers production costs and increases volume. Companies doing this often falsely declare the country of origin for the sugar, which is illegal.

About 30 Greek sugar producers have been investigated over the last three years on suspicion of trading mixed sugar, and some people have been prosecuted and convicted, although typically they appealed and tied up the cases in a slow-moving justice system.

Greece, Italy and Belgium together have been forced to return more than 10 million euros because of lax inspection controls related to mixing.

These days it is Germany where the biggest sugar showdown is taking place. Armed police have raided factories and corporate suites, confiscating computers and truckloads of documents.

Suspicion of cartel activity led to raids last March in Manheim, Cologne and Bonn. Then in late summer, almost 300 investigators swarmed over the operations of the nearly century-old August Töpfer sugar trading company in Hamburg. They raided about 35 sites, including sugar factories and the homes of top executives, whose telephones were also tapped. The investigation is based on suspicions that August Töpfer fraudulently claimed subsidies for sugar that didn’t come from the European Union. “We are investigating a complex, extensive and difficult case of economic subsidy fraud,” said Wilhelm Moellers, a spokesman for the Hamburg prosecutor’s office.

August Töpfer’s lawyer, Klaus Landry, maintained that the company had not mixed sugars, and said that this summer’s raids were politically motivated. He said that prosecutors did not understand the arcane sugar subsidy system. “I sometimes say that not more than 10 lawyers in Germany know how it works,” he said, ‘’because it’s very technical and it changes quickly.”

The mixing schemes extend into exotic hybrids — sugar mixed with dashes of tea and cocoa. By doing this, exporters can declare their products processed foods, and thus pay lower customs fees or avoid them altogether.

One 2004 case in the Netherlands involved a Belgian company that mixed sugar with dried peas. The peas could later be easily separated out, leaving only the sugar. A Dutch court rejected the company’s argument that this was a processed food subject to lower tariffs.

Investigators have also had to deal with Croatia, a perennial thorn. They noticed that Croatian exports to Europe sugar mixed with a small quantity of tea were steadily rising — from 20,951 tons in 2006 to 52,487 tons last year.

With the normal duty on white sugar costing 419 euros a ton, Croatian exporters, by mixing in tea, appear to have avoided some 22 million euros in customs charges last year.
850 2009-10-27 FairPoint Communications sought bankruptcy protection on Monday after struggling to absorb phone lines purchased from Verizon Communications.

FairPoint reached an agreement with secured lenders on a restructuring plan that would reduce its debt by $1.7 billion, the company said in a statement. The plan is subject to approval by the United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. FairPoint, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., has assets of $3.2 billion and debts of a matching amount, according to the Chapter 11 petition.

Last year, the company paid $2.72 billion for Verizon’s landlines in Maine, Vermont and New Hampshire. While taking over the network, FairPoint had problems with billing and ordering systems that cost $28 million in the first half of this year and spurred customer complaints.

“The execution was quite poor,” said Todd Rosenbluth, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s who covered the company until its bankruptcy filing. FairPoint “could not actively compete in the marketplace to offset complications.”

FairPoint blamed the complications for its inability to keep up with debt payments, including those on a $2 billion credit line used to finance the acquisition. FairPoint had 1.7 million subscribers, concentrated in rural areas and small cities, at the end of June, compared with 252,000 before the purchase.
851 2009-10-27 If Verizon had owned Alltel last year, revenue would have risen 0.6 percent.

Verizon reported 191,000 FiOS TV customer additions in the quarter, short of Mr. King’s forecast of 250,000. The company, which depends on mobile, broadband and TV for growth, also appeared to lose customers to cable rivals like Time Warner Cable and Comcast, analysts said, adding that the shortfall caused the results of the network gear supplier Tellabs to miss estimates.

John Killian, Verizon’s chief financial officer, told Reuters that a promotion to offer netbooks to new FiOS customers did not lead to as much growth as expected, but he said there was no indication of increased pressure from cable rivals.

Verizon Wireless brought in just under 58 percent of Verizon’s total revenue for the quarter. Verizon Communications owns 55 percent of Verizon Wireless; the Vodafone Group owns the rest.

Many analysts see Verizon Wireless as an obvious second American partner for Apple once AT&T’s exclusive rights to sell the iPhone end, but that would be a decision for Apple to make.

In the business segment, which has been hurt by corporate budget tightening and layoffs, Verizon surprised some investors with 2.5 percent sequential growth, and the company expects more improvements as the economy recovers.

Mr. Killian said the company was expecting strong growth in wireless in the fourth quarter with new devices including a touch-screen BlackBerry from Research In Motion and two devices based on the Android system by Google.

Verizon is promoting one of the Android cellphones, the Motorola Droid, which is expected to go on sale in early November.

The company told analysts on the call that its 2009 capital spending would probably come in lower than its forecast of $7.4 billion to $7.8 billion and would be at the low end of that range “at worst.”

Shares were down 21 cents to $28.64.
852 2009-10-27 A year ago, governments around the world scrambled to pull their biggest banks from the brink of collapse. Now, policy makers are wrestling with just how much to rein in the financial behemoths that contributed to the crisis.     How large and int...
853 2009-10-28 With the Knicks in Miami for their opener, Coach Mike D'Antoni ended questioning about what the franchise might do in the 2010 off-season...
854 2009-10-28 Billionaire Carl Icahn has disposed of more than 7 million shares of Guaranty Financial Group, the bankrupt Texas bank whose assets were seized two months ago and sold to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria....
855 2009-10-28 In the third part of a series, Eric J. Furda of the University of Pennsylvania provides guidance on letters of recommendation, the prospects of tuition relief for middle class families and whether an applicant's spurning of a Penn acceptance might...
856 2009-10-28 Trevor Scotland, 39, who served as the chief operating officer of NYC-TV, pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud....
857 2009-10-28 Jonathan Demme, whose films include "The Silence of the Lambs" and "Rachel Getting Married," said that he had acquired the film rights to "Zeitoun," whose cover had inspired him to make it into a cartoon....
858 2009-10-28 Two other new city laws would improve safety at construction sites where work has been suspended and help students placed in out-of-state residential facilities....
859 2009-10-28 But Quincy Smith, the chief executive of the interactive division, plans to maintain ties to the company....
860 2009-10-28 Pfizer just announced it is giving two senior vice presidents bonuses of $1 million and $1.2 million for their deft handling of the $68 billion Wyeth buyout in the midst of the global financial crisis....
861 2009-10-28 The country's infamous financial panics -- in 2008, 1987, 1929, 1907 and 1873 -- all struck in that season. What explains this phenomenon?...
862 2009-10-28 Is it a $30 million opening? $60 million? Sony won't release a worldwide estimate of the film's global first-day gross until Thursday morning....
863 2009-10-28 Two former senators will advise the president on intelligence matters....
864 2009-10-28 Is it a $30 million opening? $60 million?...
865 2009-10-28 Even if you're not planning to sell your business any time soon, you should run your business with an eye toward what you can do to achieve maximum value if and when you do decide to sell....
866 2009-10-28 Microsoft's official Windows 7 "overview," all 140 pages of it, is available online for free....
867 2009-10-28 "This Is It," drawn from 120 hours of rehearsal footage for Jackson's planned concert run in London, opened with 16 simultaneous premieres around the world, some beginning in the wee hours of Wednesday morning....
868 2009-10-28 The time has come, President Obama said on Tuesday, "to build a clean energy superhighway."...
869 2009-10-28 The new-home market is splitting up: Low-priced homes are selling better, and so are expensive new homes. But those in the middle are still not selling very well....
870 2009-10-28 Assessing the Yankees' and Phillies' defenses....
871 2009-10-28 Verizon Wireless took the wraps off the Motorola Droid smartphone. The device is an effort by both companies to woo customers considering the Apple iPhone, which is only available on AT&T....
872 2009-10-28 The soloists Tyler Angle, Robert Fairchild, Tiler Peck, Amar Ramasar and Teresa Reichlen have been given the new rank of principal dancer. Kathryn Morgan, a member of the corps since 2007, was made a soloist....
873 2009-10-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
874 2009-10-28 A small device helps NPR fans listen to the shows they miss....
875 2009-10-28 The singer resumed his tour on Tuesday night in an occasionally self-mocking show at the Royal Albert Hall in London, days after he collapsed on stage....
876 2009-10-28 U.S. regulators would get a better view into the secretive world of hedge funds and private equity funds under a bill passed by a key congressional committee on Tuesday....
877 2009-10-28 Tilera, the chip start-up, is boasting that it has created the world's first 100-core chip -- a product capable of giving Intel a run for its money in the high-profit server chip market....
878 2009-10-28 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ended the debate on Tuesday night sounding very much like the man he was eight years ago, efficient and smart, a guy with reasonable answers for nearly every question, and a knack for the sardonic counterpunch.

Yet, as voters were reminded again, even if he serves another four years, this billionaire mayor could well exit the municipal stage without ever having made that gut connection with New Yorkers that for better or ill defines the best-known mayors.

Mr. Bloomberg has a powerful man’s manner and a technocrat’s way of talking, and he slipped his foe’s punches with practiced ease. But the most obvious questions caused him to double-clutch, such as this one: How do you feel when you are told that you are out of touch with average New Yorkers?

His face contracted in distaste. He makes no pretense of being a mayoral empath.

“I don’t think so, I don’t get that sense when I ride the subway four or five times a week at minimum,” he said. “It’s very easy to say I feel your pain. That’s not what we need.”

Mysteries attend to the city’s most dominant politician, even after eight years in office. Admired but more rarely loved, he risked a voter revolt by going back on his vow not to seek a third term. He has risked annoying his friends and awakening the dead by bombarding the airwaves with tens of millions of dollars worth of campaign commercials. And in the debate, he attacked his opponent, Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., with the fervor suggestive of a man locked in a sweaty electoral clinch. (Most recent polls suggest the mayor has a commanding lead.)

Taken together, his style hints at an insecurity not visible to the reportorial eye.

Mr. Thompson raised his debating game on Tuesday, landing blows about the sagging economy, vast city subsidies for a luxury baseball stadium in the Bronx, and the fact that tens of thousands of middle class tenants are caught between disappearing jobs and too-high rents. The mayor, Mr. Thompson noted, had not joined the lawsuit filed by Manhattan tenants that successfully challenged widespread rent overcharges at Stuyvesant Town, a large housing complex.
879 2009-10-28 They traded insults over test scores, taxes and political contributions.

But in their second debate, on Tuesday night, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. indulged in their fair share of exaggerations and misrepresentations. Here are some of them.

TAXES The mayor said that if Mr. Thompson implemented “any” of his campaign promises, it would force him to impose “massive tax increases.” That is a highly dubious assertion. Several of Mr. Thompson’s plans would cost little or nothing.

To encourage the growth of small businesses, for example, he proposes allowing people who work on a freelance basis to do so from home, which is generally illegal now under zoning laws, even though the practice is widespread. Cost to the city? Just about zero.

EDUCATION Seeking to undercut the mayor’s record on a crucial issue, Mr. Thompson claimed that scores on the SAT exams have fallen “year after year after year” since Mr. Bloomberg took office eight years ago. Technically, that is true. From 2004 through 2008, average SAT scores for city students fell 2 percent. But that can be partly explained by the increasing number of students who took the tests: 40,500 in 2008, up from 33,150 four years earlier.

Mr. Bloomberg said that during the time Mr. Thompson was president of the Board of Education, student test scores “didn’t go up.” That is false. Mr. Thompson served as president of the board from 1996 until 2001. From 1999 to 2002, during the tenure of the two chancellors Mr. Thompson voted for, the performance of New York City school students on state standardized tests rose consistently, records show.
880 2009-10-28 Virtually every state is dealing with enrollment booms at community colleges, the American Association of Community Colleges says, with some in reporting increases of 35 percent. The demand comes amid deep cuts to higher-education budgets, but also at a hopeful time for community colleges: recently announced a $12 billion plan to increase the number of community college graduates by five million by 2020.

“It shines a spotlight on a sector of higher education that by and large has been viewed as the lowest rung on the ladder,” Dr. Fifield said. “Now we have the president of the talking about community colleges as an engine that will drive and sustain economic success in this country.”

Most of the students in Mr. Chin’s writing class, who range in age from 18 to 59, are employed but hoping a degree will lead to more stable, higher-paying jobs. Some start work as early as 4 a.m. or finish as late as 11 p.m., making the class time more appealing. They include a taxi dispatcher who dreams of going to medical school, a Dunkin’ Donuts cashier who wants to be a homicide detective and a landscaper who wants to be a state trooper.

The group cracked jokes and gently mocked one another for mispronouncing the word “blithe” or not reading aloud passionately enough. When the instructor asked around 2 a.m., “Who’s ready to answer the question?” one student wearily answered, “Who’s confused?”

Mr. Chin, who took the midnight class because other writing classes were full, wants to become a surgical nurse. At 57, he has three small children and has not been a student since graduating from high school.

“I probably would have taken something early in the morning if I’d had my pick of classes,” he said. “But this is working out. I never really need more than about four hours of sleep anyway.”

Mr. Chin and his classmates get plenty of parking — a rarity at community colleges these days. Holyoke Community College, in Holyoke, Mass., where enrollment is up percent over last fall, turned its tennis courts into parking lots; it also sent postcards to all 7,500 students urging them to take public transportation to class.

At Northern Virginia Community College, more than 20 classes start before 7 a.m. this fall; many other colleges have classes running as late as 11 p.m.

But with state allocations down sharply this year because of the economy, many community colleges have not been able to keep up with the demand. At Miami Dade College, whose 170,000 students make it the nation’s largest community college, about 30,000 could not get every class they wanted this fall; about 5,000 others were shut out completely.

At De Anza College in Cupertino, Calif., about 8,000 students found themselves on wait lists last month, as did 7,500 students at Central Oregon Community College. And in , where the six community colleges that are part of the experienced a record 9 percent enrollment increase this fall, most closed enrollment early for the first time.

Because of budget cuts, Miami Dade College could not add a single new class this fall despite an influx of more than 33,000 new students. Instead, it has eliminated 1,200 class sections over the last two years, said Eduardo J. Padrón, the college president.

“It’s an almost desperate situation,” Dr. Padrón said. “My heart breaks for these students, because I know many are the ones who really need us the most.”

Colleen Roach, Bunker Hill’s spokeswoman, said higher student fees and an influx of federal stimulus money helped the college offer dozens more classes this fall. It is planning to add a third midnight course, Sociology 101, next spring, along with five business and science courses that will run to 11:45 p.m.

Dr. Fifield said putting dynamic instructors in charge of the late-night classes was crucial.

“Not everyone is going to be able to keep people awake until 2:45 in the morning,” she said.

Wick Sloane, who teaches the midnight writing class at Bunker Hill, tried to transport Mr. Chin and the other students from the windowless, concrete-walled classroom one recent night with an essay by , the nature writer, about encountering a mountain lion in the New Mexican desert. When one student answered a question with a giant yawn around 2:15, Mr. Sloane asked, “Can everyone make it about 15 more minutes?”

For homework, he assigned an essay analyzing Calpurnia’s rhetoric in ’s leading one student to ask whether Shakespeare used an alias. The room started buzzing with opinions.

“Do you want to stay and debate who Shakespeare was?” Mr. Sloane asked.

They did not, but not for lack of enthusiasm. “He’s got me engaged,” Mr. Chin said, “which is not easy at this time of night.”
881 2009-10-28 “We said, ‘Wow, this is an opportunity to help states apply for money that will help them bring about real change in how we educate students,’ ” said Chris Williams, a Gates Foundation spokesman. “And after we began that effort, questions came up: Why not the other 35 states? And we said, Why not? If other states are putting together applications that seek real change, why wouldn’t we do that?”

The $4 billion Race to the Top competition, which Congress authorized in February as part of the stimulus law, is to reward about 15 states with $200 million to $500 million each for their school improvement efforts in recent years, and encourage them to undertake new initiatives the Obama administration supports, like opening new charter schools and improving teacher evaluation systems.

With nearly all states facing huge deficits, those sums have motivated officials in many states to start drawing up detailed applications, due early next year. The department is to announce some winners in the spring. The foundation’s offer would allow states that become its partners to hire high-powered consulting firms like McKinsey to help them with that work.

Officials at both the Gates Foundation and the Department of Education insisted in interviews that the foundation, which has given about $200 million annually in grants across the nation to improve public schools, did not coordinate its offer to the 15 states with the department, where some former Gates Foundation employees now work.

Secretary of Education Arne Duncan recruited his chief of staff, Margot Rogers, and one of his assistant deputy secretaries, James Shelton, from the Gates Foundation. The administration waived ethics rules to allow both officials to consult more freely with the foundation, said Justin Hamilton, a department spokesman. Neither official used that freedom, however, to discuss the foundation’s offer to the 15 states, Mr. Hamilton said.

The administration’s views on overhauling schools closely track the foundation’s. Both emphasize raising high school graduation rates, for instance, as well as improving teacher training and efforts to help failing schools.

“The Gates program and the Arne Duncan program are pretty much the same program,” Senator Detert said.

The 15 states originally picked by the foundation were Arkansas, Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Texas. Many of those states are ones that experts say have the best chance to win federal money.

Foundation education officers picked the 15 states “through our own due diligence process,” taking into account “where our education strategy is now and where the best opportunities are,” Mr. Williams said. The 15 included states “where we’d done a lot of work and knew the landscape,” like New York and Texas, he said, as well as those “where we haven’t done as much work but were considering doing more,” like Arkansas and Arizona.

Armando Vilaseca, Vermont’s education commissioner, said he was not pleased when he learned that the foundation had offered to help 15 states but not his.

“That seemed like stacking the deck,” Mr. Vilaseca said. Vermont was already at an unfair disadvantage, he said, because the rules of the federal competition favor states that promote opening new charter schools, which he said were a great alternative for cities but offered little to rural states where dwindling populations are forcing traditional public schools to close.

Now that it has switched course, Vermont will apply for aid from the foundation, Mr. Vilaseca said. “We’ll aggressively go after Race to the Top funding,” he said.
882 2009-10-28 Visa posted a quarterly profit on Tuesday, reversing a year-earlier loss, as cost reductions and growing debit card use made up for a decline in payment volume reflecting consumer spending cutbacks.

Visa said it earned $514 million, or 69 cents a share, on revenue of $1.87 billion. That compares with a loss of $356 million, or 45 cents a share, on revenue of $1.71 billion a year earlier.

Excluding one-time items, Visa earned 74 cents a share, topping the 72 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.

Visa, based in San Francisco, said payment volume slipped 2 percent, to $687 million. But the total number of cards carrying the Visa brand rose 5 percent worldwide, to 1.7 billion, and total processed transactions rose 9 percent, to 10.5 billion.

The increased number of cards and the higher transaction volume reflect the growing use of debit cards over credit cards, as consumers continue to tighten their belts.

Visa’s operating expenses in the period, its fourth fiscal quarter, dropped by more than half, to $1.01 billion, from $2.15 billion a year earlier.

The majority of the decline came from reduced litigation spending after the settlement of several major lawsuits. But even while Visa said Tuesday that it had renewed its sponsorship of the Olympic Games through 2020, it reported a 12 percent decline in advertising spending in the fourth quarter, to $283 million.
883 2009-10-28 Flecks of red on the collard greens give a hint: Flavors from this small Southern-style kitchen wander very far south indeed.

Manuel Ramirez, raised in Veracruz, adds a pinch of dried serrano to his collards ($3), so they’re a bit spicy as well as sour. The chef’s Mexican roots are even more evident in the complex, peppery dry rub that coats his hickory-smoked pork ribs. With some variation, Mr. Ramirez’s blend of sautéed spices reasserts itself in blackened catfish (sandwich, $7.95) and succulent string beans ($4) that also encourage hands-on enthusiasm.

Milder-mannered dishes are a welcome change of pace. A small dish of maple butter accompanies a half-dozen hush puppies ($4.50); sides ($2 to $4) include creamy, breadcrumb-dusted mac-’n’-cheese and firm candied yams with an extra measure of brown sugar.

The barbecue itself ($11.95 to $17.95, including sides) takes pride of place. Best are ribs, beef or pork, whose meat pulls free with only gentle resistance, and sliced brisket, lean but fork-tender. These arrive slathered in Mr. Ramirez’s sweet peppery sauce.

The vinegary Carolina sauce that dresses pulled pork is comparatively timid, however, and Green Apple’s five tiny tables are empty of hot-sauce bottles. (There’s little elbow room as is; the restaurant does much of its business to go.) There’s no sweet tea, either; in lieu of soda or juice, try one of the thin tropical shakes ($3.50), perhaps the melon-sweet mamey.

For now, dessert is limited to the usual cadre of pies, from an outside bakery, but look for Mr. Ramirez to prepare his own from pumpkin and Mexican brown sugar.
884 2009-10-28 The Federal Aviation Administration revoked the licenses of two Northwest Airlines pilots who flew more than 100 miles beyond their destination....
885 2009-10-28 That would be an embarrassment for Mr. Yudhoyono, who has sought to raise Indonesia’s international standing through its status as the world’s third largest democracy and its most populous Muslim nation. If Aceh’s lawmakers fail to repeal stoning, the central government may be forced into the potentially divisive course of a court challenge to the local application of Shariah, which has gained wide acceptance here.

Just before noon prayers one recent Friday — a mandatory session for men — the Shariah police’s all-female brigade hopped onto a Toyota pickup to begin patrols. Dressed in olive uniforms, the officers hewed to the city center, away from the areas worst hit by the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. They urged stragglers to hurry to the nearest mosque and exhorted the recalcitrant to yield to God’s authority.

“Dear followers of Islam, people of Banda Aceh,” blared a loudspeaker on the Toyota, “our city has applied Shariah. It’s almost praying time. Close all shops, stop all business activities. No more buying and selling.”

Aceh has long been know as “Mecca’s veranda,” because Indonesians used to travel here to board ships bound for Islam’s holiest city on their hajj, or pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia, the birthplace of Islam. Aceh’s self-identity, if rooted in Islam, was always somewhat apart from the rest of Indonesia. Local forces fighting for autonomy, whether from Dutch colonizers or Suharto’s three-decade military rule, always demanded the freedom to carry out Shariah.

So as Aceh separatists and the central government forged a peace agreement in the last decade, Aceh won semiautonomy and the right to Shariah. The authorities began putting Shariah into practice in 2001, widening and reinforcing it every few years with legal revisions. The Shariah police, officially known as “wilayatul hisbah,” or the vice and virtue patrol, began operating in 2005 with 13 officers and now has 62, including 14 women.

As Aceh’s provincial Parliament began considering a more comprehensive Islamic criminal code earlier this year, politicians and clerics at first agreed to defer the issue of stoning, which they generally agree is a punishment specified in the Koran for adultery.

But some lawmakers, apparently allied with radical clerics pushed for its inclusion at the last minute, former and current lawmakers said. Afraid of being branded bad Muslims, even lawmakers with reservations endorsed the law, lawmakers said. Six of the seven parties represented in Parliament voted for the law. The holdout — the Democratic Party, which is also President Yudhoyono’s — merely abstained.

“We never openly said that we were opposed to stoning,” said Yusrizal Ibrahim, 49, a Democratic Party member who served as a lawmaker until last month. “Stoning is part of Shariah, and by voting ‘No,’ it would have made it look as though we were against Islam.”

But even the local members’ abstention drew a rebuke from a high-ranking party official in Jakarta. “He told us that if there was no other party opposing it, we should have gone with the flow,” Mr. Ibrahim said.

He added he believed that “stoning was against human rights.” But he said he would have never “dared to say so explicitly in Parliament” for fear of being labeled an “infidel.”

Muhamad Nazar, Aceh’s deputy governor, said he hoped that a newly installed Parliament — made up of more moderates — would revise the criminal code.

But new lawmakers interviewed said they were reluctant to broach the delicate topic. Adnan Beuransah, 50, of the moderate Aceh Party, now Parliament’s dominant party, said the issue was a “time bomb.”

“We won’t say whether we oppose stoning or not,” Mr. Beuransah said. “We’ll just focus instead on education, health and more important issues.”

Indeed, now that stoning has become part of Shariah here, even religious leaders fear that opposing it would raise doubts among their followers.

“We can’t tell them to follow Shariah, except this part about stoning,” said Faisal Ali, a cleric who is secretary general of Himpunan Ulama Dayah Aceh, an organization representing 672 Islamic schools, and who believed that Aceh was not ready for stoning yet. “If the people feel that we are not supporting Shariah, they would feel that we are not part of them anymore. That would be an even greater loss because then they wouldn’t listen to us anymore.”

People in Aceh’s rural areas were said to be Shariah’s staunchest supporters, though even most people interviewed here in the provincial capital said they backed the stoning of adulterers.

“If people are caught, they should be given a warning the first time,” said Fati Ibrahim, 43, a mother of four who was buying dustpans at a large store here. “But if they’re caught a second or third time, they should be stoned.

“Otherwise, they’ll give Aceh a bad image. They’ll embarrass us outside Aceh, that we’re not practicing Islam as it should be.”
886 2009-10-28 STOCK--Pearl Levin, formerly of St. Paul, MN, born March 15, 1911, Springfield, MA, daughter of Rebecca and Samuel Lasker, died October 23 in New Haven, CT. She was predeceased by her husbands, Bert G. Levin, M.D. and Frank W. Stock. An exemplary ...
887 2009-10-29 Tim Tebow and Colt McCoy were 2 of the 16 finalists of the 2009 National Scholar-Athlete class, named by the National Football Foundation....
888 2009-10-29 The first tip from inside Intel reached Raj Rajaratnam more than a decade ago -- from the same source who has now turned against him in the biggest insider-trading case in a generation....
889 2009-10-29 Children and teenagers are suffering from the recession, much as they did during the Great Depression. One difference is, back in the 1930s, greater efforts were made to help them....
890 2009-10-29 Senator Harry Reid denounces the slow pace of reaching a consensus on some critical Obama nominees....
891 2009-10-29 In the fourth part of a Q-&-A with Choice readers, Eric J. Furda of the University of Pennsylvania provides guidance on letters of recommendation, financial aid after a parent's job loss, whether a sibling is considered a legacy and whether calcul...
892 2009-10-29 Tara Siegel Bernard explains how she started writing about personal finance....
893 2009-10-29 The quantitative case for starting Pedro Martinez over Cole Hamels in Game 2 of the World Series is not so strong....
894 2009-10-29 Sheila C. Bair, a senior banking regulator, found fault on Thursday with central elements of the White House's latest plan for a new process to unwind large financial companies when their troubles imperil the financial system....
895 2009-10-29 A trustee for the fund established for two child actors from "Slumdog Millionaire" said they could lose considerable money if they did not start attending school more often....
896 2009-10-29 A term used by the British police to describe political activists and protesters....
897 2009-10-29 Cuba's Ministry of Culture has given the John F. Kennedy Library copies of letters and documents Hemingway amassed during his years in Cuba, including corrected proofs of "The Old Man and the Sea'' and an alternate ending to "For Whom the Bell Tol...
898 2009-10-29 Highlights from today's special section on wealth, including the looming cash bubble and tax tips for high earners....
899 2009-10-29 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Thursday scrambled to fight off attacks from all sides on a new Obama administration plan for tackling financial risk in the economy unveiled just two days ago....
900 2009-10-29 Japan set the stage for a huge bailout of Japan Airlines on Thursday, telling the struggling carrier to turn to a state-backed body for assistance, a move that ruled out a tougher stance by a new left-leaning government in Tokyo against the countr...
901 2009-10-29 Yvo de Boer calls on all industrialized nations to put funds on the table ahead of Copenhagen meeting....
902 2009-10-29 German prosecutors confirmed Thursday that they had raided both offices and homes in the course of an investigation into the activities of Helmut Kiener, the founder of the K1 hedge fund firm, suspected of fraud and breach of trust....
903 2009-10-29 McKinsey and Akamai Technologies launched investigations on Wednesday into accusations by the U.S. government that some of their employees were linked to the Galleon Group insider-trading scandal....
904 2009-10-29 Stock markets fell broadly in Asia on Thursday after weak new U.S. home sales data revived fears that the global economic recovery is faltering....
905 2009-10-29 Teams often mistakenly attribute improvements in performance to the replacement of their coaches....
906 2009-10-29 The businessman at the center of a federal investigation of corruption in Alaska politics has been sentenced to three years in prison. The man, Bill Allen, former chief executive of the VECO Corporation, was also fined $750,000 for bribery and conspiracy. He pleaded guilty in May 2007 to improperly influencing a handful of state lawmakers with the aim of passing legislation beneficial to the petroleum industry. Another man, Rick Smith, a VECO vice president, was sentenced to 21 months in prison and fined $10,000 for his role in assisting Mr. Allen. Their sentencings had been delayed as they cooperated with federal prosecutors.
907 2009-10-29 A judge dismissed murder charges against two men awaiting retrial in the 1991 killings of four teenagers at an Austin yogurt shop, after prosecutors admitted they were not ready to take the case to a jury. One of the men, Robert Springsteen, was sent to death row in 2001 after he was convicted of capital murder in the killing of one of the girls. The other man, Michael Scott, was convicted in the girl’s death and sentenced to life in prison. Their convictions were overturned when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals said the men were unfairly denied the chance to cross-examine each other. The men were released on bond in June after new DNA tests could not match them to the crime scene and revealed the presence of an unknown male.
908 2009-10-29 Switzerland has summoned the Italian ambassador for an explanation of raids on dozens of Swiss banks in Italy, part of an escalating tax dispute between the countries, a Swiss Interior Ministry spokesman said. The Italian tax agency said Tuesday that hundreds of police officers and tax inspectors made checks at 76 branches of mainly Swiss banks as part of Italy’s fight against tax evasion. The relationship between the two countries has deteriorated since Italy began a very generous tax amnesty aimed at capturing billions of euros hidden by Italians in Switzerland and elsewhere.
909 2009-10-29 Jonny Flynn scored 13 of his 18 points in the fourth quarter Wednesday to help erase a 19-point deficit, and Damien Wilkins converted a putback at the buzzer, as the host Minnesota Timberwolves edged the Nets, 95-93.

Minnesota trailed by 16 points with less than seven minutes to play. But Flynn, a rookie from Syracuse, scored 11 points the rest of the way. The Timberwolves closed with a 24-6 run.

Brook Lopez had 27 points, 15 rebounds and 4 blocks for the Nets. But he did not score in the final period, and Al Jefferson blocked his shot with 25 seconds to go; it would have given the Nets the lead.

Devin Harris had a rough shooting night for the Nets, managing just 14 points on 4-for-13 shooting to go with 8 assists.

RAPTORS 101, CAVALIERS 91 Andrea Bargnani scored 28 points, Chris Bosh had 21 points and 16 rebounds and host Toronto overcame LeBron James’s 25th triple-double to beat Cleveland.
910 2009-10-29 David Lee had 22 points and 9 rebounds for the Knicks. Al Harrington scored 15 points, but went 5 for 14 from the field.

The game was close until the final minutes of the second quarter, when a series of Knicks miscues allowed the Heat to pull away. O’Neal and Wade scored on consecutive fast-break dunks, after a Chris Duhon turnover and a blown dunk by Harrington, and O’Neal followed with another dunk to make it a 10-point game.

Miami kept up the pace after halftime, opening the third quarter with a 17-2 run that blew the game open. The lead was 23 points by the middle of the third and 31 points by the final minute of the quarter.

“It’s something that we’ve been talking about in the preseason — you can’t get down when teams go on runs,” Duhon said. “We let what happened in the last two minutes of the first half still affect us. It just carried over and we weren’t able to overcome it.”

Quentin Richardson, the former Knick, helped fuel the surge with a 3-pointer, which he celebrated with a playful stare at the Knicks bench. Miami did most of the damage in the paint. Beasley and Wade scored on consecutive layups, and Wade twice found O’Neal for uncontested dunks.

After spending much of the preseason talking about defense, the Knicks played little of it. Miami made 56.6 percent of its field goals and scored 42 points in the paint.

The Knicks’ offense was not much better. Nate Robinson missed all eight of his shots. Wilson Chandler went 7 for 18. Only Lee consistently found the basket, going 9 for 13. But he scored just 7 points after halftime.

“It’s discouraging,” Harrington said, “because we feel like we’ve gotten better. And we did get better. I just think that offensively we allowed our offense to affect our defense tonight.”

Before the Knicks faced Wade, they had to deal with the specter of Wade. The team is holding salary-cap space next summer for Wade or LeBron James, and the anticipation has overshadowed discussion of the new season.

“This will be one of the last times I address this,” D’Antoni, sounding unusually testy, said at the morning shootaround, “because it’s not important, it’s not what we think about and it’s not what the team thinks about. You guys can buzz all you want, because you have to fill up airwaves, but it has nothing to do with anything.”

D’Antoni added, “We’re ready to go now and we’re in the present tense.”

By the end of the night, the present was not a pleasant topic either.

Chris Mullin, who is often rumored as a potential front-office addition for the Knicks, spoke at length with the team president Donnie Walsh before the game. Mullin said he was “happily and healthily taking a sabbatical” and had not considered his next career move. He said his conversation with Walsh was purely social. Mullin was fired last spring by the Golden State Warriors. He was in town Wednesday to attend the jersey retirement of Tim Hardaway, his former teammate with the Warriors. Darko Milicic bruised his left knee early in the fourth quarter and limped off the court. The injury is not considered serious.
911 2009-10-29 “We think our industry is in recovery, but we know we’re not out of the woods yet,” he said.

G.M.’s sales dropped sharply in the months leading up to its Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing on June 1. Even after it emerged from bankruptcy in mid-July, industry surveys showed that consumers remained wary of G.M.’s products.

Mr. DiGiovanni said that G.M was “cautiously optimistic” that it turned a corner in October. Its market share rose for a third consecutive month, and the carmaker will post its first year-over-year monthly sales increase since January 2008.

Susan Docherty, G.M.’s new head of United States sales, said the company was seeing sales momentum in the four core brands — Cadillac, Chevrolet, Buick and GMC — that the company was focusing on. “Our sales mix is a lot healthier,” she said.

G.M., which is 60 percent owned by American taxpayers, was forced to shed its Saturn, Pontiac, Saab and Hummer brands as a condition of receiving federal aid. A year ago, the four core brands accounted for about 85 percent of G.M.’s overall sales, Mr. DiGiovanni said. But in October, that figure was 95 percent.

G.M. also spent heavily to advertise its 60-day, money-back guarantee on its models. So far, the program has increased showroom traffic. And of the 142,000 vehicles sold since it began, only four have been returned, Ms. Docherty said. Forty-nine consumers are in the process of bringing their vehicles back.

Ms. Docherty conceded that G.M. still had far to go to improve its reputation. Its sales incentives remain among the highest in the industry, and only a dozen of its vehicles were judged reliable in a recent Consumer Reports survey.

“We are not here to declare victory,” she said on Wednesday at a sales forum with reporters. “We’re here to talk about progress.”

Its latest entry in the small crossover-vehicle market, the Chevrolet Equinox, has sold so well that G.M. has only a 10-day supply in its inventory. A 60-day supply is considered ideal by industry standards.

The company recently moved to add a third shift to its joint venture plant in Canada, which it operates with Suzuki, to increase production of the Equinox and the GMC Terrain.

The decision was arrived at quickly by G.M. management — something that would not have happened in the old G.M., Mr. DiGiovanni said.

The sales forum was part of an effort by G.M. to be more accessible to the news media and the public. Ms. Docherty said she and other executives were spending up to two hours a day answering questions on Web sites and e-mail from consumers.
912 2009-10-29 In 1983, a German court refused to send him to the Netherlands because he might have German citizenship as well as Dutch, and Germany then had no provision to extradite its nationals. Another German court refused in 2007 to make him serve his Dutch sentence in a German prison because he had been absent from his trial and therefore unable to defend himself.

Efraim Zuroff, the top Nazi hunter at the Simon Wiesenthal Center, applauded prosecutors for pushing to bring the case to trial.

“This sends a very powerful message that the passage of time in no way diminishes the guilt of murderers, and that old age should not protect the killers of civilians,” he said in a telephone interview. “Boere’s victims and their families are just as worthy of obtaining justice today as they were right after he committed his crimes.”

The trial was suspended Wednesday for several days, before the formal charges against Mr. Boere were read aloud, so the five-judge panel could consider a defense motion to have the lead prosecutor, Ulrich Maass, removed from the trial.

The defense argued that Mr. Maass had made statements to the Dutch and German press that called his objectivity into question. Mr. Maass said the allegations were unfounded.

Mr. Boere was 18 when he joined the SS in late 1940, only months after German forces had overrun his hometown, Maastricht, and the rest of the Netherlands.

After fighting on the Russian front, he returned to the Netherlands as part of “Silbertanne,” a unit of largely Dutch SS volunteers like himself who were given the task of killing their countrymen for resistance attacks on collaborators.

In statements after the war that are expected to form the basis for the prosecution’s case, Mr. Boere detailed the killings almost shot by shot.

His lawyers have declined to say how they will try to counter the confession, but they could argue that their client was simply following orders.

In a 2007 interview with the Dutch newspaper Algemeen Dagblad, Mr. Boere said that he was sorry for what he had done but that it was “another time, with different rules.”
913 2009-10-29 Culverhouse made her impassioned statement Wednesday in Washington at a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee that was looking into brain injuries in professional football. The hearings follow a series of articles by Alan Schwarz in The New York Times outlining the dementia and other damage that has struck down football players, far beyond any national norms.

The proceedings reminded me of hearings into the coal industry I covered years ago, in Congressional rooms just like this. The miners knew all about the dangerous shortcuts, but they needed the jobs; the companies insisted they were making the mines even safer; and there was always a company doctor who said, Heck, boys, coal dust is good for you, wards off the common cold.

The only voice capable of outrage belonged to Culverhouse, whose family is no longer in the football business, although she clearly feels leftover responsibility for the broken men who worked for her family.

Her strongest contempt seemed to be for that peculiar hybrid called the team doctor, who, as she described him, inspects players and instructs coaches as to whom to draft, and then, on the sideline, administers battlefield clearance to go back in there and be a man.

Sometimes, Culverhouse recalled, doctors would shoot up players at halftime or even get players to huddle in a circle on the field so the doctors could shoot-’em-up so they could continue to go biff-bam-pow for the rest of us.

Perhaps because of the sense of humor of the committee staff, sitting next to Culverhouse was a team doctor, Andrew M. Tucker of the Baltimore Ravens, a member of the N.F.L. Committee on Mild Traumatic Brain Injury. (Is there also a committee for Maybe-a-Bit-More-Than-Mild Traumatic Brain Injury? One wonders.)

Culverhouse stared politely at the team doctor as he gave testimony about the wonderful new things going on involving helmet design, rules changes, neuropsychological testing and the study of retired players.

“We hardly admit we have all the answers,” Tucker concluded.

Watching on a Webcast, I was hoping Culverhouse would scream, but she didn’t.

There is cause to be offended, as Schwarz has demonstrated in dozens of stories on how players stopped functioning in their 30s and 40s. Autopsies on the donated brains of some who died concluded that unusual traumatic stress had brought them down.

That kind of damage is found only in football players and boxers, said Dr. Ann C. McKee, associate professor of neurology and pathology at Boston University School of Medicine, who spoke in the afternoon session. While damage is scattered, she said, so is cancer and lung damage among tobacco users. But it exists.

The football players who came down with dementia had spent their college and professional careers with the team doctor waving them back into play, and Coach getting right up in their face and reminding them they were just meat, replaceable meat.

On Wednesday, Eleanor M. Perfetto, the wife of Ralph Wenzel, a lineman in the N.F.L. for seven years, described how his behavior broke down 20 years after his retirement, and how she finally had to put him into a facility because it was impossible to care for a football player who has come undone. Still, said Perfetto, a senior director at Pfizer, her husband was better off than many because he had a “pushy broad” for a wife.

Gay Culverhouse, who has a Ph.D. and was therefore addressed as Dr. Culverhouse, contributed her wealthy person’s sense of entitlement. She had the psychic power to walk into this hearing and express her outrage. To her right, Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., and the new head of the players union, DeMaurice Smith, seemed to be in favor of moving forward.

Can the carnage ever be limited as long as large men with helmets ram into other large men with helmets? Representative Elton Gallegly, a Republican from California, discussed a couple of helmet-dislodging hits he had seen perpetrated by the same college football player two weekends in a row. Gallegly said that the message on the tube after those plays was, “He’s the kind of guy they’re looking for.” He added, “That message seeps down to kids.”

Representative Ted Poe, Republican from Texas, fretted that if everybody kept trying to make changes, “We’d all be playing touch football.” He sounded horrified.

Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat from California, reminded the N.F.L. that it was subject to antitrust scrutiny. At the very least, the league must make the players aware of the damages they face when they go out there and risk their brains to entertain all of us.
914 2009-10-29 The Jets said Wednesday that they had cut the prices of the season tickets attached to the 7,000 mezzanine club seats at the new stadium they will share with the Giants. They cited disappointing sales as the reason for the discounts.

But the team said it would keep in place the personal seat license fees that fans must buy for the right to purchase club seats.

The $400 mezzanine club corner tickets were cut to $195 a game, and the mezzanine goal line tickets, which were $400, were cut to $245. The former class of tickets still require a $5,000-a-seat license, and the latter a $7,500 license. The mezzanine club sideline season tickets (with a seat license cost of $15,000) were slashed from $500 apiece to $295 and the mezzanine prime tickets (with a license of $25,000) were cut from $500 to $395.

The lowered prices will apply to those who have already purchased the club seats as well as to new buyers.

Matt Higgins, the Jets’ executive vice president for business operations, said fans resisted the prices on the season tickets more than those of the underlying licenses. “At the current trajectory, those clubs seats weren’t going to sell out,” he said. “We want this building to sell out on opening day and by cutting prices aggressively, you don’t miss the mark.”

Starting Sunday, the team will begin selling season tickets to 20,000 seats, some that require the purchase of seat licenses and others, in the upper deck, that do not. A few thousand upper bowl seats, priced at $95 to $125, remain.

The Giants earlier this year cut the cost of 1,570 mezzanine club ticket prices from $400 to $250; they require $7,500 personal seat license fees. The Giants have 2,000 club seats available on the field and in the mezzanine.
915 2009-10-29 Although it probably won’t replace a live computer nerd banging on a misbehaving PC, Microsoft’s Automated Troubleshooting Services (support.microsoft.com/gp/mats) may be able to fix common problems for nontechnical Windows Vista users with just a click or two. The services can automatically fix some problems with things like printing, system speed or hardware devices. Internet Explorer is required. A Microsoft engineer explains the troubleshooter in detail in a company blog post at bit.ly/oA0Ae.
916 2009-10-29 Adobe Photoshop is the gold standard of image manipulation. But trying anything beyond the basics sets off a blind panic among many amateur photographers and even many pros.

Adobe has just released a public beta test of Lightroom 3. The downloadable software is free from Adobe, at bit.ly/28oABi, for the duration of the test. Afterward, the software will probably cost $299, the price of the current version.

The difference between Lightroom and Photoshop is that Lightroom is aimed at helping photographers — not graphic designers — import, manage, enhance and share images. Another distinction is that Lightroom is much more intuitive to use. Yet it’s packed with robust features.

The software includes new capabilities to publish and dynamically change photos on Flickr. Users can access their online accounts from within Lightroom and can drag and drop images directly into their Flickr photostream.

It also adds new watermarking capabilities that enable photographers to embed text or graphic information directly on an image and then adjust the size, position and opacity.

One glaring omission from Lightroom 3 is video-editing capabilities. Adobe says this version will handle photos only. RIK FAIRLIE
917 2009-10-29 Days after an unidentified ailment caused Morrissey to collapse onstage in Swindon, England, and cancel two concerts, he resumed his tour on Tuesday in an occasionally self-mocking show at the Royal Albert Hall in London, BBC News reported. “Fasten your seat belts,” he said as he took the stage. “It’s going to be a bumpy night.” During the show Morrissey, 50, the former frontman of the Smiths, pretended to faint, the BBC reported, then stood up and jokingly declared, “Thank you, Swindon!”
918 2009-10-29 New York City Ballet said on Tuesday that five dancers had been promoted to principal dancer and that a member of the corps had been promoted to soloist. The soloists Tyler Angle, Robert Fairchild, Tiler Peck, Amar Ramasar and Teresa Reichlen were named principal dancers, and Kathryn Morgan, right, a corps member since 2007, was made a soloist. The new principal dancers will make their debut performances in their new roles at an opening-night benefit on Nov. 24 at the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center.
919 2009-10-29 BRUSSELS — The European Commission proposed emissions limits for light trucks and vans Wednesday and said that carmakers would not be permitted to use them to increase production of sport utility vehicles.

Stavros Dimas, the European Union environment commissioner, pledged to prevent a repetition of what happened in the United States, where manufacturers used the more generous emissions rules for light trucks to expand construction of a new generation of gas-guzzling passenger vehicles.

“We were careful,” said Mr. Dimas. His aim, he said, was “not to permit these loopholes.”

The European Parliament and E.U. governments have yet to consider the draft legislation, leaving open the possibility for changes to the proposal.

Vans and light trucks make up about 11 percent of road vehicle sales in Europe, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. The measures would drive up the average price of vans by around ¤3,500, or $5,250 by 2020, but fuel savings should offset those extra costs, the commission said.

The proposal is modeled on recent legislation enacted in Europe that aims to cut car emissions by a fifth on average in 2015, to 130 grams a kilometer.
920 2009-10-29 Ferry terminals are surprisingly dreamy spaces. This is especially true on wet, foggy days, when the differences between land, sea and air seem negligible, the boundaries permeable.

Such a day was Tuesday. All sorts of boundaries seemed uncertain that afternoon at the Whitehall Ferry Terminal in Lower Manhattan when Palissimo performed “Halt!,” a new site-specific work by Pavel Zustiak, the company’s artistic director.

In between boarding and disembarking times, the sleek, glass-walled lobby of this Staten Island Ferry terminal clears out, save for the usual assortment of stragglers, employees and other unplaceable characters. Lindsey Dietz Marchant at first appeared to have missed the boat; she pressed her body to the closed doors, and no one paid attention, even as her torso began to hinge and surge. When a group wandered over to scan the ferry schedule, she stood frozen with one foot raised and her arms spread wide: a little island apart from an anonymous mass of commuters.

Meanwhile, Gina Bashour and Jeff Kent Jacobs morphed from patiently waiting civilians to strangely contorted beings. The people seated next to them on benches couldn’t decide whether to move away, ignore them or take pictures.

Eventually, of course, the cellphone cameras came out. Those of us who had come to the terminal specifically to see “Halt!” found ourselves watching two dramas unfold: Mr. Zustiak’s and the dawning realization of passers-by that the lobby had become a performance space.

We who had come for the show could be identified by our headsets and MP3 players; provided by the company, they allowed us to choose from five original soundtracks. Mine was the aptly named “Dream,” a dense, poignant mix of instrumentation and atmospherics, with music by Christian Frederickson and sound design by Mr. Zustiak.

Muddying the line between public and private space is a driving force for Mr. Zustiak, whose work often shows people unraveling. Here, when Ms. Bashour held her arms out beseechingly, many adults looked away, brows inscrutably furrowed. Children, meanwhile, were spellbound witnesses.
921 2009-10-29 “The key price is under $200 now,” said Eric Jennings, the men’s fashion director at Saks Fifth Avenue. “The superexpensive stuff is not performing as well.”

Despite all this tumult, designer denim is still one of the few bright spots of the apparel industry. Annual sales of all women’s jeans were actually up 5 percent over last year to $8.2 billion through August, though average prices were down 1 percent, according to the research firm NPD — the pricing shift is reflective of a broader reset taking place in luxury stores.

During the modern gilded age, the spiraling prices of designer clothes had more to do with driving profits than the actual design or construction of a garment. Designers found they could charge a lot for the perception of prestige. Dresses and suits and handbags were priced like cars, and consumers didn’t blink. But with jeans, it just felt more obvious that some kind of game was being played; the basic elements, after all, had not changed substantially in decades: five pockets, cotton, some rivets.

Now designers are facing pressure from stores and from their competitors to rethink prices, in many cases resulting in less expensive jeans or more styles at the lower end of each designer’s range. It has not gone unnoticed by executives behind the great denim rush of 2005 that even mainstream retailers like Gap and J. Crew have caught on to the appeal of Japanese denim, whisker treatments and fading details, and that they are now produce comparable premium-look jeans that cost around $60. Banana Republic has a new denim line coming in January.

“Charging $600 for jeans for no reason at all — those days are over,” said You Nguyen, the senior vice president of women’s merchandising and design for Levi Strauss & Company.

Diesel, the Italian jeans company that pioneered the three-figure category, used to produce only two styles at its lowest price of $150 for men, $160 for women. This season there are 10, said Renzo Rosso, the label’s founder, “because the market demanded more product at this level.”

Rock & Republic, another popular label, introduced a Recession Collection this spring with styles under $140, about $40 less than before. Ksubi, the maker of $280 skintight jeans, is now producing less expensive styles for stores in the United Kingdom and Australia. And Citizens of Humanity found it could entice retailers with a new style for $148, about 10 percent lower than its previous entry point.

“Below that, it is no longer premium,” said Gary Freedman, the company’s chief operating officer.

But that distinction seemed arbitrary before, and the broad pricing retrenchment suggests that there was nothing so premium about last year’s jeans except the profits. The retail price of most designer jeans is calculated by multiplying the wholesale cost by 2.2. A pair of jeans that costs $158 at Saks, for example, was sold to the store for $72.

While that is a typical markup for designer fashion, the actual costs of producing jeans are much lower, and so for many years it was considered a lucrative field for start-ups. In the early part of the decade, there were more than 40 start-ups. But many of those labels, once the next big things, are but memories. Remember Blue Cult? Antique Denim? Paper Denim & Cloth?

“Five years ago, it was easy to start a jeans company,” said Scott Morrison, one of the original founders of Paper Denim & Cloth in 1999 and later a founder of Earnest Sewn, who joined Evisu in May as its chief executive. “You basically have a market that is the fastest growing segment in the apparel business, and stores are overbuying because of it.”

Evisu is a good example. The brand, when it started in Japan in 1991, was so exclusive that only a few dozen pairs of jeans, priced at $600, were produced each week, each with a hand-painted seagull logo on the back pocket. But the label’s popularity soon led to a global licensing agreement to produce runway collections in Italy and increasingly baggy and flashy street-wear styles that, while generating $30 million in sales, devalued the brand to the point that no designer store would touch it.

Mr. Morrison said the label has been losing money for the last four years. His strategy is to revive Evisu by starting over, with a handful of clean, unadulterated styles that will be sold at Barneys beginning in November. Many of them under $200.

But prices are not the only thing that has changed since the recession. The jeans business is just not the same without the swagger.

“You have the underpinnings of a disaster if people can’t turn this around,” Mr. Morrison said.

Of course, people will turn denim around and around and around, lately as skinny jeans or boyfriend jeans and even more recently as jeans so skinny they are called “jeggings.”

Mr. Rosso of Diesel also sensed it is time for a change. Last week, he met with his team of designers to give them a challenge, he said, to reinvent denim in a “younger way, a fresher way.”

“It’s been too many years that we’ve just looked at wash, and the time is now to make an evolution,” Mr. Rosso said. “Denim is the only fabric you really can transform.”
922 2009-10-29 STOCK--Pearl. Condolences to our friend Susan Fleischer and her family on the loss of her mother - a grand lady. Adele and Carl Frischling...
923 2009-10-29 “It raises fundamental questions about whether a domestic intelligence agency can protect civil liberties if they feel they have a right to collect broad personal information about people they don’t even suspect of wrongdoing,” said Mike German, a former F.B.I. agent who now works for the .

But Valerie Caproni, the F.B.I.’s general counsel, said the bureau has adequate safeguards to protect civil liberties as it looks for people who could pose a threat.

“Those who say the F.B.I. should not collect information on a person or group unless there is a specific reason to suspect that the target is up to no good seriously miss the mark,” Ms. Caproni said. “The F.B.I. has been told that we need to determine who poses a threat to the national security — not simply to investigate persons who have come onto our radar screen.”

The manual authorizes agents to open an “assessment” to “proactively” seek information about whether people or organizations are involved in national security threats.

Agents may begin such assessments against a target without a particular factual justification. The basis for such an inquiry “cannot be arbitrary or groundless speculation,” the manual says, but the standard is “difficult to define.”

Assessments permit agents to use potentially intrusive techniques, like sending confidential informants to infiltrate organizations and following and photographing targets in public.

F.B.I. agents previously had similar powers when looking for potential criminal activity. But until the recent changes, greater justification was required to use the powers in national security investigations because they receive less judicial oversight.

If agents turn up something specific to suggest wrongdoing, they can begin a “preliminary” or “full” investigation and use additional techniques, like wiretapping. But even if agents find nothing, the personal information they collect during assessments can be retained in F.B.I. databases, the manual says.

When selecting targets, agents are permitted to consider political speech or religion as one criterion. The manual tells agents not to engage in racial profiling, but it authorizes them to take into account “specific and relevant ethnic behavior” and to “identify locations of concentrated ethnic communities.”

Farhana Khera, president of Muslim Advocates, said the F.B.I. was harassing Muslim-Americans by singling them out for scrutiny. Her group was among those that sued the bureau to release the manual.

“We have seen even in recent months the revelation of the F.B.I. going into mosques — not where they have a specific reason to believe there is criminal activity, but as ‘agent provocateurs’ who are trying to incite young individuals to join a purported terror plot,” Ms. Khera said. “We think the F.B.I. should be focused on following actual leads rather than putting entire communities under the microscope.”

Ms. Caproni, the F.B.I. lawyer, denied that the bureau engages in racial profiling. She cited the search for signs of the Somali group, , linked to the Minneapolis teenager to illustrate why the manual allows agents to consider ethnicity when deciding where to look. In that case, the bureau worried that other such teenagers might return from to carry out domestic operations.

Agents are trained to ignore ethnicity when looking for groups that have no ethnic tie, like environmental extremists, she said, but “if you are looking for Al Shabaab, you are looking for Somalis.”

Among the manual’s safeguards, agents must use the “least intrusive investigative method that effectively accomplishes the operational objective.” When infiltrating an organization, agents cannot sabotage its “legitimate social or political agenda,” nor lead it “into criminal activity that otherwise probably would not have occurred.”

Portions of the manual were redacted, including pages about “undisclosed participation” in an organization’s activities by agents or informants, “requesting information without revealing F.B.I. affiliation or the true purpose of a request,” and using “ethnic/racial demographics.”

The attorney general guidelines for F.B.I. operations date back to 1976, when a Congressional investigation by the so-called Church Committee uncovered decades of illegal domestic spying by the bureau on groups perceived to be subversive — including civil rights, women’s rights and antiwar groups — under the bureau’s longtime former director, , who died in 1972.

The Church Committee proposed that rules for the F.B.I.’s domestic security investigations be written into federal law. To forestall legislation, the attorney general in the Ford administration, Edward Levi, issued his own guidelines that established such limits internally.

Since then, administrations of both parties have repeatedly adjusted the guidelines.

In September 2008, Attorney General signed the new F.B.I. guidelines that expanded changes begun under his predecessor, , after the Sept. 11 attacks. The guidelines went into effect and the F.B.I. completed the manual putting them into place last December.

There are no signs that the current attorney general, , plans to roll back the changes. A spokeswoman said Mr. Holder was monitoring them “to see how well they work” and would make refinements if necessary.

The F.B.I., however, is revising the manual. Ms. Caproni said she was taking part in weekly high-level meetings to evaluate suggestions from agents and expected about 20 changes.

Many proposals have been requests for greater flexibility. For example, some agents said requirements that they record in F.B.I. computers every assessment, no matter how minor, were too time consuming. But Ms. Caproni said the rule aided oversight and would not be changed.

She also said that the F.B.I. takes seriously its duty to protect freedom while preventing terrorist attacks. “I don’t like to think of us as a spy agency because that makes me really nervous,” she said. “We don’t want to live in an environment where people in the United States think the government is spying on them. That’s an oppressive environment to live in and we don’t want to live that way.”

What the public should understand, she continued, is that the F.B.I. is seeking to become a more intelligence-driven agency that can figure out how best to deploy its agents to get ahead of potential threats.

“And to do that,” she said, “you need information.”
924 2009-10-30 A reporter finds that the skills necessary for winning the mileage game are like those needed for broader success with your finances....
925 2009-10-30 The joy of bankruptcy: Wait 10 years. Get pennies....
926 2009-10-30 The producers of the new musical "Fela!" are negotiating with Jay-Z and Will and Jada Pinkett Smith to put money into the show, and they're itching to have the trio at opening night....
927 2009-10-30 Eric J. Furda of the University of Pennsylvania discusses low grades in the freshman year of high school, less-than-perfect A.P. test scores and extracurricular activities in a religious setting....
928 2009-10-30 Lesson Plan | Students learn about the issues on Tuesday's ballot in their home district and how they can get involved....
929 2009-10-30 Wisdom, insights and random observations from this weekend's Arts & Leisure section. (Click on links for complete stories.)...
930 2009-10-30 Monologue | Aired Thursday night on "The Late Show With David Letterman": Do people still bob for apples? Anybody bob for apples for God's sakes? Bobbing for apples or as Dick Cheney calls it, apple boarding....
931 2009-10-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
932 2009-10-30 New York trounced London to claim the title of world's leading global financial center, according to a quarterly poll conducted by Bloomberg News....
933 2009-10-30 New studies suggest that research and development spending and patent activity have continued to grow despite the recession....
934 2009-10-30 Not quite a commercial and not truly a short film, "LX Forty" is the airline's latest bid to align the company with cultural tastemakers....
935 2009-10-30 Yankees Manager Joe Girardi, for all his emphasis on enlightened thinking, succumbed to two myths on Thursday in setting his lineup for Game 2 -- that hitting streaks matter in baseball, and that pitchers perform better with certain catchers....
936 2009-10-30 The age of adulthood is rising above 18 for a number of financial transactions. Here's a look at some....
937 2009-10-30 Could more federal involvement help speed up the process for siting transmission lines that run across several states?...
938 2009-10-30 A new stock market, ChiNext, opened Friday, making it easier for smaller Chinese companies to raise capital by reducing the requirements for going public....
939 2009-10-30 An investigation of complaints of "low, soft, spongy" brake pedals has intensified, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration....
940 2009-10-30 NYSE Euronext on Friday posted a 28-percent drop in third-quarter net income to $125 million, outperforming market expectations....
941 2009-10-30 Merck and Schering-Plough said Thursday they have won merger approval from the Federal Trade Commission and antitrust regulators in Switzerland and Canada....
942 2009-10-30 CIT Group is likely to file for bankruptcy in the coming days, analysts and experts told Reuters....
943 2009-10-30 The news that the United States economy had grown for the first time in a year electrified investors on Thursday, sending stocks up after four days of sizable declines....
944 2009-10-30 The Department of Justice charged a California financial firm and three of its executives with fraud and conspiracy in their dealings with state and local governments in the municipal bond market....
945 2009-10-30 Whether it was Phillies fans traveling to New York, or Yankees fans worried it may have been the last home game this season, ticket prices for Game 2 of the World Series took a big jump between Wednesday and Thursday....
946 2009-10-30 We have become a polarized society, approaching South American dimensions. In the long run, the gap is bound to affect our democracy. History clearly points to the social and political explosions caused by excessive inequality.

Millions in the middle class are suffering because of the irresponsibility of the financial “geniuses” who produce mostly paper and no real products. After a taxpayer bailout, the financiers are back at their old games, fighting against new rules.

A rearrangement of incomes is essential if we want to keep our democracy.

Thank you to David Brooks for questioning the ability of government to set pay limits. But there is a simple approach to excessive compensation that receives too little attention.

A marginal income tax rate of 50 percent for those with income of more than $5 million, and 90 percent for those with more than $10 million, would go a long way toward addressing what has become an excessive gap between rich and poor.

Higher tax rates for the super-rich would be controversial even though few would be directly affected. The main counterargument — that high rates would discourage prosperity — is false. During the economic boom years of the 1950s, rates often exceeded 90 percent.

Higher tax brackets are sorely needed today, not just to help workers who are in dire need, but also to help restore the political legitimacy of government.

The writer was an economist at the Treasury Department.

The hubris destroying this country comes from the private sector, not government. Constitutional safeguards protect us from the abuse of government power.

Executives exercise unchecked power not only to pay themselves confiscatory sums but also to use corporate assets to finance enormously expensive campaigns of lobbying, donations and relentless, outrageously dishonest propaganda — all for the enhancement of their personal power and wealth while impoverishing the rest of us and undermining our rights.

The central tenet of the post-cold-war Republican Party — the transfer of power from the public sector, where it is subject to constitutional protections, to a private cabal — is as profoundly anti-American as it can be.

Though considerably to the left of David Brooks on many issues, I share his mistrust of detailed regulation of the financial industry and its compensation. Instead, Congress should re-establish some simple rules to protect the public and let the market take care of the high-rollers.

The rules should reinstate the wall between commercial and investment banking; limit the size of a financial institution; raise taxes on multimillionaires; and prohibit conflicts of interest by the companies that issue ratings.

If we rely on governmental micromanaging to protect us, the financial behemoths will eventually find a way to game the system, or an administration too friendly to the financial industry will fail us.

While it is true that a brain drain could result from the administration’s effort to cap financial compensation at Wall Street’s bailout beneficiaries, perhaps the White House was less concerned with remuneration engineering and more focused on the public relations message it sends to American taxpayers.

The writer is the founder of SwitchYard Media, a consulting company.

It strikes me that there is a great need in the banking industry to try another form of risk, that of intimacy.

Years ago, I met an owner of a small bank in the Midwest who said he dipped into depression and sleepless nights throughout what he called the “panic” during the crash of 1929. He was close to every one of those to whom he had made huge loans.

He said that bankers at the time were contemplating suicide as they watched close friends lose their farms and homes. Now, we tend to hear more about business executives who seem tempted to end their lives over their own monetary losses. There was probably an ever-growing chasm between lenders and recipients long before derivatives came on the scene.
947 2009-10-30 The police have found the bodies of two schoolgirls who fell into a river when the bridge they were walking on with other children collapsed in northern Malaysia this week. A police official said one body was found on Wednesday and another on Thursday. Another child’s body was found on Tuesday, the day after the accident.
948 2009-10-30 The Senate, by voice vote, confirmed Dr. Regina Benjamin as the nation’s surgeon general amid a national emergency over the swine flu outbreak. Earlier in the day, the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, had taken to the floor to complain that Republicans were holding up her nomination over an unrelated dispute. Dr. Benjamin is well known for founding the Bayou La Batre Rural Health Clinic in Bayou La Batre, Ala., and for keeping that clinic running during two hurricanes.
949 2009-10-30 The Department of Justice charged a California financial firm and three of its executives with fraud and conspiracy in its dealings with state and local governments in the municipal bond market.

In a nine-count indictment, the department charged CDR Financial Products and its founder and chief executive, David Rubin, with secretly manipulating the competition among banks and other investment firms for the lucrative business of helping governments raise money. The indictment said the participating banks then kicked back part of their profit to Mr. Rubin and his firm.

The charges were the first in a wide-ranging antitrust investigation of the municipal bond business that has been in progress for several years. Federal investigators in New Mexico had previously looked at CDR’s involvement in bond sales in that state, as well as its contributions to Gov. Bill Richardson. The attention prompted Mr. Richardson to withdraw from consideration as President Obama’s commerce secretary, but the government eventually decided not to pursue criminal charges against him.

From at least the late 1990s, the indictment said, Mr. Rubin and his firm, based in Beverly Hills, engaged in a variety of schemes that shortchanged the Internal Revenue Service and imposed hidden costs on local governments. In some cases, they increased their profit by adding derivatives to the bond transactions, only to have the derivatives sour, leaving local governments with unexpected bills.

Two other CDR executives, Zevi Wolmark, the former chief financial officer, and Evan Andrew Zarefsky, a vice president, were also indicted. All three men are residents of California, but their firm worked nationwide.
950 2009-10-30 A spokesman for Mr. Rajaratnam declined to comment, as did an Intel spokesman. Neither Mr. Rajaratnam nor anyone else at Galleon was contacted by the authorities regarding the events in 1998, according to a person briefed on the matter. Ms. Khan’s lawyer has yet to be identified.

Mr. Rajaratnam has been charged with running the insider trading scheme involving Galleon. He and five others are accused by the Justice Department and the S.E.C. of relying on a vast network of company insiders and consultants to make more than $20 million in profit from 2006 to 2009. In the government’s recently filed insider trading charges against Mr. Rajaratnam, prosecutors identify Ms. Khan as Tipper A and say they had exchanged insider information on Google, Polycom and Hilton.

Mr. Rajaratnam’s lawyer has said his client is innocent. He is free on $100 million bail, though his lawyers moved on Thursday to reduce that amount to $25 million.

Prosecutors have established that Ms. Khan and Mr. Rajaratnam most likely met in 1996 when Ms. Khan worked at Intel as a product marketing engineer. Mr. Rajaratnam followed Intel as a securities analyst for Needham & Company, an investment bank.

Their relationship appears to have progressed quickly, because by early 1998, Ms. Khan started faxing information about Intel’s chip sales to Mr. Rajaratnam, according to court documents and the person with knowledge of the case who has requested anonymity because court documents tied to the case remain sealed under court order.

Only a two-page summary of that 2000 case, filed in United States District Court in Northern California, is public. In it, prosecutors describe a “Galleon representative” who asked Ms. Khan to send the information about Intel. Two people with knowledge of the case say extensive surveillance was undertaken linking the two individuals.

Ms. Khan resigned from Intel before she was charged. She then went to work for Mr. Rajaratnam at Galleon in 1999, the hedge fund he created after leaving Needham. Ms. Khan was fired from Galleon the next year for violating company policy by trading options in her own account on the side, according to a person briefed on the matter, adding that she had boasted of making millions through the trades.

It was not until 2001 that Ms. Khan pleaded guilty to wire fraud. A year later, she received a sentence of six months of home detention in Atherton, Calif., and a $150,000 charge covering fines and restitution, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has confirmed.

Around 2005, Ms. Khan again asked Mr. Rajaratnam for a position at Galleon, according to the recent court filings, as she faced financial problems. While she did not secure that job at Galleon, Ms. Khan continued to trade insider information with Mr. Rajaratnam, according to federal prosecutors.

Press representatives for federal prosecutors say details of the case remain sealed because the government lawyer handling the case did not ask the court to unseal the records before he left his job. They said they did not intend to ask for the case to be unsealed. (In the documents, Ms. Khan’s named is misspelled Kahn and the documents were misfiled under that name. )

There are reasons Mr. Rajaratnam would remain unidentified in the court documents. “The two dominant explanations for not naming the individual at Galleon would be either that the individual cooperated with the government or that the investigation is continuing,” said Joseph A. Grundfest, the co-director of the Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University.

Statute-of-limitations provisions prevent prosecutors from charging the parties with a substantive insider trading violation for the 2000 case as part of the current case. However, evidence from cases older than five years may be used if prosecutors can establish that the behavior was part of a continuing conspiracy, according to Christopher P. Conniff, a partner in Ropes & Gray’s government enforcement group.

Ms. Khan’s central role in a pair of insider trading cases matches with a career that appeared anything but typical. While her roots trace back to New Delhi, Ms. Khan lived in Silicon Valley for decades with her husband, Sakhawat Khan, a chip engineer who profited from the sale of at least two start-ups.

When she was about 35, Ms. Khan obtained a master’s degree in business administration from the University of California, Berkeley. According to friends, acquaintances and family, Ms. Khan’s true passion lay with following the financial markets and trading stocks. When she left Galleon, Ms. Khan set up her own stock trading operation inside the family’s home in Atherton, one of the most exclusive Silicon Valley neighborhoods.

Ms. Khan spoke openly about her stock-picking skills and the fact that she supported the family by managing their money, said a Silicon Valley technology executive who was friendly with the couple and a relative. Mr. Khan was not working during this time and “joked about being the bum in the family,” the friend said. Ms. Khan would wake up early each morning and go to the pool house, which she had converted into her home office, log on to her computer and spend the day trading.

“She was very open about managing their own money from the house,” the friend said. “One assumed she had certain skills she had learned earlier, and was applying them.”

The Khans would often throw parties at their estate and have been described by friends and acquaintances as a charming pair.

But by 2005, the couple’s financial situation seems to have worsened as they struggled to pay debts.

Friends were puzzled when the Khans seemed to fall off the radar socially. The couple sold their house in Atherton this year and moved to Florida, said a relative.
951 2009-10-30 CHARLOTTE, N.C. — An opening-night pratfall had the Knicks more concerned than alarmed, and perhaps more attuned to newfound priorities.

The Knicks spent most of training camp trying to forge a defensive identity, with occasionally encouraging results. When Game 1 arrived on Wednesday, however, they resorted to a shoot-first mentality, hoisting 39 3-pointers while failing to put up any defensive resistance in a 115-93 loss to the Miami Heat.

“My concentration, their concentration, is on defense,” Coach Mike D’Antoni said after the Knicks practiced Thursday. “Our offense will come. You shouldn’t think about it.”

The Knicks will try again to get it right Friday night, against the Charlotte Bobcats. The defensive task should be easier, if the Bobcats’ 92-59 loss to the Boston Celtics is any indication.

D’Antoni might make one change for offensive purposes: the promotion of Danilo Gallinari to the starting lineup. D’Antoni said he was mulling a lineup change in light of the Knicks’ scoring troubles on Wednesday. Gallinari struggled early off the bench, but found his rhythm in the second half and scored a career-high 22 points. He made seven 3-pointers, five of them in the second half.

It was the breakout performance the Knicks have been waiting for since they began the preseason.

“My confidence is always there,” Gallinari said. “But those type of games help you to maintain the confidence and helps me understand that I can have those games, and I have to have those games every game.”
952 2009-10-30 Federal investigators reported Thursday that imported Chinese drywall that homeowners have linked to health problems and odors had higher levels of some chemicals than its domestic counterparts.

The investigators, however, were unable to link the chemicals, sulfur and strontium, to the health problems and smells in thousands of homes built during the recent housing boom, and said further testing was under way to determine any possible connection.

The preliminary findings are part of a larger study by federal agencies, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency, into complaints from nearly 2,000 homeowners that their recently built homes emit odors and cause nosebleeds and respiratory problems. The owners also say their electrical appliances have failed and their wiring has corroded. It has been estimated that more than 60,000 homes could have the imported drywall. Large amounts of Chinese drywall were imported over the last few years when domestic supplies ran short. An estimated seven million sheets made in China were used as a substitute. Most of the complaints come from Florida, Virginia and Louisiana, where the widespread destruction after hurricanes lead to rapid rebuilding of damaged homes.

“The first sets of data released today start to explain the differences between Chinese and non-Chinese drywall,” said Lori Saltzman, director of the division of health sciences at the product safety commission. “Although we know more now than we did just a few weeks ago, we are continuing to learn as much as we can.”

One new finding reported on Thursday was that hundreds of thousands of Chinese drywall sheets remained in warehouses in the United States. The agency has identified those warehouses, but it did not disclose their locations. It said it has “put them on notice” not to sell the material. In addition, the commission is working with the Department of Homeland Security to monitor ports to see that no new Chinese drywall comes into the country.
953 2009-10-30 In a minor setback for New York City’s effort to vaccinate schoolchildren against swine flu, two students were inadvertently vaccinated without the consent of their parents, city health officials said Thursday.

The children suffered no adverse effects from the vaccinations and were expected to be fine, but the misstep raised questions about the way in which the program is being carried out. Health officials said they had started an inquiry.

“We are working to determine how this occurred, and to implement additional safeguards,” said Jessica L. Scaperotti, a spokeswoman for the city’s health department.

As part of the program, which started this week, children are taken to the schools nurse’s office and administered the vaccine. The nurses are supposed to follow a protocol that involves reviewing each child’s health records and determining whether the child has parental consent before they vaccinate.

Health officials said it was not clear what had happened in the case of the two children, both of whom are in elementary school. One attends Public School 335 in Brooklyn, and the other P.S. 65 on Staten Island.

Ms. Scaperotti said nurses and other school workers would be given additional training in how to handle the vaccination program.

Health officials have said that while they do not have a citywide figure, 5 percent to 50 percent of parents have given consent for their children to receive the vaccine at schools that have it. Experts say that some parents have questions about the vaccine itself, while others may have assumed that their children are immune if they already contracted swine flu in the spring. Still others may be waiting on their pediatricians to vaccinate.
954 2009-10-30 China’s mega-banks have for the last few years bridged two worlds. On the one hand, they have acted as the tools of Beijing’s monetary policy while, on the other, they have delivered profit growth and sizable returns to equity investors. If they are to please both sides this time next year, something has to give — and caution may be first to go.

Deutsche Bank’s results stack up pretty well — against itself. Its investment bank on Thursday reported its best third quarter ever for sales and trading revenue, at 3.1 billion euros ($4.6 billion). But Deutsche is having more success outperforming its own past results than its current rivals.

The German giant might have been expected to do more with its early “crisis winner” status. True, Deutsche did manage to increase equity trading revenue in the third quarter even as rivals suffered declines. But it struggled to build on its traditional advantage in fixed income. A 13 percent decline in revenue from the second quarter was approximately in line with peers, but Deutsche’s business in this area has fallen by more than twice as much as its competitors’ since the first quarter.

There are signs of strength. Deutsche is putting less money at risk on a daily basis, but so are rivals. And two planned acquisitions will further diversify earnings.

But whatever profit might accrue from these deals will probably be eclipsed for some time by provisions against losses on loans. The percentage of the bank’s loans that were troubled increased in the third quarter. And the earlier decision to shift 35 billion euros of assets from its trading book to its banking book will be felt well into 2010.

Meanwhile, Deutsche continues to resist a capital increase. Its core Tier 1 ratio of capital to assets is 8.1 percent, low these days for a firm so reliant on investment banking. With the acquisitions teed up, bond and commodities trading slipping and pay holding steady, it’s not easy to see when Deutsche might afford a healthy dividend again.

Deutsche can say it was right not to bow to pressure to raise capital when its shares were trading at half the price they are now. It may also be right to think that if regulators or strategy require it to increase its capital, investors will oblige. But Deutsche’s stubbornness comes at the expense of its valuation, with a price-to-book value ratio of just one. On that measure, Deutsche is not just underperforming peers but its own record too. JOHN FOLEY and JEFFREY GOLDFARB
955 2009-10-30 The motivational speaker and author James Arthur Ray is canceling his remaining 2009 seminars after three people died at a sweat lodge ceremony he led in northern Arizona. Mr. Ray announced on his Web site that he needed to dedicate all his “physical and emotional energies” to bringing closure to the matter. Mr. Ray is the subject of a criminal investigation into the Oct. 8 ceremony near Sedona.
956 2009-10-30 Mr. Chubarov explained that for months, Tatars have been asked to deposit pieces of limestone on the lot, each costing less than a dollar, to demonstrate their displeasure. Thousands have done so, with many creating mini-memorials by embellishing the limestone with the names of long-dead relatives. The stones are generally 15 or 20 inches square and 7 inches deep.

The mosque, which is to have space for a few thousand worshipers, was approved in 2004 by local officials. They agreed on a prime location at 22 Yaltinskaya Street in Simferopol, the capital of Crimea, a peninsula in the Black Sea that is one of the most celebrated regions of the former Soviet Union.

The mosque project was to cost more than $10 million, most of which was to be paid by Turkish and other foreign donors, Mr. Chubarov said.

But in 2008, the Simferopol city council refused to grant final approval for the project, voicing concerns about its environmental impact because the site is near a reservoir. Officials said that traffic would overwhelm neighborhood streets and that noise from the mosque would bother patients at a nearby cancer hospital.

The city council, which is controlled by ethnic Russians, said its stance was not influenced by ethnic or religious hostility. It suggested other locations for the mosque.

“The mosque will be built, but only after taking into consideration the views of the public,” said Simferopol’s mayor, Gennady Babenko.

But Tatar leaders said they did not believe that the city would follow through on other sites. They said they doubted that the typical not-in-my-backyard complaints were genuine, asserting that local politicians simply did not want a prominent mosque in Simferopol.

“Everyone realizes that their opposition doesn’t make sense, because they had already given us permission,” Mr. Chubarov said. “Behind the scenes, they are saying: ‘Crimea is Russian Orthodox land. If they want to build a mosque, they should build it where no one can see it.’ “

The Tatars, who have inhabited Crimea for centuries, were deported in May 1944 by Stalin, who accused them of collaborating with the Nazis (some did, but most did not). The entire Tatar population, more than 200,000 people, was transported in brutal conditions thousands of miles away to Uzbekistan and other locations. Many died along the way or soon after arriving.

The Soviets confiscated their homes, destroying their mosques or treating them like warehouses. One was converted into a Museum of Atheism.

It was not until perestroika in the late 1980s that most of the Tatars were allowed back, a migration that continued after Ukraine became independent with the Soviet collapse in 1991. More than 250,000 Tatars now live in Crimea, about 13 percent of its population of 2 million people.

The Tatars’ return has repeatedly touched off legal clashes over restitution of land and property, much of which is now owned by ethnic Russians. Some have turned violent.

The situation is complicated by the political status of Crimea, which would generally prefer to secede from Ukraine and rejoin Russia. Crimea was transferred by Nikita S. Khrushchev, then the Soviet leader, to Ukraine in 1954, a move then thought to be a formality, since it remained in the Soviet Union and was populated mostly by ethnic Russians.

Tatars have better ties with the Ukrainian government, and are often seen by ethnic Russian nationalists in Crimea as Kiev’s proxies. The three sides jockey for power on the peninsula, and the mosque has been one focal point.

Tatar leaders maintain that the mosque is being blocked in part to stoke anti-Muslim and anti-Ukrainian sentiment, especially in advance of presidential elections in Ukraine, scheduled for January.

“There are many, many political forces that want the strains to remain,” said Mustafa Dzhemilyov, chairman of the Tatar legislative council. “I am referring to the Russian-speaking and Russian separatist organizations, which are supported by and fed by the government of Russia.”

Ethnic Russians in Crimea noted that Ukraine’s president, Viktor A. Yushchenko, has supported the mosque, accusing him of meddling in local affairs.

In the neighborhood around the project site, residents said the local government had the right to insist that the mosque be erected elsewhere — or not at all.

“Let’s remember that this is not Tatar land here, that the Russian people have always lived here,” said Larisa Tsybulskaya, 45, a beautician.

“My father built that house,” she said, gesturing to a nearby cluster of homes. “They are squatting on our land. Why do they have to cut all this land off and give it to one nationality for a mosque? It’s just shameful.”

But Mr. Chubarov, who is 52 and was born in exile in Uzbekistan, said Tatars would not relent.

He said the conflict had so united his community that more pieces of limestone had been brought to the lot than were needed for the mosque.

And so the extra material is to be used for homes for Tatars, in an effort to restore what was lost in Crimea 65 years ago.
957 2009-10-30 But, under Mr. Pemberton and his board, the A.C.L.U. came to serve as criminal counsel for an individual defendant in 95 percent of the cases. He said in an interview with The New York Times Magazine in 1966 that this change was necessary to make the lower courts work.

“We no longer think that, because the Supreme Court says thus and so, the cop on the beat will behave that way,” he said. “But if the cop knows that the citizen he meets in the street will be able to get a lawyer and go to court, then his behavior will change.”

Nowhere was the new focus on defending criminal cases more critical than in the South, where in 1964 the A.C.L.U. created a legal unit to ally with other civil rights organizations to provide legal counsel. One case involved 1,100 people arrested for parading without a permit in Jackson, Miss. Another involved defending a black man accused of raping a white woman.

Under Mr. Pemberton’s leadership, the A.C.L.U. pressed ahead on its historic overall mission of advocating for controversial defendants on civil liberties grounds. They included Communists, members of the Ku Klux Klan, Black Panthers, the Harlem Congressman Adam Clayton Powell Jr. and Lt. William A. Calley Jr., who was convicted of ordering the My Lai massacre in Vietnam.

In 1969 Mr. Pemberton wrote a letter to Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird saying that the publication of pictures showing the murdered Vietnamese made it impossible for Lieutenant Calley to get a fair trial.

John de Jarnette Pemberton Jr. was born on April 21, 1919, in Rochester, Minn., where his father was a surgeon at the Mayo Clinic. He graduated from Swarthmore College and Harvard Law School, where he was on the editorial board of The Harvard Law Review.

He practiced law in Rochester from 1950 to 1962, and was chairman of the Minnesota branch of the A.C.L.U. from 1955 to 1958. In one of his cases for the union, he represented a white man and an Indian woman who were barred from completing the purchase of a joint cemetery lot because contract language limited the cemetery to Caucasians. He won the case.

After leaving the A.C.L.U., Mr. Pemberton was acting general counsel for the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and regional attorney for the commission in San Francisco, where he taught at the University of San Francisco. He previously taught at Duke and New York University.

Mr. Pemberton’s first marriage, to the former Lorraine Pruett, ended in divorce. In addition to his daughter Nancy, he is survived by his wife of 36 years, Frances Werner; his daughters Sally Zalek and Ann and Caro Pemberton; his son, James; four grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
958 2009-10-30 “It’s another blockbuster development in a case that never runs short of them,” said Ralph G. Steinhardt, a professor at George Washington University Law School. “It doesn’t necessarily mean there was no bribery plan, but anything that undermines the credibility of the witness undermines the case of the party that would call that witness.”

Trevor Melby, Mr. Hansen’s lawyer, did not deny his client had a criminal history, saying, “The thing about felony convictions is they follow you to the grave, but even if he had 15 felony convictions it wouldn’t change the tapes.” Mr. Melby said he was not being paid by Chevron.

The origins of the case go back to the 1970s, when Texaco operated in partnership with the Ecuadorean state oil company to produce oil in the Amazon. Peasants filed suit in 1993, saying that the company, which had ceased to operate in Ecuador by then, had left an environmental mess that had caused illnesses among villagers. Chevron bought Texaco before the case could be resolved.

Chevron has long said that it could not receive a fair hearing in Ecuador before a hostile judge and government. That argument seemed to be reinforced by the recordings obtained by Mr. Hansen and an Ecuadorean man who had worked as a contractor for the company. They showed an Ecuadorean political go-between working to obtain $3 million in bribes for environmental cleanup contracts to be awarded after the case ended.

But it remained unclear why Mr. Hansen was involved in the discussions. The plaintiffs said that an inquiry into his background by a private investigator found that Mr. Hansen did not hold an engineering license, never finished college and showed no record of being qualified to remediate pollution as he portrayed to Ecuadorean officials in the tapes.

Chevron has said it had no involvement in the videotaping, and company spokesmen have said Mr. Hansen was never their point of contact. “We’ve had no association with this guy,” said Donald Campbell, a Chevron spokesman. “This issue is the content on the video and the transcripts that we turned over to the prosecutor general of Ecuador and the U.S. Department of Justice, which shows inappropriate meetings by the judge in our case, extensive government interference in the trial and a bribe plot involving $3 million.”

The other man involved in making the recordings, Diego Borja, has since been moved to the United States with his family at Chevron’s expense, and he has been receiving an undisclosed amount of living expenses.

No bribes were shown in the tapes, but the plot supposedly included Judge Juan Núñez, who was presiding in the case. Mr. Núñez recused himself, though he says he did nothing wrong.
959 2009-10-30 A film version of a nonfiction book about a man’s experiences in post-Katrina New Orleans seems sufficiently pregnant with artistic possibility. Still, Jonathan Demme plans to take his adaptation of “Zeitoun,” the best-selling Dave Eggers work, one step further by making the book into an animated feature. On Wednesday Mr. Demme (whose films include “The Silence of the Lambs” and “Rachel Getting Married”) said he had acquired the film rights to “Zeitoun,” whose cover illustration by Rachell Sumpter had inspired him to make it into a cartoon. The book by Mr. Eggers, author of “A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius” and a co-author of the screenplay for “Where the Wild Things Are,” tells the story of Abdulrahman Zeitoun, a Syrian-American who remained in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina to protect his home and business and paddled its flooded streets in a canoe, offering to help other flood victims. The film does not have a release date or a distributor.
960 2009-10-30 Ms. Musalo, director of the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies at Hastings College of the Law at the University of California, said Ms. Alvarado’s “has been the iconic case of domestic abuse as a basis for asylum.”

Jayne Fleming, a lawyer specializing in asylum at the San Francisco office of the law firm Reed Smith, called the recommendation “a giant step forward.” Advocates and immigration judges, Ms Fleming said, “now have some pretty solid guidelines from D.H.S.”

In a phone interview Thursday, Ms. Alvarado, who has not been detained and lives in California, where she is a housekeeper at a home for elderly nuns, said she was pleased but also a little dazed and disbelieving.

“I thank God it came out well,” she said, speaking in Spanish. “But it wasn’t easy to wait this long for immigration to make a decision.”

She said she hoped the outcome in her case would mean that other abused women would receive quicker decisions from the courts.

Homeland Security Department officials were cautious in assessing the implications of the administration’s recommendation. The department “continues to view domestic violence as a possible basis for asylum,” a department spokesman, Matthew Chandler, said. But such cases, Mr. Chandler said, continue to depend on the specific abuse. The department is writing regulations to govern claims based on domestic violence, he said.

After enduring a decade of violence by her husband, Francisco Osorio, a former soldier in Guatemala, Ms. Alvarado came to the United States in 1995. Over the years, immigration judges have not questioned the credibility of her story. According to court documents, she married when she was 16, and became pregnant soon afterward. In a beating that he apparently hoped would induce an abortion, Mr. Osorio dislocated her jaw and kicked her repeatedly. He also “pistol-whipped Ms. Alvarado, broke windows and mirrors with her head, punched and slapped her, threatened her with his machete and dragged her down the street by her hair,” a court filing states.

In 1996, an immigration judge in San Francisco granted Ms. Alvarado’s asylum petition, but an immigration appeals court overturned that decision in 1999. In 2001, Attorney General Janet Reno threw out the appeals court decision, but did not grant Ms. Alvarado asylum. (Because the immigration courts are part of the executive branch, not the judiciary, the attorney general is the highest legal authority.)

In 2004, the Department of Homeland Security, which represents the government in immigration cases, argued for the first time in favor of asylum for Ms. Alvarado. Attorney General John Ashcroft ordered a new review but did not reach a decision. In September 2008, Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey sent the case back to the immigration appeals court, encouraging the court to issue a precedent-setting ruling. Such a ruling can come only from an immigration appeals court or a federal court.

The large legal question in the case is whether women who suffer domestic abuse are part of a “particular social group” that has faced persecution, one criteria for asylum claims. In a separate asylum case in April, the Department of Homeland Security pointed to some specific ways that battered women could meet this standard.

In a recent filing, Ms. Alvarado’s lawyers argued that her circumstances met the requirements that the department had outlined in April. Now the department has agreed, in practice making the case a model for other asylum claims.

In a declaration filed recently to bolster Ms. Alvarado’s argument that she was part of a persecuted group in Guatemala, an expert witness, Claudia Paz y Paz Bailey, reported that more than 4,000 women had been killed violently there in the last decade. These killings, only 2 percent of which have been solved, were so frequent that they earned their own legal term, “femicide,” said Ms. Paz y Paz Bailey, a Guatemalan lawyer. In 2008 Guatemala enacted a law establishing special sanctions for the crime.

“Many times,” she said, violence against Guatemalan women “is not even identified as violence, is not perceived as strange or unusual.”

The resolution of her case is coming too late for Ms. Alvarado to be able to raise her two children, whom she has not seen since she left them in Guatemala. The children, now 22 and 17, were raised by their paternal grandparents, whom they call Mama and Papa.

“It has been tremendously painful for me to know that they do not see me as their mother,” Ms. Alvarado said in court papers.
961 2009-10-30 The hotels benefit the most, though. Spending on lodging represents about one-quarter of the $250 million in economic activity generated in the city during marathon week. The international runners also leave lasting impressions there.

The Holland Runners, who come from southwest of Amsterdam and close to The Hague, help the family-owned Grand Union generate $75,000 in revenue. Van Straalen placed 350 additional runners from his tour in five other Manhattan hotels.

The Holland Runners are so ensconced in the Grand Union, though, that many visitors joke with the longtime manager, Tozen Ali, and help clear pancake plates at the overflowing 27-seat coffee shop, which opens at 2:30 on the morning of the race.

“Believe it or not, we still offer discounts,” Ali said. “They’re like family now.”

The reunions are repeated at hotels across the city. For decades, Norwegian runners have helped fill the Edison Hotel on 46th Street in Midtown, where Grete Waitz’s amiable brothers stay before they run the race. Chileans bunk at the Kimberly Suites on East 50th Street, and the Flatotel on West 52nd Street has become the choice for groups of Germans, Spaniards and Italians, and the 65-strong contingent from Bermuda.

In recent years, some of the race’s elite runners have also stayed at the Flatotel, and attributed special powers to it. Hendrick Ramaala, the South African who won the race in 2004, asked for the same room the next year, when he finished second by less than a second.

“Those that have a good streak, they want the same room,” Argy Koumas, the director of sales at the Flatotel, said.

The little things at even the largest hotels go a long way. A Japanese sales manager in the New York Hilton helps with translation; the Marriott hotels add carbohydrate-rich dishes, fruit and buffets; the Roosevelt Hotel opens its Terrace Ballroom for 500 Italians (some from other hotels but with the same tour operator, EIS) for a prerace meeting to discuss logistics.

This year, the largest numbers of registered foreign runners are from Italy (3,460), France (3,170), Britain (2,613), Germany (2,482) and the Netherlands (1,602), according to New York Road Runners.

“Europeans have always spent more time in New York, five to seven nights per marathon,” said Mike Stengel, who oversees the Marriott hotels in the New York area.

Hotel occupancy rates in Manhattan are above 90 percent this week, but a growing number of runners are looking for bargains in New Jersey, Queens and elsewhere. Some ride the subway or train into Manhattan to see the sights. But they will have to make that return trip after the race.

Runners at the Hotel Beacon on 75th and Broadway, though, can hobble just a few blocks from the Central Park finish area, shop for groceries at Fairway and cook prerace pasta in their kitchenettes.

At the 260-room Hotel Beacon, four tour groups from Sweden, Norway, Australia and Italy have stayed for at least eight years each. The 410 people staying in 166 rooms represents about a 20 percent increase in revenue during the four- or five-day period, said Gerry Traino, the director of sales and marketing.

As at the Grand Union, the Beacon’s hotel staff knows the tour operators and runners so well that for the past six years it has asked runners to write their finishing times on a flip chart in the lobby. The runner with the fastest time (based on the honor system) wins a Bulova sports watch worth about $150, a bottle of Beringer pinot noir and a box of Jacques Torres chocolate. The second-fastest runner wins the wine and chocolate, and the third fastest gets only the chocolate.
962 2009-10-30 Prosecutors had argued for the full sentence, however, and on Wednesday they presented testimony from a psychologist that Mr. Marri was “likely to engage in hostile acts towards the United States,” according to The Peoria Journal Star.

According to the plea agreement, Mr. Marri said he had been ordered by Mr. Mohammed “to enter the United States no later than Sept. 10, 2001” and await instructions. Mr. Marri, a native of Qatar, did so, arriving with his wife and five children on Sept. 10 and enrolling at Bradley University in Peoria, where he had studied during an earlier stay. In that time, he “researched online information related to various cyanide compounds” and communicated in code with other Qaeda operatives.

Mr. Marri was initially arrested in December 2001 on charges that included financial fraud, but the government later argued that he was a “sleeper agent” for Al Qaeda. Eighteen months after his arrest, as the criminal trial approached, the government changed course and named Mr. Marri an enemy combatant, transferring him from Peoria, and Justice Department custody, to military detention and the Navy brig. The original charges against him were dropped.

Lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union challenged the constitutionality of detaining Mr. Marri in the brig without charging him or putting him on trial, and the Supreme Court set an April 2009 hearing in the case.

In February, however, with that hearing and its difficult constitutional issues approaching, President Obama ordered Mr. Marri returned to the criminal justice system, and he was indicted on two counts related to supporting terrorism.

In eight minutes of tearful testimony on Thursday, Mr. Marri told the judge he was sorry that he had helped Al Qaeda, and no longer wished harm to the American people. He said he had been punished in many ways while in prison, and mentioned missing the first words of his youngest child.

Lawrence S. Lustberg, Mr. Marri’s lead counsel for the sentencing phase of the trial, said the team of lawyers was pleased with the results. “What we hoped for was that Mr. al-Marri would get a fair hearing and would reach a resolution that tempered justice with mercy,” Mr. Lustberg said.

David B. Rivkin Jr., a lawyer who served in the administrations of President Ronald Reagan and the first President Bush, questioned the Obama administration’s decision to try Mr. Marri in criminal court instead of the military commissions favored by the administration of President George W. Bush, saying that the sentence underscores how “ill suited” conventional courts are for dealing with these issues.

While not criticizing Judge Mihm’s decision, Mr. Rivkin said that criminal courts are “a crapshoot,” with wildly varying sentences, while the military commissions “arrive at a better judgment, being comprised of warriors, as to what level of danger the person poses.”

But Jonathan Hafetz, the lawyer at the A.C.L.U. who led the challenge to Mr. Marri’s military detention, called the sentence “a powerful reminder that America’s civilian courts can deliver justice even in the most challenging circumstances.”
963 2009-10-30 A. We’ve gotten tremendous support. Everybody now understands how critical it is to help small businesses get out of this recession and into recovery.

Q. There are a lot of small businesses that are in no position to take on more debt. What can the S.B.A. offer them?

A. Among our responsibilities is to make sure that 23 percent of all government contracts go to small businesses. That’s about $150 billion annually, from all the government agencies.

Q. Well, since you brought it up: the S.B.A. reported a couple of months back that in 2008, the government didn’t meet that 23 percent goal. Of course, that was before your time. But what are you going to do to push that number up?

A. I have to give the vice president credit. [Commerce Secretary] Gary Locke and I were tasked by the vice president with making sure that the Recovery Act dollars met the same small-business goals that we have for the regular money. It was actually not in the statute, but we took it on as if it were.

The first thing we did is with Commerce we held 200 matchmaking events, where we bring agencies in to meet suppliers. We did 200 of these in 90 days. We also put training guides up on the Web site. In the first weeks, 10,000 people have taken the course on how to get a government contract -- they haven’t just clicked on the page, they’ve taken the course. We’re trying to provide small businesses more seamless access to these business opportunities, and then walk them through it. And this is a big engine, because the president and the vice president and the other agencies have bought in that this is a win-win. Our goal is 23 percent and we’re at 26.5 percent. We’re double the goal on small disadvantaged businesses. We’re going to get there on those women-owned businesses, but we’re above on all the other goals.

Q. Let’s talk about health care. A lot of people who purport to speak for small businesses object strenuously to an employer mandate. Do you think an employer taking some, or even most, of the responsibility for providing health care for its employees is bad for small business?

A. When the [National Federation of Independent Business] surveys small businesses, affordable health care is the No. 1 concern — out of 77 issues. It has been since 1986. Why are they saying that? They’re saying that because small-business owners want to provide health care. It’s like a family.

I have been traveling the country pretty rigorously over the last four months, talking in every stop to small-business owners about health care. I have to tell you a story. Kathleen Sebelius and I are in New Jersey, doing a panel in a factory with women business owners. And one of them — and I’ll never forget this — says, “Look, I started this business, and we were three years before we could provide health care. The day we got that policy, I said, ‘My business is a success.’ ” That’s what’s going on.

Q. So if health care were more affordable, you wouldn’t need a mandate?

A. I think the No. 1 concern that these small businesses have is that we provide things like the exchange. That’s what they care about. They want the choice and competition. That’s the outcome.

Q. I noticed you didn’t mention the public option. The Congressional Budget Office has said that a government-run insurance plan competing with private coverage could reduce premium costs by up to 10 percent on top of the savings you’d get with an exchange. If cost is the problem, why isn’t the public option a rallying cry for small business? Why aren’t you out there pushing for it?

A. Well, once again, I think small businesses are focusing on the outcome that they want. There are many paths being discussed in the process, but those are the outcomes small business cares about.

Q. There seems to be a lot of pent-up frustration from small-business owners directed at government in general and the Obama administration in particular. In your travels, do you see that? Do you think there’s hope for turning that around?

A. We see tremendous excitement from small-business people about the administration and about the attention and commitment that the president has to do things that really make a difference. I think they recognize that health care is one of those. I think they recognize that what we’ve been doing in the Recovery Act with our loan programs has mattered.

Did you see the end of his speech [last week]? I’m standing behind him in the warehouse, with all the boxes. He finishes the prepared remarks, and he says something else, which I knew was not in the prepared remarks. I’ll read it to you. He says: “So to all the small-business owners out there, I just want to close by saying this. I know that times are tough, and I can only imagine what many of you are going through in terms of keeping things going in the midst of a very tough economic climate, but I guarantee you this: This administration is going to stand behind small businesses. You are our highest priority because we are confident that when you are succeeding, America succeeds.”

That was not in the script. That’s what he thinks. That’s what I think.

Q. And you think that message is being received?
964 2009-10-30 Mr. Christie, somewhat theatrically, struggled for several moments to name three things the governor had done right. “Let me think,” he said. “Um ... I would probably say I think over all his prosecutorial appointments have been good.”

Mr. Corzine seemed almost resentful that he was not more appreciated by voters or the news media, citing unsung accomplishments like the passage of a civil unions law, paid family leave and the abolition of the death penalty.

“It’s like in the water that somehow or another we didn’t do some of these things,” he said, adding: “Go through the record. May not be pretty, but we got it done.”

Mr. Corzine and Mr. Christie have been battling for nearly 10 months in an expensive and sometimes personal contest that has attracted national interest; the nation’s only other governor’s race is in Virginia . Mr. Corzine is ahead in some polls and Mr. Christie in others, though many voters say they still may change their minds. A third-party candidate, Christopher J. Daggett, is far behind but could help tip the race in either direction.

With 39 governor’s races in 2010, the outcome in New Jersey may hold a lesson about campaigning during hard times: whether it is better to play down the trouble one’s state has fallen into, or to soft-sell the pain it will take to emerge from it.

Mr. Corzine accuses Mr. Christie of falsely claiming that jobs and residents have fled the state and says the news media have unfairly portrayed New Jersey as “worse than other places.” He ticks off positive indicators: rising median incomes, falling numbers of the uninsured and rising test scores. “There are a lot of good things,” he said.

Yet, he acknowledged the obvious: “There’s a lot of people hurting out here,” he said. “A lot of people who didn’t expect to be hurting.”

Mr. Christie, who says New Jersey is caught in “negative momentum” economically, focuses almost exclusively on the state’s strapped middle class, pledging to force concessions from state employee unions and to bring “parental supervision” to an overspending Legislature, without ever precisely saying how.

“I think it’s being responsible,” he says about his lack of specifics. “I’m not setting up expectations that I can’t meet.”

Regarding property tax rebates, Mr. Christie now says he cannot fully restore them — though his commercials omit this qualifier — and that he will send back the money only “on a sliding scale depending on what the economic conditions were.” He explained the turnabout by saying he was “prioritizing out of a set of bad choices.”

Referring to looming deficits, he added, “It’s not like I can click my heels and say, ‘Make the bad stuff go away.’ ”

The change is one of several recent reversals. Mr. Christie now also disavows a promise, made in a primary-season debate, to roll back a sales tax increase. He has backed away from a pledge to avoid using “one-shot” revenues to close the budget deficit. And he is now deferring until later in his term plans to eliminate a business tax surcharge, cut income taxes across the board, identify a permanent financing source for open-space preservation and restore higher-education financing to 2002 levels.

His biggest surviving pledge is to roll back Mr. Corzine’s tax increase on people making more than $400,000 a year.

While Mr. Corzine wears his spending priorities on his sleeve — education and the social “safety net” — Mr. Christie’s are more difficult to pin down.

An estimated $8 billion budget deficit looms next year, and his tax cuts and rebates could expand that, but Mr. Christie now says he will largely follow the governor’s lead in closing the gap: saving $2 billion by deferring pension contributions and reaping a hoped-for $2 billion in additional federal stimulus aid. Mr. Christie pencils in $1.5 billion more in concessions from state workers — which would be little short of a miracle — and $500 million from forgoing increases in education financing.

The rest, some $3 billion, will have to come from “programmatic cuts,” Mr. Christie said. “I think everything else would be on the table,” he said.

If Mr. Christie has been forced to jettison his grand plans, Mr. Corzine does not seem to have any. After campaigning in 2005 on a bold — and unfulfilled — promise to cut property taxes 40 percent, he now says the state cannot afford any big-picture ideas, and could not name a high-profile issue that he would make the hallmark of his second term.

“We’ve been prepared to come up with more outside-of-the-box ideas, and we’ll come up with more,” he said. “But in the seeds of this there are unattractive alternatives.”

Mr. Corzine’s most ambitious effort, a plan to pay down debt by selling the New Jersey Turnpike, died in the Democratic-run Legislature in 2008. Now he calls the idea “too big, too fast, at the wrong time” and says state residents, already sensing the coming recession, were unwilling to accept the toll increases it would entail.

“This idea worked,” the governor said, adding, “So maybe we just need to scale it back.”

Absent a roaring recovery, Mr. Corzine says he would “service the most vulnerable as resources will allow,” continuing to support food banks, legal services and children’s health, while investing in economic engines like infrastructure, stem-cell research and so-called green energy efforts like offshore wind farms.

If money rolls in, he would weigh restoring property tax rebates, providing money to meet pension obligations, restructuring state debt and expanding prekindergarten.

Mr. Corzine also hints that he might reduce the state’s 4 percent cap on local property tax increases, both to spare homeowners and to spur municipal consolidations.

As the two men reflected on the long campaign, Mr. Christie admitted that calling prekindergarten “baby-sitting,” as he did early this year, “probably wasn’t the best choice of words.” But Mr. Corzine offered no apology for his attacks on Mr. Christie’s character, saying he had merely given as good as he got. “I don’t know what you’re supposed to do — sit here and just get crushed?” he said.

They offered competing views on the essence of the election: Mr. Christie characterized it as a contest between the Democratic incumbent’s expansionist government and his more modest approach, that would tend mainly to the basics: health, safety and welfare.

Mr. Corzine boiled the race down to coming vacancies on the State Supreme Court. Four of the seven justices are scheduled to be replaced or reappointed in the next four years, and Mr. Corzine said that the wrong replacements could imperil liberal causes like abortion rights, labor and affirmative action. Mr. Christie wants judges who he says will not legislate from the bench.

And they shared their views of leadership, with Mr. Corzine defending his sometimes diffuse style, which often leaves even his supporters puzzled about what direction he’s leading them, calling if the proper role of an energetic chief executive. “Why would you want to be governor, or why would you want to be a leader, and not address the issues that exist?” he said.

In a lengthy discourse on the use of power, Mr. Christie said that strong leadership requires clear communication and straightforward negotiation — much like, say, a prosecutor plea-bargaining with a defense lawyer.

“Don’t make empty threats and don’t make empty promises,” Mr. Christie said. “Leadership is about perception, too,” he said. “You’ve always got to keep that in mind.”
965 2009-10-30 The news that the United States economy had grown for the first time in a year electrified investors on Thursday, sending stocks up after four days of sizable declines.

It took one number — 3.5 percent, the rate of the economy’s growth in the third quarter — to rally traders, who had expected a smaller increase in the gross domestic product, the total value of goods and services in the economy.

When it became clear that the longest contraction since World War II had ended, stocks surged, and the rally accelerated as the trading day continued.

By the time the markets closed, all the major averages had ridden the wave. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 199.89, or 2.05 percent, to end at 9,962.58. The Standard and Poor’s 500-stock index went up 23.48, or 2.25 percent, to 1,066.11. And the Nasdaq composite index, which is heavy with technology stocks, finished 37.94 higher, or 1.84 percent, closing at 2,097.55.

Shares in financial companies and corporations that produce basic materials, like metal, led the increases.
966 2009-10-30 While most of its big competitors have been restructuring operations and cutting expenses, Exxon said it would stick with its plans to spend $25 billion to $30 billion a year over the next few years to develop new energy supplies.

The company said that its profits in the third quarter declined 68 percent, to $4.73 billion, or 98 cents a share, falling short of analysts’ expectations. That compared with earnings of $14.83 billion a year ago, the company’s best quarter.

“We’re not in a panic mode,” said Kenneth P. Cohen, Exxon’s vice president for public affairs, in a conference call with reporters.

Exxon became the world’s most profitable corporation in 2008, earning $45 billion as oil averaged $100 a barrel.

Exxon’s shares traded down for much of the day on Thursday after the company’s profit came in below forecasts of $1.06 a share. But the stock ended the day up 12 cents at $73.96.

Exxon posted a loss at its American refining business for the second consecutive quarter. The company said that its spending in the quarter fell by 5 percent compared with last year, to $6.5 billion. Its oil and gas production in the period rose by 3 percent.

“Despite ongoing global economic weakness and reduced demand for products, we continued our robust investment program and delivered strong results,” Rex W. Tillerson, Exxon’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.

Shell’s net income fell to $3.25 billion from $8.45 billion in the same period last year. In London, Shell shares fell 55 pence, or 2.9 percent, to 1,856 pence.

“We see some indications that energy demand and pricing are improving but the outlook remains very uncertain, and we are not expecting a quick recovery,” Peter Voser, Shell’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.

Shell has outlined a sharp cost-cutting program in recent months. It is eliminating 5,000 jobs, about 10 percent of its work force, and merging some units. The company said that as part of its restructuring efforts, it would take a charge in the fourth quarter that might total “several hundred millions of dollars” because of the job cuts. The company said it had reduced operating costs by about $1 billion in the first nine months of the year.

Similar efforts are already paying off at BP, the British oil giant. The company reported better-than-expected earnings on Tuesday after beating its own cost-reduction targets and increasing output.

Higher oil prices in recent years meant that oil companies increased their spending on more expensive exploration efforts, such as oil sands, to increase production. They were also forced to raise spending as costs throughout the industry doubled from 2004 to 2008.

But as prices fell, oil majors as well as independent producers across the country have struggled to adapt. They have capped wells that have become uneconomical, for example, and in Canada, heavy oil projects have been put on hold.

While oil prices have dropped 45 percent since their peak last summer, costs have fallen by only 15 to 20 percent since last year’s peak, said Patrick de la Chevardière, chief financial officer of the French oil giant Total.

Conoco Phillips, for example, said it would reduce its capital expenses by 12 percent next year, and planned to sell assets worth $10 billion over the next two years. Conoco said on Wednesday that its third-quarter profits fell 71 percent, to $1.5 billion.

Eni, the giant Italian oil company, slashed its dividend by 23 percent over the summer, in part to protect its spending program, but the move stunned investors who have long been accustomed to the industry’s policy of paying high dividends.

Chevron, the second-largest American oil company, will report earnings on Friday.

The picture is not entirely grim. Companies have made large discoveries this year. BP announced a major offshore find in the Gulf of Mexico last month, while Anadarko Petroleum and its partners said they had identified a major offshore petroleum basin running from Ghana to Sierra Leone.

But oil companies must run faster just to stand still. More than 3.5 million barrels a day of new capacity must be added each year to offset the normal decline of old fields around the world. Some of that can be done by stimulating existing fields to pump more oil; some by investing in new capacity in already-discovered reserves, such as in Saudi Arabia; and some through well-head exploration.
967 2009-10-30 DAY--Robert McClelland M.D.,of Vero Beach FL, formerly of New York City and Buck Hill Falls, PA died peacefully at home on October 28, 2009 at the age of 92. He was the beloved husband for 53 years of Barbara Brush Day and devoted father of Jean D...
968 2009-10-30 STOCK--Pearl Levin, formerly of St. Paul, MN, born March 15, 1911, Springfield, MA, daughter of Rebecca and Samuel Lasker, died October 23 in New Haven, CT. She was predeceased by her husbands, Bert G. Levin, M.D. and Frank W. Stock. An exemplary ...
969 2009-10-30 Japan set the stage for a huge bailout of Japan Airlines on Thursday, telling the struggling carrier to turn to a state-backed body for assistance. The  move  signaled that the  new left-leaning government in Tokyo would not take a tougher stance ...
970 2009-10-31 The employer mandate is one of the thornier issues to be resolved in health care legislation. To what degree might Congress require employers to provide health insurance for their employees?...
971 2009-10-31 In the last installment of a six-part Q-&-A, Eric J. Furda of the University of Pennsylvania discusses how the admissions committee might value science research done in high school, and cautions students that their grades might dip, however tempor...
972 2009-10-31 BusinessWeek's president will stay behind at McGraw-Hill and not make the move over to Bloomberg with the magazine....
973 2009-10-31 The lead producers of the Broadway revival "Brighton Beach Memoirs" released a brief statement this morning about their decision to close the Neil Simon play tomorrow....
974 2009-10-31 Business at costume retailers is particularly compressed this year because Halloween falls on a Saturday, meaning there is only a single day of revelry....
975 2009-10-31 Ryan Anderson, who was also dealt to Orlando in the trade, contributed 16 points while starting in place of the suspended Rashard Lewis. Howard collected 22 rebounds and 20 points.

Carter follows the figurative footsteps of Richard Jefferson and Jason Kidd, recently departed Nets shipped away for payroll purging and salary relief.

Those three will jostle for postseason position — Carter with the Magic, Kidd with the Dallas Mavericks and Jefferson as a freshly minted San Antonio Spur. In their absence, the Nets will try to stave off basketball parody, not N.B.A. parity.

Carter averaged 23.6 points and 5.8 rebounds as a Net. His 8,834 points with the organization are second in franchise history, behind Buck Williams.

But Carter never led the Nets to the finals. The organization figured it would not get back to the finals with the same core group, one reason for shipping Jefferson. Kidd had nudged for a trade.

The Nets dealt Carter on draft day in a great example of the chasm between the league’s haves and have-nots. The Nets acquired Courtney Lee, Rafer Alston and Tony Battie.

Carter, 32, received a standing ovation, but the arena was largely how he left it. As the starting lineups were announced, pockets of empty seats remained. The announced attendance was 17,525.

Carter opened the game with a dunk over Brook Lopez, and assisted on Howard’s dunk for Orlando’s next score. He rolled his ankle driving to the basket and pounded the court before retreating to the locker room. In 14 minutes, he made 6 of 8 shots.

“I didn’t think he was playing very well anyways,” Orlando Coach Stan Van Gundy deadpanned. “It didn’t hurt us to play without him.”

Van Gundy added: “It’s a shame it had to happen on a night like this. I’ve been on the other side on some of those nights with Vince where you don’t enjoy it, and I was ready to sit back and enjoy one of his great ones tonight.”

The Magic led, 50-44, at halftime. J. J. Redick replaced Carter to start the second half. Anderson’s 8 points in the third quarter expanded Orlando’s double-digit lead. Brandon Bass kept it there by scoring all 13 of his points in the second half.

It seemed fitting that the Nets started the home portion of their season against Orlando. They glimpsed their past while trying to shore up a future that is still murky, but may come into clearer focus during the season.

The Nets feature a youthful roster whose projected starters are the youngest in the league, at an average age of 22.8. But the team is stuck between its current arena in New Jersey and a prospective new home in Brooklyn. It is also between owners as the Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov tries to gain a controlling stake.

Last week, Brett Yormark, chief executive of Nets Sports and Entertainment, announced that the Nets may play in Newark at the Prudential Center for two years while they wait for construction of the Brooklyn arena, which has been delayed by economic and legal problems.

The Nets’ attendance has been poor at the Izod Center. The arena played to 75.8 percent of its full capacity last season, 27th among the league’s 30 venues.

Although preseason games usually result in a lower attendance than regular-season contests, the Nets averaged 14,255 people during two preseason games in Newark, probably a result of playing in a larger city with easier mass transit options.

The Nets’ lease at the Izod Center runs through 2013, and an $8 million penalty will be imposed if it is broken for a destination other than Brooklyn. But The Bergen Record reported last week that officials from the Izod Center and the Prudential Center were nearing a détente that would allow the Nets to depart for Newark with no penalty.

In the meantime, the team’s young roster will plead ignorance to expectations. Lee, the 22nd overall selection in last year’s draft, was a starter for Orlando last season and had a team-high 18 points Friday.

“I don’t think it’s an easy situation because you have to be honest,” Nets Coach Lawrence Frank said of Lee. “The reality is for him, look, this is one of the things that happens for an N.B.A. player, that guys do get traded.”

Carter’s reunion tour could very well continue on Sunday when the Magic plays at Toronto, his original team. The Nets, meanwhile, will continue in their search for where, exactly, they are headed.
976 2009-10-31 That revelation also came from Agassi’s soon-to-be-published book, “Open,” which has been serialized in several publications this week, including People and The Times of London. “I probably would have been up a creek if I would have known,” Gilbert said.

Gilbert, who went on to coach Andy Roddick and Andy Murray, agreed that tennis’s antidoping program was too lax in the period when Agassi was absolved. In 1997, the program was run by the men’s tour, although the sanctioning process was handled by what tour officials considered an independent panel. The ATP no longer administers its own program, and professional tennis as a whole subscribes to the World Anti-Doping Agency code, which mandates regular out-of-competition testing, with a rule that requires athletes to keep testers apprised of their daily whereabouts.

“Once I started coaching Roddick and Murray, I did notice that there had been a massive change,” Gilbert said. “They really got a lot stricter about testing the guys, tenfold, and testing guys out of training. Once I was with Roddick, and it was 7 a.m. And the best thing, too, is that the ATP doesn’t do it anymore. It’s all uniform, very structured and much harder to be doing something.”

But Gilbert, despite Agassi’s lie about ingesting crystal meth unwittingly through an assistant’s spiked drink, does not believe an injustice has been done or that Agassi’s later achievements should be viewed as tainted.

“That was a small offense right? He would have been suspended for what, three months?” Gilbert said. “The rest of 1997, he basically played a couple of challengers. It would have been a big thing, but it would still have been a blip on the radar.”

Gilbert said he believed financial gain played no major role in Agassi’s decision to take an ultracandid approach to the autobiographical process. Gilbert said his first reaction after reading it was that he wanted to give Agassi a comforting hug: mostly because of the passages in the book that deal with Agassi’s early childhood and his father Mike’s hard-driving approach to making him into a champion. Those years, which featured a ball machine that Mike dubbed “the Dragon,” are a big part of the reason Agassi claims in the book that he has always secretly “hated” tennis.

“There’s another thing I had no clue about,” Gilbert said. “I think he’s a lot more at peace with it now. Sometimes when you’re in the storm, it’s harder and maybe when it’s over, then you can look back on it. I think he’s in a better place now, because he’s had some tough childhood memories. Sometimes things like that you kind of suppress them.”

The Dragon also figured in a story too good to suppress from Agassi’s later life, when Peter Graf, the hard-driving tennis father of Agassi’s wife, Steffi Graf, finally went to Las Vegas in 2000 to meet Mike Agassi. In his book, Agassi wrote that after Mike Agassi showed Peter Graf the ball machine at Peter Graf’s request, the two patriarchs got into a heated argument over the relative merits of Steffi Graf’s sliced one-handed backhand and Andre Agassi’s two-hander.

“They’re both putting up their fists,” Agassi wrote. “They’re circling, feinting, bobbing and weaving, and just before one of them throws hands, I step in, push them apart.”
977 2009-10-31 N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell is returning to Capitol Hill next week, this time to testify about the case of two players whose suspensions for violating the league’s antidoping policy were blocked by a federal court.

Goodell and DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the players union, are among the witnesses scheduled to appear before a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Tuesday, according to a witness list.

The N.F.L. had suspended the Minnesota Vikings’ Kevin Williams and Pat Williams for four games, but the players sued the league, arguing that the N.F.L.’s testing violated Minnesota workplace laws.

The case was moved to federal court, and the players union filed a similar lawsuit on behalf of the Vikings players and two New Orleans Saints players, Charles Grant and Will Smith, who were also suspended.

In May, a federal judge dismissed the union’s lawsuit, then sent the claims involving Minnesota workplace laws back to state court. A judge there has issued an injunction prohibiting the N.F.L. from suspending the players, and has scheduled the trial in their lawsuit for March 8.
978 2009-10-31 Draft legislation to regulate too-big-to-fail financial firms hit a wall of well-deserved dissent at a hearing on Thursday in the House Financial Services Committee.

Authored by the and Representative , the chairman of the committee, the proposal broaches a number of essential reforms. Chief among them is the creation of a systemic risk regulator to look for problems that could lead to cascading failures. The regulator would also have resolution authority — the power, if necessary, to seize and restructure critically ill bank holding companies and nonbank financial firms whose failure would pose a systemwide threat.

Such broad authority was lacking during the crisis, leading to the disorderly demise of , among other fiascoes. Properly executed, resolution authority would impose losses from a failure on a firm’s shareholders and creditors. That would force discipline on firms that have come to expect taxpayer rescues.

There’s little disagreement over the need for systemic risk regulation and resolution authority. But as lawmakers and witnesses at the hearing pointed out, the proposal is flawed in its choices of who should wield the new powers and how they should be defined.

The proposal would concentrate much of the new power with the , which is problematic for several reasons. Not only did the Fed fail in its responsibility to identify and stop several of the threats that led to the crisis, it has further damaged its credibility by failing to fully account for how and why those catastrophic lapses occurred. Before Congress grants new powers to the Fed, it needs a full accounting.
979 2009-10-31 Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has opened an international inquiry led by an Algerian diplomat into a deadly crackdown on protesters in Guinea last month, the United Nations said Friday. The Security Council has condemned the violence, but failed to back the inquiry because Russia did not like the idea of interfering in the domestic politics of another country, council diplomats said.
980 2009-10-31 The CIT Group, the troubled lender, secured several important agreements on Friday as it prepared for what it had said would be an abbreviated bankruptcy filing to lighten its debilitating debt burden.

The accords, including one that will reduce a $3 billion loan from Goldman Sachs to $2.13 billion, will help pave the way for a prepackaged bankruptcy filing, possibly as early as Sunday, said people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly. For months, the company sought ways to avoid collapsing into bankruptcy, which would probably have spelled the end of CIT, a century-old lender to small and midsize companies around the country. Some of CIT’s largest creditors threw it a $3 billion lifeline several months ago, saving it from a ruinous uncontrolled bankruptcy filing that could have left it in bankruptcy court for years.

It now hopes that its prepackaged bankruptcy filing will limit its time in court to a month and a half, while wiping out as much as $7 billion of its $30 billion in bond debt. The filing will test whether a lender can survive a Chapter 11 filing, which has long been believed to be fatal for a financial company built on the delicate trust of customers and creditors.

CIT’s fate has been the concern of many businesses and the federal government since the financial crisis began last fall. Even after it became a bank holding company in order to receive $2.3 billion in government bailout money, CIT struggled to finance itself in the capital markets. Its regulators turned down its request for additional aid, forcing it to obtain more expensive financing from bondholders.

Early this month, CIT announced an exchange offer, in which it would swap its outstanding bonds for new debt with later maturities, as well as preferred stock. But it also began soliciting votes for a prepackaged bankruptcy in case the exchange offer fell through. Under federal bankruptcy law, approval of such a plan requires the support of more than 51 percent of the number of creditors voting and more than two-thirds of the dollar value of those bonds.

Under the prepackaged plan, bondholders would receive about 70 cents on the dollar for their claims. The government’s $2.3 billion investment would likely be wiped out. Under a so-called free fall filing, which would be necessary if bondholders rejected the prepackaged plan, they could receive as little as 6 cents on the dollar.
981 2009-10-31 A trustee for the fund set up for two child actors from “Slumdog Millionaire” said they were in danger of losing their stipends as well as the fund itself if they did not attend school more often, The Associated Press reported. After the release of “Slumdog Millionaire,” the film’s director, Danny Boyle, and a producer, Christian Colson, helped to establish trusts and find new homes for Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, 11, and Rubina Ali Qureshi, 10, who played the young incarnations of two of the film’s lead characters. But Noshir Dadrawala, who helps administer the fund, said that Azharuddin was showing up at school only 37 percent of the time and that Rubina had a 27 percent attendance rate. The trust decided that the children must raise their attendance above 70 percent or forfeit their monthly stipends of about $120. The children’s parents told The A.P. that their absences resulted from deaths in the family and other problems and promised to get them to school from now on. In a statement, Mr. Boyle and Mr. Colson said: “We are disappointed that Azhar and Rubina’s school attendance remains patchy. We have urged both families to honor their commitment to ensure regular school attendance.”
982 2009-10-31 Though Nick Swardson, above, is better known for stand-up comedy albums with vaguely off-color titles and supporting roles in films like “Blades of Glory” and shows like “Reno 911!”, he says he has always been a sketch comedy fan at heart. “It’s never really fit into my life up until this point,” Mr. Swardson, 33, said Thursday in a telephone interview. That hasn’t dissuaded Comedy Central, which said Thursday that it had signed him to star in his own sketch series, whose producers include Adam Sandler’s Happy Madison Productions, and which the cable channel plans to broadcast next year. The format, Mr. Swardson said, will have fast-paced filmed pieces flowing into one another, using stylized transitions and segues that utilize “the multimedia and the ubiquitous screens in our lives.” Production is scheduled to begin next month.
983 2009-10-31 Would the producers of a Broadway show move their opening night so you could attend? That’s what separates the A-list from everyone else, people. (You know who you are.) The producers of the new musical “Fela!” are now in a pickle over their Nov. 23 opening-night date: they’re negotiating with Jay-Z, Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith, from top below, to put money into the show, about the life of the Afrobeat superstar Fela Anikulapo Kuti, and they’re itching to have the three at the opening, according to four people involved in the production. But the four said that Jay-Z initially couldn’t make it on the 23rd; the 24th then became an option, if the Smiths could change some plans of their own. Now Jay-Z is thinking the 23rd might be doable, they said. As any talent manager knows, coordinating the schedules of three celebrities can be a, um, headache. Theater openings have been moved because of everything from bad weather to a need for more rehearsal time. In this case, Jay-Z and the Smiths would attract megapublicity to the show on opening night, which would probably boost ticket sales for “Fela!,” which have been modest so far. A publicist for the show, Billy Zavelson, said it was not clear how the stars’ investment would be used; the production is already fully capitalized, he said. And no one would give the precise dollar figure under negotiation. But hey — Jay-Z and Will and Jada on opening night? Priceless (if they can make it).
984 2009-10-31 But Rolen was tired of Rollins’s background buzz filling up his time to think. So he pulled Bobby Abreu and me aside to take a vote on kicking Jimmy out of our hitting group, which resulted in his exile. This was certainly a first in my experience, but if a key player like Scott couldn’t concentrate, then he needed to do what he had to do. Privately, he scolded Jimmy for his endless chatter, adding that no rookie should feel so comfortable. Even veterans with eight years in the game don’t talk that much, Scott explained, which was probably true.

For a couple of days, Jimmy wore a long face in the dugout. Instead of announcing what he had done on that last base hit, he was silent.

And just as we were getting used to Jimmy being mum, the word party began anew. Every noun, adjective, verb, adverb and preposition was invited, as were more than a few “words” that had escaped Webster’s attention.

Whenever Jimmy was the subject of a post-game interview, I enjoyed listening to him ramble. He had to represent his hometown area of Oakland, and “Oaktown” had its own language. He filled a few word voids with “you know what I am saying” or accented phrases with “sucker-free” words, which is something only people from Oakland understand. But as much as I smiled, I had to put on my Bull Durham-Crash Davis hat and talk to Jimmy about interviewing. Get in, get out, be clear, I advised. I guess I was “so ‘90s.”

Jimmy had too much personality to get in and get out. He could not wait to be seen and heard, so silence was not an option. Neither was sit back and wait, or stay below the radar. He was going to be in your face on the field and in front of the camera. Kevin Jordan and I, discussing our teammates Rolen and Rollins, agreed that while Scott preferred to do his job and then go home to his own space, Jimmy wanted to be “the man,” and couldn’t wait to be a star.

Jimmy had a cousin who produced rap songs out in California and who offered to cut a theme song to be played as Jimmy walked to home plate for each at bat. So “J Reezie” was the only player in the league with his own customized soundtrack. I stuck with my smooth Peter White track.

I had office hours those years with Jimmy. Centerfield during batting practice, be there. Marlon Anderson, Curt Schilling, Robert Person, Wayne Gomes, Brian L. Hunter, Jordan, Rolen, pretty much the whole team was invited to rotate in during batting-practice lulls, but no one participated more than the Four Musketeers — Anderson, Gomes, Person and Rollins. We talked life, we talked relationships, we talked pitchers, we talked office politics. Oh yeah, and I made sure I took fly balls during at least one group (the team offense was broken into four hitting groups, each hitting for 15 minutes at home and 12 minutes on the road), and worked with the outfield coach for another (I don’t want Jimmy Piersall, my minor league outfield coach, to track me down if he reads this). But for at least one whole group, I felt like Dumbledore to Harry Potter; my position, centerfield, is the safest place to congregate without getting hit by a wayward baseball, so I became the ringleader and de facto team therapist.

Jimmy would often have some wisdom of his own packaged neatly in a one-liner, like his mantra for people who are scared: “Do it afraid.” I just tapped a lot of the teachings passed down from my mentors, like Shawon Dunston or Chuck McElroy. Jimmy didn’t necessarily ask a lot of questions, but would talk about what was on his mind, and I would go from there. We discussed communicating with his brother (a talented first-round draft pick in his own right) and how Jimmy could get through to express that he just wanted the best for him instead of engaging in a conversation that devolved into a circular debate.

Watching “J-Roll” become the superstar player he is today is very rewarding. He is my conduit to staying on that shelf of baseball life. On his own shelf are an M.V.P. trophy, an “MTV Cribs” appearance (which was his destiny), a Playboy photo with his fiancée (with clothes), TV commercials, numerous all-star appearances, a Gold Glove and that holy grail, a World Series ring. I feel timeless when I see a protégé like Marlon Byrd grow to be a mature husband, father and a fantastic, steady player with Texas. And now Jimmy is doing his thing. Those two players, with whom I shared all the secrets I knew about the game of baseball, have paid me back with interest.

Jimmy’s breakthrough year was 2004, my last with the Phillies. When the final out of the season was recorded, I found Jimmy and gave him a big hug. I told him how proud I was of him and how he had put it all together and become a force in this league.

He has continued to grow as a player and a man. He may not go about the game the way I did, but that’s fine — he came along at a different time, when he could be himself and do the things he does best for millions to enjoy: perform, talk and love the camera back.
985 2009-10-31 Nearly three years have come and gone for Morphoses, the ambitious company formed by , who made his mark as the resident choreographer of the . But sadly, in this case, three isn’t the magic number. In its opening-night appearance at City Center on Thursday, Morphoses — even with live performed by the Philharmonic Orchestra of the Americas — was full of flaws, the most major being that while Mr. Wheeldon is accomplished at creating dances, he doesn’t have a flair for programming them.

During a talk before the performance, Mr. Wheeldon explained his wish to honor the centenary of the Ballets

Russes by “celebrating the spirit of the new and the fostering of collaborations” among music, visual art and design, and dance. Films produced and directed by Benjamin Pierce, dwelling on the pseudo-poetics of ballet, were shown before some of the dances. But instead of providing a window into the choreographic process, they look like infomercials for the Vineyards Arts Project on , where the group rehearsed last summer. There were close-ups of feet, food (yogurt with blueberries and honey) and, inexplicably, a butterfly dropping in on a flower.

In many ways, Mr. Wheeldon’s “Commedia,” a work from last season featuring sumptuous costumes and sets by Isabel Toledo and Ruben Toledo, best represents the collaborative spirit of the Ballets Russes.

Set to Stravinsky’s “Pulcinella Suite,” the ballet is full of sweetly tender moments: duets for Melissa Barak and Danielle Rowe and, later, Ms. Rowe and Matthew Prescott demonstrate Mr. Wheeldon’s affinity for stringing steps together that glide with effortless effervescence. It’s a pretty, pleasing confection.

Next to “Leaving Songs,” a new work for four women and five men by the Australian choreographer Tim Harbour, “Commedia” is choreographic gold. Mr. Harbour sets “Leaving Songs” to meditative music by Ross Edwards in an effort, as he put it in a film, to show the “full-circle concept of what life and death is.” Dancers carry clear balloons — apparently, the cycle of life is round and full of air — and demonstrate circular shapes with curving torsos and rolls on the floor. Heartfelt to its detriment and packed with clichés, “Leaving Songs” is a deflating, shapeless bore.
986 2009-10-31 The Chevron Corporation posted a 51 percent decline in quarterly profit on Friday, becoming the latest major oil company to be hit by the steep decline in oil and natural gas prices and anemic margins at refineries.

Chevron offset part of a sharp drop in energy prices in the last year by increasing its oil output and cutting costs during its third quarter.

The chief financial officer, Patricia E. Yarrington, said two-thirds of the cost cuts were permanent and unrelated to fluctuating prices. She said Chevron expected to exceed its recently raised 2009 production target of 2.66 million barrels a day.

Chevron’s profit fell to $3.83 billion, or $1.92 a share, from $7.89 billion, or $3.85 a share, a year earlier. Excluding $400 million in gains from asset sales and other items, it earned $1.72 a share, topping the $1.47 a share analysts had forecast.

Revenue fell 41 percent, to $46.6 billion, from $78.9 billion, falling short of the $47 billion analysts had forecast.

Chevron’s earnings from oil production fell 41 percent, as an increase in output helped reduce the effect of the drop in oil prices, which reached a record in the period a year earlier.
987 2009-10-31 “If they can’t understand it, they’ll pass,” said Joe Curtin, head of portfolio analytics and consulting at U.S. Trust Bank of America Private Wealth Management. “That’s a significant departure. If the strategy can’t be explained in conversational terms, they’re not going to do it.”

Like so many other things this year, learning such a seemingly simple lesson has been costly. And the wealthy have not been the only ones to find it out the hard way. Two of the biggest buyers of private equity in 2008, for example, were public pension funds, which bought 26.6 percent of all private equity, and corporate pension funds (14.2 percent), according to Dow Jones Private Equity Analyst. This means the retirement plans of many workers had exposure to the same securities that have so frightened sophisticated individual investors.

Yet billions of dollars in alternative investments are out there, with new funds still trying to raise money. So how are investors looking at assets that hurt them so badly last year?

HEDGE FUNDS Recent reports on the Galleon Group — a hedge fund that is being wound down after insider trading charges — have not improved confidence in the asset class.

“The bloom is off the rose, but not so much because of the bad performance,” said Sol Waksman, president of BarclayHedge, which has tracked hedge funds since 1985. “In reality, the performance was bad but it was still much better than equities. Not letting people redeem their money hurt them more. The Madoff scandal hurt terribly. And the news with Galleon is certainly not helping.”

One alternative some investors are looking at is funds of hedge funds. With stakes in many hedge funds, these funds provide greater diversification, but they still have lock-up periods and their returns have been lagging. For the first three quarters of this year, they are up 9.1 percent, according to data from BarclayHedge. Direct investments in hedge funds were up 19.2 percent for the same period — not much better than that 17.03 percent gain the Standard & Poor’s 500 posted.

“You can’t expect a Ferrari with a fund of funds,” said Jacob Schutt, a principal at Parallel Advisors in San Francisco. “But they should also have protected the downside a year ago.”

The three areas receiving the most money in August were focused on distressed securities, fixed income and strategies that exploited irregularities in pricing.

Still, assets in the hedge fund industry are down 44 percent from their July 2008 high. Mr. Curtin said he did not see any reason for optimism over the next year, predicting that hedge fund returns would trail equities.

PRIVATE EQUITY The problem with private equity investments is one of expectations: clients are not getting a return in the time they expected.

“These funds in the past said they were going to make distributions after two years, but now they’re not doing it,” said Theodore Beringer, managing director of the Beringer Group, a family office adviser.

Just as bad, companies that were supposed to be taken public after two or three rounds of fund-raising are now on their sixth or seventh round with no end in sight. In many cases, this is a function of the equity and debt markets, but investors are still miffed.

New money put into private equity funds was down 59 percent in the first three quarters, according to Private Equity Analyst. The $79 billion raised so far this year more closely resembles 2005, when $97 billion was raised, than the recent boom years.

There is a realization that the days of funds buying a company, loading it up with debt and selling it to another fund may be over for the foreseeable future. Instead, Mr. Curtin said, there has been a move back to “traditional private equity,” which he defined as managing a company over a longer period before taking it public. This requires investors to rethink their returns and whether tying up their money in a fund is worth it.

Earlier in the year, when university endowments began looking for buyers for their private equity stakes, analysts thought this was a precursor to a more robust market for existing private equity. But research by Private Equity Analyst found that sellers were not as eager to sell at steep discounts as buyers had hoped.

That gap may be closing, though. Tony Roth, chief strategist for private wealth management at UBS, said several funds were raising money to buy private equity on the secondary market. He said investors may still be able to buy this private equity for 30 to 60 cents on the dollar.

VENTURE CAPITAL The amount of money investors are committing to venture capital continues to fall. It was down 38 percent in the third quarter from the same period last year, according to Dow Jones VentureSource.

The data also showed that investors were shunning historically strong areas. Software companies were at their lowest level of investment since 1996, and health care was down 25 percent.

Edward Harris, head of business development at Apex Learning in Seattle, has worked both sides of the venture capital business in his 20-year career and said investors were particularly cautious now.

“Early-stage companies face the challenge that there is less money out there, and those investors are more demanding,” said Mr. Harris, who used to manage investments at Vulcan, the investment company set up by Microsoft’s co-founder, Paul G. Allen. “They want a larger stake and want to see more tangible signs of progress. It used to be the right idea and the right people could raise a lot of money out of the gate.”

Now, Mr. Harris said, people want to invest in companies that have revenue coming in. Among individual investors, there is less desire to put money into companies that are based on attracting traffic and recouping the investment through ad revenue.

“If you go back to where the market was frothier, investors feared if you didn’t get into an idea early enough you’d miss out on the opportunity because the valuation would spiral out of sight,” he said. “Now it’s, ‘What’s the rush?’ They want to make sure the idea is still going to be there.”

The same can be said for most alternative investments today.
988 2009-10-31 “Academically, it’s much more open and accepted and respected,” said Mr. York, 70, who retired five years ago from the faculty of Bath Spa University in England. “And on a more personal level, we don’t proselytize or anything like that, but most of my friends know that I’m Pagan and most of them are not, and we can discuss it. They understand that there is a Pagan spirituality, and the misconceptions about it have diminished.”

Because the federal census does not ask about religious affiliation, and because ridicule or discrimination tended to keep Pagans closeted in the past, statistics on the number of adherents in the United States are imprecise and probably too low. Still, the recent growth is evident in surveys done in 1990 and 2001 by the City University of New York.

Over the course of those 11 years, the survey went from tabulating 8,000 Wiccans nationally — that branch of Paganism was the only one to turn up — to 134,000 Wiccans, 33,000 Druids and 140,000 Pagans. (Others identify as Heathens.) The sociologist Helen A. Berger, who is doing research on Pagan demography, said she believed that a more accurate current number would fall between 500,000 and one million.

Certainly, there is nothing new about Paganism per se. From Halloween to May Day to Yuletide, said Prof. Diana L. Eck of the Harvard Divinity School, “there’s a way in which all of us, especially in the Christian tradition, follow a religious calendar that is pegged to ancient Pagan festivals.”

But in the grand scheme of the Western world, polytheism was seen as being superseded by monotheism and faith itself by science, leaving Paganism as some kind of atavistic orphan of history. The fact that its practitioners lacked any formal denominational structure added to the religion’s relative invisibility, except as the object of fears or the butt of jokes.

In several ways, though, Paganism was waiting for modernity to catch up with it. The emphasis on the worship of nature in virtually all variations of Pagan faith, and the embrace of a female divinity in many, situated the religion to mesh with the environmental and feminist movements that swept through the United States in the 1970s.

In the 1970s, Wiccan groups began seeking and obtaining tax-exempt status from federal and state authorities, said the Rev. Selena Fox, the founder and spiritual leader of an early, influential Wicca church, Circle Sanctuary in Barneveld, Wis. By the decade’s end, Wicca was included in the handbook for military chaplains and had been written about in such popular books as “Drawing Down the Moon,” (Penguin, 2006), by Margot Adler.

Since then, Wiccans have served as chaplains in prisons and hospices, as well as in the armed forces. Just this week, Ms. Fox supplied the invocation for the daily session of the Wisconsin State Assembly. And, of course, the popular culture of the Harry Potter books, the television series “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” and the current zombie vogue have defanged Pagan religion for a mass teenage audience.

Nothing did more to secure Paganism’s place in the religious mainstream, though, than a highly serious, indeed somber, court battle. Brought by Americans United for Separation of Church and State on behalf of Circle Sanctuary and several widows, the decade-long litigation sought permission from the federal Department of Veterans Affairs to have the gravestones of deceased Wiccan soldiers marked with the symbol of the pentacle.

Since winning that right as part of an out-of-court settlement two years ago, Wicca followers have marked more than a dozen military graves with the five-pointed star.

“This got us the most widespread support and had the most wide-ranging import,” Ms. Fox said. “Our symbol was literally being carved in stone and taking its place alongside the symbols of other religions. Our religion was at last getting equal treatment. It was one of those crossroads moments.”
989 2009-10-31 It has ordered more from Roche, its Swiss manufacturer, but that is not expected to arrive before January, Dr. Frieden said.

In the meantime, federal officials are encouraging pharmacies to empty powder from adult capsules and dilute it with syrup into children’s doses. Some large pharmacy chains are already doing so. Presumably, the same could be done with the 37 million adult doses still in the stockpile. (The Strategic National Stockpile has many more adult doses because they are lighter and easier to manage, and because it was created in anticipation of a pandemic of avian flu, which was not known to disproportionately affect children.)

Terence Hurley, a spokesman for Roche, said Friday that the company would have more of the liquid version to send to private pharmacies in December.

In addition, Dr. Frieden said he would consider importing generic Tamiflu if it could win Food and Drug Administration approval. The generic name is oseltamivir.

Yusuf Hamied, the chairman of Cipla Ltd., an Indian company that makes the only oseltamivir other than Roche’s to be approved by the World Health Organization, said he could supply the United States with about one million children’s doses in three to four months.

“Cipla is more than willing to cooperate in any way possible,” Mr. Hamied said. “I’ll work my factories night and day if necessary.”

His price, he said, would be 20 to 30 percent below Roche’s.

Roche has vastly increased its Tamiflu production in the last few years, in part to keep governments from canceling its patents or buying generic rivals during pandemic emergencies. Of the 114 children who have died, more than two-thirds had some kind of underlying health problem, Dr. Frieden said.

Local newspaper reports of deaths around the country have included children with cystic fibrosis, muscular dystrophy and other illnesses. But they have also included children who were healthy and athletic and yet died quickly and unexpectedly.

One disturbing trend, Dr. Frieden said, was that a C.D.C. survey showed that only about half of all people with flu symptoms who also had other potentially dangerous medical problems like diabetes, asthma or lung and heart disease sought care from a doctor.

“People with underlying conditions who have a fever or cough should see their provider promptly,” he said.

Deaths are expected to keep rising, he said. Flu activity is now widespread in 48 states, up from 46 last week. Hospitalizations start to go up about a week after people start falling ill in any community, and deaths tend to lag two to three weeks behind that, Dr. Frieden said.

People are usually ill for a few days before they are hospitalized, and dangerously ill people are usually on ventilators for at least a week before they recover or die. Laboratory reports and autopsies create further delays in reporting deaths.

There are now nearly 27 million doses of swine flu vaccine available, Dr. Frieden said, up from 16 million a week ago. The clamor for the shots continues to rise, however, and even some cities that had many cases in the spring, like Boston, are seeing a second wave.

Dr. Frieden singled out Maine as having done a particularly good job of vaccinating schoolchildren by creating teams that pulled them out of classes briefly for shots.

Maine had a serious flu outbreak in its summer camps; it also has a small population.

Dr. Frieden said he was “encouraged” when any school could vaccinate half its student body.

“We don’t expect to see anything like 80 or 90 percent of kids being vaccinated,” he said, “though if that happened, it would be great.”

Also on Friday, the World Health Organization said it would soon start shipping swine flu vaccine to 95 poor and middle-income countries.

About 200 million doses have been donated by from various countries and vaccine makers.

That will cover only 2 to 3 percent of the need, but the W.H.O.’s eventual goal is to provide enough vaccine for 10 percent of those countries’ populations.
990 2009-10-31 That move, which some viewed as a concession to China, angered critics already displeased with what they say was Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton’s failure to press human rights during a visit to China in February.

“Beijing is emboldened by such moves,” Ms. Tethong said. “They see a weakness in the U.S. government, and they’re going to exploit it. This idea that you’ll gain more through some backroom secret strategy does not work.”

Until now, the case of Mr. Wangchen, 35, has received little attention abroad. Uneducated and plainspoken, he was an itinerant businessman until October 2007, when he bought a small video camera and began traveling the Tibetan plateau interviewing monks, yak herders and students about their lives.

Tsetring Gyaljong, a cousin who helped him make the documentary, said that Mr. Wangchen’s political awareness was sharpened nearly a decade ago, when he witnessed a demonstration in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, that was quickly broken up by public security officers.

“He saw how it was dissolved in two or three minutes and how everyone was taken away,” said Mr. Gyaljong, speaking from Switzerland, where he has lived in exile since escaping from Tibet. “There were no pictures, no testimonies, and he felt like the world should know that Tibetans, despite the Chinese portrayals, are not a happy people.”

Out of 40 hours of footage and 108 interviews came “Leaving Fear Behind,” a 25-minute documentary that is an unadorned indictment of the Chinese government. Although given the choice to conceal their identities, most of his subjects spoke uncloaked and freely expressed their disdain for the Han Chinese migrants who are flooding the region and their love for the Dalai Lama, who has lived in exile since 1959.

In his own comments at the start of the film, Mr. Wangchen said the approach of the 2008 Olympics had compelled him to record the feelings of Tibetans, many of whom were less than enthusiastic about the decision to hold the Games in Beijing.

“We have no independence or freedom, so Tibetans have no reason to celebrate,” said one young woman standing by a road. “The Chinese have independence and freedom, so this is something they can celebrate.”

On March 10, 2008, Mr. Wangchen traveled to Xi’an in central China to hand over the tapes to Dechen Pemba, a British citizen who ferried them out of the country. That same day, a protest in Lhasa turned into a rampage that left at least 18 people dead, most of them Han Chinese.

On March 26, Mr. Wangchen and Golog Jigme, a Buddhist monk who helped him make the film, were arrested. Mr. Jigme was subsequently released.

“It really is a remarkable coincidence,” Ms. Pemba said.

Mr. Wangchen’s family hired a lawyer, but the authorities barred him from court last July, leaving Mr. Wangchen with a public defender.

Before he was forced to drop the case, the lawyer, Li Dunyong, said Mr. Wangchen had told him that he was tortured and that he had contracted hepatitis B while in custody. Since then, he has been held incommunicado. Officials at the Xining Intermediate Court in Qinghai Province, where Mr. Wangchen is being held, would not comment on his case.

Mr. Wangchen seemed acutely aware that his project could get him in trouble. Just before he began filming, he sent his wife and their four children to India, where they live along with his elderly parents.

In an interview from Dharamsala, where she works as a baker, Mr. Wangchen’s wife, Lhamo Tso, said she feared she might not see him again for many, many years.

“As a wife, I’m very sad to be without the person I love so much,” she said. “But if I can separate out that sadness, I feel proud because he made a courageous decision to give a voice to people who don’t have one.”
991 2009-10-31 Braunecker did the talking for Burnett last winter, persuading the Yankees to outbid the Atlanta Braves and pay $82.5 million over five years. The safer move would have been to let the Braves take Burnett and pursue Derek Lowe, who had been more durable and, unlike Burnett, had postseason experience.

The Yankees paid more than they expected for Burnett. But he was the pitcher they wanted more, assuming a greater risk for a greater reward.

“At the time A. J. and Derek Lowe were on the board, Derek Lowe was looking for a heck of a lot more than we were willing to give,” General Manager Brian Cashman said Friday. “It allowed us to focus solely on A. J., but that wasn’t the pressing factor.”

Cashman continued: “Our team wasn’t a good defensive team. Derek Lowe pitches to contact; A. J. Burnett led the American League in strikeouts. He keeps the ball out of play. C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett were among the major league leaders in strikeouts, so that was something that could make our whole team better. Allegedly, our range wasn’t good enough, and we just weren’t a good defensive team; or, at least, a lesser one. This was a way to improve our defense over all by keeping the ball out of our defense’s hands.”

Lowe, now 36, signed with the Braves for $60 million over four years, earning 15 wins but leading the National League in hits allowed, with 232. Burnett, now 32, had fewer victories (13) but a lot more strikeouts (195, to Lowe’s 111).

Power pitching is a source of pride for Burnett, who has magazine covers of Nolan Ryan and Dwight Gooden on the back wall of his locker. It served him well in Game 2. With the score tied, 1-1, in the fifth inning, Carlos Ruiz doubled with one out to bring up the leadoff man, Jimmy Rollins.

When they met in May at Yankee Stadium, Rollins ripped a first-pitch fastball for a homer, saying later he wanted no part of Burnett’s curve. With the Phillies needing a hit to regain the lead Thursday, Rollins fanned on the curveball to keep Ruiz where he was. Burnett allowed no more base runners through the seventh inning.

“When you can strike people out,” Burnett’s catcher, Jose Molina, said, “you can get out of a lot of jams.”

It was not Burnett’s first World Series in the Bronx. That came in 2003 with the Florida Marlins, but he was inactive after elbow surgery. Burnett’s teammate Carl Pavano was healthy then, and a year later he signed a four-year deal with the Yankees.

It was a boondoggle, of course, and given their Pavano headache, the Yankees could have easily shied from Burnett because of his 10 career trips to the disabled list. But Burnett made 33 starts this season, a figure he had reached just once in his first 10 seasons. He has held up, as Braunecker predicted at the winter meetings in Las Vegas in December.

“He’s at that point now where he’s finally figured out it’s a 162-game grind, and there are certain ways you have to go about maintaining yourself during the course of a season,” Braunecker said then. “He’s ready to be the anchor of a staff.”

Burnett has been so sturdy that the Yankees may ask him to pitch on short rest in Game 5 on Monday. Since only Sabathia, Burnett and Andy Pettitte have started for the Yankees this postseason, it would be mildly surprising if they entrusted a World Series start to Chad Gaudin, who has pitched one inning in four weeks.

“If I’m called on to do that, I’ll do that,” Burnett said after Game 2. “I’ve thrown on three days’ rest in the past. I’m a big fan of it. It was midseason when I did it, not October, but I feel strong right now and I’m up for anything, absolutely.”

If Burnett faces Lee that night, there will be one very ambivalent observer at Citizens Bank Park. Braunecker has considered the possibility of that matchup.

“Let’s put it this way: I’ll be sitting on my hands that day,” he told the Web site ArkansasSports360.com. “There won’t be a lot of cheering.”
992 2009-10-31 But even though the worst may be over for the economy, many investors now fear that any recovery will be slow and that the recent optimism in the markets may turn out to have been misplaced. Even after the decline on Friday, the broad market was still up nearly 15 percent this year.

“The market needs and demands to see evidence that things are getting better, not just that they may be getting better,” said Anthony Chan, chief economist for JPMorgan’s private wealth management. “We need to beat expectations before the markets raise eyebrows and say it’s safe to get back into the water.”

The Dow industrials fell 249.85 points, to 9,712.73. The S.& P. 500 was off 29.92 points, or 2.8 percent, to 1,036.18. The Nasdaq declined 52.44 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,045.11.

The day began with unsettling news from the Commerce Department. A report on consumer spending showed the largest drop in nine months, a dreary data point that met Wall Street expectations but reinforced the notion that the recovery of the United States economy would be slow and halting. The decline was tied to the end of the government’s cash-for-clunkers program, which gave car buyers thousands of dollars in vouchers for the purchase of new vehicles. Overall spending fell 0.5 percent in September, and personal income levels remained flat because of higher unemployment rates and decreases in wages.

Big banks like Citigroup, which have rallied strongly this year as the financial crisis receded, tumbled sharply. Banking shares fell nearly 5 percent. Shares of Citigroup dropped 22 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $4.09, after an analyst raised concerns that the company might have to write off a big portion of nearly $38 billion of tax benefits.

“People are concerned about the real earnings prospects of these companies,” said Meredith A. Whitney, a financial services analyst. “As you get closer to 2010, a recovery isn’t in sight.”

Investors fear banks’ losses on loans will continue to worsen, particularly if unemployment keeps rising. A report due next week is expected to show that the jobless rate might be close to 10 percent. Others worry how banks will make up lost revenue as Washington cracks down on credit card penalties and debit card overdraft fees.

Questions about the ability of Citigroup to take advantage of certain tax benefits have swirled around the company for months. Tax accounting experts say that federal securities regulators have demanded that financial companies start marking down the value of those benefits if their profit outlook remains dim.

Citigroup’s financial position would be weakened if it were forced to take a large write-down. Other tax issues have also imperiled Citigroup’s plans to repay $45 billion of bailout funds. A Citigroup spokesman played down the worries, but declined to comment on the bank’s plans.

As banks and other companies confront the realities of their balance sheets, investors are looking toward the holiday season and beyond for relief. But some say they think a market pullback is inevitable.

“The market is focusing on the glass is half empty,” said Scott E. Marcouiller, a senior equity market strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors in St. Louis. “We just need to let some of the air out of the balloon.”

As investors fled stocks, bond prices rose. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 31/32, to 102. The yield fell to 3.38 percent from 3.50 percent on Thursday.