1 2013-08-01 KISSIN--Claud W.,Passed away Saturday, July 6, at Bayshore Hospital, Holmdel, NJ. He was born in 1927 in London, England. He was the cherished grandfather to Michelle, Will, Jeremy and Sally and a loving father to Emily and Caroline. He will be de...
2 2013-08-01 Regulators are investigating Bank of America and Merrill Lynch as both companies try to move past the problems of the financial crisis....
3 2013-08-01 The New York Times’s staff scours the Web for important and peculiar items. Thursday’s selections include a story about a Japanese company that developed a way for phones to release scents based on certain actions and a long profile of Marissa...
4 2013-08-01 Prominent ads have appeared across the country over the last few weeks denouncing any possible incursion by Verizon....
5 2013-08-01 Early Ferrari convertibles are incredibly rare, and today even the replicas cut from real Ferrari sheet metal are climbing in value. But the replica crowd asserts that Maranello doesn’t like the competition....
6 2013-08-01 A new accounting Web site says it offers small businesses the same level of service that big businesses get, including help from a team of accountants and bookkeepers....
7 2013-08-01 Ford announced that it would offer natural gas-powered F-150s in 2014 and would also pay $17.4 million in federal fines over its recall for the Ford Escape....
8 2013-08-01 A large study finds further evidence that anemia — a common condition in the elderly — increases the risk for dementia....
9 2013-08-01 Depending on timing, there could be competition for investor demand between two British banks as both weigh share sales....
10 2013-08-01 Learn more about The Renaissance by playing our crossword, either online or in print....
11 2013-08-01 A year after Facebook’s initial public stock sale, its shares briefly crossed an important psychological barrier, trading for the first time above $38 a share....
12 2013-08-01 The French bank Société Générale reported that second-quarter profit more than doubled, to $1.26 billion, buoyed by a strong performance in its investment and corporate banking unit....
13 2013-08-01 All singles players at the United States Open are getting a big raise this year, from the record $2.6 million each champion will take home to the $32,000 for everyone who loses in the first round. The United States Tennis Association announced the breakdown of its across-the-board prize money overhaul four months after saying it would add more than $8 million to the pool. The total payout, including per diems for players, will be $34.3 million, up from $25.5 million in 2012.

■ Martina Hingis won in her return to the WTA Tour, teaming with Daniela Hantuchova for a 6-1, 6-1 win over Julia Goerges and Darija Jurak in the Southern California Open.
14 2013-08-01 Mukhtar Ablyazov, a Kazakh businessman accused of embezzling $6 billion from BTA, a bank he once controlled, has been arrested near Cannes in southern France, a police official said. A court hearing was scheduled for Thursday. Mr. Ablyazov fled Britain last year after a judge sentenced him to 22 months in prison for contempt of court; he had been in hiding since then. Mr. Ablyazov, an entrepreneur and former Kazakh government minister, fled Kazakhstan in 2009 after BTA was seized by the government and declared insolvent. He was granted political asylum in Britain in 2011. The bank, controlled by Kazakhstan’s sovereign wealth fund, has brought 11 fraud charges against Mr. Ablyazoy in a complex legal battle; to date, the bank has won court approval to seize $3.7 billion of his assets. He has denied any wrongdoing.
15 2013-08-01 United Nations officials said Wednesday that experts from the organization would go to Syria as soon as possible to investigate three clashes in which chemical weapons are suspected of having been used. An agency spokesman, Martin Nesirky, said approval for the inquiry came after a visit last week to Damascus, the capital, by the United Nations’ disarmament chief, Angela Kane, and the head of the chemical weapons investigation team, Ake Sellstrom. Mr. Nesirky cited an “understanding reached with the government of Syria.” One of the towns the investigators will visit is Khan al-Assal, where the government and rebels blame each other for a suspected chemical attack in March that killed at least 30 people.
16 2013-08-01 A federal district judge in Dallas, in a surprise turnaround from an earlier opinion, on Wednesday dismissed a lawsuit by immigration enforcement agents seeking to halt an Obama administration program that gives reprieves from deportation to young undocumented immigrants.

In a short, technical ruling, Judge Reed O’Connor concluded that his court did not have jurisdiction to decide the suit, which was brought against Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, because it was an administrative dispute between federal employees and the government.

The outcome was unexpected because Judge O’Connor, in an unusual preliminary decision in April, had said he agreed with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents that the deportation deferral program and a broader policy behind it were in violation of federal law.

In his ruling on Wednesday, the judge repeated that finding, which had awakened the hopes of the agents, saying that even though the case would not proceed, he concluded that they had been “likely to succeed on the merits of their claim that the Department of Homeland Security has implemented a program contrary to Congressional mandate.”

The final ruling was still a setback for groups advocating a hard line on immigration enforcement and opposing legislation before Congress to legalize immigrants here illegally. The lawsuit was brought by Chris Crane, an officer who leads the union of enforcement agents. He has been a favorite witness of conservatives in hearings in Washington this year, because of his sharp criticism of the Obama administration’s enforcement record.
17 2013-08-01 “Most folks are for having equal opportunity, having good schools for everyone,” said Patrick J. Flavin, an assistant professor of political science at Baylor University who recently wrote a report on the black-white achievement gap in schools. “We’re all about that in the abstract. You start to see support levels drop when it turns into a real-life thing.”

In 2010, nearly three out of four black students and four out of five Latino students in the United States attended schools made up mostly of minority students, according to a report published last year by the Civil Rights Project at the University of California, Los Angeles.

More than half of the 28 public school districts — excluding charter and specialty districts — in the city of St. Louis, St. Louis County and St. Charles County combined are at least 75 percent black or white. Of the nine districts that are at least three-quarters white, all but one scored a perfect 14 on the state’s performance rating scale. The six mostly black districts scored an average of 7.

Racial segregation has lingered in this region, the result of generations of discriminatory zoning and real estate practices. Efforts to reverse it have included a court-ordered program that has been busing thousands of black St. Louis students to mostly white suburban schools since the early 1980s.

The separate transfer law, which the Legislature passed two decades ago, did not directly target segregation, but it addresses the issue in practice. Unaccredited districts, so classified based on a state performance formula, must designate a district to which they will send students wishing to transfer. Parents may choose to send their children to a different accredited district, but then they will be responsible for their own transportation.

The transfer law was invoked several years back when Normandy, which is 97 percent black, took in students from another predominantly black district that eventually dissolved. Supporters of the law noted that there was no outcry when students from that mostly black district were transferring to Normandy, which at that time had been accredited.

Normandy, Riverview Gardens and the Kansas City Public Schools are currently the state’s only unaccredited districts. Those districts will remain responsible for paying for students who have transferred.

“I think they’re already killing schools like ours indirectly because they’re taking the resources,” Ty McNichols, the Normandy superintendent, said of the law. “It’s going to negatively impact us because of the financial side.”

Educators and parents also argue that the law could leave students facing instability because they would have to return to their home district if schools regained their accreditation.

Many administrators and parents raised concerns of crowded classes and of teachers having to slow down to allow students from struggling districts to catch up. Some school districts are setting class-size policies, but it is unclear whether they would legally be able to refuse transfer students even if they reach the capacity they set.

Normandy and Riverview Gardens, also in St. Louis County, have each received transfer requests from about 1,000 students. Riverview Gardens administrators chose a second district, Kirkwood, to bus their students to, because their first choice, Mehlville, said it could not accommodate all of the transfers.

Some parents have criticized the law for not giving taxpayers a say in what happens in their own districts and accused the state of abandoning the unaccredited districts instead of working to improve them.

“We have been made like we’re going to stand on the steps the first day of school and spit on them,” said Andrea Stopke, 35, who has three children at Francis Howell and started an online petition to change the transfer law. “That’s not the case. We are going to welcome these kids and we’re going to help them. But because we’re doing that it doesn’t mean that something doesn’t need to be done to fix it.”

For decades, St. Louis’s urban population has been dwindling, often because parents seek better schools for their children in the suburbs. That was the case for many parents in the Francis Howell district, who insisted that their opposition had nothing to do with race, but with school performance data and news reports that painted Normandy as the state’s most dangerous district.

“I think that any time you disturb a culture — you’re bringing in a variable that is unknown — I think it has the ability to create some unrest because you don’t know how the variable’s going to play out in the culture you already have,” said Pam Sloan, the Francis Howell superintendent.

But some Francis Howell parents have said that the transfer students could bring much-needed diversity to their district, and some argued that concerns were overblown because the transfer program would attract mostly good students.

“I don’t really see gang-related kids busing themselves an hour to go to St. Charles to sell drugs and pick fights,” Chris Mellor, 45, who has three children in the Francis Howell district, said as he stood on the deck of a pool in his subdivision of multistory brick-and-siding houses.

But Joseph Zakrzewski, 51, who has one child in the Francis Howell district and another who recently graduated, said he thought that some “troublemakers” would be among the transfers, and that Normandy students might struggle to keep pace academically.

“Their A and B kids are probably going to be our C and D kids,” he said.

For Patrice McHaskell, who is black, the decision to transfer four of her children from the Normandy district to the Francis Howell district was personal. From fifth grade through high school, she rode about an hour on a bus each morning from her north St. Louis home to a mostly white suburban district.

The experience, she explained, was life-changing. Ms. McHaskell, 39, said she even became friends with a boy who was part of a racist group called the Skullheads. They bonded in shop class, collaborating on a project to build a bench and a birdhouse.

“Having that, being able to have the diversity, being around different cultures and everything,” she said, “has taught me how to handle the world.”
18 2013-08-01 Federal civil rights officials reached an important settlement late last month with a California school district accused of discriminating against a transgender student by denying him equal access to educational programs and activities. Under the agreement, the Arcadia Unified School District in California will revise its policies and ensure that the student, who was born female but has since assumed a male name and identity, is treated fairly and like other male students. The agreement should be required reading for school officials at all levels nationally.

The case involved a child who was anatomically female but began to identify as a boy at an early age, assuming a male first name and wearing boys’ clothes. By the end of fifth grade, the student’s classmates accepted the transformation, but the school district would not let the matter go. Despite warnings from experts that the student should be treated as a boy in all settings, school officials singled him out in ways that brought unwanted attention and made the gender transformation much more difficult. He was given a separate dressing area for physical education class — which isolated him from friends — and assigned to a distant, cross-campus restroom, the use of which required him to miss class time.

On a camping trip in 2011, the social highlight of the seventh-grade year, the school district refused to let the student sleep in a cabin with male friends, some of whom knew his history, even though the friends had requested him as a cabin mate. He was forced instead to stay in a separate cabin with one of his parents, which both he and his parents found disheartening.

Just before the trip, his parents filed civil rights complaints with the Justice Department and the Department of Education. As the investigation progressed, the district agreed to make sure the student had access to facilities designated for male students at all district-sponsored activities and to revise its antidiscrimination policies so as to prohibit gender-based discrimination.

The agreement ends a painful episode for the student and his family. It may also be the beginning of a more welcoming future for transgender students.
19 2013-08-01 In SoHo relocation news, Curve is moving this week from 83 Mercer Street to a gallerylike space three times the size north of Houston, at 57 Bond Street. There you’ll find some of the owner Nevena Borisova’s current favorites: the Aussie labels Dion Lee and Ellery, Current/Elliott leather baggies ($655) and Karlie Kloss’s ultralong and lean Frame skinnies ($180). ... Sam Buffa, the founder of the Lower East Side grooming concept store F.S.C. Barber, has opened an 800-square-foot barbershop and apothecary space, Fellow Barber, at 33 Crosby Street in SoHo. Drop in for a straight razor shave ($40) or pick up tools like an Edwin Jagger Chatsworth Barley double-edge safety razor ($150).

Stella McCartney has a new Falabella messenger bag in navy shaggy deer with gold chain hardware ($1,495), exclusive to the designer’s stores and named for her favorite breed of horses. At 112 Greene Street. ... The men’s specialty knitwear label Orley, known for its brilliant colors, has done a pullover in crimson and olive ($555) for Carson Street Clothiers at 63 Crosby Street. ... The handbag line Fairchild Baldwin has gone soft, with Italian leather mini-totes ($295) in shades like papyrus, plaster and pistachio for the pastel dress specialist Calypso St. Barth. At 21 Newtown Lane, East Hampton, N.Y. ... Other arrivals include Opening Ceremony grunge mirror oxfords ($390), at 35 Howard Street; and Illesteva mirrored round frames ($220), which are available at the eyewear label’s trunk show at Bergdorf Goodman through Sunday.

On Thursday and Friday, Wes Gordon is holding his first public sample sale featuring looks from his last two seasons, like a Prussian blue-and-bone stripe organdy maxiskirt ($450) and a citron silk georgette racer-front tank ($100), up to 85 percent off. At 64 North Moore Street. ... Figure & Form, a new e-commerce site focused on thoughtfully selected contemporary designer and vintage clothing and accessories by two former Bullett magazine staff members, Alexandra Weiner and Janice Chou, is having a 50 percent-off sale. Look for pieces like a Timo Weiland gray-and-yellow print dress ($262) and a Priory of Ten white peplum tank top ($148.50), through Aug. 12 with the promo code midsummersale.
20 2013-08-01 Anthony R. Ingraffea’s most recent attack on natural gas (“Gangplank to a Warm Future,” Op-Ed, July 29) is based on flawed research.

As Mr. Ingraffea hangs onto his 2011 paper’s assertions about methane controls, science has emerged and passed him by. He conveniently does not mention the Environmental Protection Agency’s latest Greenhouse Gas Inventory, released in April of this year, which confirms that natural gas production-related methane emissions have actually declined as shale production skyrocketed.

The E.P.A. revised its previous estimates of methane emissions from natural gas systems to reflect that certain emissions-reducing technologies, specifically a process known as green completions, are far more widely used than previously understood.

Our industry is driven by continuous improvement and technological advancements that further reduce the relatively minimal, short-term environmental footprint associated with safe, tightly regulated natural gas development.

On top of that, the increased use of clean-burning natural gas is proving critical in enhancing air quality in the Northeast and across the nation. Independent scientists around the world recognize these facts.
21 2013-08-01 “Historians Seek a Delay in Posting Dissertations” (Media, July 29), about the American Historical Association’s statement on embargoing of dissertations, misses a key nexus of concerns.

History dissertations include citations to archival discoveries. These finds are an original contribution to knowledge and are not only what academic publishers seek, but also the “commodity” that allows a young historian a career in the field.

Graduate students sacrifice to make those archival finds: they win tiny fellowships to work in archives, often living in impoverished conditions. If their universities put their dissertations online, what’s to stop someone who lives closer to those archives from taking those hard-won citations, adding a few more and publishing the ideas under his or her name?

What’s to stop a scholar in Asia or Europe, under pressure now to publish in English, from copying a chapter and publishing it under his own name?

Once a young scholar’s research is taken and published by someone else, he no longer has an original contribution that a university press will accept for publication, and he no longer has the prospect of a career.

I strongly support the protection of the intellectual achievements of graduate students and approve of the American Historical Association’s statement.
22 2013-08-01 I was gratified indeed to read Miles Hoffman’s elucidation on the word “crescendo.” But he did not suggest a reason for the pervasiveness of the misuse.

I’m certain that it’s because the sound of the word so felicitously evokes the crashing of cymbals: “the crash at the end-o.”

The writer, a daughter of Leonard Bernstein, writes and talks about classical music.

It is daunting to challenge God, Bach, Mozart, Beethoven and Miles Hoffman all at once, but I am disappointed by Mr. Hoffman’s article. “To reach a crescendo” is an idiom. Idioms are suited for neither syntactical analysis nor literal interpretation. I hope no one chides me for inconsistent metrics when I say it’s six of one and half a dozen of the other.

More broadly, the point of language is to convey meaning. I doubt that any of the sentences by the famous authors that Mr. Hoffman mentions are rendered opaque by including the “crescendo” idiom. They may indeed be clearer or more powerful because of the metaphor. I think that I’ll stick with Fitzgerald.
23 2013-08-01 If Park wins this week, Whan said, it will be “one of the greatest accomplishments in modern sports.” She then would proceed to France, he said, with a “Super Slam” in play, making the Evian Championship sound like an extra class and Park a conscientious go-getter aiming for Advanced Placement honors in golf.

The Merriam-Webster definition of grand slam is “a clean sweep or total success.” In sports, the term originated in card games like bridge, in which, since the 19th century, a grand slam has meant taking all 13 tricks. According to the Dickson Baseball Dictionary, grand slam was first used to describe a home run with the bases loaded in 1929. The term gained popularity in golf and tennis during the 1930s, when the American golfer Bobby Jones won the United States Open, the British Open, the United States Amateur and the British Amateur in 1930, and the American tennis star Don Budge won the Australian championship, the French championship, the United States championship and Wimbledon in 1938.

Rugby union might provide the most relevant example. A Grand Slam used to be four victories: when a team in the Five Nations Championship defeated the other four teams during the annual competition. When the event became the Six Nations Championship in 2000, a Grand Slam became five victories.

Park, 25, is carving out a new frontier in golf, attempting to go where Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Tiger Woods and Annika Sorenstam never trod. With her victories at the Kraft Nabisco Championship, the L.P.G.A. Championship and the United States Women’s Open, Park became the first player on the L.P.G.A. Tour since Babe Zaharias in 1950 to win the first three majors of the year.

A Park victory Sunday would be the most attention-grabbing moment in women’s golf since Sorenstam tested her game against the men at the Colonial tournament in 2003. But as so often happens with the women’s game, the focus is not where it ought to be.

With no clear finish line, how are fans and observers supposed to know when it is time to cheer Park home? Is the modern pentathlon competitor awarded the Olympic gold medal before the results of her target shooting are known?

“Whenever you win four majors in a row, I think it doesn’t really matter what you call it; it’s impressive,” said the American golfer Paula Creamer, who did not see the addition of a fifth major this year as bad timing for Park or the tour.

“Who is going to say that Inbee was going to win or somebody was going to win three majors in a row?” Creamer said. “You can never predict that.”

In an interview in 2011 with Golf World, Whan acknowledged that he was not always an advocate of adding a fifth major.

“If you had asked me before I was commissioner if I thought five majors was a good idea, I would have said no,” he said.

He warmed to the idea when he thought of the spotlight that would shine on the women for one extra week every year. Never mind that the Evian Championship will take place during the second week of the N.F.L. season, the third week of the college football season, the baseball pennant races and the PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup playoffs.

The women’s majors have always been fluid in name and number. As recently as 1978, only two events were considered majors. At one time or another, the Western Open, the Titleholders and the duMaurier Classic were designated as major championships. The Women’s British Open was not labeled a major until 2001.

In men’s golf, the tournaments forming the Grand Slam — the Masters, the United States Open, the British Open and the P.G.A. Championship — have been together on the tour schedule since 1934. The only change in the last 50 years has been that the top Americans, following Palmer’s lead, have incorporated the British Open into their plans.

Leave it to Park to see through the noise. Grand Slam, Inbee Slam or Super Slam, Park is not getting stuck on semantics.

“I don’t try to put so much pressure on myself to win this week,” she said, adding, “Just the fact that I could have this kind of opportunity is very special.”
24 2013-08-01 “We believe these actions will result in even higher customer satisfaction and a strengthened level of trust.”

The settlement comes after a yearlong investigation, known as Operation Swill, found 29 establishments trying to pass off cheap drinks for premium-label liquor.

“It is a slap in the face of the consumer,” Jeffrey S. Chiesa, the former attorney general who has been appointed to the United States Senate, said in May. “The consumer should have the peace of mind to know that when they pay for something, they get exactly what they paid for, no exceptions.”

The eight T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants included in the settlement are in West Orange, East Windsor, Old Bridge, Piscataway, Freehold, Marlboro, Hazlet and Linden. The other 21 establishments remain under investigation, the authorities said.

Michael Halfacre, the director of the state’s Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control, said that while it received a number of complaints about liquor-switching every year, they were hard to investigate because of the fleeting nature of the offense.

“Evidence of the crime is nearly impossible to collect after the fact,” he said. The investigation, which involved about 100 investigators, began because of information from confidential informers and consumer complaints, according to the authorities.

In this case, investigators — ordering their drinks “neat,” with no ice or mixers — took 150 samples from 63 licensed bars.

They tested the samples in a device called the True Spirit Authenticator, which is manufactured in Britain and was recently made available on the commercial market. Mr. Halfacre said he believed it was the first time the machine has been used in an investigation in the United States. Samples were also sent to brand manufacturers, where more tests were conducted.

In all, 30 of the 150 samples were not what they purported to be. In most cases, cheaper brands were used instead of high-end labels like Bombay Sapphire gin. For customers of the T.G.I. Friday’s in West Orange, the news of both the deception and the settlement was greeted with a certain resignation. “Whiskey is whiskey, right?” said Johnny Guzman, 29, over his lunch at the bar. “Especially when you mix it with another drink.” If you come late at night, he said, “I think you expect drinks to be a little watered down.”

Roy Winfield, 69, a regular who likes to drink Seagram’s V.O. whiskey with his burger and fries, said he does not think he was one of those who had been duped.

“I drink straight whiskey, so I know what they’re giving me,” he said. “The people are dopey that order high-end whiskeys and mix them. Inexperienced drinkers do that. Or people who want to show off.”
25 2013-08-01 Although the jury initially returned a 9-to-3 verdict supporting Mr. Ware — nine votes being the threshold for a verdict — Judge William F. Coleman publicly polled the jurors and revealed an 8-to-4 split. A written poll later conducted in secret affirmed the 8-to-4 division, prompting the judge to declare a mistrial.

Judge Coleman, a retired jurist who was appointed by the State Supreme Court to referee the dispute, will consider a motion on Friday from Mr. Ware’s lawyers that could prompt a special election or a new trial.

“It’s just awful,” said Andy Taggart, a former gubernatorial aide who is the co-author of a book about Mississippi politics and one of Mr. Ware’s supporters. “Everybody on both sides would agree with that premise. The angst of not knowing is a bad situation.”

The clash has rekindled discussions about racial discrimination in Mississippi, which has tried in recent years to distance itself from its Jim Crow legacy.

“We try to avoid raising the racial issue, but it’s there. You can’t ignore it,” said Clarence Magee, the president of the Forrest County branch of the N.A.A.C.P. “I think it’s a factor, and I think it will always be a factor because we are in Hattiesburg, Miss.”

Mr. Magee also accused Mr. Ware of being insensitive to the city’s black voters during the campaign and said that “the African-American community has so much at stake and so much to lose if Mr. Ware prevails.”

But Mr. Ware’s campaign manager, David Morris, said accusations that Mr. Ware’s supporters sought to marginalize black voters were baseless.

“At no point was our campaign ever about exclusion,” Mr. Morris said. “It was about exactly the opposite.”

Marija Bekafigo, a political scientist at the University of Southern Mississippi, in Hattiesburg, said she believed that Mr. Ware had constructed a coalition that included both former supporters of Mr. DuPree’s and many black voters.

“He had black supporters right behind him, who were clearly there in the courtroom supporting him,” said Dr. Bekafigo, who attended the trial.

Hattiesburg is not the only Mississippi city mired in an electoral dispute. A judge recently ordered Canton to conduct a new election after allegations of voter intimidation in a race that was decided by only four votes.
26 2013-08-01 LOS ANGELES — Glass half full: The cave people of “The Croods” came through for DreamWorks Animation in the second quarter, as strong ticket sales for that movie raised the company’s profit by 73 percent, to $22.2 million.

Glass half empty: The studio’s financial results are still being whipsawed quarter to quarter, and the underperforming “Turbo” is likely to cause headaches in the period ahead.

“The film’s soft opening is a clear result of an overly saturated marketplace and a difficult release date,” Jeffrey Katzenberg, the company’s chief executive, said of “Turbo,” which has taken in about $102 million worldwide after two weeks.

Mr. Katzenberg added, “Based on the data that we have to date, we do believe that ‘Turbo’ will be a profitable film for us.”

For the quarter, which ended on June 30, DreamWorks Animation reported net income of $22.2 million, or 26 cents a share, up from $12.8 million, or 15 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier. Analysts had been expecting 20 cents a share.

Revenue jumped to $213.4 million from $162.8 million, driven by $584 million in global ticket sales for “The Croods” and stronger-than-expected DVD sales of “Rise of the Guardians.” Shares of DreamWorks Animation rose more than 5 percent in after-hours trading, to about $26.
27 2013-08-01 In addition to Mr. Pataki, the jury cleared two other defendants of liability: Glenn S. Goord, the former correctional services commissioner, and Eileen Consilvio, the former executive director of the Manhattan Psychiatric Center, where the plaintiffs were held.

A fourth defendant, Sharon Carpinello, the former commissioner of the State Office of Mental Health, was found liable, but the jury assessed damages of only $1 per plaintiff. The jury had been told to award nominal damages if it found liability against a defendant but concluded a plaintiff had not suffered any injury.

Mr. Pataki, who was not in court when the verdict was read, said later, “In general, I believe the jury understood that our initiatives were aimed at treating violent criminals as violent criminals, while respecting the Constitution and the rule of law.

“I think the fact they found one defendant liable for $1 sends a clear message that the state acted properly, and that these plaintiffs were not entitled to any real damages based on a technical mistake.”

Dr. Carpinello, who broke into tears as the verdict on her was delivered, said after the proceeding that she was “certainly not happy” at being held liable, but that the nominal damages was “a huge statement from the jury.”

Members of the seven-woman, one-man jury would not offer any substantive comments after the verdict, although two jurors said the group was split as deliberations began late on Monday.

“We had differing opinions but we were able to resolve them amicably,” one female juror said.

A lawyer for the plaintiffs, Ameer Benno, said after the proceeding, “The evidence supported, certainly, a finding of liability on the part of Governor Pataki” and the other defendants.

In their closing arguments, Mr. Pataki’s lawyer, Abbe D. Lowell, and Rebecca A. Durden, a lawyer with the New York attorney general’s office, which represented the three other defendants, highlighted the plaintiffs’ sordid records: one had been convicted of sodomizing his 9-year-old daughter and also accused of abusing more than 20 other children. Another plaintiff had sexually abused a 5-year-old girl in a house he was burglarizing.

Ms. Durden also argued that if the initiative was intended to make sure every inmate convicted of a sex crime wound up in a state psychiatric hospital, “please ask yourself why the overwhelming majority of those who were evaluated were set free.”

Mr. Pataki, a Republican who was governor for three terms, testified during the trial that he asked his staff in 2005 to put the sexually violent predator initiative into effect after he had failed repeatedly over the years to win legislative approval for such a policy.

He said he had been influenced by, among other things, the fatal 2005 stabbing of a woman by a convicted sex offender in a parking garage in White Plains, and an experience years earlier when he and his family were accosted while hiking in a state park by a man they later learned was a sex offender. “It just made me personally aware not just of the horrors of these crimes,” he told the jury, “but the immediacy of the possibility.”
28 2013-08-01 The Pentagon did not respond to a request for comment. Israel has a longstanding policy of silence on pre-emptive military strikes.

Another factor that could lead to a military response by Israel is the continuing flow of weapons to the Assad government, some of which Israel fears may make its way to Hezbollah in neighboring Lebanon.

Russia, American officials say, recently sent SA-26 antiaircraft missiles to Syria, and it is also believed to be sending technical experts to help set up the system.

The Russians have also recently delivered two refurbished Mi-24 Hind helicopters to the Russian naval base at Tartus, Syria, for use by the Syrian military.

Russian officials have insisted that they are merely fulfilling old weapons contracts. But even the old contracts have involved the transfer of sophisticated arms.

In addition, American officials say that the transfer of Yakhont missiles to Hezbollah by Syria would violate an “end user agreement” that the Russian missiles would not be provided to third parties.

The July 5 attack near Latakia was the fourth known Israeli airstrike in Syria this year.

Providing new details, American officials said that it had been carried out by Israeli aircraft that flew over the eastern Mediterranean, fired air-to-ground missiles and never entered Syrian airspace. The route of the Israeli aircraft led to some erroneous reports that the attack had been carried out by an Israeli submarine.

In addition to targeting the Yakhont missiles, Israel carried out an airstrike in late January aimed at another system provided by Russia: a convoy of SA-17 surface-to-air missiles that Israeli officials believed were destined for Hezbollah.

Iran’s arms shipments are also a concern for the Israelis.

In May, Israeli warplanes conducted two days of airstrikes that targeted, among other things, a shipment of Fateh-110 missiles — mobile surface-to-surface missiles that had been provided by Iran and flown to Damascus, Syria, on transport planes that passed through Iraqi airspace.

The Fateh-110 missiles, which the Israelis feared were also intended for Hezbollah, have the range to strike Tel Aviv and much of Israel from southern Lebanon.

Iran has sent members of its paramilitary Quds force into Syria, under the supervision of Maj. Gen. Hossein Hamdani, a senior officer of the force who is in charge of operations in Syria and oversees Iran’s arms shipments to Hezbollah, according to American intelligence officials. Hezbollah’s attempt to acquire weapons is supervised by Shaykh Salah, a senior official in charge of the militia’s operations in Lebanon, according to American officials.

Iran has also pressed Iraqi Shiites to join the fight in Syria in support of the Assad government. That includes about 200 members of the Badr Corps, Iraqis who were supported by Iran during Tehran’s long war against Saddam Hussein, and who later returned to Iraq after he was ousted from power, American officials say.

The support of Iran and Hezbollah for the Assad government, and Israel’s military interventions, reflects how the conflict has drawn in outside powers.

Both Saudi Arabia and Qatar have been arming the Syrian rebels, and Congress recently dropped objections to a proposal by President Obama to provide training and light arms to them.
29 2013-08-01 Even as Americans expressed increasing concerns about government intrusions into their life in a recently released Pew Research Center study, they have hardly embraced those who decide to take matters into their own hands.

Leakers, often lionized by members of the press, face an indifferent and sometimes antagonistic public.

On Tuesday, when Pfc. Bradley Manning was acquitted of aiding the enemy and convicted of six counts of violating the Espionage Act, a few dozen protesters showed up on his behalf. There has been an outcry from civil libertarians and privacy advocates, but in general, his decision to unilaterally release hundreds of thousands of sensitive documents did not make him a folk hero or a cause célèbre in the broader culture.

Edward Snowden, the former National Security Agency employee, also released a trove of documents, including ones revealed on Wednesday in The Guardian that suggested that security analysts are able to search through e-mails, chats and browsing history without judicial authorization. Even though many people are glad to learn that, Mr. Snowden remains very much on his own in the Moscow airport — stateless, isolated and frozen in place for the time being.

In some respects, Mr. Snowden and Private Manning were performing a quintessentially American act: lone individuals taking on larger forces. But whistle-blowing has always been fraught with peril; one person’s heroic crusade is another’s betrayal of loyalty. In the case of both Mr. Snowden and Private Manning, each became an army of one, reasoning that there was a moral imperative to rendering secrets visible, acting on behalf of a public that he believed deserved to know more. But some Americans don’t seem ready to embrace this version of informational cowboy.
30 2013-08-01 These days, Wall Street sees revenue potential everywhere — from soon-to-come video ads in the Facebook news feed to the expansion of high-dollar ads targeted to specific swaths of Facebook users.

“Facebook was caught flat-footed by the shift to mobile,” said Mark S. Mahaney, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. Now, he said, “they appear to be set up as a sustainable, high-growth business.”

Still, there are reasons to be concerned. Mobile messaging platforms like Snapchat and WhatsApp are grabbing the attention of many of Facebook’s younger users. Twitter is mounting a major effort to go after marketers, especially brands that typically advertise on television, as it prepares for its own likely public offering.

And Facebook risks turning off users with too many ads. About 1 in 20 items in the news feed, the main flow of items that a Facebook user sees, is an ad. During the company’s quarterly conference call with analysts, Facebook’s co-founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said that users were beginning to notice the number of ads, suggesting that the company could not greatly increase their frequency without losing some users.

Nate Elliott, a principal analyst with Forrester Research, said Facebook users who visit the site on a computer’s browser still see too many cheap, poorly targeted ads on the right side of the page. “They’ve got to get much better at targeting,” he said.

Despite these worries, investors’ views of the company’s prospects have clearly changed.

Mr. Mahaney, whose firm has a $40 price target on the Facebook stock, said that analysts across Wall Street had increased their projections of the company’s financial performance. Analysts now expect Facebook to increase its profits 30 to 35 percent a year through 2015.

Because stocks tend to trade as a multiple of a company’s future profits, those upgrades last week sent Facebook’s stock soaring.

Facebook officials declined to comment on the stock rise on Wednesday. But for the company’s executives, who had urged investors to be patient as their strategy played out, the surge surely offers some vindication.

The company raised $16 billion from the initial public offering on May 18, 2012, vaulting it into the big leagues of American stocks, but problems struck immediately. The Nasdaq stock exchange botched the handling of buy and sell orders on the first day of trading — so badly, in fact, that regulators eventually fined Nasdaq $10 million for the fiasco.

In ensuing weeks, Facebook shares continued to fall. Instead of pouring into the stock, as they did a decade earlier with Google, many investors questioned whether Facebook’s stock was overpriced at $38 a share.

Particularly worrisome was Facebook’s seemingly nonexistent mobile strategy just as Internet users were abandoning PCs for their smartphones. The company’s smartphone and iPad applications were clunky, and it was generating no revenue from mobile ads.

Facebook’s management, including Mr. Zuckerberg, recognized the problem and began a crash course to revamp the company’s approach to mobile and better position the company for fast-growing emerging markets.

The company overhauled its apps, introduced ads into its users’ news feeds, and created a new category of revenue called app-install ads. With the app-install ads, a game maker, for example, can promote its new game in Facebook’s mobile software and give users an easy way to install the app with just a couple of clicks.

Facebook also introduced new advertising products meant to give marketers more ways to target specific groups of customers, which allowed the service to charge higher advertising rates.

While mobile advertising continues to grow, and was about 41 percent of Facebook’s ad revenue in the second quarter, investors are also looking to new areas of potential profit growth. Those include video advertising in the news feed, which is expected to begin later this year, and the possible sale of ads in Instagram, the fast-growing photo and video-sharing app that Facebook bought in 2012.

“All of those seem like relatively large low-hanging fruit, and they are starting to go after them,” Mr. Mahaney said.
31 2013-08-01 Professor Stocking described his objective as redefining the accepted view of anthropology’s “origin story,” one centered on Tylor as a foundational theorist. Tylor is considered to have been the first to define the word “culture” in the modern sense: as a set of knowledge, customs and values that all people acquire from their native environments, whether England or Polynesia.

“Race, Culture and Evolution” profiled Tylor, Boas and others who had professionalized a field that had long been dominated by gentleman amateurs and missionaries. The book traced the ideological fault lines among 19th-century practitioners of anthropology and asserted that Tylor’s standing did not bear a close reading of his work.

Though Tylor acknowledged the existence of many human cultures, and refuted early anthropologists who called dark-skinned people savages of another species, he acknowledged only one cultural ideal, believing that “less civilized” people should accept guidance from more civilized ones, Professor Stocking wrote.

He quoted Tylor from his canonical 1871 text, “Primitive Culture,” “The civilized man is not only wiser and more capable than the savage, but also better and happier.”

Professor Stocking and others linked the widespread scientific acceptance of such ideas to the brutalities of 19th century colonialism, the annihilation of American Indians and other purported mass “civilizing” campaigns.

For Professor Stocking, a genuinely science-based approach to the study of human culture was embodied by Boas, a trained physicist who studied American Indian tribes in the Pacific Northwest and later debunked theories linking race with culture and intelligence. He challenged race’s standing as a legitimate scientific concept, calling it “less a biological fact than a social myth.”

Professor Stocking’s essays on Boas, and a book he edited, “The Shaping of American Anthropology, 1883-1911: A Franz Boas Reader” (1974), were instrumental in reviving interest in Boas among a generation that had not been born when Boas died in 1942.

“Boas had an agenda: to rid anthropology of racism,” said Paul A. Erickson, a professor of anthropology at St. Mary’s University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and an author, with Liam D. Murphy, of “A History of Anthropological Theory,” a standard text. Professor Stocking’s work, he said, had revived interest in that agenda as well.

George Ward Stocking Jr. was born on Dec. 8, 1928, in Berlin to George and Dorothe Reichard Stocking. His father, a professor of economics at the University of Texas at Austin, was conducting research in Germany at the time. George Jr. was raised mainly in Austin. He attended Harvard, where he became active in radical political movements and joined the Communist Party. After graduating in 1949, he was a labor organizer and factory worker.

He left the party in 1956 and received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania with a degree in American studies. He later acknowledged that with his ties to the Communist Party during those cold war years, he would never have been hired as an instructor at the University of California, Berkeley, if not for his father’s prominence as an economist and adviser to presidents.

Besides his daughter Ms. Baltrushes, Professor Stocking is survived by his wife, Carol Ann Bowman; three other daughters, Rebecca and Rachel Stocking and Melissa Stocking Robinson; a son, Thomas; two sisters, Sybil Winterburn and Cynthia Peck; 10 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

In a semi-autobiography, “Glimpses Into My Own Black Box,” published in 2010, Professor Stocking turned on himself the same unblinking gaze he had trained on the history of anthropology. The book, an account of his youth and family ancestry, amounts to an ethno-historical description of upper-middle-class life at the end of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th.

The seven years he spent as a Communist, Professor Stocking wrote, taught him the habit of “self-criticism,” which made him “suspicious of master narratives” and open to studying, in effect, the narratives of people who study others’ narratives.

“I have always felt myself ultimately an outsider to the anthropological tribe,” he wrote.
32 2013-08-02 A federal judge has dismissed a libel complaint against The New Yorker magazine for an article it published about a forensic art expert....
33 2013-08-02 The financial sector, hard hit in the financial crisis, continued a comeback in July, adding 15,000 jobs, including 6,000 in the securities industry....
34 2013-08-02 After the United States government won an antitrust suit against Apple, it now wants to discipline Apple in other markets where it does business, like movies and music....
35 2013-08-02 A Toyota subsidiary in charge of melting down old catalytic converters is suing a California-based auto salvage company for selling it fake catalytic converters....
36 2013-08-02 Additionally, brew pubs, which had been restricted to selling only at the brew pub, can now sell to distributors.

“In the old model, there were significant start-up costs because you had to hit certain production levels,” said Charles Vallhonrat, the executive director of the Texas Craft Brewers Guild. But the new legislation allows brewers to sustain themselves on a smaller level, he said, “by just selling on your premises and using those sales to grow.”

Mr. Vallhonrat said he expected that the new legislation would fuel tremendous growth in the industry.

The new state laws also leave room for more creativity in the recipe, said Josh Haley, the founder of Texian Brewing Company in Richmond, near Houston. He makes a watermelon wheat beer that customers can now pay to sample, meaning Mr. Haley can afford to adjust the brew to fit the feedback for his next barrel.

“We’ll be able to have our market share dictate what we brew,” Mr. Haley said.

Craft brewers have battled for years to loosen restrictions on distribution.

“The old-style distribution has served the big brands,” Mr. Haley said.

Rick Donley, the president of the Beer Alliance of Texas, which represents wholesale distributors, spoke out against changes to the system in 2011. But this session, he led the charge to reform craft brewing license regulations, citing its economic potential.

“Craft brewing could end up being 10 percent of the overall marketplace,” Mr. Donley said. From 2011 to 2013, craft brew permits in Texas, including brewpubs and production breweries, have grown from 70 to 115, said Carolyn Beck, a spokeswoman for the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission.

Small brewers and their supporters faced a mid-session challenge by another lobbyist for distributors, Wholesale Beer Distributors of Texas, which threatened to block the bills.

State Senator John Carona, Republican of Dallas, set up a timetable for stakeholders to make a deal. Wholesale Beer Distributors wanted to work with craft brewers, “but not give away the store,” said Randall Yarbrough, a consultant for the lobbying group. (Wholesale Beer Distributors is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)

Legislation by Mr. Carona said manufacturers could not sell their distribution rights, but the language was softened in negotiations to only prohibit cash payments for territorial distribution rights.

“The talks were certainly contentious,” said Brock Wagner, the owner of the Saint Arnold Brewing Company in Houston. He said the compromise, while successful, showed the institutional pressures at work.

But Mr. Horowitz and Mr. Perry see the deal setting up big things for their small tasting room overlooking Lady Bird Lake in Austin. “We may build a beer garden,” Mr. Horowitz said.
37 2013-08-02 President Obama on Thursday ordered federal agencies to review safety rules at chemical facilities in response to the April explosion at a Texas fertilizer plant that killed 15 people. Mr. Obama’s executive order asked agencies to identify ways to safely store and secure ammonium nitrate, the explosive chemical that investigators say caused the blast. Agencies are also being told to determine whether additional chemicals should be covered by federal regulations. While the explosion is still being investigated, preliminary findings have been presented to Congress. A report sent to the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee in June showed that the decades-old standards used to regulate fertilizer chemicals are far weaker than those used in other countries. The report concluded that the safety of ammonium nitrate fertilizer storage “falls under a patchwork of U.S. regulatory standards and guidance — a patchwork that has many large holes.”
38 2013-08-02 The Korein family, the Archdiocese of New York and the Real Estate Board of New York were thrilled that the Bloomberg administration included the landmarks in their plan. But critics like State Senator Brad Hoylman contend the situation at Lever House is an example of “the slapdash nature of the proposal.”

“This exception undermines the intention of the air rights transfers for historic properties,” Mr. Hoylman said. “The beneficiaries in this case don’t have an obligation to invest the proceeds in the preservation of the landmark.”

The potential windfall for the Korein family is an unintended consequence of the city’s decision to address the complaints of religious institutions like St. Patrick’s, which lobbied for the right to transfer its unused air rights to a wider selection of sites to raise needed funds for the upkeep of buildings. But, an official noted, the city could not treat the landmark Lever House differently than the religious institutions.

The Bloomberg administration says revised zoning is needed to encourage modern towers to replace the area’s aging buildings so the district can continue to attract top corporate tenants. The rezoning will produce a handful of new skyscrapers, officials say, not an avalanche of new development. It remains to be seen whether anyone will purchase the unused development rights.

“The transfer of air rights by landmarked buildings is just one way that the rezoning will improve East Midtown,” said Julie Wood, a spokeswoman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. “Value will be created not only for property owners but for workers and residents, who will be the beneficiaries of improvements to the streets and public spaces.”

Critics of the city’s initiative, which include elected officials, four community boards, preservationists and some real estate executives, contend that the administration has rushed a flawed proposal through the review process with unusual speed because officials want it approved before the mayor leaves office in December.

The rezoning, they say, would allow developers to overwhelm the neighborhood with towers twice the size permitted now, casting shadows over the nearby Chrysler Building and the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel and further stressing public transportation.

In a two-step process, developers would pay the city a “district improvement bonus” for a tower to rise 20 percent above existing limits. On certain sites, a developer could buy additional development rights from the city or from certain historic landmarks.

The city’s initial proposal allowed for the purchase of unused development rights from Grand Central Terminal. But St. Patrick’s (with an estimated one million square feet of unused development rights), St. Bart’s and Central Synagogue lobbied city officials to be included. So did James Korein, chief executive of Omnispective Management, which owns the land beneath Lever House.

City officials rejected those entreaties until July 17, when officials announced several revisions that gave the owners what they wanted. Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan and Rabbi Peter J. Rubinstein of the Central Synagogue promptly sent a letter to members of the City Council urging adoption of the rezoning, now that they could use the proceeds to “invest in the needs of our congregations” and “provide for the good repair of our historic buildings.”

It remains to be seen whether anyone will buy some or all of the development rights. But regardless the money would not flow to Aby Rosen, principal of RFR Holding, which operates Lever House under a 99-year lease with the Korein family and spent $70 million rehabilitating the building in 2000. When Mr. Rosen signed the lease he was required to refurbish the building’s crumbling facade. He did that and more. Lever House now has a high-end restaurant, hedge funds pay top-dollar rents and celebrated works of art adorn the lobby.

“We turned it into a gem that everybody loves,” Mr. Rosen said.

Mr. Korein said he was heartened by the city’s reversal. He did not deny that his family would benefit.

“We believe it can be worked out in a way that’s beneficial for everybody,” he said. “The specifics are out in the future.”
39 2013-08-02 Animals are made of flesh, blood and bone, just like humans. They have the same five physiological senses that we do, and they feel pain in the same way and in the same degree.

As Darwin noted, differences between humans and other species are differences of degree, not kind. For the vast majority of Americans who care about animals, the starting point on our ethical journey with regard to animals is the adoption of a vegetarian diet.

The writer is senior director for advocacy at Farm Sanctuary, a national farm animal protection organization.

Our society is slowly realizing that humane treatment of animals is necessary. Perhaps it is the fact that about 65 percent of all households have a pet.

Nicholas D. Kristof points out that great strides have been made in curtailing factory farming despite strong lobbying efforts by the agriculture industry to punish whistle-blowers. Animals are only one of factory farming’s victims. Entire communities have seen the local environment destroyed by these farms and small farmers going bankrupt because they can’t compete against these conglomerates.

In the long run, our society will be judged by the way we treat animals. The best way to do this is through legislation so that the voters can decide that they want to shut down puppy mills, end testing on animals or prevent places like SeaWorld from acquiring more killer whales.

We will end the suffering of animals only when our legislators realize that their constituents overwhelmingly support animal welfare bills.

The writer is a member of the board of directors, Humane Society of the United States.

I was pleased to read Nicholas D. Kristof’s acknowledgment that eating meat is inconsistent with a professed concern for the lives and well-being of animals. Less convincing is his suggestion that consuming eggs labeled “cage free” or pork labeled “crate free” represents progress.

I hope that Mr. Kristof comes to realize that “humane” animal products do not exist. He and others can then make the truly compassionate choice to become vegan, a step that authentically reflects the ethical intuition that animals matter.

The writer, a law professor at Cornell, is the author of “Mind if I Order the Cheeseburger? And Other Questions People Ask Vegans.”

Like Nicholas D. Kristof, I am probably something of a hypocrite, since I eat some meat despite my concerns about cruelty to animals. But if we are unable or unwilling to give up eating meat altogether, it is not that difficult to cut back.

Think of the benefits for the animals, the environment and our own health if we limit our meat eating to one meal a day, as opposed to the customary two or three, and have a meatless day from time to time. That would at least be a good first step — and it’s easy to do.
40 2013-08-02 President Obama took an important step toward making America’s chemical plants safer on Thursday by directing federal agencies to update regulations, coordinate policies and share information with one another and state and local governments. If followed up by strong rules, his order could go a long way toward protecting millions of Americans who live near chemical plants from disasters like the explosion at a Texas fertilizer plant in April that killed 15 people. Across the country, more than 2,500 facilities produce, use or store toxic chemicals that put more than 10,000 people at risk.

Requiring federal agencies to coordinate and share information should have been done years ago. The bigger question looming over President Obama’s order is how ambitious regulators like the Environmental Protection Agency are willing to be in enacting and enforcing new rules in the face of industry opposition.

Agencies will review how plants store and handle ammonium nitrate, the fertilizer used in the Oklahoma City bombing and also involved in the Texas explosion. Regulators have not been diligent in overseeing this substance. The E.P.A., for instance, does not require facilities that store large quantities of the fertilizer to submit plans for handling it as it does for other dangerous chemicals.

This page has also called on the E.P.A. to use its authority under the Clean Air Act to require chemical plants to switch to inherently safer chemicals wherever feasible. Many environmental groups and former E.P.A. administrators like Christine Todd Whitman and Lisa Jackson have pushed for this change. But the Obama administration has so far shied away from such a mandate under pressure from the chemical industry, which argues that it would be costly and cumbersome. Some companies — like Clorox, which stopped using lethal chlorine gas at its bleach plants — have voluntarily switched to safer techniques, but many are unlikely to do so on their own.

It will be up to Gina McCarthy, who recently took command of the E.P.A., to make the case for an “inherently safer” requirement for chemical plants. If she does, as we hope she will, Mr. Obama must stand with her.
41 2013-08-02 The Panoramic View Resort and Residences is carved into a cliff on the easternmost tip of Long Island, a beacon for New Yorkers who want to relax within earshot of the Atlantic Ocean’s crashing waves during the summer months.

The resort sits on real estate worth tens of millions of dollars, and expensive renovations there were a symbol of Montauk’s transition from a rustic town to a haven for the wealthy. But now it turns out that the whole thing was propped up by a vast Ponzi scheme that siphoned nearly $100 million from 40 investors, including the local fire department.

Federal prosecutors in Central Islip charged the owners of the resort on Thursday with 24 counts of securities and wire fraud using money from several investment funds that they ran to pay down debt on the resort.

The owners, Brian R. Callahan, 43, and Adam J. Manson, 41, investors related by marriage, bought the resort in 2007, according to court documents, just as the sleepy hamlet, long a respite from nearby towns bustling with the rich and famous, began attracting new visitors. Mr. Callahan and Mr. Manson took out loans to cover the cost of the purchase and renovations to convert the resort — once the backdrop for a famous nude photo of the supermodel Christy Turlington — to cooperative houses. They spoke frequently to the press about their plans. If you build it, they will come, the men suggested.

But “they” did not come, prosecutors say now, and Mr. Callahan and Mr. Manson were not able to sell the residences. And when it was time to repay their loans, the brothers-in-law did not have the money. They had several other investment funds, though, filled with millions of dollars from investors who thought their money was going into mutual funds and other traditional investment portfolios.
42 2013-08-02 A terrorism threat has prompted the United States to close dozens of American diplomatic missions in the Middle East, North Africa and elsewhere through the weekend, American officials said Thursday.

Officials gave few details about what prompted the move to close an unusually large number of American missions, but said there was “credible” information that an Al Qaeda regional affiliate might be plotting an attack sometime in the coming days.

“It’s not often that we close a bunch of embassies at once,” said one official, adding that the threat was being taken particularly seriously by American intelligence agencies.

The official said that the State Department was planning to have nearly all American diplomatic facilities in the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia closed through the weekend, including missions in Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. In much of the Muslim world, diplomatic facilities are generally closed on Friday and Saturday, but open on Sunday.

A State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, told reporters on Thursday that the decision was taken “out of an abundance of caution and care for our employees and others who may be visiting our installations.” The State Department did not announce on Thursday which terror group might be plotting an attack, but American officials indicated that the threat originated from one of Al Qaeda’s regional affiliates.
43 2013-08-02 The United Nations announced Thursday that it had selected its first unarmed surveillance drone, an Italian-made plane that will be tried out by peacekeepers in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which has been engulfed in conflict for nearly two decades. A United Nations spokesman, Martin Nesirky, said the peacekeeping department chose a drone produced by Selex ES that is “capable of carrying a range of payloads including several types of high-resolution sensors.”
44 2013-08-02 Regulators are investigating Bank of America and Merrill Lynch as both companies try to move past the problems of the financial crisis....
45 2013-08-02 WASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday approved the nomination of Samantha Power as the next ambassador to the United Nations, a relatively smooth and quiet process that lacked the partisan acrimony of other recent confirmations.

Only 10 senators voted against Ms. Power. Eighty-seven supported her, including 33 Republicans.

“I don’t believe anyone can question her considerable credentials,” said Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. “Certainly no one can question her willingness to speak her mind.”

Though her past comments on Israelis, Palestinians and “crimes” she once said the United States had committed might have indicated otherwise, her nomination was never particularly contentious. When the Foreign Relations Committee sent her name forward for a full vote in the Senate two weeks ago, only two Republicans opposed her.

The Irish-born Ms. Power, 42, a former war correspondent, Pulitzer Prize-winning author and scholar on genocide, has been a confidante of President Obama’s since he was a senator. She advised his 2008 presidential campaign but was forced out after calling Hillary Rodham Clinton, then Mr. Obama’s primary opponent, “a monster.”

She later quietly joined the Obama administration in the State Department, as a member of the National Security Council.
46 2013-08-02 The term warrior is often overused when it comes to athletes. But the Red Bulls’ coach, Mike Petke, felt it fit in describing Tim Cahill’s game-long resolve in fighting through an injury.

Cahill, a Red Bulls midfielder who recently helped his native Australia qualify for next summer’s World Cup in Brazil, will miss the next three to four weeks of the Major League Soccer season after sustaining a knee injury last Saturday.

The injury occurred in the fourth minute of the Red Bulls' 4-3 win over visiting Real Salt Lake at Red Bull Arena. Cahill played on, scored a goal and left the match in the game's 85th minute — before his team’s furious rally snatched the full three points.

Cahill sustained a torn posterior cruciate ligament on a tackle by R.S.L.'s Yordany Alvarez, for which Alvarez was shown a yellow card. Minutes later, Cahill scored on a header off a free kick from Thierry Henry.

“It’s a very big loss to us,” Petke said during his weekly conference call. “Like I said, I think it was a very reckless and careless challenge. I don’t think it was intentional. I don’t think Salt Lake plays like that, but I think it was just a very careless challenge to the knee and it’s going to be a very big loss for us.”

In his first full season with the Red Bulls, Cahill has emerged as the midfield engine for the club, especially since the recent departure of the Brazilian Juninho. He has six goals and and three assists in 19 starts this season.
47 2013-08-02 Fusion, the forthcoming cable channel that is a joint venture of ABC News and Univision, now has a premiere date — Oct. 28 — and a prime-time schedule.

Five hours of evening programs were announced on Thursday, highlighted by “America with Jorge Ramos,” an 8 p.m. news program hosted by Mr. Ramos, a veteran of Univision. The prime-time schedule will also include a sports comedy talk show and a news satire developed by a former producer of “The Daily Show.”

The joint venture to create a next-generation cable news and lifestyle channel for bilingual Latinos was announced in mid-2012. Back then the partners had hoped to start the channel by early this year; later they aimed for the late summertime. The Oct. 28 premiere is the first specific date they have publicized.

The news release that included the date also indicated that Fusion’s intended audience had broadened a bit. Previously, the marketing language for Fusion has focused only on Latinos; now the channel is calling itself “a news, information and lifestyle network for Latinos and millennials,” suggesting that it wants to reach a young audience regardless of race or ethnicity.

Fusion’s prime-time schedule reads a lot like a cable news channel programmed for the kind of young audience that mostly eschews existing cable news shows.
48 2013-08-02 TOKYO — Japan’s finance minister on Thursday publicly retracted comments he made this week that appeared to call on Japan’s current conservative government to emulate Hitler’s takeover of prewar Germany. The gaffe underscored the potential for disputes over Japan’s own wartime history to derail its popular prime minister, Shinzo Abe.

The finance minister, Taro Aso, insisted that his comments on Monday, in which he seemed to say that Japan should learn how the Nazi party quietly rewrote Germany’s Constitution, were taken out of context. Faced with growing criticism in Japan and abroad, he countered that he had never meant to praise the Nazis. He said he had hoped to prompt debate in Japan over whether to change its current pacifist Constitution to allow a full-fledged military, as many conservatives now seek.

Still, the uproar over the comments by Mr. Aso, an outspoken nationalist who is also known for slips of the tongue, seemed to confirm the fears of some Japanese and other Asians that members of Mr. Abe’s government want to revise current views of World War II to present Imperial Japan, an ally of Nazi Germany, in a more positive light. The gaffe was also the latest in a string of recent events, including nationalistic displays by South Korean and Japanese fans at a soccer game, that have raised concerns that disagreements over interpreting the war could isolate Japan from the rest of Asia, where there are still bitter memories of Japan’s early 20th-century empire building.

The comments come at a time when there has been intense attention on where Mr. Abe, who has long been a leading figure on Japan’s far right, might lead his long-rudderless nation after his governing Liberal Democratic Party’s decisive victory in upper house elections last month. Critics have speculated that he may adopt a nationalistic agenda like the one he pursued during his first term as prime minister seven years ago, when he drew outrage in South Korea and even the United States for denying that Koreans and women from other conquered nations had been forced to serve as prostitutes for Japanese soldiers during the war.

However, Mr. Abe has so far appeared to steer clear of such historical controversies, focusing his second term on policies to revive Japan’s stagnant economy. The question, analysts say, is whether Mr. Abe and members of his government, who have spoken of restoring not only Japan’s economy but also its pride, can keep adhering to the politically successful moderate line.
49 2013-08-02 MADRID — Spain’s embattled prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, made a rare appearance before lawmakers on Thursday morning, fending off demands for his resignation over systemic corruption in his governing party and declaring he erred by trusting an accountant now jailed over the hiding of millions of euros in a Swiss bank account.

His hourlong speech in the crowded Senate was intended to counter allegations that the accountant, Luis Bárcenas, had presided over secret accounts for the governing Popular Party when he was its treasurer, handing out envelopes of cash to politicians from clandestine donations. Mr. Bárcenas has been in prison since June under investigation over bank accounts in Switzerland and other countries that totaled at least 47 million euros, or $61 million.

“I was wrong,” Mr. Rajoy, 58, said. “I regret this, but that’s it. I made a mistake by maintaining my confidence in someone we now know did not deserve it.”

As the investigation unfolded, Mr. Bárcenas left as treasurer of Mr. Rajoy’s party in 2009 but continued receiving a six-figure salary from it. Mr. Bárcenas’s version of events has varied, but he has told a judge he collected millions in cash donations from construction magnates and distributed them to senior party figures, including Mr. Rajoy.

Mr. Rajoy denied those allegations, saying they were part of a calculated legal strategy for Mr. Bárcenas. It was the first time Mr. Rajoy has admitted error since disclosures in January that Mr. Bárcenas had hidden money in Swiss bank accounts.
50 2013-08-02 LONDON — The Bank of England kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged on Thursday amid tentative signs that Britain’s economic recovery is strengthening.

The central bank held its interest rate at 0.5 percent, already a record low, and also made no change to its program of economic stimulus, leaving the target at 375 billion pounds, or about $570 billion. The British government had reported last week that the economy in the second quarter had grown 0.6 percent from the previous quarter and that all main industries were reporting faster growth for the first time in three years.

“We’re starting to see some real signs of momentum building,” said James Knightley, an economist at ING. “People feel more secure in their jobs, households feel richer as house prices rise. There’s a real improvement of sentiment.”

After narrowly avoiding a triple-dip recession at the beginning of this year, Britain’s economy has showed some signs of improving. The value of homes has increased, consumer sentiment is recovering and lending to small- and medium-size companies grew slightly. Still, some economists warned that Britain’s recovery faced some headwinds — including from inflation, which remains above the Bank of England’s target of 2 percent. There also continues to be concern about slowing growth in Asia, and uncertainty about the euro zone economies.

The new Bank of England governor, Mark J. Carney, who moved into that post at the beginning of July, is expected to give more details next Wednesday about his plan to start providing some guidance on future interest rate changes. Some economists said such guidance, which the U.S. Federal Reserve has provided in recent years, would help eliminate uncertainty for consumers, company owners and investors and help strengthen the economic recovery.

Mr. Carney said in July that investors’ expectations that credit would become tighter were “not warranted.”
51 2013-08-03 WEISS--Nathan M.,born October 18, 1927, life-long New Yorker, passed away at home after a long illness on July 31st. Esteemed lawyer, beloved friend and mentor to many major musical talents and others, his genius, wit and friendship will be greatl...
52 2013-08-03 Is it really about the Viagra?...
53 2013-08-03 The Obama administration has vetoed a product ban that would have forced Apple to stop selling some iPhones and iPads in the United States....
54 2013-08-03 Jad Mouawad visits B/E Aerospace to see the technology behind business class seats.
55 2013-08-03 If a girl under 16 gives birth and will not identify the father, a new Mississippi law — most likely the first of its kind in the country — says the authorities must collect umbilical cord blood and run DNA tests to prove paternity as a step toward prosecuting statutory rape cases. Supporters say the law is intended to chip away at Mississippi’s teenage pregnancy rate, which has long been one of the highest in the nation. But critics say that though the procedure is painless, it invades the medical privacy of the mother, father and baby. The law took effect on July 1 but has not been used yet. Cord blood samples would have to be taken immediately after birth, and the state medical examiner is setting administrative rules for how the blood will be collected and stored.
56 2013-08-03 The City of Detroit expects to file a plan to adjust its debts by year’s end, a lawyer said Friday during a bankruptcy hearing. And a retiree committee will represent city retirees in bankruptcy proceedings, Judge Stephen Rhodes of Federal Bankruptcy Court ruled. But the judge said that it would be up to federal trustee officials to decide who will serve on the committee and to establish deadlines. The hearing touched on a litany of preliminary issues leading up to what is expected to be a long fight over the city’s eligibility to file for bankruptcy. Those hearings will begin Oct. 23 amid concerns that bankruptcy could lead to diminished pension benefits for more than 23,000 retirees.
57 2013-08-03 The insurance marketplace established under President Obama’s health law has no visible presence in Missouri, which stands out among states resisting the effort....
58 2013-08-03 FIFA has delayed until next year its investigation of the American soccer official Chuck Blazer, who is accused of financial corruption. FIFA, soccer’s governing body, said that the lead investigator, Robert Torres, had found unspecified “circumstances which made it advisable to provisionally suspend” the case.

■ A Seattle Sounders spokesman said the team had no comment about an ESPN report that the national team standout Clint Dempsey could be on the verge of a transfer from Tottenham Hotspur back to M.L.S. ESPN reported that a deal bringing Dempsey to Seattle could be announced as soon as Saturday.
59 2013-08-03 Mark Wiebe followed his Senior British Open win with an eight-under-par 64 in the 3M Championship in Blaine, Minn., to take a one-stroke lead over Kenny Perry and Corey Pavin.
60 2013-08-03 Modern migratory bird tags were taken, for example, along with an object that may be a manila, a type of copper bracelet used in the African slave trade. Flowerdew’s first owners, Sir George Yeardley and Abraham Piersey, made Virginia’s first recorded purchase of slaves, in 1619. Some of those Africans must lie in Flowerdew’s fields. If that copper band identified their graves, it would be an artifact beyond measure. But its historical context was destroyed when it was ripped from its resting place.

Hunters on private property are required to get permission from the landowner, and taking artifacts from archaeological sites without permission is trespassing, a misdemeanor. Often the law is ignored. “They always have a story,” one 70-year-old landowner said. “They are always professors or writers.” Or so they claim. Although recently threatened by a zealous relic hunter with a small shovel, he continues to defend his farm.

Most owners avoid confrontation. In 2006 Mr. Cissna collected about $35,000 for a hunt near Fredericksburg, without permission. Police removed more than 175 trespassers, but the owner did not press charges.

That may be because relic hunters are a vocal lot. In 2005, Virginia’s General Assembly considered a bill requiring written permission from the landowner and increasing the penalty for trespassing with the intent to take artifacts. Relic Web sites blasted it. Representative Kenneth R. Plum, the Democrat who sponsored the bill, told a reporter that “the floodgates opened,” and the proposal faded away.

As a result, it’s open season on vast stretches of Virginia’s heritage. Even graves are in potential danger, though all human interments are protected by law. Pre-1900 burials, regardless of their demographic, are typically unmarked and easily violated by accident. Flowerdew has three known cemeteries, containing Woodland Indians, 1620s colonists and enslaved individuals from about 1760. All three are in the area metal-detected last March. In some burials, one blow from a shovel could destroy all surviving remains.

Another problem is the lack of awareness on the part of landowners. Imagine someone offering $5,000 to remove “junk” from your yard. You may not realize that your familiar universe veils a lost world. Relic hunters exploit this. I have heard of organizers paying $40,000 for a year’s access to a farmer’s field.

To be clear, I have nothing against nonprofessionals. When I was a child, my introduction to history came from relic hunters, people who should have been archaeologists but never got the chance. Later, as a professional lawn mower, I wandered into Flowerdew, and remain astounded by the opportunities that place provided for me to pursue that childhood fascination. Every town needs a Flowerdew, where people like my first mentors can explore history through archaeology.

Preserving local history requires passionate locals, and in today’s era of shrinking budgets, the ideal model is a cadre of professionals assisted by volunteers. At the Little Bighorn Battlefield, in , volunteers have used their metal-detecting machines to pinpoint artifacts, whose position rewrote the story of Custer’s Last Stand.

But archaeologists, professional or not, do not hunt objects. We hunt lost worlds. Sadly, here in Virginia and elsewhere, those worlds are slipping away under the relic-hunter’s shovel, all for the sake of a few bucks.
61 2013-08-03 CAIRO — The Egyptian government threatened on Saturday to block the entrances to a large protest camp where supporters of Mohamed Morsi, the ousted president, have been calling for his return as the Obama administration sought help from Persian Gulf nations to help end Egypt’s political crisis.

The Egyptian authorities have grown increasingly critical of sit-ins by Mr. Morsi’s supporters and have signaled that moves by security forces to break them up could be imminent. The country has been deeply divided since the army ousted Mr. Morsi, an Islamist and Egypt’s first democratically elected president, on July 3 after protests by millions who were unhappy with his rule.

The army has installed an interim government, but staunch opposition by members and supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist political movement that brought Mr. Morsi to power, has raised serious questions about whether the latest transition will result in an inclusive political system.

Clashes between security forces and Mr. Morsi’s supporters have left scores of people dead over the last month, and many fear that any move to break up the protests could trigger new rounds of violence.

The United States deputy secretary of state, William J. Burns, arrived here Friday to discuss the conflict with officials, and Secretary of State John Kerry conferred in London with Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the foreign minister of the United Arab Emirates.
62 2013-08-03 A former F.B.I. special agent has been accused of conspiring to sell confidential bureau documents to a Bangladeshi man who was seeking to harm the reputation of a political rival in his native country, the authorities said on Friday.

The former agent, Robert Lustyik, was with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in late 2011 when he began plotting with a friend, Johannes Thaler, according to a criminal complaint unsealed on Friday in Federal District Court in White Plains, N.Y.

“I will work my magic .... We r sooooooo close,” Agent Lustyik wrote in an exchange of text messages with Mr. Thaler, the complaint said.

“I know,” Mr. Thaler replied. “It’s all right here in front of us. Pretty soon we’ll be having lunch in our oceanfront restaurant.”

The Bangladeshi who had sought the materials, Rizve Ahmed, paid a total of $1,000 to Mr. Lustyik and Mr. Thaler for two F.B.I. documents concerning Mr. Ahmed’s political rival, the complaint said. One was a suspicious activity report; the other was a memo about the man that mentioned $300 million, the complaint said without elaboration. The men planned to seek tens of thousands of dollars in additional bribes for other confidential information, the complaint said.

The complaint did not identify the rival, whom the office of Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, described as “a prominent citizen of Bangladesh who was affiliated with an opposing political party” of Mr. Ahmed’s.
63 2013-08-03 The Bible verses on In-N-Out Burger milkshake cups, burger bags and other packaging are quite fun, even for an atheist. The verses are tiny and varied, so you have to hunt and see what turns up. Proverbs 24:16 is on the fry boat: “For though a righteous man falls seven times, he rises again, but the wicked are brought down by calamity.”

The verses were introduced by Rich Snyder, the founder’s son, who died in 1993. They “are small because he wanted to express his faith without imposing it on others,” Carl Van Fleet, an In-N-Out spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.

Steve Green, the president of Hobby Lobby and a Southern Baptist, said that the Christian identity of his company affects how it negotiates with vendors.

“We’ll negotiate as, ‘Here’s what we’ll pay,’ and leave it at that,” Mr. Green said on Wednesday. I asked if that meant that they never budged on their initial offers, which seemed improbable. “Sometimes you don’t intend on paying more, but they come back, and things do change,” he said. “But we’re not going to intentionally lie in our negotiating.”

Focusing on particular practices, like quotes on fry boats or gospel music, can obscure deep philosophical divisions among Christians who think about business ethics. For some, the Bible is a kind of business manual you’d buy in an airport bookstore, offering timeless precepts that happen to maximize profits.

Philip J. Clements, the founder of the Center for Christian Business Ethics Today, tells a story to illustrate how Judeo-Christian principles make business run smoothly. He once met with a group of businessmen in Africa, most of them Muslim, who complained of the corruption in their countries. So he shared with them Jesus’ parable of the talents, from the Book of Matthew, in which a master offers his servants some money for their use. When the master returns much later, two of the servants have made a profit and pay him back. They could have simply absconded with it.

Mr. Clements’s point is that the kind of trust Jesus teaches is a precondition for an efficient marketplace. “The Roman Empire was more corrupt than your countries,” Mr. Clements said he told the Africans, yet within it, Christians could trust one another. “These principles are transcendent.”

For Christians like Mr. Clements, who was raised Pentecostal and is now Baptist, religious guidance is primarily useful for business operations. He’s less interested in how business practices affect the environment, or the role of labor rights. He was in fact dismissive of living-wage laws, offering the example of Mexicans who work in the United States for below minimum wage. “So give me a break on the whole concept of minimum wage or living wage,” Mr. Clements said, “because these people are here working hard and sending money back.”

For others, Christian business is about something much larger. Douglas A. Hicks, a Presbyterian minister, the provost of Colgate University in Hamilton, N.Y., and the author of “Religion and the Workplace,” said that Christians must focus on how business affects people, especially the workers.

“Are people able to live out their own agency by making a contribution in the workplace?” is, according to Mr. Hicks, a question Christians should ask. Do employees have meaningful work, or just repetitive, low-paid, mind-numbing work?

Mr. Hicks did not object to burger-wrapper or shopping-bag evangelism. But he cautioned that the businesses that behave in the most Christian manner may not have visible marketing plans. “It’s the actions,” he said, not the branding.
64 2013-08-03 During the transition, however, amid all the political cross-fire, confusion is rampant.

Sally L. Kweskin, a spokeswoman for Ms. Persky’s carrier, Empire BlueCross BlueShield, said it had received calls from several members who were concerned about the discontinuation of Healthy NY and what would be offered on the exchange. “Most are not aware of the opportunity for subsidies, or what portion of the approved rates that have been publicly shared will be subsidized,” Ms. Kweskin said.

To make it easier for consumers to comparison shop and to encourage price competition among insurers, the state gives each plan on the exchange an actuarial rating and requires standardized contract terms within four tiers named for metals: bronze, silver, gold and platinum. In the platinum tier, for example, plans are rated at 90 percent, with the explanation that the carrier is paying an average of 90 percent of costs and the consumer an average of 10 percent.

But Ms. Persky and others mistakenly assumed that the 90 percent rating meant that they would have to pay 10 percent of all their medical charges. Instead, the figure refers to the co-payments that consumers typically incur over a year. Bronze and silver plans, with lower premiums and ratings of 60 percent and 70 percent, include a deductible in the typical consumer share. But the law sharply limits total out-of-pocket liability in those plans, to $4,500 a year for a household like the Perskys’.

For many, a history of bad experiences with insurance companies and government bureaucracies is compounding anxiety about the remaining uncertainties. Ms. Persky, a former teacher, said she and her family were dropped by one plan after another before they qualified for Healthy NY. Moreover, as health care costs climbed and the state subsidy stayed flat, premiums in Healthy NY kept rising.

She now worries about which doctors and hospitals will be in the new networks, and whether larger co-payments and deductibles could outweigh lower premiums.

Elisabeth Benjamin, a longtime advocate for affordable health care, acknowledged that calculating the best deal can be complicated. But consumers will have help, she said: the Community Service Society of New York, where Ms. Benjamin is the vice president for health initiatives, is among dozens of agencies that have been awarded nearly $27 million in grants as “navigators” to help consumers with the new insurance shopping experience.

Among the wrinkles: Federal law forbids states from excluding anyone eligible for Medicaid, which means that in New York, whose Medicaid programs are more generous than most, children in households earning up to 400 percent of the poverty level must continue to be insured under a Child Health Plus Medicaid plan, rather than on a non-Medicaid family plan in the exchange.

That will further reduce the cost of insurance for people like Ms. Persky, whose 14-year-old daughter would qualify for the children’s plan for as little as $9 a month. The rest of the family could buy the second-cheapest silver plan for $220.83 at their 2012 income level, according to Ms. Benjamin, and even the platinum coverage would cost them just under $600 a month.

With Ms. Persky’s household income now rising to $59,000 — just over the limit for Healthy NY — they still will be eligible for a sliding-scale tax credit that would keep the cost of platinum coverage under $800 a month.

A tax credit provided by the new law is available up to 400 percent of poverty, or $94,200 for a family of four. It can be applied to any product sold on the exchange, which includes new entrants like North Shore-LIJ Health System, the hospital network in which Ms. Persky’s oncologist practices. And no plan can reject her for cancer as a pre-existing condition.

“While this change may seem challenging,” Ms. Benjamin said, “it is absolutely worth it, especially for a middle-class family like this one.”

State officials estimate as many as 615,000 individuals will buy health insurance on their own in the first few years that the health law is in effect, many of them younger and healthier than those in the market now. In addition to lower premiums, about three-quarters of those people will be eligible for subsidies.

But Ms. Persky is a hard sell. “After all the articles and people I have spoken to, I am still not convinced,” she wrote in an e-mail last week. “I can’t see them getting this all up and running from October through December.”
65 2013-08-03 DAKAR, Senegal — Two veteran politicians will face each other in a runoff this month in the second round of Mali’s presidential election, the country’s interim government announced Friday. It was another sign that Mali, a troubled West African nation, could be returning to normalcy after more than a year of armed turmoil.

Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, a former prime minister, foreign minister and lawmaker known for his pro-French sympathies but also favored by some in Mali’s Muslim establishment, and Soumaila Cissé, a former finance minister who once worked for IBM, came out on top after a first round of voting last Sunday.

Political analysts said that the high turnout — over 51 percent, surpassing previous elections — was a sign that Mali’s strife-weary citizens were eager for stability, as well as an indication of the potency of Islamic organizations in getting out the vote in what is an overwhelmingly Muslim country.

Results trickled in all week, but the official tally was not announced until Friday. Mali, which is nearly twice the size of Texas, has limited roads, and the election was hastily organized.

Because neither of the top candidates gained more than 50 percent of the vote, a runoff will be held Aug. 11. But Mr. Keita, who has ties to France’s Socialists and is considered the favorite of France, Mali’s former colonial ruler, was well ahead, with 39 percent to Mr. Cissé’s 19 percent.

Mr. Keita is from the fertile, agricultural south and did well in the south’s population centers. Mr. Cissé, originally from the desert north, scored well in other regions. It was a north-south split that helped tear the country apart.
66 2013-08-03 I disagree with your assertion that our missile defense tests are “rigged.” Nothing is rigged. It is necessary to conduct flight tests in “a controlled, scripted environment” because we must adhere to very stringent safety and environmental regulations within the test range in the Pacific Ocean, requiring a narrow test corridor between California and the Marshall Islands in which our long-range tests take place.

Also, flight tests must be constructed so that performance data collected during a test can be matched against the system design. That’s how we make improvements and enhancements to the technology.

For the most recent test failure, we will isolate the cause (or causes) of the failure, fix it and continue with regular and frequent flight testing.

The writer, a Navy vice admiral, is director of the Missile Defense Agency.
67 2013-08-03 Hopes for a compromise solution to a deadlock over Cambodia’s election results faded Friday as Prime Minister Hun Sen insisted that he could form a new government even if the opposition boycotted Parliament. Mr. Hun Sen said the Constitution allowed Parliament to carry out its tasks with a simple majority of its 123 members present.

Several independent nonpartisan agencies interpret the law to call for a quorum of at least 120 members to be present to open the new assembly session and form a government. Mr. Hun Sen’s Cambodian People’s Party said provisional results showed that it won 68 seats to the opposition’s 55. The opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party said that it had won 63 seats and that voting irregularities had been widespread.

The results from the government-appointed National Election Committee are still provisional. “There will be no deadlock for the new National Assembly and the forming of a new government,” Mr. Hun Sen said Friday. “I will be the prime minister for the fifth five-year term of the government.”
68 2013-08-03 Nickelodeon’s resurgence and a new online streaming deal with Amazon contributed to a 20 percent increase in profits at Viacom in its latest financial quarter of the year, the company said on Friday.

“Nickelodeon is clearly on the way back, with new live-action and animated hits that fueled robust ratings,” the Viacom chief executive, Philippe Dauman, said.

Ratings have been stabilizing at Nickelodeon, Viacom’s all-important children’s network, nearly two years after a sudden plunge that hurt the company’s ad sales and stoked concerns about future growth. Mr. Dauman said the month of July was Nickelodeon’s “sixth straight month of year-over-year ratings growth.”

Revenue at the company’s media networks division, which includes Nickelodeon and other cable channels like MTV and Comedy Central, increased 13 percent to $2.57 billion in the quarter, exceeding analysts’ expectations. But the results weren’t quite as bright at Paramount Pictures, the company’s filmed entertainment division. Revenue there was up 15 percent to $1.16 billion, but profits tumbled by more than half, largely, Viacom said, because of the timing of two film releases, “Star Trek Into Darkness” and “World War Z.”

“Next quarter will show significant profitability for Paramount, including from these two films,” Mr. Dauman told analysts in an earnings conference call. “But it will likely be moderately less than we anticipated due to the crowded tentpole schedule this summer and the delay of certain film licensing deals into next fiscal year.” Over all, Viacom reported net income of $643 million, or $1.31 a share, up from $534 million, or $1.01 a share, in the same quarter a year ago.
69 2013-08-03 Uzra Zeya, assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, said at a news conference that she had “specifically called into question the pattern of arrests and extralegal detentions of public interest lawyers, Internet activists, journalists, religious leaders and others who challenge official policies and actions in China.”

The case of Mr. Xu, 40, was among those Ms. Zeya named as having been raised with the Chinese.

Mr. Xu has worked as a law lecturer, and was previously a member of a local legislative body, the People’s Congress, in Beijing’s Haidian district. In recent years, the college where he is employed, the Beijing University of Post and Telecommunications, has barred him from teaching.

Mr. Xu’s recent call for party officials to declare their assets seemed to be in line with the campaign by the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, to eliminate corruption.

His main offense appears not to have been the cause he pursued, but rather his effort to mobilize a “New Citizens Movement,” which by some estimates had attracted several thousand people. Human Rights Watch estimates 16 people associated with the movement have been detained.

Two other activists who are serving prison terms whose cases were raised with the Chinese were Gao Zhisheng, who defended practitioners of Falun Gong, a religious group banned in China, and Liu Xiaobo, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, Ms. Zeya said.

The Americans raised the cases of more detained human rights activists, she indicated, than the eight identified by name at the news conference.

The United States government was deeply concerned, Ms. Zeya said, that the Chinese authorities had tried to silence activists by targeting their family members and associates. In that category, she mentioned the families of Liu Xiaobo and Chen Guangcheng, a legal activist who is now in the United States.

The detention of Mr. Chen, the journalist, came after he sent an e-mail Friday saying that he was prepared to endure arrest for the sake of Mr. Xu, the detained rights advocate.

“I have no other choice,” Mr. Chen wrote in the e-mail, which he forwarded to a reporter. “First, in the name of brotherhood, I must act for Xu Zhiyong, my friend of many years. Second, my bottom line is the advancement of civil society. If the authorities violate this bottom line and I go along, that would amount to the bankruptcy of the ethical framework that I have stood by for many years.”

Mr. Chen had worked as an editor and commentator at Southern Weekend, a weekly newspaper with a reputation for combative journalism that offended some officials. He was forced aside in 2011.

He has attracted a wide following among educated Chinese readers with impassioned and sometimes acidic criticisms of censorship and other political restrictions.

Mr. Xi has indicated that proposed economic reforms would not be accompanied by any significant political relaxation. He has instead repeatedly stressed his loyalty to party traditions and political orthodoxy.

On Thursday, Chinese state-run news media featured a commentary from the official Xinhua news agency that warned that if China embraced democratic ideas promoted by liberal intellectuals, it would succumb to turmoil worse than that in the Soviet Union after the collapse of Communism.

These unnamed liberal intellectuals were “creating apocalyptic visions of China’s imminent collapse and vilifying the present socialist system,” the commentary said, accusing the liberals of “blatantly inciting the public to serve as cannon fodder for triggering social turmoil in China.”
70 2013-08-03 Pictures From the Week in Business
71 2013-08-03 ATLANTA — There are three tournaments within one taking place here. Along with the Summer Nationals, we have the North American Youth Championships, which started on Thursday and end on Saturday, and the World Youth Open Championships, which begin on Sunday and run through Aug. 11.

Coincidentally, I watched two six-board matches by the winners of the Thursday Youth Swiss Teams. They were Edward Cai (16 years old) of Morganville, N.J.; Daniel Chai (15) of Marlboro, N.J.; Jason Miller (15) of Tampa, Fla.; and Victor Lamoureux (15) of Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.

In the first match, Miller and Lamoureux played against Cooper Smith (12) of Marquette, Mich., and Henry Trautwein (14) of Naples, Fla., who had formed their partnership over the Internet. The bidding was rat-a-tat, with hardly a pause for thought, the play nearly as quick. The accuracy left something to be desired, but with luck, these youngsters will be well coached and turn into top players.

In the given auction, Lamoureux (North) responded with a game-forcing two hearts. Miller (South) rebid three clubs, showing his second suit. Three diamonds was taken as indicating values in that suit. Then South bid a surprising three no-trump. I had assumed that he would pick three spades.

The raise to four no-trump was intended as, and taken as, simple Blackwood, not Roman Key Card, because no suit was agreed. (Yes, most experts would have treated this as quantitative, not asking. But at least North-South had an agreement.) Then, over the no-ace reply, North jumped to six no-trump.

If Trautwein (West) had led a low diamond, the play would have been interesting. Declarer would have had to take six spades, one diamond and five clubs, or go several down. The correct play in clubs would be to cash dummy’s ace, then finesse through East. This way, declarer picks up a singleton queen with West and the queen in the East hand (as long as he does not have all five clubs). As you can see, that would have worked. West sped up the play when he led the heart ace.
72 2013-08-03 “We are the University of Nike,” said Jeff Hawkins, the senior associate athletic director of football administration and operations. “We embrace it. We tell that to our recruits.”

The center is also an answer to how the Ducks turned a mediocre program into an unlikely powerhouse in a city of just more than 150,000 people. Where other schools, the Alabamas and Notre Dames, sold tradition, Oregon peddled the future. It rolled out a series of uniforms, neon and blinding white and every shade of green, designed to attract both athletes and attention. It ran a spread offense, which it famously practiced without breaks, and has advanced to four straight contests, including the national championship game after the 2010 season.

Now it has the best football operations center Nike can buy, designed by ZGF Architects, Firm 151 and Hoffman Construction. The center is divided into three buildings, all black and shiny rectangular blocks, connected by a sky bridge. Those buildings — and everything around them — are black and boxy by design. Made of black granite, corrugated metal and fritted glass, the elements are arranged like pieces of a Jenga game to show cohesion between units (they also look like the shell of an impenetrable force). A local newspaper quoted an architect who described it as a “Darth Vaderish Death Star.” The designers took that as a compliment.

“The space, flow and efficiency are not excessive,” Hawkins said. “From what we had to what we have now, it fits what we need to teach.”

For Oregon football, black is the new black, down to the black toilets in the locker room that were described, perhaps in jest, as stealth. The athletes wanted it to look cool, and architects balanced their needs — down to the custom green PlayStation consoles and pool tables made by the same company that designed two for Michael Jackson — with those of the coaches, who are older and spend most of their waking hours in the center and wanted, more than anything, a diverse selection of after-shave.

Throughout the tour, Sandoval, design partner at ZGF Architects, and Randy Stegmeier, principal interior designer at Firm 151, returned often to their favorite buzzwords, which they said guided the design: sleek, bombastic, cutting-edge. They said things like, “the material palate is elevated to a very sophisticated level” and “you will see sequencing of form and function of space.”

In simpler terms, Sandoval explained that “this sports facility has a soul.”

“It’s about not being afraid to make history,” he continued.

The soul of Oregon’s football operations center, then, is an all-black room on a top floor known as both the War Room and Area 51.

There are 22 seats at the table, and they are assigned, with the head coach at head and others placed next to him based on order of importance. The table is German and walnut and 35 feet long. The rug is shaped in an “O” and made in Nepal and weighs 500 pounds. The walls are magnetic and can be written on, part of Oregon football’s goal to eventually operate without paper. (No word on if the seats eject. Or if Coach Mark Helfrich is in possession of nuclear launch codes.)

Oregon’s search for improved facilities started eight years ago. The first trip featured 11 people in a private jet, architects and designers and contractors and school officials, and they visited nine universities in three days. They studied counterparts in the , Big 12 and Southeastern conferences. At one point, Sandoval traveled 37 hours to to find a specific rock quarry, which ultimately produced the stones in the ground floor plaza.

The small details stand out. The bathrooms with green stalls and mirrors with painted Ducks slugging conference foes. The extra-large furniture tested to withstand 500 pounds. The elevators decorated with famous plays in Oregon football history, the actual plays, drawn up in Xs and Os by a coach. The room for professional scouts to watch footage of Oregon players. The ticker running sports scores.

On and on, for football’s sake:

The foosball tables from in the players’ lounge. The ventilation systems in each locker. The magic shelves that charge phones or tablet devices without the need to plug in. The 250-plus televisions.

The Ring Room, shaped like an O, with rings underneath green neon light and audio created by Finnish engineers using game-day sound from Autzen Stadium. The cafeteria, this being the , with the espresso machine and the farm-to-table philosophy and the sign that reads, “Eat Your Enemies — And Other Food Groups.” The terrazzo floors made with recycled glass. The 40-yard electronic track inside the weight room that measures the force of each step and the efficiency of each run.

The coaches have their own locker room, complete with a hydrotherapy pool and steam shower, made from blue stone slate, and, of course, dozens of kinds of after-shave in front of the bathroom mirrors, which feature built-in televisions.

Gary Campbell, one of the longest-tenured assistants in college sports at the same university, with three decades spent at Oregon, once worked with three other coaches in an office the same size as his current one, in the basement of the basketball court. When he inched backward, he bumped into his office mates. “There is no comparison,” he said Wednesday, in front of his couch and his two computer monitors and his three televisions, the office paneled in walnut, the smell somewhere between new car and Pottery Barn showroom.

Welcome to college football, circa 2013, where the best programs build Ritz-Carltons as much as Olympic training facilities and call them football centers, where a university like Oregon, which raised its profile and millions of dollars in revenue through football, must defend its space-age approach.

“People will complain, but this is not excessive,” said Rob Mullens, the university’s athletic director. “This is probably the most complete space in college sports.”
73 2013-08-03 LONDON — The United States will treat the visa applications of same-sex married couples in the same manner as opposite-sex spouses, Secretary of State John Kerry said Friday, announcing a policy change set in motion in June, after the Supreme Court struck down a law against same-sex marriage.

The policy change, which will take effect immediately, will apply to American citizens as well as foreign same-sex couples, dependent only on the marriage’s having taken place in a jurisdiction that recognizes same-sex marriage.

“Effective immediately, when same-sex spouses apply for a visa, the Department of State will consider that application in the same manner that it will consider the application of opposite-sex spouses,” Mr. Kerry announced at the American Embassy here.

“If you are the spouse of a U.S. citizen, your visa application will be treated equally,” he said. “If you are the spouse of a noncitizen, your visa application will be treated equally.”

The change was hailed by gay rights groups. “We are relieved and pleased,” said Rachel B. Tiven, executive director of Immigration Equality, a lobbying group. “It brings a clarity that gay and lesbian couples around the world have been waiting for.”
74 2013-08-03 WASHINGTON — The United States issued a global travel alert to American citizens on Friday, warning of the potential for terrorist attacks, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa, carried out by operatives of Al Qaeda and their associates.

A bulletin to travelers and expatriates, issued by the State Department, came less than a day after the department announced that it was closing American diplomatic missions in the Middle East, North Africa and elsewhere through the weekend because of an unspecified terrorism threat.

“The Department of State alerts U.S. citizens to the continued potential for terrorist attacks, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa, and possibly occurring in or emanating from the Arabian Peninsula,” read the bulletin, by the State Department’s Bureau of Consular Affairs. “Current information suggests that Al Qaeda and affiliated organizations continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the region and beyond, and that they may focus efforts to conduct attacks in the period between now and the end of August.”

The bulletin did not advise against travel to any particular country, but it admonished American citizens to be particularly mindful of their surroundings, especially in tourist areas, and recommended that they register their travel plans wth the State Department.

“Terrorists may elect to use a variety of means and weapons and target both official and private interests,” the bulletin said. “U.S. citizens are reminded of the potential for terrorists to attack public transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure. Terrorists have targeted and attacked subway and rail systems, as well as aviation and maritime services.”
75 2013-08-03 It is possible, with some avoidance strategies, to pretend baseball is still just a nice little summer sport. Granted, you have to squint kind of hard, avoid sports talk radio, avert your eyes every time you see the first few letters of Alex Rodriguez’s name and flee to a happy place every time friends start discussing why everyone is still discussing steroids. It’s tempting to do all, and glue some blinders on a pair of rose-colored glasses, after enduring a week of waiting for the Biogenesis suspensions shoe to drop

None of that means trying to rid the sport of performance-enhancing drugs is a bad idea: they’re still not allowed, turn players into walking biochemical experiments and force players who don’t want to dope to risk their health to keep up. No, it just means the pursuit is tiring. It doesn’t go away in a one-day, staged-for-television drug sting, where the bad guys get perp-walked for the cameras and we all go back to the regularly scheduled programming.

Through the messiness of reality, we wait. Rodriguez practices in a fantastic pantomime of rehabbing an injury. Baseball is left hoping that what always brings fans back, the actual sport, will work its magic again, as Mike Vaccaro writes in The New York Post. You can choose to read about the ins and outs of the Biogenesis mess — including a new federal criminal probe into whether Tony Bosch was feeding not just professional athletes, but high school kids, The Miami Herald reports, and how Balco’s infamous swashbuckler Jeff Novitzsky may get involved — or you can fish around for those souped-up glasses.

With those, it’s possible just to enjoy the Red Sox scoring six runs in the bottom of the ninth Thursday night to beat the Mariners, 8-7, in their latest wacky comeback. Or you could marvel at the Rangers’ Yu Darvish striking out 14 Arizona Diamondbacks — again. Or you can just sit back and appreciate the skill, and resulting joy, of the Royals’ Lorenzo Cain robbing the Twins’ Trevor Plouffe of a home run.

Or you can enjoy the rare intersection of two all-time greats that happened late Wednesday night: Dodgers announcer Vin Scully calling Mariano Rivera’s save in the Yankees-Dodgers game:

There is also more video evidence that nonbaseball players should leave pitching to the professionals, today’s installment provided by N.B.A. stars Blake Griffin, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony at a game in Taiwan:

All of this is definitely preferable to taking a look around the N.F.L. training camps, where Thursday’s news brought more mayhem. San Francisco cornerback Chris Culliver was reportedly lost for the season with a torn anterior cruciate ligament. The damage in the Philadelphia Eagles’ camp is mostly psychological, with receiver Riley Cooper’s racist rant still reverberating despite Michael Vick’s best attempts to make it go away. It is a credit to Vick, Eric Adelson wrote on Yahoo.com, that he so resolutely took the forgiveness route. Oddly enough, Cooper’s best role model for how to respond to this is none other than Culliver, who made a sincere effort to smooth over the feelings he trampled on with his homophobic comments before the Super Bowl, wrote Gregg Doyel on CBSSports.com.

But just to prove that foot-in-mouth disease is not close to being cured in the N.F.L., we have Vikings receiver Greg Jennings’s ill-advised trashing of his former quarterback, Green Bay’s Aaron Rodgers, which drew a rebuke from his own coach, as Don Banks wrote on SI.com.

Turns out, those industrial strength blinders are useful and not just for baseball fans. Soon, they may sell them with team logos.
76 2013-08-04 WEISS--Nathan M. October 18, 1927 - July 31, 2013. Esteemed lawyer, beloved friend and mentor to many major musical talents and others, one-time business partner of Brian Epstein, Nat was a man of startling wisdom, knowledge, sophistication and ch...
77 2013-08-04 KISSIN--Claud W.,Passed away Saturday, July 6, at Bayshore Hospital, Holmdel, NJ. He was born in 1927 in London, England. He was the cherished grandfather to Michelle, Will, Jeremy and Sally and a loving father to Emily and Caroline. He will be de...
78 2013-08-04 The lack of daily oral care in nursing facilities is almost universally overlooked, experts say, and studies suggest that it may contribute to pneumonia, a leading killer of institutionalized older people....
79 2013-08-04 “2 Guns,” starring Mr. Washington and Mark Wahlberg, took in an estimated $27.4 million in North American movie theaters....
80 2013-08-04 Sad tales of conventional wisdom and actual policy....
81 2013-08-04 Taking control by breaking serve immediately after a rain delay, eighth-seeded John Isner hit 29 aces to beat Dmitry Tursunov, 6-7 (7), 6-3, 6-4, and reach the Citi Open final in Washington. Isner stretched his winning streak to eight matches, including a title last week in Atlanta. He will play the winner of the semifinal match between Tommy Haas and Juan Martín del Potro in Sunday’s final.

■ Top-seeded Victoria Azarenka beat seventh-seeded Ana Ivanovic, 6-0, 4-6, 6-3, to advance to the final of the Southern California Open in Carlsbad, Calif. Azarenka will face the winner of the semifinal between the wild-card entrant Virginie Razzano and fifth-seeded Samantha Stosur. The win would propel Azarenka past Maria Sharapova into the No. 2 slot when the new rankings come out Monday.
82 2013-08-04 Tom Pernice Jr. moved into position for his second Champions Tour title, shooting a seven-under-par 65 to take a two-stroke lead over Tom Kite in the 3M Championship in Blaine, Minn. The 63-year-old Kite is trying to become the oldest winner on the 50-and-over tour.
83 2013-08-04 Melissa Anne Glazer, a daughter of Susan F. Glazer and Bradford A. Glazer of Cincinnati, is to be married Sunday to Gabriel Kampler Marans, a son of Nina L. Kampler and Dr. Zvi S. Marans of Teaneck, N.J. Rabbi Arnold B. Marans, the groom’s paternal grandfather, is to perform the ceremony at the Sephardic Temple of Cedarhurst, in Woodmere, N.Y.

The bride, 26, is a fund-raising associate for UJA-Federation of New York. She graduated cum laude from Ohio State.

Her father is the president of Glazer Enterprises, a real estate management and development company, and Park Transport, a shipping logistics company, both in Cincinnati.

The groom, 27, is an assistant director at Studley Inc., a commercial real estate brokerage company in New York, where he represents commercial tenants looking to lease property. He graduated summa cum laude from New York University.

His mother is a lawyer who consults from Teaneck with retail companies looking to lease real estate. His father is a pediatric cardiologist in Paramus, N.J., and an associate professor of pediatrics at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia. He is also the president of UJA-Federation of Northern New Jersey.
84 2013-08-04 PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — The two rival parties claiming victory in Cambodia’s general election reached an agreement on Saturday with the state National Election Committee for a joint investigation of polling irregularities, but one side’s commitment soon appeared to waver.

Tep Nytha, the election committee secretary general, had announced the agreement in principle after meeting with senior members of the governing Cambodian People’s Party and the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party. Later in the day, the opposition party said it was not ready to attend a session on Sunday to organize the investigating committee.

In an e-mailed statement, the Cambodia National Rescue Party repeated its desire for representatives from the United Nations and civil society to be members of the committee, rather than just observers, as Mr. Tep Nytha said would be the case. The committee, which is widely seen as biased in favor of the Cambodian People’s Party — or at least unwilling to challenge it — would also be part of the investigating body.

Prime Minister Hun Sen, in power for 28 years, has made clear that he believes the final results of the July 28 election, due in mid-August, will favor him and that he will have another five-year term in office. With his overpowering influence over the state apparatus and the judiciary, he is almost certain to have his way.

While the establishment of the investigative body is unlikely to have any substantive effect, it could still benefit both parties.

If the body agrees that there were flaws in the election process, it could initiate changes for which the opposition could take credit, keeping its promise of fighting a long-haul struggle for democracy.
85 2013-08-04 Michael Shopenn turned to a private hospital in Belgium after he was unable to find an affordable artificial hip in the United States....
86 2013-08-04 Depending on the types of aircraft they fly, airlines can customize cabin layouts differently. But ultimately, designers are constrained by an inconvenient fact: an airplane is still a big tube. The challenge is to fit as many seats as possible within limited real estate while still providing comfort — especially that of a flat bed, which is becoming the standard in international business class. Note: Some airlines use more than one arrangement in the same type of aircraft.
87 2013-08-04 John Stallworth, a Hall of Fame wide receiver for the Pittsburgh Steelers who played against Riley twice each season, offered a similar assessment. Saying that “it would be a good decision” to induct Riley, Stallworth added: “I always felt that he knew our system, our game plan, that he had viewed our films, that he knew our tendencies, my tendencies. From an intellectual standpoint, he was going to take away what I did well. He wasn’t an in-your-face bumping guy, but he was going to be where he needed to be when he needed to be there. I knew he was going to challenge me every play.”

Yet Riley has never made the list of named finalists, either in his initial 20 years of eligibility or during his last five as a senior. To cite one comparison, Roger Wehrli, who was in the league for virtually the same number of years as Riley and had 25 fewer interceptions while playing with the losing St. Louis Cardinals, was voted into the Hall six years ago.

One persistent explanation for the disregard of Riley is that the Hall of Fame’s selection committee puts the greatest emphasis on a player’s Pro Bowl and All-Pro honors. According to Pro-Football-Reference.com, Riley was named All-Pro only once and never chosen for the Pro Bowl.

It could be that he suffered for playing in a small market. It could be that he suffered for having Mel Blount of the Steelers, at the height of their Super Bowl success, playing cornerback in the same division. Or it could be that Riley made the mistake of thinking that his track record would stand for itself, that he did not need to promote himself.

People who don’t remember Riley remember lesser Bengals who had a shtick — running back Ickey Woods with his end-zone shuffle, wide receiver Chad Johnson with all manner of name changes and touchdown antics. Riley’s life after football has been a model of stability and purpose, with stints as a professional and a college coach, a master’s degree, and years as a school administrator in Bartow. It has not had the kind of crisis-and-recovery soap opera that might have put him in headlines and, perversely, benefited his cause.

“This is my personality,” Riley, now 65 and retired, said recently. “It’s the way I was brought up — parents, grandparents, everybody. Let your work speak for itself and be humble. We had a coach on the Bengals, Paul Brown, who felt it was your job to do certain things. If you got an interception, if you got a sack, he’d say, ‘That’s what I’m paying you for.’ He didn’t want superstars.”

Or, to put it another way, Brown wanted star results without star attitudes. In the current football culture, in which tabloid television, crime news and 24/7 sports channels luridly intersect, such humility counts for little. Even Parker, the Bartow city attorney, has learned that much.

“Frustrating is a good word for it,” he said. “Ken’s not a toot-your-own-horn guy. He was the lunchbox guy, the guy who just came to work every day and dominated his side of the field.”
88 2013-08-04 But there is only so much space inside a plane. As the more lucrative seats expand, the coach section often contracts, with more seats jammed into the same cabin space and more discomfort for coach passengers.

“The seat is one of the few elements that an airline can actually make its own,” says Patricia Bastard, an architect and designer who has worked with Air France on its first-class cabin. “There are very few elements like it inside an airplane. There’s customer service, of course. Maybe there’s a bar. But seats are unique to the airline. Seats are critical.”

Lufthansa, Europe’s largest airline and the world’s fourth largest in terms of passengers, is investing $4 billion to improve its cabins, offer satellite-based Internet and upgrade its onboard entertainment system. But the new business-class seat, which first appeared last year on the company’s new Boeing 747-8 planes, is perhaps the boldest attempt to lure the high-value passenger. The seat research, design, manufacture and installation accounts for roughly a third of that $4 billion investment, says Mr. Bosler — more than a billion dollars. Eleven planes are now outfitted with the new seats, and Lufthansa is expected to install about 7,000 of them on 100 wide-body airplanes by 2015.

Lufthansa’s task — like that of all the big airlines — was to create a special environment for those big-spending travelers within the inflexible boundaries of an aircraft fuselage.

“The challenge was finding a solution that provides all customer benefits but also tries to save as much space as possible and get as many passengers on board as possible,” Mr. Bosler says. “There’s only one way for Lufthansa to make money. It’s with passengers on board.”

THE first airplane business-class sections date to the 1970s, when the seats were like oversize, padded armchairs that could recline about 40 degrees. More comfortable seats for frequent business travelers came with the arrival in the 1990s of planes that could fly nonstop almost anywhere in the world. This new generation of ultralong-range airplanes that could fly for 10 to 14 hours — like the Boeing 777 — meant passengers wanted to be able to get real sleep, not just a fitful, head-snapping catnap.

The growth of carriers from the Middle East and Asia also set off a transformation in cabin design. Emirates, for instance, created semienclosed suites for its first-class passengers. It installed showers on its Airbus A380 double-decker planes, as well as large bars behind the business-class cabin where passengers could mingle throughout the flight. Over a short span, passenger expectations changed.

“Business class today is what first class used to be 10 or 20 years ago,” says Jacques Pierrejean, a designer based in Paris who helped create the first-class cabin for Emirates.

The business and corporate travel market is by far the most lucrative one for the airlines. Business travelers are expected to spend $273 billion this year on airfares, according to a forecast by the Global Business Travel Association, a 4.3 percent gain from 2012.

“Airlines are rational actors, and where they make their investments tells you where they get their revenues from,” Mr. Engel says. “Despite all the technological advances, and e-mail, and videoconferencing, nothing replaces face-to-face meetings. This is why business travel remains so important. And for business travelers to remain productive, they need to fly relatively comfortably over long distances.”

This growth in business travel has spurred considerable innovation in the front of the plane. But finding the right balance among space, comfort and seat features is tricky. Until about five years ago, the norm was for business seats to provide a lie-flat surface at an angle, what was called a “faux flat,” says Mark Hiller, chief executive of Recaro Aircraft Seating, based in Germany, one of three large seat manufacturers. But frequent fliers complained that they slid down their seats during the flight.

Now airlines are increasingly trying to fit fully flat beds for business class. But these seats require more space, which typically means losing about 10 percent of the business-class seats. British Airways, struggling with trying to fit a 73-inch bed inside the 46 inches separating two seats, came up with a design in which half its passengers sit backward, says Peter Cooke, the airline’s design manager. He calls it “the yin-yang configuration,” and it can pack 56 business seats in just seven rows aboard some Boeing 777s by fitting the broader part of passengers’ anatomy (their shoulders) with the narrowest part of their neighbors’ (their feet). “By far,” he says, “it’s the most space-efficient configuration.”

The downside, obviously, is a basic disruption in the traditional seating arrangement aboard a plane. Travelers face each other, risking awkward eye contact. Mr. Cooke says passengers have become used to this quirk — they accept it on trains — and don’t mind flying backward.

Other formations include a design known as the herringbone, which is used by Virgin Atlantic. Seats are staggered diagonally, allowing tighter spacing between the seats. But it means sleeping passengers’ feet stick out in the aisles.

The latest trend is higher-density seating, now used on Emirates, Swiss and Delta, with slightly shorter beds and narrower seats. The trick here is that when a seat unfolds into a bed, it slides under the armrest of the passenger in front.

“It’s a very demanding environment,” says James Park, a designer based in London who has worked with Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific. “A business-class seat has to be a working desk, an entertainment center, a dining facility, and it’s also a bed. It also needs to be comfortable in all those configurations.”

Few of these innovations have occurred on American carriers, which have been locked in a scramble for survival over the last decade. Their business model has amounted to jamming as many people as possible on planes with little money to spare on new designs.

But that is starting to change. Delta, United Airlines and American Airlines have all outlined large investments to install new business-class seats, for international flights and transcontinental legs — from New York to Los Angeles or San Francisco.

“Only a few years ago, all domestic carriers were chasing the commoditization of the business,” says Glen W. Hauenstein, Delta Air Lines’ executive vice president for network planning, revenue management and marketing. “That didn’t work. It was a spiral to the bottom.”

Delta, for instance, plans to overhaul its entire long-range fleet by next summer, rolling out a new business-class seat on international flights. The company does not have a first-class cabin, focusing instead on business and coach.

“We cater to corporate clients,” Mr. Hauenstein says. “That’s our sweet spot. And few have first-class policies. American corporations are cost-conscious. We’re a lot more socialistic than we think. And we don’t have a lot of oil sheiks or Russian billionaires.”

IN 2007, after reviewing the available business-class seats on the market, Lufthansa decided to design its own. It hired a design firm, PearsonLloyd, a furniture specialist based in London that had developed a first-class seat for Virgin Atlantic.

Lufthansa polled about 3,000 travelers and employees to establish a list of basic requirements for its new seat. Among them: it would have to become a fully flat bed with a minimum length of six feet; provide adequate privacy but still be open to the rest of the cabin; have ample storage space; and provide comfortable sleep. In addition, Lufthansa did not want to lose more than 10 percent of its business seats.

Lufthansa found that passengers put a lower value on having direct access to the aisle than on having a longer, flat bed. The suggestion was surprising. Many airlines like Singapore and Etihad Airways have made aisle access a big selling point — meaning passengers sitting by a window would not have to climb over someone else to get out. But for Lufthansa, bucking this industry trend meant it could fit more seats in a row — six as opposed to just four.

Over the next two years, the airline refined its sketches. It decided the seat would not need wings on the headrest, a feature common in coach to keep the passenger’s head from slipping during sleep, but deemed superfluous in business class where seats recline fully. The massage function on the seat, once viewed as a particularly tempting feature, was also dropped because it was little used. The seat height adjustment was abandoned for the same reason.

By eliminating these features, Lufthansa managed to cut down the number of electric devices that drive the seat’s movements, reducing potential for breakdowns and costly maintenance. Lufthansa also installed an air-cushion system that required less maintenance than foam, which has to be replaced every three to four years.

There were other new features: an ottoman to rest the feet, more storage, a wider screen, and a foldable table that can rotate to allow a passenger to leave a seat even if a meal tray is on it. When the seat turns into a bed, the armrest lowers, providing more sleeping space.

In 2010, halfway through the development program, Lufthansa tested the seat with passengers on a real flight. The seats were in a secret compartment on the airline’s Frankfurt-to-New York daily flight. Over two months, 1,340 passengers tried them. Their comments led to more tweaks: designers added a small separation on a common tray between each pair of seats, so that passengers’ drinks wouldn’t touch.

“All airlines are different. Their clients are different. The body types sometimes are different,” says Luke Pearson, a designer based in London who designed the seat with Lufthansa. The typical Lufthansa business-class passenger is a man in his mid-40s who travels for business every other month. Germans and Americans account for half of Lufthansa’s business passengers.

“Airlines need to know their demographics and what is their culture of travel. Lufthansa have a very good understanding of their clients,” Mr. Pearson says.

The airline says it received more than 3,500 mostly positive comments from passengers during the seat’s first months of service.

Still, while travelers prefer the new Lufthansa seat to its predecessor, the new seat has not won unanimous approval. Some frequent fliers have criticized Lufthansa’s decision not to offer direct aisle access, or the way passengers’ feet converge on the same footrest (although a partition separates them). One reviewer on the Business Traveller Web site said the V-shaped configuration was “nice if you are traveling with someone, but does make you feel a bit more duty-bound to speak to the person next to you if you are on your own, as there is no privacy screen to divide you.”

Another frequent flier offered this faint praise: “The new Lufthansa Business Class is leagues ahead of the old business class. This is due to the fact the Lufthansa had one of the poorer offerings on this class of service.”

When seats in the front of the cabin get more attention, they create a weight problem for the plane as a whole. Airlines, trying to trim weight to cut fuel costs, have sought to balance out heavier seats in the front, in part, by looking for slimmer and lighter seats in coach, ones in which the seat frame is made with high-grade aluminum or carbon composite rather than welded steel. Some connections are even made of titanium. Attention to such detail has become critical: cutting 2.2 pounds can save as much as $800 a year in fuel cost per seat, according to Mr. Hiller, the Recaro executive.

On one of its seats destined for short-haul domestic flights, Recaro moved the magazine seat pocket away from the knee area to the upper edge of the seat above the tray, providing a couple more inches of space. Bulky foam padding on seat cushions was replaced with mesh, like modern office chairs, and the backrest is about two inches thinner. The seat weighs just 11 kilograms (24 pounds), down from 20 kilograms for previous generations. It is also “prereclined” at a 15-degree angle but cannot be adjusted.

“In our limited space,” says Carole Peytavin, vice president for research and development at Air France,“the question we need to ask is, who is willing to pay for what level of comfort?”

PASSENGERS still pick airlines based on the availability of flights and schedule, says Mr. Lange of Airbus, a former vice president for marketing there. “But the cabin product is now right behind that.”

This is especially true when it comes to business-class clients. “The business case for airlines to renew their business class,” he says, “is driven by their calculus to gain market share.”

Generally speaking, a first-class seat takes up the space of six to eight coach seats and a business-class seat takes up about four coach seats. The same is roughly true for ticket prices: first class is generally more than twice the price of business; business class is usually four times the price of coach.

Mr. Hauenstein of Delta explains that even with fewer seats in its business-class cabin, an airline can make more money. On its Boeing 747-400s, for instance, Delta went from about 65 cradlelike business seats to 48 flat bed seats. Yet while the total count dropped, Mr. Hauenstein says the switch to better seats increased the profitability of its fleet.

The reason lies in a dark science perfected by airlines years ago, known as revenue management. On any given flight, airlines generally try to maximize their profits by selling similar seats at different prices. The basic insight, which American Airlines figured out before others, was that you could make more money selling 100 seats at 100 different fares than offering every seat at the same price.

In business class, there are typically four buckets of prices, ranging from $2,000, for tickets bought far ahead of time, to $6,000 for last-minute walk-ins. If the seat experience is more pleasant, the airline can charge a premium. Delta decided it could sell more of the more expensive fares, and fewer of the less-expensive ones, since business passengers often buy tickets close to the flight date.

“The old cabin was rarely full,” Mr. Hauenstein says. “But if demand exceeds supply, that’s a good way to make money.”

There’s a saying in the airline business that seats are perishable items. If they go unsold on one flight, they cannot be sold anymore. Likewise, the seat itself has a limited life, which airlines and designers say is about seven years. After that, it looks stale. Other airlines come up with something new and exciting. Passengers expect a fresh look.

And so, by the time Lufthansa is done installing all its new seats throughout the fleet, the airline will have to look for a replacement.

“We’ve already started thinking about a new seat,” says Mr. Bosler. Maybe this one will come with a cup holder.
89 2013-08-04 The original Maclaren, according to the company history, was designed for a grandchild by Owen Maclaren, an aeronautical engineer and test pilot who had designed the landing gear for the Spitfire fighter plane. The BMW Buggy was designed by Carolyn Komminsk, Maclaren’s chief of design, and comes with a reclining seat and removable seat pad.

The designers visited BMW studios and even the automaker’s museum in Munich, Ms. Komminsk said in an e-mail, noting shapes and materials.

“The Maclaren BMW Buggy is meant to reflect the sleek design and efficient maneuvering of the BMW and the innovation, design, style and safety of Maclaren,” she said.

Maclaren, once among the most prestigious stroller brand in the United States, has encountered challenges, not the least of which was a 2009 recall for finger injuries caused by the hinges of folding models. Informal sidewalk surveys in Brooklyn neighborhoods thick with young parents revealed an abundance of hot brands and models like the Uppababy Vista or the all-terrain Bugaboo Buffalo.

The BMW link may draw attention back to Maclaren, especially among fathers.

“I believe we’ve captured the enthusiasm of car, design and style enthusiasts,” Ms. Komminsk said. “The audiences we are after, in addition to mothers of course, are fathers. Our buggies have VIN numbers, like a car, so we can trace a unique part all the way back to its origin.”

Accessories include an expandable foot muff, a park blanket, an umbrella and, of course, a cup holder. The BMW Buggy is available in black, silver and blue for $385.

Even more prestigious child transport is Aston Martin’s new Silver Cross Surf stroller — make that pram, British style — built, like a Vanquish or Rapide, on an agile, athletic chassis of aluminum and magnesium. Inside is Aston-level Alcantara fabric and leather. The name Aston Martin is rendered on the push bar handle in gleaming metal letters so large no passing rival nanny is likely to miss the association.

Aston Martin cars are favorites of Prince Charles and his son Prince William, the proud new father. William and his wife, Kate, were seen leaving their 2011 wedding in a 1969 Aston Martin DB6 MKII Volante, lent by Charles.

The shape of the wheels on the new pram echoes the twin-spoke configuration of the wheels on the Aston Martin One-77 supercar. That model, priced around $1.4 million, was limited to 77 examples; the pram is limited to 800. It is priced around $3,000 and is available through Harrods.

Silver Cross is a noted brand in the world of prams, citing origins dating to 1877 when, it claims, William Wilson, an inventor, created the first baby pram.

A Silver Cross served the infant Princess Diana. One model is called Balmoral, like the royal family’s Scottish castle.

More affordable are Jeep-branded strollers, which come in many models, found at Babies “R” Us and other stores or online at such sites as allthingsjeep.com. Strollers are part of the lucrative licensing of the brand’s rugged, go-everywhere image. (No separate stroller figure is available, but sales of licensed Jeep products totaled about $550 million in 2008.)

Jeep strollers include the tough Jeep Liberty Limited Urban Terrain and the Jeep Liberty Sport X All-Terrain. Parents who want to keep in shape while spending time with the baby can try the Jeep Overland Limited Jogging Stroller. They are often sold at Walmart and other stores and at several online retailers for about $200.
90 2013-08-04 The Basics and More, but Something’s Missing
91 2013-08-04 In classic MUN, students represent the positions and values of assigned countries, adhering to official protocols when speaking, negotiating and drafting resolutions. Consensus is important, and the process of arriving at innovative solutions to global problems the goal. That is still the prevailing model. But a new breed of Model U.N., popular among student-run clubs at elite universities, has a distinctly different philosophy. Their “crisis committees” focus on a single historical event (the 1929 Atlantic City conference of crime bosses, for example) and fantasy recreations (“Star Wars,” “Harry Potter”). Participants battle it out in four-day conferences in hopes of winning a coveted gavel, awarded to the strongest member on each committee, and schools with the most “best delegates” top the new rankings.

Best Delegate, a MUN consulting company founded in 2010, gets the credit — or blame — for divvying up the North American playing field into two circuits for its rankings. It dubbed the student-led teams that frequent college-hosted conferences the World Division and the faculty-led teams that mostly attend organization-hosted conferences the National Division. An estimated 12,500 students attend World Division college conferences in the United States and Canada, and the number is growing. In 2010-11, there were 18 conferences hosted by some of the country’s most elite universities; in 2012-13 there were 25. Only seven simulated the actual United Nations.

Not everyone is happy with the way Model United Nations is evolving. Some veterans object to a new competitiveness fueled by the rankings. (Penn, Georgetown, the University of Chicago, Harvard and the West Point Military Academy nabbed the top spots this year.)

“It goes against the purpose and point of Model U.N. and, for that matter, the real U.N.,” said Phill Venice, a University of Pennsylvania senior who has participated in 37 conferences. While enjoying the camaraderie and intelligent debate, he said, students are less concerned with working together to achieve common solutions than in standing out to the committee chairperson, who chooses a winner based on contribution to the proceedings.

Amandla Ooko-Ambaka agreed. In Europe and Africa, where she first became involved with Model U.N., she said the focus is more on the academic element of debating. After two years on the traveling team at Yale, she became frustrated with all the politicking and petty tactics. “Not only did I have to put together a good position paper and know one or two things about my topic,” she said, “but I had to worry about someone stealing my USB stick,” where delegates often store their work.

Parvathy Murukurthy, a senior at the University of Chicago and member of the college circuit’s first all-star team, isn’t pointing fingers but says that “entire sections of my resolution have been duplicated into other people’s resolution.” Delegates say backstabbing is less common in crisis committees because they’re smaller (about 20 people while a General Assembly re-creation might have 300), with more chance to distinguish oneself.

Underscoring just how extreme the competition has become, many students refer to a phenomenon known as the “golden gavel,” in which a delegate sleeps with the chairperson in the hopes of winning. Two students told me they are convinced they lost an award this way. Others I spoke with had only heard rumors — but, they added quickly, not involving regular competitors.

One thing is clear. Chairpersons, who are appointed by their clubs, are all-powerful. They run their committee, and often research and write up each character’s portfolio of powers. “Essentially, the chair decides what’s what,” Mr. Venice said, “and the chair decides what’s what without really any guidance. I can’t think of another sport where that would fly, to be honest.”

While conferences organized by nonprofit organizations benefit from a board made up of professors and former United Nations employees and diplomats, World Division conferences are run by undergraduates who control the logistics, financing and preparations. Penn’s last conference, sponsored in part by Lufthansa, had 300 students working committees.

“It’s a point of pride for a lot of American conferences that it’s all student-run,” said Shunsuke Hirose, Columbia’s head delegate.

IN the corner of a small meeting room at the Philadelphia Sheraton, Rodolfo Diaz listened to the other delegates and scribbled on a legal pad, responding to their notes, which had piled up on his desk.

At 5 feet 6 inches, the bespectacled 21-year-old comes across as unintimidating, but as Harvard’s head delegate he is a force. “It’s ironic,” he told me. “People think the more forceful or aggressive you are, the easier it will be to pull yourself as the leader. Actually, it creates a lot of resentment.” His strategy for winning involves making friends, and building consensus in support of his position.

Three days into the competition, the room reeked of body odor and stale junk food. Empty potato chip and Pop-Tarts packets littered the floor. Mr. Diaz, who was playing the role of Grand Admiral Martio Batch in a “Star Wars” crisis, tucked his grandfather’s silver dog tag behind his tie and affixed a pin given to him by the commander at West Point, where he had participated in his first college conference.

As Batch, he was defending the autocratic Imperial Galactic Empire. Two defectors were sitting in the corridor plotting. They had managed to assassinate Jabba the Hutt, who, in this rendition, had been running the empire. They had also taken control of the second Death Star in an attempt to establish their own empire.

The remaining generals, politicians and prophets of the dark side were scrambling to preserve the status quo, under the watchful eye of Lord Vader, who periodically entered the room — menacing in a costume of black chest armor, helmet and cape, and flanked by two hooded assistants — to provide updates.

Each delegate tries to further his character’s agenda by forming alliances and outmaneuvering the others in the room. Batch’s goal was to preserve the imperial navy. “I thought the best way to do that was by being loyal to the empire, which was under control of a dictator,” Mr. Diaz said, “and when he got killed, to Darth Vader, who was second in line.” The tactic worked, and at the end of the weekend, he was named best delegate.

Mr. Diaz, who will study at Cambridge University in the fall, had become involved with MUN during high school in his native Puerto Rico. “I’m not a big sports person,” he said, “but being part of the Model U.N. was like being part of a team. It was a really good community that worked together and hung out afterward.”

Kevin Felix Chan, a co-founder of Best Delegate, describes the appeal this way: “Sports for smart people with social skills.”

MANY attribute the new MUN’s popularity to a larger societal change. Governments are no longer the only ones shaping the global order, while social-media tools provide individuals with wider platforms from which to mobilize. “The shift to crisis committees represents the growing influence of these formal and informal groups,” Mr. Chan said. “The Arab Spring movement, which was one of the top five most simulated topics last year, is a prime example of students learning from the crisis-based decision-making that takes place in the real world today.” Crisis committees enable a more nuanced understanding of history, he said. Participants can see things from the other side — say, representing the Soviets during the Cuban missile crisis.

A onetime delegate for Yale, Ryan Villanueva quit his job at Goldman Sachs in 2010 to start Best Delegate with Mr. Chan, a graduate of the University of California, Los Angeles. They met while competing, and now help high schools, universities and nonprofit organizations create Model U.N. systems and travel the world live-blogging at college-run conferences.

Mr. Villanueva sees heated competition as only natural. “These students and teachers value a level of competition inherent to their culture of prestige and awards,” he said. “There’s a certain student at these schools who wants to be in a decision-making position. They want to handle the excitement of crisis, and, frankly, they care less about the U.N. and about broader national affairs. That’s where the ‘Harry Potter’ and ‘Star Wars’ stuff comes in.”

In the traditional Model U.N., delegates can’t stray very far from their country’s official position. National Model United Nations, run by the nonprofit National Collegiate Conference Association, is the country’s largest traditional conference. Its executive director, Michael Eaton, sniffs at the World Division approach. “NMUN takes a much more intellectual attitude to Model U.N.,” he said. Many NMUN participants take Model U.N. as a for-credit course, designed to teach international relations, United Nations protocol and leadership skills. “We’re asking people to actually do research in foreign policy, not to do MUN as a caricature,” he said.

About rankings, Mr. Eaton added, “It’s not like basketball.” Still, NMUN is one of the few traditional conferences that anoints winners. “We give awards,” he said, “but it is really difficult to gauge an individual’s learning.” Worried about the impact of competition, the association has held a vote among NMUN faculty advisers on continuing the practice, with no consensus.

Arka Mallela, president of Penn’s International Affairs Association, which runs its conferences, believes the rankings have improved performance. As the circuit becomes more formalized, teams are investing more in training. “It was always competitive between schools, but having someone outside of the circuit looking at it and saying ‘Well, this school did better’ has really made people focus on winning,” Mr. Mallela said. “It’s forced a lot of the schools that are good — Georgetown, ourselves, Harvard — to really grow in terms of how we improve delegates and how we train delegates.”

Before conferences, his team reviews strategies and holds mock sessions over a weekend. The University of Chicago may have the most rigorous prep. Newbies meet about four times a week for six weeks before their first conference. “We take the competitive aspect of Model U.N. really seriously,” said Ms. Murukurthy, team vice president, who read at least three books on her assigned topic, as well as news and academic articles. “I’ve found this is extremely necessary because it gives you leverage in committee,” she said.

AT Harvard’s conference in February — the Super Bowl of MUN, attended by some 5,000 students — the exhausted members of the Columbia team straggled into a hotel room and began an animated re-creation of the afternoon’s events. Cesar Rodriguez, a sophomore, collapsed on the bed. After relating how he had organized and then backed out of a coup in Venezuela, deceiving fellow cabinet members, he speculated on his chances of winning.

Delegates took swigs from a wine bottle containing a blend of vodka and cranberry juice, and every few minutes, someone would spontaneously break into song.

No formal debates are conducted on the last day of the conferences, so the parties following the Saturday night Delegate Dance go late into the night in rooms across the hotel. Wild nights are nothing new to Model U.N. During Harvard’s 1980 conference, guests at Boston’s Park Plaza complained of “loudness, water fights, abuse of toilet paper, and general partying among the 1,700 delegates,” according to an article in The Harvard Crimson that year.

Mr. Rodriguez, switching frequently to Spanish midsentence, argued with teammates about which MUN has the best parties (McGill University seemed to get a lot of the votes) and discussed details for Columbia’s own conference, in its eighth year.

“MUN parties can be infamous,” he told me, fiddling with his high school class ring, engraved with his name on it. “You have to try your hardest in committee. I was trying so hard to win. But once it’s done, we have fun.”
92 2013-08-04 This is the first article I’ve ever read that communicates the reality of a quadriplegic’s life. My brother was a quadriplegic for 37 years. Soldiering on for his family kept him alive, but having no one to talk honestly with about his fear of dying — not just his fear of living — is what I most regret about his life. Truly understanding and asserting your will when the body is gone is as monumentally daunting as climbing Mount Everest. Thank you for this profile. ALEX FINLAYSON, San Diego, posted on nytimes.com

My 85-year-old mother suffered a brain hemorrhage two and half years ago and has been on life support in a permanent vegetative state in Japan. The laws are different there, and we were told that even if she had a living will, we would not be able to take her off life support. I know that my mother would not have wanted to continue in her present state, as she said so many times. Japan is extremely reactionary in this regard despite its large geriatric population. The possibility of having a choice over end-of-life decisions by the patient and the family, no matter how messy, complex and painful it may be, is crucial so that lives are not sustained needlessly. SHIRLEY KANEDA, New York, posted on nytimes.com

There would be no “choice” in much of this if they weren’t using their substantial retirement savings, plus combined medical coverage. Having resources brings its own set of complications to an already complex issue. I wonder if Brooke is “living” or “being kept alive” by round-the-clock staff and mechanical aids? Perhaps they are the same, or perhaps it doesn’t matter. JANET I. CAMP, Milwaukee, posted on nytimes.com

This article struck a chord with me, having been a quadriplegic myself for 35 years and a rehabilitation physician for 20 of them, treating other people with spinal-cord injuries. My heart goes out to this couple, knowing how tough it can be. As difficult as the circumstances are, debates about choosing death as preferable to disability must be based on accurate, unbiased information about potential quality of life. It is particularly easy to become overwhelmed with negative expectations in cases of severe disabilities, when there’s a focus on ventilators, catheterization, etc., as in this article. The truth is that grief and despair from a catastrophic injury can usually be transcended, like the pain resulting from a death in the family. Saying goodbye to the way your body used to be and to the life you had before is exceedingly difficult — but with time and support, it is possible to feel good about yourself and lead a rewarding life. I hope this couple perseveres. EDWARD C. NIESHOFF, Farmington Hills, Mich., posted on nytimes.com

I had the pleasure of working with Jack Handey in the early ’80s on the Marie Osmond show. Jack sat in the office next door by himself all day, emerging only for water and snacks. While the rest of us were trying to write sketches that would make it on the air, Jack wrote the most bizarre and hysterical material I have ever had the chance to read. STU KREISMAN, Los Angeles, posted on nytimes.com
93 2013-08-04 Tabitha King, their mother, suddenly sat upright. “That’s a filthy book — I didn’t know he would have asked you to read that. How old were you?”

“I don’t know,” Joe said, dodging for his dad. “I was innocent when I started, and I was filthy afterward.”

Owen’s wife, Kelly Braffet, was seated beside her husband. She had heard some of these details before; it was family lore that Naomi, who is 43, was asked to read and record, at age 12, the definitive journalistic account of the Jonestown massacre. “It was horrible,” Naomi said.

Stephen finally rallied in self-defense. “But you read me all those Wilbur Smiths!” he said to Naomi. “And ‘Anna Karenina.’ ”

Entertaining their parents, for the King children, was part job, part enrichment. At bedtime, they were the ones expected to tell their parents stories, instead of the other way around. Whatever their methods or intentions, Stephen and Tabitha’s shared vocation, and their approach to child rearing, has yielded a significant number of successful fiction writers in their household. Tabitha is an accomplished writer with eight novels to her , and two of their three children, Joe and Owen, are novelists. (Naomi is a Unitarian Universalist minister.) Joe’s “NOS4A2,” a sprawling mix of horror and fantasy that is his third critically praised best seller, was published last April; Owen’s second work of fiction, a well-received comedic novel titled “Double Feature,” was published in March. Owen, perhaps inevitably, married a writer, Kelly Braffet, whose third novel, a literary thriller called “Save Yourself,” is out this month. And Stephen’s much-anticipated sequel to the titled “Doctor Sleep,” comes out this fall.

Circus performers, klezmer musicians — those are the kinds of entertainers we usually expect to see in a family business, not writers. There are a few exceptions — children of successful writers who have bravely followed their parents. (son of Kingsley) is perhaps the best-known example, but (daughter of Arthur) and Ted Heller (son of Joseph) have also published, more quietly, well-reviewed novels. But for sheer volume of books, cultural impact and accumulated readership, none of those families come close to the Kings. The closest comparison would have to be the Brontës, and even they maxed out at a paltry three published novelists, plus one dissipated poet.

If reading was a common escape in the King household, it was nonetheless deeply social. They read on tape, but they also took turns reading aloud after dinner, passing around “The Hobbit” or the Narnia chronicles. It followed that writing came to feel like something they all could share as well. Stephen and Tabitha did not take themselves off to quiet sheds or off-site offices to write; they wrote in their own home, upstairs, as their kids, below, wondered what words were being put on the page and played elaborate role-playing games of their own.

When the group broke from the conversation around the table to pose for a family photo outside, they continued their easy patter on books and pop culture. Joe’s corgi, McMurtry, named after the novelist , was insistently present, so that someone catching snippets, from a distance, of the family’s conversation as they made their way into the yard would have heard something like this: “ . . . Spielberg . . . McMurtry! McMurtry! . . . Cronenberg . . . . . . McMurtry!”

“Did you see that picture of that ran somewhere — he was coming out of some swamp with his shirt off?” Owen asked. “He looked like a ninja.”

Then they assembled; they posed, as close to a first family of letters as America is likely to have.

“The last photographer who shot me kept yelling: ‘Love me! Love me!’ ” Stephen said.

In 1990, when Kelly Braffet was a high-school freshman in Western Pennsylvania, her parents gave her, for Christmas, a Stephen King book-of-the-month subscription, which came, as she recalls, with a six-inch rubber skeleton — “very creepy.” It was just what she wanted. She was in her “Stephen King completist” phase, and she was trying to track down hardcover copies of his more obscure books. Her completist phase could have been considered officially over 17 years later, when she married Owen, whom she met at the Columbia M.F.A. writing program in 2001. The day they met, Braffet was carrying around a book by John D. MacDonald, a midcentury crime writer who would not be found on their syllabus but was an icon in the King household. She was a suitable girl: a book-loving, book-writing student who was pretty in glasses and had a healthy appreciation for potboilers. He was an easygoing, attentive boyfriend. Once they swapped manuscripts to make sure they did not hate each other’s writing, the relationship quickly moved forward.

Even so, Braffet was nervous about meeting her future in-laws, nervous even at the sound of Stephen King’s voice on Owen’s answering machine. “It took me two years before I could actually speak in front of Steve and Tabby,” she said.

Braffet’s father is an E.M.S. helicopter pilot, and her mother is a computer programmer who attended college late in life. Braffet herself worked two summers in a warehouse, where she “picked stickers off of one piece of paper and put them on another,” a glimpse of her possible future had she not earned a scholarship to . Her first visit to the King family home, which is in Bangor, was unnerving: all those endless rooms and hallways, like a real-life version of the hotel in “The Shining,” and that crazy, famous fence around their home, with its wrought-iron bats and cobwebs. “Their underground library,” Braffet noted, “was bigger than the entire library in the town I grew up in. It was . . . a lot.”

Eventually, in 2004, while they were waiting to move into a condo in , Kelly and Owen spent six months living near the Kings in Maine, a period in which they saw them virtually every day. Braffet’s nerves clearly calmed. This July, at the Kings’ house, during some downtime, Braffet sat next to one of her childhood idols as he pored over his iPad; he was fully immersed in the video game Jetpack Joyride.

The relationship between Kelly and Stephen has the easy rapport of in-laws relieved to enjoy each other’s company, the conversation light, less likely to turn to the mysterious process of writing than to the end product — either someone else’s work or their own. The Kings’ embrace of her writing is clearly not a function of politeness; they seemed to be competing to outdo themselves in their praise of “Save Yourself” when the subject came up.

“It’s like adapted an S.E. Hinton novel for ,” Joe said.

His father jumped in to refine his son’s mash-up description of the book’s tone: “It’s more like James Cain” — another of Stephen’s beloved crime writers — “adapted S.E. Hinton for David Lynch.”

What they did not say, or maybe even notice, is that the book provides a literary, Internet-age update of King’s : a story of savage high-school bullying that ends in a blaze of violence; it includes a vampire-inspired cult but stops short of the supernatural.

Asked about it, Braffet said she never made the connection. “Carrie” influenced her “only in the same way that every other horrifying high-school story I’d heard was sort of simmering in my subconscious.” To write any kind of page-turner is to run up against the likelihood of overlap with King’s work: there are only so many dramatic scenarios to which he has not turned his imagination over the course of 40 years.

It was important to Braffet, until now, that she publish without her in-laws’ having so much as read her work, so that she had plausible deniability should people hint that Stephen played a hand in publication. With “Save Yourself,” she finally turned to the Kings for advice, when she worried that she had lost her way. “I had no choice,” she said. “I’d already imposed on all my other readers.” Tabitha provided structural advice; Stephen, some notes on language. Mostly they told her to keep going. And no, she maintained, she was not particularly nervous. “It was more important to me that Owen like my work,” she said.

For the most part, Joe and Owen King got along well: two brothers, five years apart, who entertained themselves with action figures and role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons and the more obscure Call of Cthulhu. But Joe had one habit that got under Owen’s skin. “I can remember being 8, and eventually everything had to stop so he could write for two hours,” Owen recalls. It did not matter if Owen was perched on the edge of slaying some imaginary monster, his brother was off: “Gotta get my two hours in.”

Joe was 11, a kid in love with his Sherlock Holmes-style deer-stalking cap, when he first started writing daily. Following his father’s equally compulsive example, he made no exception for weekends or holidays. By high school, Joe was serious enough about his literary ambitions that he was already worrying about getting out from under his father’s shadow. He came up with the pen name Jay Stevenson (a pun on “J., Stephen’s son”) and started asking his parents: What would it take to change my name legally?

He attended , then moved to and started writing full time, under the pseudonym Joe Hill. “I was very insecure, and I didn’t want to sell something because someone saw it as a way to make a quick buck and then have it come out and someone would say it was terrible,” Hill says. He signed with a New York agent, from whom he concealed his actual identity for eight years. (Over that time, they never met in person.) If he gave a reading and a blogger noted that he bore an uncanny resemblance to a young Stephen King, Hill privately requested that the blogger remove the reference. He spent several years on a novel, which was universally rejected. Years passed. A second novel went nowhere. His parents financially supported him, his wife and his first two children, never once suggesting that he might want to re-examine his options. (He and his wife are divorced.)

And then finally, in 2007, at 35, Hill published a ghost story with an aging rock star as its hero, a novel less schematic than many of his father’s books, more dreamy. Firmly grounded in celebrity culture, unpredictable both in form and plot, the book was almost immediately a best seller.

At times in his life, Hill actually contemplated hiring an actor to do readings of his work, to conceal that unmistakable resemblance to his father. By the time “Heart-Shaped Box” was published and he had forged ahead with some readings, his alias had been blown. In the end, in light of the book’s success, that did not seem to matter; now he’s comfortable writing in a genre his father dominates. “Sometimes I think the kid who’s like, ‘I’m never going to be like my dad in any way whatsoever,’ is less his own person,” he said.

His acclaim brought different stresses. “I think the pressure of that success resulted in some anxieties picking up,” Hill said. At its worst, about five years ago, while he was writing his second novel, Hill’s anxiety crossed into something more like classic paranoia. “I would do stuff like get to a hotel room and tear the room apart looking for fiber-optic video cameras — I once took my car apart.” He developed other compulsions: he could not stop working if a sentence ended on an odd count of letters; he missed appointments because he made so many trips back home to make sure he had turned off the oven.

Hill suspects that those tendencies are another inheritance from his father, along with the compulsion to write and a fascination with the macabre. Stephen King is uneasy about the number 13, which is not something he puts on simply to charm the press (asked to donate $13,000 to bring home some Maine troops for the holidays in 2009, he donated, instead, $12,999). He is compulsive about certain kinds of counting. He has concocted a mind-numbing game that involves continually resetting his car’s odometer while crossing out numbers in a notebook. And “ravens freak him out, crows freak him out a little bit,” Joe says. “They’re harbingers of death. My mom is more like the family reality check — I learned the oven stuff from him.”

Hill’s most recent book, “NOS4A2” (pronounced Nosferatu), features an immortal villain who whisks children off to a hellishly jolly Christmasland. The book is filled with details so troubling they border on nauseating: implied sexual violence, a mentally impaired reprobate, desperate messengers of doom. To marvel at how deftly he disturbs is to wonder how talent — and this particular talent — passes from father to son.

King and Hill have a way of turning questions about the roots of their dark imaginations into opportunities to sound more wholesome and sane than the person posing the query. In a recent interview with Terry Gross, King joked about how journalists inevitably try to turn into “Dr. Freud and put me on the couch,” then confessed to a happy childhood. Hill, too, seemed, at first, to think the investigation is pointless. “I wonder why no one looks at an engineer and thinks, What was it in his childhood that made him want to be an engineer?” But Hill eventually conceded that something about his particular mental makeup did lend itself well to his subject matter — and it seemed he had thought about that subject quite a lot. “I’ve had a lot of practice spinning paranoid scenarios in fiction — which means I’m good at spinning paranoid scenarios in my own life,” he told me. “It’s a chicken-or-egg situation: Which came first? Is fiction and creating scenarios a way of getting rid of that anxiety? Or is it the practice of writing that has made me more vulnerable to the panic attack?”

A low dose of has kept Hill’s paranoia in check, as he wrote on a post on his account, which he titled “Took Off My Crazypants.” His writing is not suffering, and he is enjoying success. And unlike his father, he said, “now I don’t really care about the number 13.”

In 2003, Stephen King won the Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters and was invited to give a speech at the . King spent close to the first half of the lengthy speech celebrating his wife for always believing in him, for encouraging him to write, even when they were scraping by in a trailer home with two kids and she was working at Dunkin’ Donuts and he did shifts at a laundry. You could develop the impression that Tabitha — Tabby, as she’s known — was the stand-by-your-man type, a wife who would graciously defer to the dreams of her husband at the expense of her own comfort. That may all be true. But after seeing her with her family, I came away with the strong sense that if she encouraged King to keep going, it was because she was no fool — she had editorial judgment and knew good writing when she saw it. They were both students at the in 1969 when King handed her a short story to read. “I remember thinking,” she recalled, “This guy’s publishable right this second.”

One of Tabby’s favorite T-shirts reads, “If I’m speaking, you should be taking notes,” and frequently, her family members do. “When I wrote ‘NOS4A2,’ I wrote a really bleak ending, and I was artistically committed to it, come hell or high water — right up until Mum read it,” Joe said, sitting at the table with his family. “She said, ‘You know, Joe, that ending really won’t do.’ I was like, ‘Aww, all right.’ My artistic integrity lasted about 15 seconds on the phone with my mum.”

The feedback goes both ways. “And when you wrote ‘Survivor,’ Tabby, we all ganged up on you about the ending in that book,” Stephen recalled.

“Yeah, and the changes made it a best seller,” Tabby joked, then blew a loud raspberry. The book came and went, although Library Journal called it a “compelling psychological drama,” a book that “belongs in most fiction collections.” Tabby, who is slowly working on her ninth book, clearly feels ill served by the publishing industry, so much so that she encouraged Joe to use a pseudonym. “The perception that Steve’s success got me published cannot be erased for some people,” she said. The assumption, natural though it may be, is misguided: a trilogy of novels she wrote set in Maine — “The Book of Reuben” and — is pure narrative pleasure (the author Jennifer Weiner said “Pearl” was one of her all-time favorite reads). It may have been her husband’s shadow that held her back, or it may have been the same problems that hold back many midlist writers — work that falls between literary and comedy, novels with no gimmicks or glamorous locations. That her books aren’t better known pains her sons, both of whom consider her influence on their work as strong as that of their father’s. “At least, I hope that’s true,” Owen says. “Her sense of place, her sense of character — it’s just so strong.”

If Tabby does occupy something of a saintly status in the King household, it is not just because she stood by her husband when he was young and desperate, but because she threatened to walk away, years later, when he was famous and a full-blown alcoholic with a coke habit. In 1987, Tabby staged an intervention that all three children — Naomi, then 17, Joe, 15, and Owen, 10 — attended. All Owen knew until that point was that his father “consumed massive amounts of alcohol — but I might as well have assumed that everybody’s dad did that.” Tabby explained to all of them that if their father did not agree to get sober, she would ask him to leave. “I didn’t want to lie to my kids,” she said. “I’ve never really gotten lying anyway, because all you do is postpone the day at which you’re revealed to be a liar.” As the family discussed the intervention all these years later, the conversation grew almost hushed. “It was terrifying,” Naomi said. “Are you going to have a dad anymore?”

It took about two years, but King finally did get sober. Then there was a period of calm, until 1999, when King ran up against a series of near-tragic events. While walking down a country road near his home, he was hit by a van that tossed him 14 feet and reduced the bones in his lower left leg “to so many marbles in a sack,” in the words of one doctor. In chronic pain for months of recovery, he developed (and eventually kicked) an addiction to the painkillers. And finally, he came down with , checking into the hospital within 24 hours of the speech he gave toasting his wife at the National Book Awards. “The pulmonologist wasn’t sure he’d get through the night, but that’s just what he did,” Tabby said. “I’ve told him, I’m not doing that again. It was just too hard.”

There was a moment during the interview when one of the King children was talking about a book, and Stephen turned toward his wife and took her hand. He grasped it, tightly, and they both closed their eyes and leaned in toward each other, as if in prayer. Later, when asked about that moment, Stephen could not remember what inspired that moment — maybe nothing at all. “Sometimes I just take her hand,” he said. “We’ve always been close, Tab and me. I love her.”

It is an odd twist of fate that Stephen King’s first child, Naomi, was born with a chronic deficit of the hormone adrenaline. She grew, over time, to be an avid reader, but the power of her father’s books was lost on her, as terror, she believes, is a hard emotion for her to access. So her father asked her, when she was a teenager, what it was that she did like. She told him she liked dragons, and her father wrote her a book, “The Eyes of the Dragon,” a fantasy tale complete with an evil, conniving magician in the king’s palace. He dedicated the book to her.

As a young girl, long before she met the Kings, Braffet used to stare at that dedication. “And I remember thinking to myself, Wow, Naomi King’s life must be awesome,” Braffet recalled at the Kings’ kitchen table. Naomi responded, with the same light sarcastic tone her mother employs to great effect, “Every minute.”

The advantages of being a King are, of course, considerable, and the family is close; but there were also the difficult years of Stephen’s addiction, years Naomi was old enough to recognize as painful. And then there are the assumptions people have about her as the offspring of Stephen King. “There’s the expectation that I love horror as a genre or that I care about monsters,” she said. “And I do care about monsters — I care very much about theological interpretations of how we make friends with our monsters. If we demonize other people and create monsters out of each other and act monstrous — and we all have that capacity — then how do we not become monsters ourselves?”

Naomi sounds, maybe, like what Stephen might sound like if, in some alternate universe, he entered divinity school to become a minister, as Naomi did in 1999. It was uncharted territory in the King household. “I truly can’t imagine a more secular family than ours,” Owen said. But Naomi maintains that religion was always there: Tabitha’s family was Catholic, and Stephen, who grew up with devoutly Christian family members, used to win prizes at Sunday school for reciting Bible verses. “I’m not sure you can grow up with those stories without them influencing you and making their way into your everyday speech,” Naomi says. And then, of course, the presence of A.A. in their home was its own kind of influence, if not a religious one, then a spiritual one.

If Naomi is at peace with her choice, the family still seems to be mulling why she did not pursue fiction. “I think possibly Naomi has been more intimidated by the production of fiction than you guys were,” Tabitha said, meaning Joe and Owen. “She made a deliberate choice to find her own area.”

Stephen added: “But you know you were always good — she was always good. She wrote fantasy when she was a kid and into her teenage years, and it was all terrific stuff. It just needed some seasoning.”

Naomi sighed — the encouragement was well intentioned but misplaced. “I have different stories, and those are the ones I tell. It’s just a different genre.” There are the stories she communicates to readers through her online ministry. There are also the stories she creates through sock monkeys costumed as adventuring pirates, whose exploits she creates and then documents on her Flickr account. “It’s about play, and it’s totally congruent with who I am as a religious leader,” she said, “but that isn’t what people have been taught to think.” Like every other member of her family, she has stories in her life, and they sustain her.

Although she writes daily prayers that she posts on and her blog, Naomi’s ongoing health problems have made a full-time ministry impossible. She now works at the Pietree Orchard, a shop and property near her parents that they purchased in 2007, rather than see it converted to condominiums.

She likes her work, and although she also reads widely, she has never secretly hoped that a 600-page zombie novel will spring from her mind. There is an old Hasidic tale Naomi likes to share, about an aged scholar named Zusya. One after the next, his students approach him, concerned that they might not be measuring up to greatness. Why, one asks him, am I not more like Jacob? Why, asks another, am I not more like Moses?

Naomi smiled as she narrated the ending: “When I die, I’m not going to be asked why I wasn’t like Moses,” Zusya tells them. “I’m going to be asked why I wasn’t like Zusya.”

It was a good story. She told it well.

Owen’s first novel, “Double Feature,” opens with a young man awakening abruptly from a dream: “A shadow grew, grew and grew, its mountainous shoulders overwhelming the bright frame.” The young hero panics. His pulse “was in his fingers and his toes, behind his eyes, under his tongue. He was afraid.” Then the shadow speaks: it is the son’s father; he has read the son’s screenplay; he wants to share some notes.

That one page — with its slapstick nod to the anxiety of influence, to the literary shadow that might well be on readers’ minds — is as close to writing actual horror as Owen King ever gets. He is not drawn to the genre; by the time he was 10, he had been exposed, he felt, through his father’s films, to enough maggot-infested corpses and severed heads to leave him “a little bit squeamish.” “Double Feature” feels more than Stephen King, tracing the story of an ambitious indie filmmaker — the son of a well-known B-movie actor — whose pet project becomes a cult classic for all the worst reasons.

Owen insists that any resemblances in the book to anyone living or dead is purely coincidental, unless that person is . But the emotional architecture seems clearly modeled on something familiar from his own home. “I think the particulars are completely different,” says his friend Tom Bissell, a cultural critic, “but it is about influence and feeling somehow trapped by that influence. And I think in some wonderful ways the book is an escape act — he did it.”

Tabby has sympathy for her children’s desires to stake out their own territory but also feels that their burdens are hardly unusual. “Everybody’s got parents, and they carry something from that,” she told me. “Sometimes it’s the children of a doctor dealing with: Is dad ever home or is he too demanding? Or else you’re the child of the town drunk or the town minister. You’re the child of somebody who has cast some sort of a shadow over your life, from whom you have to differentiate yourself.”

Owen spent years watching B-movies as research for the book and is known among his friends for being the kind of person who will forever be capable of naming them all, while cross-referencing their third-string stars with those actors’ other, even more obscure works. His brother and father also share that skill. “The King men seem able not only to read and write and allude faster than the rest of us — they seem to watch TV faster, listen to music faster, to defy the physics of consumption,” says Joshua Ferris, a novelist and close friend of Owen’s. Of the two brothers, Joe is the more enthusiastic fanboy — picture him unironically wearing his favorite T-shirt, because “Jaws” is one of his four favorite movies. Owen’s favorite T-shirt ever, by contrast, was for a defunct girls’ magazine and read, “Jane: Everything Great About Being a Girl.” He wore it to meet Kelly’s parents for the first time.

Like Joe, Owen, as a young boy, often sat down with his father to talk about books — in his case, to deconstruct what made a story work or to find the ways he could make his own writing more vivid. He enjoyed these sessions, but not because he already had some idea that he wanted to be a writer. “It was something I’d seen my dad do with my brother, and I sort of wanted to feel included,” he told me. As much because of temperament as subject matter, Owen’s current relationship with his father is less intensively collaborative than that of Joe, who gets feedback on all his drafts from both parents and frequently calls to talk shop. “I have a much more typical relationship with my parents,” Owen said. “I’m looking for unconditional love from my parents. I’m not particularly interested in getting heavy literary criticism from them.”

On one public occasion, he got it anyway. His father, in an interview with this magazine in 2000, casually characterized Owen’s early work as “flavor-of-the-month, New York relationships.” Owen was angry at the time, but he is easy on his father now, even protective. “Yeah, that wasn’t the greatest,” he said. “My dad felt really bad. But that was a long time ago, and what I do has become easier for my parents to understand.” His father apologized, and Owen, who was getting his M.F.A. at Columbia, kept writing. While he was there, on two occasions, professors at Columbia extravagantly dismissed his father’s body of work while Owen was in the room. He learned that if he was going to write, he would have to be fairly confident that he could find his own voice, regardless of who was talking to him about what fiction should be. When Owen’s novel came out, Stephen turned his Web site into an enthusiastic ad: If you are in the mood to laugh your posterior off, he said in his own vernacular, “ ‘Double Feature’ will perform that surgery and painlessly.”

Owen can live with selling fewer books than his brother or father, both of whom set unusually high standards for that metric. “I think my brother’s and father’s drive for success is greater than mine,” he said. “I just want to sell enough books to be able to justify continuing to write.” As the youngest of the siblings and the one who stayed home, rather than go to boarding school, he was exposed more often than they were to his father’s growing fame — the snapping cameras everywhere, the strangers forever approaching them. “I want to be as successful as I can be while still living a very private life,” he said, “and I think my ambition is probably a little bit limited by that desire.”

His brother, by contrast, embraces the public’s attention. He recently posed for a series of photos in which he pantomimed being strangled and stabbed by fans, then posted them on . Owen admired the project but could not relate to the impulse. “I don’t want to be choked by a stranger,” he said. “Not even pretend choked.”

On the Fourth of July, the extended King family gathered at the Pietree Orchard and ate pizza on the picnic benches outside the shop. Some of the grandchildren had gone strawberry picking; later there would be fireworks. Stephen King, sitting on a picnic bench, turned to his 10-year-old grandson. “So if I had a stroke,” King asked him, “what do you think I should do? Should I go into a nursing home? Would that be the best thing?”

The questions were both matter of fact and macabre — a late-in-life version of what the family called the writing game, in which they would each take five minutes to rescue some hero from peril, only to place him once again in danger before passing the challenge on to the next family member. This is the kind of plot twist that most haunts King now: illness, , the loss of his uncommonly active mind.

A few minutes later, he was eager to share an image he had on his iPad. He whisked past pictures — his grandchildren, trees, whoops, there goes — and then there was a black-and-white photo: a smiling woman sitting on the knee of a merchant mariner. “Those were my parents,” he said. His father abandoned the family when King, the younger of two children, was 2, but when King was about 10, he stumbled upon his father’s stash of old pulp novels. It was Stephen’s first introduction to horror — among the finds there was with a cover of a monster crawling out of a grave. Either because he is his father’s son or because he was a son seeking out his father — King believes it’s the first of those options — he was immediately obsessed, reading every book in the collection and seeking out more wherever and whenever he could. His father, his mother told him, wrote stories, good ones, too, and although he did not stick with it, some magazine editors had encouraged him. The subtext of King’s personal narrative would seem to be that of a child trying to please an absent father, as loudly and successfully as he can. King, however, sees it as a matter of simple . So the fact that his sons, in turn, would be writers, that one of them might even write horror, is therefore wholly predictable to King. “I do think it’s built in,” he said. “You know, sometimes people say to me, ‘Why do you choose to write that creepy stuff?’ And I usually say, ‘What makes you think I have a choice?’ ”

At the guesthouse, after the group portrait was finally taken, the family started to disperse. “Did you really think that the Neil Gaiman book was — what did you call it? Something like ‘an incomparable masterpiece?’ ” Owen asked Joe, referring to a recent blog post about Gaiman’s new novel. “You like everything on Twitter — you can’t like that much stuff.”

He had proposed earlier that they gather that evening to play an old game called Ex Libris. The game, a bit like Balderdash, would have them all competing to write the most convincing first line of a randomly chosen actual novel. Somebody wondered: How old was this game?

“It’s as old as storytelling,” Stephen intoned.

“Yeah, the very first Irish balladeers were playing this game,” Owen said. That got a laugh from his dad, so he kept going. “The Gilgamesh guy was playing this game.”

Joe, who had been strenuously trying to turn the conversation back to the rules of Ex Libris, joined in. “They were playing at the Alexandria library,” he said. “As it burned.”

It went on like this for a few minutes. Naomi made a reference to an obscure ancient manuscript depicting beer, Owen cracked a joke about pulps in Mesopotamia.

His father suggested, not unkindly, that they wrap up the conversation. Maybe they would play the game some other time. After lunch, Owen and Kelly wandered down toward the lake with Joshua Ferris and his wife, who were visiting. Stephen and Tabby went back to their primary summer home. And Joe headed inside with the book he had been carrying around all day, a galley his dad gave him of another author’s horror book.

A few days later, Joe and Stephen were having another typical conversation: hashing out what novel could be considered the “Moby-Dick” of horror.

That one with all the footnotes, they argued — no, not that one, the other one: Mark Danielewski’s “House of Leaves.”

Joe bragged that his youngest son, who is 10, was doing some writing of his own. “He’s working on two stories: one is called ‘Scrap’; the other is called ‘The Bad Thing.’ ”

Stephen brightened: he liked that, “The Bad Thing.” “I’m sorry,” he said, as if he had just found someone else’s shiny penny, “I might have to use that.”

Joe understood. “I know,” he said. “I had the same thought myself.”
94 2013-08-05 The reinsurance arm of Third Point, the hedge fund run by Daniel S. Loeb, disclosed on Monday that it is seeking to raise up to $370.6 million from its forthcoming initial public offering. That shows quick growth for the nearly two-year-old operat...
95 2013-08-05 A selection of travel headlines from around the Web....
96 2013-08-05 Solving start-up challenges. Businesses someone else should start. Foursquare’s tips versus Yelp’s reviews....
97 2013-08-05 EADS, the parent company of Airbus, confirmed Monday that it had received a letter from London-based TCI urging it to sell its 46 percent stake in Dassault Aviation....
98 2013-08-05 LOS ANGELES — Come April 16, the stars will strut, paparazzi will pop, and fans will file into packed theaters, turning Lower Manhattan into a temporary film capital during the 13th annual Tribeca Film Festival. But they will not be having all that fun under the ubiquitous, blue-and-white corporate logo of American Express.

After 12 years as Tribeca’s presenting sponsor, American Express is stepping back, while AT&T steps in, as the primary supporter of a movie conclave that was originally meant to lift a battered downtown following the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

Jane Rosenthal, who founded the festival with her husband, Craig M. Hatkoff, and with Robert De Niro, her business partner, said the change reflected the evolving strategy of all involved.

“Everybody always shifts their priorities and business plans every 12 years or so,” said Ms. Rosenthal, who spoke by telephone last week.

In 2011, Ms. Rosenthal noted, AT&T became the sponsor of the Tribeca Film Institute’s youth screening program. This year, the company joined other sponsors in supporting the festival, which has become more digitally oriented with events like an annual hackathon, which prompts participants to solve storytelling problems and other challenges with tools like their smartphones.
99 2013-08-05 In late May, executives from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority boarded an A train to the Rockaways to celebrate a hard-won milestone. For the first time since October, when Hurricane Sandy leveled the subway system with unprecedented damage, train service had been made whole again.

It lasted about nine weeks.

On Monday, three days after the start of a 14-month shutdown of the R train’s Montague tube, which connects Manhattan and Brooklyn, a much-loathed feature of the post-hurricane subway map will return: the split subway line, maneuvering without incident within a borough but unable to cross a body of water. Repairing the storm-related damage is expected to cost more than $300 million.

One segment of the R train will run from Forest Hills-71st Avenue in Queens to Whitehall Street-South Ferry in Manhattan; another will operate in Brooklyn, from Court Street to Bay Ridge-95th Street. On weekends, the train will run over the Manhattan Bridge, bypassing all stops between Canal Street and DeKalb Avenue.

Though a string of transfer points along the R train’s route should mitigate the disruption to passengers, the changes have already provided an unwelcome reminder: storm repairs across the system could take years, as the transportation authority has cautioned since the fall, especially along stretches where trains move through under-river tunnels — whether a traveler realizes it or not.

“The R train is never above ground,” Michael Curry, 29, of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, said on Sunday, as his train approached Atlantic Avenue. “It’s just these magical doors that open and you get to places.”
100 2013-08-05 There were no lines at the secondary perimeter checkpoints as security members ensured fans did not enter Fawcett Stadium with banned items that included backpacks, diaper bags, coolers, briefcases, fanny packs, seat cushions and camera bags.

The only bags that can be taken into stadiums s are clear plastic, vinyl or PVC that do not exceed 12 inches by 6 inches by 12 inches, including one-gallon clear plastic freezer bags.

Fans in Canton said they approved of the new procedures, but a few women were upset they could not bring their purses into the stadium.

“I had to hide my purse under a concrete barrier,” said Brooke Cantu, a Cowboys fan from McAllen, Texas. “I took the contents and put them in a plastic bag, but had to leave the purse. At least it’s not an expensive purse.”

COOPER REPORTS THREATS The Philadelphia Eagles said receiver Riley Cooper received threatening messages after a video of him making a racial slur became public. The team said that Cooper informed the Eagles of the threats, which he received through his Twitter account, but did not know who made them.

The team has notified the league’s security department.

Cooper was fined by the Eagles after his use of the slur at a concert earlier this summer became known Wednesday. He left the team Friday to seek counseling.

“Riley Cooper made us aware of the tweets when the video became public,” the team said. “He told us that he did not know about the video. He informed us he blocked the tweets because he did not know the person nor understand the context of what that person was threatening.

“We promptly alerted N.F.L. security. This information potentially speaks to a legal issue that is a matter between Riley and the authorities. Our focus has been on Riley’s words and actions.”

Momah has not played since tearing a knee ligament in the first game of his senior year at Boston College in 2011.

DONOVAN DIES AT 89 Art Donovan, the lineman whose hilarious stories about his football career enabled him to maintain his popularity long after his election into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, died Sunday night. He was 89. Donovan made a name for himself as a feisty defensive tackle for the Baltimore Colts, helping the team to league titles in 1958 and 1959.

JETS CUT TWO AND ADD THREE The Jets released receiver Jordan White and cornerback Eric Crocker, and signed three players, including the former Buccaneers running back Mossis Madu. The team also signed receiver Michael Campbell and center Erik Cook.
101 2013-08-05 HERE is a symbol of China’s assault on the American economy: the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, which connects Brooklyn and Staten Island. This landmark, which opened in 1964, is North America’s longest suspension bridge. It’s also in urgent need of renovation. Unfortunately, $34 million in steel production and fabrication work has been outsourced to China.

How did this happen? The Metropolitan Transportation Authority says a Chinese fabricator was picked because the two American companies approached for the project lacked the manufacturing space, special equipment and financial capacity to do the job. But the United Steelworkers claims it quickly found two other American bridge fabricators, within 100 miles of New York City, that could do the job.

The real problem with this deal is that it doesn’t take into account all of the additional costs that buying “Made in China” brings to the American table. In fact, this failure to consider all costs is the same problem we as consumers face every time we choose a Chinese-made product on price alone — a price that is invariably cheaper.

Consider the safety issue: a scary one, indeed, because China has a very well-deserved reputation for producing inferior and often dangerous products. Such products are as diverse as lead-filled toys, sulfurous drywall, pet food spiked with melamine and heparin tainted with oversulfated chondroitin sulfate.

In the specific case of bridges, six have collapsed across China since July 2011. The official Xinhua news agency has acknowledged that shoddy construction and inferior building materials were contributing factors. There is also a cautionary tale much closer to home.
102 2013-08-05 Jeter said he thought a decision would be made Monday on whether he would return to the disabled list.

Jeter returned last month after a lengthy recovery from the broken ankle he sustained during last season’s playoffs, only to land on the disabled list after one game with a quadriceps injury. He injured his calf, which he described as akin to being hit by a baseball, in his first game back.

“It’s been terrible,” Jeter said. “It’s been a nightmare. The whole season has been a nightmare.”

The season has also been a nightmare for Hughes, who has won once since June 6. He left the game with two outs in the third and the Yankees trailing, 5-0.

Hughes repeatedly had trouble finishing off batters because he could not throw his slider for strikes and the Padres could wait on his fastball, even when behind in counts. Hughes allowed four hits, a walk and two sacrifice flies when he had two strikes on the batter.

It was the eighth time in 21 starts that Hughes (4-10) had been unable to make it through five innings.

“Having something to put guys away has been an issue,” said Hughes, who had high hopes for his matchup against Kennedy. His parents had driven from suburban Los Angeles to spend the weekend with him.

Kennedy and Hughes were familiar with each other during their high school days in Orange County, Calif., and their relationship deepened when Hughes, a first-round pick in 2004, and Kennedy, a first-round pick in 2006 after he attended the University of Southern California, joined the Yankees alongside Chamberlain.

The three players made their major league debuts in 2007, showing such potential that the Yankees placed Hughes and Kennedy in the rotation to start 2008, with the plan for Chamberlain to join them. By the end of that season, though, Kennedy and Hughes were back in the minors, and the Yankees, in Girardi’s first season, missed the playoffs for the first time since 1994.

“It was a nightmarish season for both of us,” Hughes said Saturday, relaxing in the clubhouse. “It’s never easy to go through those kinds of growing pains, especially in a city like New York where you’re expected to win all the time no matter what.”

Kennedy missed most of 2009 with an aneurysm, and he was dealt to Arizona after that season in the three-way trade that sent Curtis Granderson to the Yankees. Kennedy flourished in his second season there, compiling a 21-4 record and finishing fourth in the National League Cy Young Award voting. He regressed last season and had floundered this season before his trade at the deadline.

On Sunday, Kennedy looked nothing like that pitcher. He moved the ball in and out and changed speeds skillfully, reminding fans why he once drew stylistic comparisons to his idol, Greg Maddux. He was the third opposing starter in the Yankees’ last four games to carry a shutout into the sixth, departing with two outs after allowing run-scoring singles by Granderson and Lyle Overbay.

Kennedy had to calm himself during warm-ups. He was worried that he would be sidetracked by emotions in his first game against his good friend Hughes, the team that drafted him and Pettitte, his mentor.

“I didn’t want to play for anybody else,” Kennedy said of the Yankees. “You want to play for the Yankees. They have that aura about them that they’re better than everybody else. That’s what you’re brought with in the minor leagues. You’re taught to win and be better than everybody.”

Hughes’s problems on the mound have come at an inopportune time: he will be a free agent after the season. He won 18 games in 2010 and 16 last season, but he has not consistently fulfilled his promise.

Hughes said he had seen Kennedy and another former teammate, A. J. Burnett, revive their careers in smaller markets.

“You don’t want to say maybe I’m not cut out for this: that’s almost like a cop-out in my mind,” Hughes said. “But yeah, you see guys go over to the National League and have success, and you wonder.”

It was that type of achievement, and wonder, that the Yankees, in a brief respite from the uncertain status of their stars, were reminded of by the presence of Hughes, Kennedy and Chamberlain — and what was once expected of them.
103 2013-08-05 Top-seeded Juan Martín del Potro won his third Citi Open title in Washington by beating eighth-seeded John Isner, 3-6, 6-1, 6-2. Del Potro broke Isner four times and limited him to six aces. Isner had had 29 aces in his semifinal match, and he had not faced a break point in his previous three matches.

In the women’s final, seventh-seeded Magdalena Rybarikova defeated the unseeded Andrea Petkovic, 6-4, 7-6 (2), to win the title for the second consecutive year.

■ Samantha Stosur won her first title in nearly two years, beating top-seeded Victoria Azarenka, 6-2, 6-3, at the Southern California Open in Carlsbad. Stosur, seeded fifth, had last won at the 2011 United States Open, and she had been 0-8 against Azarenka.
104 2013-08-05 VAIL, Colo. — The Vail International Dance Festival — this year celebrating its 25th anniversary — abounds in historic, daring and once-only conjunctions, partnerships, experiments. It seems only appropriate that hummingbirds and swallows are routinely seen during the early-evening walk from town, alongside a rushing stream, up to the Gerald R. Ford Amphitheater, that the open-air performances are surrounded by mountains, and that the walk back yields views of a night sky crowded with unusually large stars. This is my seventh summer visit here; I’ve learned to look forward to seeing wonders onstage and off.

On Friday night, as he introduced the first of two International Evenings of Dance onstage (spectacular in fare, informal in manner), the festival’s artistic director, Damian Woetzel, told his audience, “You get to see it here first.” Yet, since most of his artists are New York regulars, a New Yorker may wonder wistfully if Vail must remain the one and only place where these remarkable dance events occur. That evening, you could see several dancers making fresh breakthroughs.

So, for example, Tiler Peck (New York City Ballet), her hair loose under a baseball cap, danced “Budget Bulgar” with the extraordinary Memphis jooker Charles Riley, also known as Lil Buck. He tweeted recently, “She is the most amazing ballerina now. And she can jook ON POINT!” — which she proved on Friday. But point work, albeit in sneakers, has always been a striking part of his own jookin style. After the intermission, now wearing a tutu and with her hair bound beneath a tiara, Ms. Peck danced the pas de deux from “Le Corsaire” with Sergei Polunin, the young Russian star whose career has taken him from the Royal Ballet to the Moscow Stanislavsky Ballet.

Herman Cornejo, the American Ballet Theater star, danced the pas de deux from George Balanchine’s “Rubies” (new to him) with Lauren Lovette, the New York City Ballet soloist, and then the pas de deux from Marius Petipa’s version of “La Fille mal gardée” pas de deux with the Boston Ballet principal Misa Kuranaga. Daniel Ulbricht (another City Ballet principal) danced the premiere of “Sunshine,” a solo by Larry Keigwin, who’s chiefly a modern-dance choreographer. Isabella Boylston, who dances Odette-Odile in “Swan Lake” with American Ballet Theater, danced the pas de deux from its Act III with City Ballet’s Zachary Catazaro, who has yet to dance this ballet’s hero.

Larger and more valuable than these individual juxtapositions, the evening showed a catholic love of many kinds of dance. Here again were the superb tangoists, Gabriel Missé and Analía Centurión; their “El Aeroplano” was for me the evening’s most irresistible number, its phrases sensuously packed with footwork soft and sharp. Lil Buck also danced “The Swan,” the solo for which he has become more acclaimed and in which he takes both the footwork and upper-body ripplings of Memphis to a peak of expressive virtuosity; he and his jookin colleague Keviorr Taylor, known as Tip Toe, and Ringmaster Nugget led a group of dozens of local children in an opening “Celebrate the Beat” number.

Fang-Yi Sheu, whose career has been in modern dance, danced Christopher Wheeldon’s “After the Rain” pas de deux with City Ballet’s Tyler Angle, both for the first time. Though this is barefoot, it has hitherto been reserved for ballet dancers; Ms. Sheu, a dancer both intelligent and authoritative, brought its footwork new inflections. Mr. Ulbricht, always a virtuoso, touched on new veins of explosive intensity in the Keigwin “Sunshine.”
105 2013-08-05 Many athletes, many people, grow up without a parent or two. Some get through it. But Rodriguez stands on the brink of the suspension that could take him out of baseball, perhaps through the 2014 season, or forever. It is quite safe to say he would not be paying his newest set of lawyers — he is always changing authority figures — if baseball did not have a huge case against him. In the rational age of Michael Weiner, the players union needs to protect the bulk of its constituency, the players who stay clean.

The labor-management agreement on testing, the bans on certain stimulants and bodybuilding drugs, may seem like the restraint of free will, but the rules keep many athletes and aspiring youngsters from gobbling down unknown pills and potions. Baseball seems to have evidence on Rodriguez, going back to his admission that he used the stuff from 2001 to 2003 — when he was young and foolish, he later contended.

Now A-Rod is like the Zelig of baseball, showing up in the spotlight on the busy Canadian doctor, , who helped bulk up American superstars. And now he is unable to bury his tracks leading to the defunct anti-aging clinic in . He was a five-tool player. Now he is a multitool cheat, rejected, like a badly grafted body part, by the main corpus of the .

One does not have to be a Yankees fan to understand that there are two kinds of Yankees stars: Rent-a-Yankees Yankees and Real Yankees. , that swaggering bully, apart from any drug or legal issues, was not a Real Yankee. was just seeking the brass ring on the merry-go-round. What about Dave Winfield? Ask the Bleacher Bums to take a vote. But and became Real Yankees, instantly.

Maybe A-Rod never had a chance to be a Real Yankee, but he ruined his image permanently with his scandals and machinations and posturing. He missed the voice in his childhood saying, “Alex, cut that out.”

“Dad left us when I was 9,” Rodriguez told Bob Finnigan of The Seattle Times in the spring of 1998. “What did I know back then? I thought he was coming back. I thought he had gone to the store or something. But he never came back. ... It still hurts.”

His father ran a shoe store, but after moving from New York to the to , he suddenly left.

“He had been so good to me, actually spoiled me because I was the baby of the family,” Rodriguez told Finnigan, adding: “I couldn’t understand what he had done. To this day, I still don’t really know how a man could do that to his family: turn his back.”

His mother remarried and did well in business, but Rodriguez said the split still upset him.

“After a while, I lied to myself,” Rodriguez said. “I tried to tell myself that it didn’t matter, that I didn’t care. But times I was alone, I often cried. Where was my father? To this day, I still can’t get close to people.”

By contrast, has a father, Charles, who was a drug counselor, and a mother, Dorothy, who was an accountant, as well as a sister. The family seems to have sent him a message: Derek, whatever you do, don’t be a jerk. Which he never has been.

Rodriguez and Jeter discovered each other when they were teenagers, and in their early years in the majors offered the spare room on trips to Seattle and New York.

In 1999, the teams milled around in one of those baseball brawls, and Jeter and Rodriguez paired off away from the scrum, smiling and keeping each other occupied. A transient Yankee, Chad Curtis, criticized Jeter for waltzing with the enemy, but Jeter and Rodriguez were showing good sense in not risking their expensive talents.

In March 2001, A-Rod moved to for that infamous contract of $252 million for 10 years. Just as infamous was an interview with Esquire in which Rodriguez blabbered that Jeter was “never your concern” when playing the Yankees, and that Jeter “never had to lead” his team. They patched it up superficially, but they never waltzed after that.

When Rodriguez arrived with the Yankees in 2004, I got a call from my daughter Laura Vecsey, who had been a sports columnist in Seattle and had a kind of big-sister affection for him.

she said, “he’s always asking what it was like to have a father in the same business. He doesn’t have a father. You ought to talk to him.”

She was talking about my making human contact, perhaps picking up the sliver of insight, nothing more profound. I introduced myself in spring training, and he was polite, but the next time I saw him, we were crossing paths in a corridor at the ballpark. No eye contact. Strange bird, I thought. So did his teammates.

He swatted a ball from the glove of a pitcher, violating the rule, and he yelled at a third baseman trying to catch a pop-up, violating the code. You could vaguely sense Yankees heads jerking and eyes rolling, nothing you could prove, as A-Rod walked past.

In February 2009, Rodriguez made one of those ritualistic explanations of his adventures with drugs. had staved off the posse in 2005, and had charmed us with his spiritual confession in 2008. Now A-Rod was supposedly coming clean. His old pal Jeter looked sick as he made the mandatory response to A-Rod’s comments about how common drug use was back in the olden days, a few years past.

“One thing that irritates me is that this was the era,” Jeter said. “I don’t know how many people tested positive, but everybody wasn’t doing it.”

Without sounding sanctimonious, Jeter said he had been counseled by his parents as he was growing up.

“You’re educated,” he said, adding, “If you do some things, eventually the truth will come out.”

In a polite way, Jeter was heightening the barricade between himself and his teammate.

During the 2007 World Series, Rodriguez opted out of his contract, making himself available to other teams, but the Yankees re-signed him to a higher infamous contract, the one ticking over the team today. His broken marriage and his escapades are well known. So is his testing of the Yankees’ front office. All that is left now is for Rodriguez to save as much as possible of the approximately $95 million that remains on his contract.

He is heading for the dreaded Sargasso Sea of sports, where banished athletes wait, becalmed, hoping for winds of pardon. Shoeless Joe Jackson, who never ratted on the plot to throw the 1919 World Series, never reached the Hall of Fame. hobbles around on his aging, stumpy body, paying for being a knucklehead when baseball caught him betting on his team’s games, as a manager. is downsizing his life in Texas. Many behemoths of the past generation are hoping baseball writers forget why they aren’t voting all those fantastic career statistics into the Hall. And good luck with that.

Alex Rodriguez, just turned 38, is about to fade away. He never had that stern voice in his ear that said, “Alex — don’t!”
106 2013-08-05 “It’s just crazy,” Lewis said. “I was hanging in there all day and then, you know, 17 and 18 just happened so fast.” She added: “It was so hard. You had to stay focused on the next shot. You couldn’t even really think about the end.”

Pressel’s consolation prize was an automatic berth on the United States team that will compete against Europe in the Solheim Cup outside Denver from Aug. 16 to 18. Also qualifying was Lizette Salas, who finished sixth at three under. The American captain, Meg Mallon, named Gerina Piller and Michelle Wie as her discretionary picks. Her European counterpart, Liselotte Neumann, named Jodi Ewart Shadoff, Caroline Hedwall, Giulia Sergas and 17-year-old Charley Hull as her wild-card picks.

Park, who was trying to become the first professional player, male or female, to win four majors in the same year, tied for 42nd. After covering her opening 10 holes Thursday in six under, Park played the last 62 holes in 12 over to finish at 294. Park’s consolation prize is to take two weeks off.

“I really enjoyed this week, every moment that I was here,” Park said, “but it is tough to be in the center of everything for a week, and I feel exhausted a little bit.”

Park, 25, received no help from Mother Nature. She played her second round in the afternoon in the worst of conditions and her first four holes of the third round in the gusts that eventually caused play to be suspended.

“I enjoyed it, but 32 holes in the final round under the pressure was tough,” Park said.

How much of a factor were the different conditions? Lewis said that on the first hole of her third round Sunday, she used a gap wedge for her approach, while Paula Creamer, who hit her approach at No. 1 shortly before play was called on Saturday, used a 5-wood.

“Obviously, it was unplayable,” Lewis said, “and I think once I got out there and saw some of the hole locations, the hole locations weren’t set up for a bunch of wind.” She added, “For me and the leaders, we were all glad we didn’t get out there.”

Nine golfers completed their third rounds Saturday, and their average score was 78.2. On Sunday, those nine players completed their fourth rounds in an average of 73.9 strokes. The top nine on the leader board played all 18 holes of their third rounds in the same conditions the first nine did their final 18 and averaged 73.9.

“I really wanted to play yesterday,” Park said. “I was ready to play in the wind. I played four holes in really windy conditions and, you know, I was handling myself really good out there and felt really good about my game.”

She added, “I think I could have been better than this maybe.”

Park’s putter, which had been hotter than Death Valley, finally cooled down. On the first hole of her fourth round, she four-putted. She finished with 40 putts, 10 more than on Thursday, when she one-putted the first four greens.

Park, the top-ranked women’s player, took the longer view. She can still become the first pro to win four majors in the same year because the L.P.G.A. this year elevated the Evian Championship in September to a fifth major.

“I’ve done something amazing this season, winning three in a row,” she said. “I don’t know if I can do that again. That’s going to be really tough.”

Lewis had the best view on the course of Park’s mastery at the United States Women’s Open. Paired with Park in the first two rounds, she was outscored, 135 to 147.

“She is making putts off the edge of the green, ones that you wouldn’t expect her to make,” Lewis said then. “It’s definitely frustrating for us watching.”

Then, Park finished 20 strokes ahead of Lewis, the player she supplanted as the world No. 1. On Sunday, Lewis finished 14 strokes ahead of Park.

“That’s golf,” Lewis said, adding: “It’s just kind of the way it is. Inbee’s dealt with a lot, so I’m sure she’s exhausted.”

Lewis, meantime, has her second wind in her pursuit of the No. 1 ranking.

“If I get back there, I just want to enjoy it more,” she said. “When I got there in March, I was overwhelmed and busy and never really got to enjoy it. So I want to get back there so I can enjoy it a little more.”
107 2013-08-05 BEIRUT, Lebanon — President Bashar al-Assad of Syria on Sunday banned the use of foreign currencies in business transactions, part of the government’s effort to prop up the Syrian pound, which has plummeted to 200 pounds to the dollar from 47 to the dollar in March 2011.

SANA, the government-run news agency, said that people offering goods and services for foreign currencies without the government’s approval could be fined and sentenced to at least six months in jail. In cases involving deals valued at more than $5,000, the punishment could be up to 10 years of hard labor.

Syrians have grown increasingly desperate to move their money to foreign currencies as the civil war, now in its third year, ravages the economy. Currency exchange shops in central Damascus are often packed. Real estate and manufacturing deals are increasingly conducted in dollars. Even taxi drivers and others working in small, informal businesses often demand to be paid in foreign currencies.

Last month, the Central Bank was able to reverse a deeper plunge in the value of the pound, which briefly traded at more than 300 to the dollar, by selling off dollars at a deep discount to banks, said Steve H. Hanke, a professor of applied economics at Johns Hopkins University who studies troubled currencies. The banks then sold the dollars to the public for a modest profit.

Smaller currency traders in Damascus said they were under pressure to follow the banks’ lead, but many refused to sell dollars so cheaply. Mr. Hanke said it was unclear whether the government could sustain such interventions as a long-term strategy. Still, the government’s move had enough impact on the market that the informal and official dollar rates converged, he said.
108 2013-08-05 In the early ’70s Mr. Farren and three others were tried on obscenity charges in England after they published a comic book called Nasty Tales, which included overtly sexual material from, among others, the American cartoonist R. Crumb. They were acquitted.

Mr. Farren founded the British wing of the White Panthers, a radical anti-racist group, and helped create Phun City, an alternative rock festival organized in 1970 and held near Worthing, England, as a kind of protest against the commercialization of rock, exemplified by the annual Isle of Wight Festival. That festival took place a month later, and with the Hells Angels and other groups, Mr. Farren helped lead an assault on it. Protesters tore down enclosures and set up encampments that allowed people without tickets to see the Isle of Wight bands perform.

By then Mr. Farren had earned a reputation as a pugnaciously literate, effusively opinionated writer for International Times, known as IT, a leading counterculture weekly in Britain that he also edited for a time. Later he wrote for the more mainstream British magazine New Music Express, better known as NME, where in 1976 he published perhaps his most famous essay, “The Titanic Sails at Dawn.” The article was a screed against the celebrity culture of rock ’n’ roll that, he argued, had watered down the energy and rebellious spirit of the music. At a time when the first tremors of punk were emanating from New York City, the essay was a timely, even prescient call to arms for a new uprising.

“If rock becomes safe, it’s all over,” he wrote. “It’s a vibrant, vital music that from its very roots has always been a burst of color and excitement against a background of dullness, hardship or frustration. From the blues onwards, the essential core of the music has been the rough side of humanity. It’s a core of rebellion, sexuality, assertion and even violence. All the things that have always been unacceptable to a ruling establishment. Once that vigorous, horny-handed core is extracted from rock ’n’ roll, you’re left with little more than Muzak. No matter how tastefully played or artfully constructed, if the soul’s gone then it still, in the end, comes down to Muzak.”

Michael Anthony Farren was born in Cheltenham, south of Birmingham, on Sept. 3, 1943. His father was a flier who was killed in World War II over Cologne, Germany. Mick grew up as an angry young man in a home dominated by a stepfather he came to loathe. He studied at a London art school and aspired, for a time, to work in advertising, but the counterculture ’60s changed his path.

Mr. Farren, who after 1980 lived in New York and then Los Angeles, writing for ’zines and alternative newspapers, moved back to England in his last few years and was living in Brighton. He had been married and divorced more than once, had no children and leaves no immediate survivors.

Beyond his work with the Deviants, he put out solo albums, including “Vampires Stole My Lunch Money,” which featured vocals by Chrissie Hynde, who became better known as the lead singer of the Pretenders. He also contributed to recordings by others, including Mr. Kramer.

Mr. Farren had a prolific literary life. He wrote more than 30 books, including four studies of Elvis Presley, one of his musical heroes; a cultural history of the black leather jacket; a series of vampire novels featuring a nearly 1,000-year-old protagonist named Victor Renquist; and science-fiction fantasies like “The Feelies,” a virtual-reality nightmare story from 1978 whose title invokes both the American punk band, then newly formed, and Aldous Huxley’s sardonic name for movies that engage all a viewer’s senses. (Huxley was appalled by films with speaking, the so-called talkies.) Mr. Farren’s energetic 2001 memoir was “Give the Anarchist a Cigarette.”

He was known as a profligate drinker, a world-class storyteller, an attention-grabbing party guest and great company.

“I’m a lousy singer,” he admitted in an interview with The L.A. Weekly in 2001, “but an excellent rock star.”
109 2013-08-06 Liz Cheney’s early purchase of a resident fishing license in Wyoming has inflamed her critics in the state, who have already accused her of being an interloper who should not dare challenge Senator Michael B. Enzi in next year’s Republican pri...
110 2013-08-06 The hedge fund tycoon Philip A. Falcone accused the satellite television mogul Charles W. Ergen of colluding to prevent his company LightSquared from emerging out of bankruptcy....
111 2013-08-06 An 11-year-old who has a bow-tie business. Why unions may hate the new health care law. Why your business needs an app....
112 2013-08-06 Learn more about the stock market by playing our crossword, either online or in print....
113 2013-08-06 Actually, Bonnie and Clyde looked bored. Gathered at the feet of the elegantly dressed Ms. Taylor, they acted like corgis in regal repose, coolly examining the shaggier breeds in their midst. A cockapoo yipped nearby; Clyde offered a yawn.

As with their uptown-minded owner, downtown is not these dogs’ usual spot.

“We live on the Upper East Side,” Ms. Taylor explained in an interview. “We have sniffed through every bush in Central Park.”

Ms. Taylor was asked if Bonnie and Clyde had been invited to make an endorsement in the mayoral race.

“Well, yes, they have, as a matter of fact,” she replied, as Bonnie panted beside her. “But they’ve been thinking about it, and they really can’t endorse anybody during the primary, but we’ll see what happens in the general election.”

Much the same could be said about Mr. Bloomberg, who has not said whether he will issue an endorsement before Primary Day on Sept. 10.

Does Ms. Taylor have a dog in the race? “We’ll see what happens,” she said, smiling behind oversized sunglasses. The circuslike nature of the campaign, she added, has been “a little bit upsetting.”

“I wish that people could talk about the issues, the issues like jobs and picking up the garbage and safety and security and education,” she said.

It was time to dedicate the park. A woman appeared, carrying a pile of enormous novelty-size scissors. Snip! Ms. Taylor smiled brightly. The Labs trotted into the park and promptly peed on a tree.

Did Ms. Taylor ask Mr. Bloomberg to come along on Monday?

“He’s busy running the city,” she said, adding that he might stop by another time.

“Next year,” she said, “when he has nothing to do.”

She let out a loud laugh. “We’ll get him down here.”
114 2013-08-06 A psychology professor has tapped into a rich vein of popular concern, concluding that people in recent decades have grown more self-centered and entitled. But is it true?...
115 2013-08-06 The social-science journal Emerging Adulthood recently invited Jean M. Twenge and one of her most prominent critics, Jeffrey Arnett, to debate “whether today’s emerging adults are excessively ‘narcissistic,’ ” as Dr. Twenge asserts. Both wrote papers outlining their positions, then each wrote a reply to the other. Excerpts from the discussion follow.

DR. TWENGE Documenting trends in young people’s self-reported traits and attitudes is empirical research, not a complaint or a stereotype. Rising cultural individualism has both good consequences (more gender equality) and more negative ones (narcissism, mental health issues). Arnett seems to believe we should embrace studies of cultural change only if they find positive trends.

DR. ARNETT There is no persuasive evidence that scores on the Narcissistic Personality Inventory have risen among college students in recent decades. In any case, the N.P.I. is a dubious measure of narcissism, and college students are a dubious sample of emerging adults. There is evidence that today’s emerging adults have high expectations and are confident in their abilities, but these qualities should be seen as psychological resources during a life stage that is often difficult.

narcissism goes far beyond college students. In a nationally representative sample of 35,000 people, three times as many Americans in their 20s (compared to those in their 60s) experienced narcissistic personality disorder. This study examined

lifetime prevalence, not current symptoms; thus, the shift is due to generation, not age.

DR. ARNETT If narcissism has increased in recent decades among emerging adults, and if it is true that narcissism predicts “an array of negative outcomes,” then these negative outcomes should be abundantly evident in the lives of today’s emerging adults. In direct contradiction to

in the past 20 years over a wide range of behaviors. At the same time, emerging adults today show unprecedented acceptance for people who are different from themselves and are participating in community service at record high rates.
116 2013-08-06 Similar new laws in Maryland prompted Beretta to call off plans to add jobs locally, and the company is now completing plans to expand in a more gun-friendly state.

Kahr Firearms Group, a pistol and rifle maker based less than an hour’s drive north of in Rockland County, N.Y., is moving across the border to .

“We don’t feel welcome,” said Frank Harris, vice president for sales and marketing at Kahr. In Pennsylvania, he said: “All the people we were dealing with on the town level were hunters and comfortable with firearms. We were received with open arms.”

While the gun lobby successfully blocked new restrictions at the federal level, several liberal states have tightened restrictions on weapons sales and broadened background checks in response to the massacre in Newtown, where 20 students and 6 adults were killed in December 2012.

Some well-known gun makers like , which is based in Southport, Conn., have not chosen to abandon the Northeast, but are expanding elsewhere, straddling a broader cultural bifurcation in the United States when it comes to the Second Amendment and the role firearms should play in society.

For states that successfully woo firearms makers, it means new jobs in an industry where sales are rising rapidly and blue-collar work still pays well. “They can’t make guns fast enough,” said Nima Samadi, a gun industry analyst with IBISWorld.

Investors have noticed too. Many big gun brands are privately owned, like Freedom Group’s Remington and Bushmaster units, but shares of publicly traded Smith & Wesson have more than quadrupled in the last two years. The stock of Sturm, Ruger, which is one of the largest gun makers in the country and recently announced it would open its first big new factory in 25 years in , has doubled over the same period.

Gun sales surged before the presidential election, Mr. Samadi said, and fears that some weapons might be banned after Newtown spurred sales further this year.

Figures for total gun sales in the United States are not available, but Mr. Samadi said one useful proxy was the number of background checks being performed before gun purchases. They totaled 2.5 million in January 2013, compared with 1.4 million in January 2012.

Beretta and PTR say they are struggling to keep up with demand, which is why PTR plans to double the size of its factory after the move to South Carolina from its cramped facility here. Workers at PTR earn an average of $17.50 an hour.

Beretta is also looking for a new factory site. Seven states have emerged as finalists, including South Carolina, Texas and .

“We’ve excluded states that have not shown consistent, strong support for Second Amendment rights,” said Jeff Reh, Beretta U.S.A.’s general counsel.

is out because Senator , a Democrat, was a sponsor of legislation that would have expanded background checks nationwide; the bill failed to overcome a Republican in the Senate in April. , hardly a liberal redoubt, did not make the cut because Senator , a Democrat, voted for Senator Manchin’s bill and because the city of sued to hold gun makers liable for damages back in 1998.

Sometimes, however, gun makers speak loudly but carry a smaller stick.

Beretta, which initially threatened to abandon Maryland altogether, ultimately decided to keep its factory in Accokeek, as well as the 300 workers there, but said it would add any new jobs elsewhere. Despite the planned factory in North Carolina, Sturm, Ruger’s chief executive, Michael Fifer, recently told shareholders he did not plan to move its headquarters out of Southport, Conn. Sturm, Ruger did not return calls for comment.

Colt, the oldest gun maker in Connecticut, is staying, at least for now, said Gerald Dinkel, chief executive of Colt Defense, which focuses on weapons for the military and police. “We were disappointed in the position Connecticut took,” Mr. Dinkel said, but he added that he didn’t see a direct impact yet on his business from the new law and therefore wasn’t planning to move his 750 employees out of the state.

Other companies are following through on their threats, however.

Magpul, a Colorado maker of ammunition magazines and other accessories, says it will relocate more than 200 workers after the state banned magazines that hold more than 15 bullets. Two days before the law went into effect on July 1, Magpul organized a giveaway of 1,500 soon-to-be-forbidden 30-round magazines, attracting thousands to a gun rights rally in Glendale, Colo. Magpul hasn’t announced where its new home will be, but company officials say it will be in a gun-friendly state.

Gun companies are getting more than just a public embrace from states when they move. Subsidies help sweeten the deal, along with looser regulation, the general absence of unions and lower costs — factors that have drawn manufacturers in many other industries to the Sun Belt.

Josh Fiorini, PTR’s chief executive, estimates it will be one-third less expensive to do business in South Carolina, with lower prices on everything from labor to electricity. Mr. Fiorini said state officials in Connecticut made little effort to persuade him to stay. The governor, in his public comments, has kept his distance from the industry.

“There’s no reason for those companies to leave the state,” Gov. told reporters in April. “Obviously, that’s their option. We’ll work with people who work with us.”

For PTR, tax credits, cash grants and other incentives helped make the move to South Carolina worthwhile, Mr. Fiorini said. For one thing, PTR will not have to pay rent at the new facility near , S.C., while it still occupies the old factory in Bristol. Mr. Fiorini added that the incentive packages from Texas and South Dakota were also generous, but in the end he chose South Carolina in part because it was a shorter move.

“Were we all sort of pissed off about the legislation? Yes,” he said. “Were we pissed off enough to spend millions of dollars to move? No.”

Mr. Fiorini said his chief worry was that the new state law would ultimately make it impossible to legally make assault rifles in Connecticut, even if the legislation specifically restricted the sale, not the manufacture, of the guns.

For example, he said, the law permits assault rifles to be transported in Connecticut for the purposes of sale elsewhere. But what if they are being transported as part of the manufacturing process itself, like for painting or testing at the rifle range?

“It’s a conservative reading of the law,” Mr. Fiorini conceded. “State officials will tell you that my fears are overblown. But why do I need to do business in a place where I have fears, overblown or otherwise? We’d rather be in a place with no gray areas.”
117 2013-08-06 A version of gazpacho that is essentially a tangy, pungent vegetable smoothie....
118 2013-08-07 The trio chat about the joys of working small and going off-script....
119 2013-08-07 The ashes of Richie Havens, who opened the Woodstock festival in 1969, will be scattered over the site of his performance later this month....
120 2013-08-07 Teens move to Twitter. How 3-D printing can help your business. Colorado’s marijuana entrepreneurs are taking risks....
121 2013-08-07 After plugging our information into the Economic Policy Institute’s budget calculator, I was stunned. The rent estimate was half what we pay, the grocery stipend looked like a typo, and the child-care cost was a fantasy....
122 2013-08-07 Two buyout bids illustrate the rising tide of shareholder power. | The Justice Department sues Bank of America over mortgage securities. | It would not be surprising to see Jeffrey P. Bezos worry little about turning a quick profit at The Washingt...
123 2013-08-07 That said, in gross general terms, elevator cabins can cost around $20,000, but again, that can vary significantly depending upon how many floors are serviced by that one elevator.

A less costly option would be a stair lift; while certainly not as aesthetically pleasing, it can be of great benefit to aging residents. A stair lift would require a minimum stair width of 36 inches; structural integrity to your staircase; and an electrical outlet at the top or the bottom of the run of the stair. This alternative has an associated equipment cost in the realm of $3,000 for the mechanical parts only.

Q. Move forward. Downsize ,and live your life. Your children don’t need or want a memorial to their childhood when they come home. They want and need to see you happy and productive. Sleeping arrangements are secondary. — mlg56, Vermont

Q. Mine is about to fly the coop, and my intention is to store most of the childhood paraphernalia, and make over the room into a really welcoming guest room, which I hope she and our friends will enjoy frequently. She won’t need a closet full of clothes — long-term keepers can go into storage, so that opens a lot of space. We will keep many of her beloved books, artwork, and still leave room for the new adventures and memories when they come. — Constance, Oregon

A. A couple of readers commented on the role of childhood bedrooms once the children were out of the house. Generally I agree with mlg56’s instinct to “Move forward,” and Constance from Oregon’s plan to store away her daughter’s keepsakes so she can create a beautiful inviting guest bedroom. Keeping the childhood bedroom intact is not necessarily a benefit to the child or the parent, as eventually it becomes a cleanout that must be dealt with, and time only makes the task at hand look more unappealing to execute.

That said, I think freshening up a current or former child’s bedroom with a nod to their childhood can be a sweet way to commemorate their place in the home while decluttering and possibly dispensing with those decorating phases that were not your favorite to live with as a parent. I would suggest taking a few select artworks, awards, photos and other ephemera and framing them in a series of cohesive frames, and then hanging them along one wall in a grouped composition. It’s fun, it allows for recognition of your child, but also removes the question of whose space it is meant to cater to in the future.

On a more personal note, I recall when I first went to my future in-laws home while dating my husband-to-be when we were in our early 20s. Staying in his childhood bedroom with all the trophies and posters and his twin bed, while enlightening, was definitely a less than comfortable and a slightly awkward experience. As we grew into our late 20s, his twin was changed out for a queen bed, and the room was redecorated. I think he and I both slept better in the room knowing it no longer housed the vestiges of those strange teenage years.

Q. Thinking of turning one of my kids’ rooms into a fitness room with a TRX and stretching areas. What do you think? How would you design it? I don’t need cardio equipment and this is a small bedroom. Thanks. — CPS, Colo.

A. Dear CPS: Converting an underutilized bedroom into a home gym makes a great deal of sense. Personally, I would prioritize adding entertainment to the room (i.e., a small wall-mounted television) so you can multitask while exercising. If possible, orient the equipment so you can see out the windows or look at something beautiful while working out, again, giving your eye something to focus on. Finally, adding a good floor of padded matting as either an area rug or installed wall to wall is a nice luxury. It will feel great under foot and will keep the equipment from scratching the existing floors.

Q. Redoing my son’s bedroom as a guest room. Would like to replace an ugly ceiling light fixture but just can’t seem to find anything I really like. Needs to provide good light. The décor will be modern and minimalist — dark wood floors and furniture. I would like something interesting but quiet. Any thoughts? (eight-foot ceiling) — CB, Bloomington, Ind.

A. Dear CB: In your situation I like to use linen or paper-covered drum-shaped fixtures that are surface mounted and house at least two or three 60 watt or higher bulbs. Ranging in size from 10 to 15 inches in diameter, by 3 to 5 inches high, these styles of lighting fixtures are relatively easy to find, and very simple in form. Lights along these lines work well as they are modern, yet nondescript and quietly provide good general illumination on a lower ceiling.

Q. That “work space” in the photo looks like something from a mid-1960s suburban split-level. Why would anyone go to a designer to achieve that result? Head over to Ikea, save yourself some money and find some furniture that doesn’t look as if it’s ready to be handed over to the Salvation Army. —Democracy Now, East Coast

A. Dear Democracy Now: while it may not be your taste, my clients in this case loved the idea of designing with the clean lines of a Danish Modern aesthetic. So my design shares the same Scandinavian inspiration as Ikea. However, unlike many a knock-down bookcase, these won’t fall on you when you reach up for the books. (For those who asked who made the cabinets: they were designed by me and made out of walnut by Tom Hruby, a woodworker located in Dumbo, Brooklyn.)

Q. My husband and I have a two-story ranch from the 1970s. With our youngest in college, we are thinking of converting the downstairs (kids’) den into a spacious master bedroom. Our upstairs master is small, but still the biggest of three bedrooms on the main floor. Is it a negative to have a lower-level master? The house is nestled into a hill, so there’s full daylight on the front but no windows on the back of the lower level. — Renee, Raleigh

A. Dear Renee: Creatively thinking about how to reassign your bedroom space can be a very good idea once you are not obligated to use each of the bedrooms for their original intent. This new arrangement would allow you to take advantage of that existing open space downstairs and gain a truly large and generous master bedroom suite.

The issues I would consider are: verifying that your lower level windows are large enough, as you may not be able to convert the space legally into a bedroom if they are small and situated at the top of the room. This is based on the local fire safety code, which is there to ensure someone can escape in the event of a fire. If you consult the local code, you can find out if your current setup allows for this. Another consideration is to be sure that the room is dry, as basements and lower levels tend to hold a great deal of moisture and you certainly do not want to sleep in a damp environment. The other issue to consider is any mechanical equipment housed in that area, guranteeing that it doesn’t create an annoying ambient noise (in which case you can enclose it to solve that problem).

As for effectively using the space, for the areas in the back of the house where there is no natural light, I would think about making them a walk-in closet room, as it isn’t necessary or even good for clothes to be in daylight since they can fade. That would allow you to keep the bed and sleeping area closer to the windows at the front of the house, which will ensure your comfort sleeping downstairs.

If you envision adding a bathroom to this arrangement, I cannot see any reason why it wouldn’t appeal to a future buyer who may return the house to the room setup you have been living in. Although they may not keep the master bedroom downstairs, the added full bath in this arrangement is still a benefit.

Q. Looking for ways to convert a now extra bedroom into a laundry room/guest room. Several years ago we moved our washer and dryer to a spare bedroom to create an upstairs laundry area. We love the convenience. Now we have placed our home on the market and are looking for ways to make the laundry room/bedroom more appealing to potential buyers. Thanks much. — Ricki, Avon, Conn.

A. Dear Ricki: My instinct would be to show the converted bedroom upstairs as a full laundry room when selling the house and simply explain to buyers that the hookups remain downstairs should they need to maintain the third bedroom on the upper story. Young families as well as older ones find not having to haul the laundry downstairs an appealing option, and I have seen many new homes built with an upstairs laundry room. If you show the room without a bed but with an ample folding counter, shelving and a laundry rack, it will all make sense (and look like all those appealing catalog layouts for home-organization stores). I think trying to show the space functioning as both bedroom and laundry is a harder juxtaposition for a buyer to reconcile. That said, in Manhattan I have definitely worked in apartments with laundry in a child’s bedroom that was a former maid's room. In that instance, I built in the stacking washer-dryer by making a full-height closet to house it so that it went away visually when not in use.

Part 2 of Ms. Galland’s answers will appear on Booming on Aug. 14.
124 2013-08-07 Edwin J. Torres, born and raised in the Bronx, moved from documenting urban life to focusing on intimate moments closer to home....
125 2013-08-07 Tibetan exiles assemble a soccer team without a country....
126 2013-08-07 Luna Rossa of Italy rebounded from damage to its wing sail and a shaky start to overhaul Artemis Racing of Sweden and win the opening race of the America’s Cup challenger semifinals by two minutes on San Francisco Bay. Artemis Racing made its debut nearly three months after Andrew Simpson was killed and the syndicate’s first boat destroyed in a capsize during a training run May 9.
127 2013-08-07 The case went to the Supreme Court, and in 1971, in Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education, the justices upheld the judge’s ruling, granting federal courts the power to order busing to force racial integration. The ruling had the effect of ending government-sanctioned segregation in Southern schools.

In 2002, the Supreme Court allowed Charlotte, like many other cities, to end busing as a means to achieve integration, saying the goal had been achieved. Mr. Chambers opposed the ruling, arguing that blacks continued to receive an inferior education in racially imbalanced schools.

Mr. Chambers took on job discrimination in a suit that also found its way to the Supreme Court. In the case, Griggs v. Duke Power Co., the court ruled in 1971 that some of Duke’s hiring requirements, like a high school education or a certain I.Q. level, were irrelevant to some jobs and had the effect of excluding qualified black workers. It said employers must justify any rule that has disproportionate effects on minorities by proving that the rule is necessary for business reasons.

Mr. Chambers’s victories came with a cost. In the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision in Swann, his offices were firebombed. After his successes in 1965, his car was firebombed and two bombs exploded in his home.

His response was defiant; he said he would “keep fighting.” It was also measured. “We must accept this type of practice,” he said, “from those less in control of their faculties.”

Julius LeVonne Chambers was born on Oct. 6, 1936, in Mount Gilead, N.C., where his father, William, owned a garage and general store. As the third of four children, Julius was looking forward to following his two older siblings to the Laurinburg Institute, a historically black preparatory school. But his father told him that there would be no money for his tuition because a white customer had refused to pay for repairs to a truck. His father had paid for the parts out of his own pocket.

The elder Mr. Chambers sought the help of white lawyers in town, but all refused to take the case. In that moment, Julius Chambers said, he decided on a legal career.

Mr. Chambers graduated from high school in May 1954, the month the Supreme Court ordered an end to school segregation in Brown v. Board of Education. He went to North Carolina College, a historically black institution now known as North Carolina Central University, where he was student body president and graduated summa cum laude.

He earned a master’s degree in history from the University of Michigan and a law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which had only just begun admitting blacks, reluctantly. He was elected editor in chief of The North Carolina Law Review.

He also graduated first in his law school class but was barred from attending its end-of-year banquet at the segregated Chapel Hill Country Club.

Mr. Chambers headed north, becoming a teaching associate at Columbia Law School, where he earned a master’s of law degree. While there, Thurgood Marshall, who would become the nation’s first black Supreme Court justice, selected him as one of two interns to be trained by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and then sent him South to take on civil rights cases. The other intern was Marian Wright Edelman, who is now president of the Children’s Defense Fund.

Mr. Chambers’s private practice in Charlotte grew to 11 members by 1972, 5 of whom were white. Forty percent of their cases involved civil rights.

After assuming leadership of the legal defense fund in 1984, Mr. Chambers expanded its mission to include economic issues like high unemployment and inferior municipal services in inner cities as outgrowths of racial discrimination. He called it the Poverty Justice program.

He had continued to win cases before the Supreme Court. In one, in 1975, the court endorsed his argument that an employee who proves discrimination is entitled to back pay. In another case, in 1986, concerning voting rights, the court ruled that intent is not necessary to establish a violation of the voting rights of racial minorities.

One of Mr. Chambers’s trickier cases involved a longstanding disagreement with the N.A.A.C.P. over the legal defense fund’s name. The fund began as the N.A.A.C.P.’s legal arm but was spun off in 1939. In 1957, Mr. Marshall made it independent of the N.A.A.C.P.

The N.A.A.C.P. created its own legal department and in 1982 sued the fund for trademark infringement, arguing that sharing the name could confuse potential donors. But in 1985, a federal appeals court permitted the fund to keep its name.

Mr. Chambers became president of North Carolina Central University, his alma mater, in 1993. He returned to his law practice in Charlotte in 2001.

Mr. Chambers’s wife, the former Vivian Giles, died last year. He is survived by his son, Derrick; his daughter, Judy Chambers; and three grandchildren.

In a reminiscence he wrote after Mr. Chambers’s death, John Charles Boger, dean of the University of North Carolina law school, recalled when, as a young lawyer at the legal defense fund, he gathered with Mr. Chambers and with other lawyers at his office before going to lunch. They noticed that an older black woman, humbly dressed, had come in and was sitting quietly.

Mr. Chambers asked why she had come. She hesitated, then said that her son had special needs and that he had been locked in a supply cabinet at school without justification. She said the school’s officials seemed indifferent.

“Come to lunch with us,” Mr. Chambers said.
128 2013-08-07 The Miami Heat will open their title defense against the Chicago Bulls on Oct. 29 in the expected return of Derrick Rose, and there will be an all-Los Angeles matchup that night in the Lakers’ first game since losing Dwight Howard and the Clippers’ first with Coach Doc Rivers.

The Knicks will open at home against Milwaukee on Oct. 30. The Nets will begin the same night at Cleveland and play their home opener Nov. 1 against the Heat.
129 2013-08-07 Mead Johnson Nutrition said on Tuesday it would pay about $33 million in connection with a Chinese investigation into possible price-fixing and anticompetitive practices by foreign makers of baby formula.

Mead Johnson, the maker of Enfamil formula, said that as a result of its antitrust review, China’s National Development and Reform Commission had assessed administrative penalties against Mead Johnson and a number of other milk formula companies doing business in China.

Foreign infant formula is highly coveted in China, where public trust was damaged by a 2008 scandal in which six infants died and thousands of others were sickened after drinking milk tainted with the toxic industrial compound melamine. Foreign brands now account for about half of total sales.

Mead Johnson said the payment, which resolves the commission’s review, would reduce its full-year earnings by about 12 cents a share, but it reiterated its 2013 earnings forecast for profit, excluding one-time items, of $3.22 to $3.30 a share.

The company said in recent weeks that it was being investigated, along with Danone, Nestlé, Abbott Laboratories and Biostime International Holdings, by the Chinese commission, an economic planning agency, for possible antitrust violations including price-fixing.

As a result, Mead Johnson and others cut prices on their baby formulas.

Representatives from Danone, Nestlé and Abbott Laboratories were not immediately available for comment.

Biostime, which imports most of its products, said on Tuesday that its shares had been suspended pending an announcement related to an investigation by China’s top economic planning agency. The company said previously that a unit based in Guangzhou, a city in southern China, was being investigated by the commission over possible price-fixing.
130 2013-08-07 It was only a matter of time before the race for mayor developed its own personal feud.

As they arrived at a candidate forum on Tuesday that was sponsored by AARP and devoted to issues affecting seniors, Anthony D. Weiner, a Democratic candidate, derisively referred to a long-shot Republican candidate, George T. McDonald, as “grandpa.”

The insult, which was caught on video by NY1, came after Mr. Weiner, 48, apparently patted Mr. McDonald on the chest as the candidates greeted each other on stage.

“Don’t put your hands on me ever again,” Mr. McDonald, who is 69, said.

Mr. Weiner, not known for his equanimity, responded by telling Mr. McDonald that he had “anger issues.”

Mr. McDonald said he did not, to which Mr. Weiner shot back, “You do, Grandpa.”

Mr. McDonald has been outspoken in his disdain for Mr. Weiner, who resigned from Congress in 2011 after sending sexually explicit messages to women online. Last week, Mr. McDonald called Mr. Weiner a “self-pleasuring freak,” and on Tuesday, he cut into his time at the forum to criticize Mr. Weiner, calling him a “glib narcissist.”

“I would contrast my values with Anthony Weiner’s values any day of the week,” Mr. McDonald said, drawing boos from the crowd.

After the forum, which was held in an auditorium at Hunter College, a woman approached Mr. McDonald, yelling loudly that he should be “ashamed” for using his allotted response time during the debate to attack Mr. Weiner, who, as a Democrat, is not among Mr. McDonald’s opponents in the Sept. 10 mayoral primary.

The woman was swiftly overtaken by another supporter of Mr. Weiner. This one, a man, railed at Mr. McDonald at the top of his lungs. Mr. McDonald reiterated his feelings about Mr. Weiner before nearby police officers stepped between the two.
131 2013-08-07 VAIL, Colo. — A number of Romantic ballets have central scenes set in the woods. Far from the madding crowd, within the realm of nature, the hero discovers the otherworldly heroine who satisfies his longing as the women of his own milieu do not.

Therefore, as the audience could see at the Vail dance festival’s second International Evening of Dance on Saturday, a real slope that’s covered with a real pine forest makes a transporting backdrop to pas de deux from “La Sylphide” and “Swan Lake.” The Gerald R. Ford Amphitheater is also a beautiful location for parts of “Apollo” — which, though usually performed without scene painting, is implicitly set on the slopes of Parnassus. All three were danced by members of New York City Ballet and American Ballet Theater; Vail’s dance story is also New York’s.

Although these pieces have also been danced at Vail before, the surroundings make them unfailingly poetic. Meanwhile, it is characteristic of this festival that much of its two gala-style International Evenings consists of world premieres. In one such piece on Saturday, Analía Centurión and Gabriel Missé, the celebrated tango stylists, joined forces with the American Ballet Theater star Herman Cornejo, a fellow Argentine, in “Tango Trio.” The work was choreographed by the three performers and Damian Woetzel, the festival’s director. As a dance, the experiment achieved nothing — Mr. Cornejo did various double air turns, Mr. Missé trilled his feet while Ms. Centurión kept displaying her underwear — but it was the kind of experimental fun that can make the festivities delicious.

Those three artists and several others return to Vail most years, if not every year. That’s all to the good: the audience starts to look on them as friends and loves getting to know them even better. The young Memphis jooker Charles Riley, better known as Lil Buck and already a Vail regular, is the kind of performer that does any gala’s heart good: few performers can match his happiness to be onstage dancing to live music. Both his solos on Saturday were phenomenal.

In “Partita” — jointly choreographed by Mr. Riley and Mr. Woetzel and executed to the live violin of Jonathan Gandelsman in the Gavotte from Bach’s Partita in E — his feet, in sneakers, sometimes became like alarming automatons, seemingly independent of the rest of him. He’s a virtuoso at the whole hip-hop method of isolating separate body parts: at one moment his chest pops like an outsize heartbeat. In “Improvisation,” danced to Galician bagpipe (gaita) music played by Cristina Pato with Raman Ramakrishnan on cello, Mr. Riley’s vocabulary extends to flexing, extending his arms out of the usual range and snake-charming feats of wild undulations.
132 2013-08-07 The system was demonstrated in 2011, when researchers bolted it in the trunk of a car that drove through the streets of Boston, a city with a labyrinth of aging underground gas pipelines. In a peer-reviewed scientific journal last year, the researchers said they had found 3,356 leaks of methane, and some with concentrations 15 times normal methane levels in the atmosphere.

Robert B. Jackson, a professor of global environmental change at Duke and an author of the paper, said Picarro was “pushing the envelope on portability.”

The Picarro detector works like this: An inlet tube takes in air samples, which are sent to a chamber in the trunk of the car. The chamber, about the size of a drum major’s baton with mirrors at either end, bounces a laser back and forth between the two mirrors thousands of times, like a fold-up yardstick. The laser’s path is ultimately several miles long and so is able to precisely measure concentrations of methane in the range of parts per billion.

An anemometer, an instrument for measuring wind speed and direction, is mounted on top of the car, as is a GPS device. In some models, an inlet pipe samples air from various elevations. The system uses an onboard computer to turn the readings into a three-dimensional model of a gas plume — a funnel-shaped flow of contamination — and calculates the location and size of the origin. Methane molecules incorporate a carbon atom of two different types, one more commonly found in gas from wells and the other in gas from landfills and sewers. Studying the ratio, the instrument can say where the gas came from.

Michael R. Woelk, president and chief executive of Picarro, said the advantage of the detector was that it could be used on public roads to locate leaks on private property.

“I see it as a game-changer,” said Nick Stavropoulos, the utility’s executive vice president for gas operations. “It’s amazing how much more effective it is in finding gas leaks on our system than traditional technology.” Previously when gas was detected, he said, the utility had to stay on the site until it was determined by a distant laboratory whether the gas was from its pipes or a landfill. Now that determination can be made almost immediately.

Other companies use different techniques for gas detection. Physical Sciences of Andover, Mass., has an instrument like a lantern that projects a laser beam and measures what bounces back. About 2,000 are in use worldwide, according to Michael B. Frish, a manager there.

LI-COR Bio-Sciences, of Lincoln, Neb., makes an “open path” model in which air flows naturally through a chamber. The company has deployed instruments at several landfills to measure their emissions, said Dayle K. McDermitt, vice president for research and development for environmental products. Measurement technology is advancing, he said, but modeling plumes is “still a work in progress.”

The Environmental Protection Agency, which has a history of requiring new controls as technology improves, intermittently hints that it might regulate methane emissions. It already counts on the presence of large amounts of methane to help spot smaller quantities of toxic gases that are currently regulated. Remote detection is outside the norm for the agency, said Eben D. Thoma, an E.P.A. researcher. More often the agency requires measurements at known sources, like tailpipes and smokestacks. Measuring plumes is easiest in wide-open spaces, and harder in “urban canyons” and wooded areas, where the plume is distorted, he said.

Mr. Bosch, the retired E.P.A. official, who now consults for Picarro, said that the agency had had more success in reducing emissions from smokestacks and vent pipes than from “fugitive” sources like leaky pipes and valves.

But Mr. Woelk, of Picarro, said his technology could locate leaks and prioritize them, and that the majority of the gas was generally escaping from a small fraction of the sources.

“Natural gas is the new green energy, supposedly,” he said, but finding and fixing the leaks would make it greener.
133 2013-08-07 Mr. Gutiérrez shrugged. After nearly two years in office, he said, he had visited with some 220 citizens in their homes, and the subject of dog owners was the one constant complaint. As spring approached this year, when children started going to the parks again, he decided to try what many here are calling “direct marketing.”

The dog owners got their packages — white boxes bearing the seal of this town and labeled “lost and found” — within hours.

Signing for the curious parcels, they must have been intrigued, though surely unsuspecting.

So far, the boxes seem to be extremely effective compared with Brunete’s earlier campaign, which involved a remote control specimen (very lifelike) that was used around town to get people’s attention. It followed. It banged into shoes. And it generally drew laughs. There was some improvement in behavior. But it did not last long.

Delivering 147 boxes of the real stuff seems to have produced a far more lasting effect in this town of about 10,000 residents. The mayor guesses a 70 percent improvement even now, several months after the two-week campaign.

A casual inspection of the town park near City Hall seemed to support his claim. Dog owners without exception were carrying plastic bags, a sight that is still extremely rare across Spain. Most of the owners seemed to find the lost and found campaign funny.

“I would laugh if it happened to me,” said Anahi Fidalgo, who, bag in hand, was walking his Shih Tzu, Coco. “I would be ashamed. But I would laugh.”

But not all dog owners agreed with him.

The sting operation worked like this: Volunteers were instructed to watch for negligent dog owners and then to approach their dogs to pet them. After a few flattering remarks about the beauty of said dog, they asked what breed it was. Then they asked the dog’s name.

Back at City Hall, where more than 500 residents have their pets registered, that was enough information to get to an address.

No one has yet publicly admitted to receiving a package. But these days asking a dog’s name in Brunete is likely to earn you a hard look. One woman walking her dog (it looked like a beagle) refused to give either her name or the dog’s.

“There is a campaign against dogs in this town, and what has this dog ever done?” she said. The woman said emphatically that she had always picked up after the dog.

Of course, everybody interviewed insisted the same.

Yet Ignacio Serra, 21, who was the only volunteer willing to talk to a reporter, largely because he does not live here, said it was easy to find owners who turned their backs on their dog’s business. He collected six deposits of poop himself, he said, which he found “pretty disgusting.”

Still, he said, his first undercover assignment (he popped an imaginary collar for effect) had made him laugh. “I thought it was very funny, and I had nothing else to do that day,” he said.

Nowadays, he said, his friends sometimes refer to him as “the Poop Hunter.”

For two weeks, no one complained, the mayor said. But then he got a few calls. Some people who had been sent the boxes said that City Hall had gone out of its way to humiliate them.

The mayor said that pretty much everyone in town knew who had gotten a box. He himself could not resist a peek at the list.

The idea for the lost and found campaign was not actually his. It came from the advertising agency McCann Erickson. The mayor said his brother, a professor, had students who were interns at the agency last year and did the remote control poop campaign. This year, the mayor went back to McCann looking for something more “aggressive.”

At first, Ricardo Rovira, who was part of the design team at the agency, worried that the mayor would not have the courage to go ahead with its direct marketing idea. But he did. McCann also made an amusing public awareness video, produced by Juan José Ocio, largely using actors. It was shown around town before concerts and community meetings.

And, as it turns out, the effort was good for business.

“We have gotten some very serious clients because of this campaign,” Mr. Rovira said.

Mr. Gutiérrez is not really hopeful that the good behavior will last, though. He is working on ideas for next year. But he won’t discuss them.
134 2013-08-07 American officials have signaled that Russia’s decision to grant Mr. Snowden temporary asylum undermined the relationship between the countries and could affect whether Mr. Obama agrees to travel to Moscow next month. He is scheduled to be in St. Petersburg for a meeting of the Group of 20 scheduled for Sept. 5 and 6, and had planned to go from there to meet Mr. Putin.

On Monday, Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said a decision was forthcoming.

“I think it’s fair to say that you can expect that we’ll have a decision to announce in coming days about that specific issue,” Mr. Carney told reporters. “We obviously disagree with the Russians very strongly about the decision they’ve made on Mr. Snowden.”

But Mr. Carney said the administration also disagreed with Russia on “a number of other issues, including Syria.” And he said that the question of whether the two presidents met would be determined by whether such a gathering could help make progress on a broader set of concerns.

“We are evaluating that against not just our disagreement over Mr. Snowden, but some of the other issues where we have failed to see, thus far, eye to eye,” Mr. Carney said. “And once we have fully assessed the utility of a summit, we’ll make an announcement.”

Russian officials said they expected the presidential summit meeting to go on as planned. And they waved aside the assertion by the United States that the decision on Mr. Snowden should affect whether Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin confront their disagreements face to face.

Russia’s decision to grant Mr. Snowden asylum, Mr. Ryabkov said Tuesday, had been blown out of proportion and threatened to undermine cooperation on important international issues, including the conflict in Syria, Iran’s nuclear program and the winding down of the American-led military operations in Afghanistan.

“The usefulness of contacts at the highest level is obvious to us,” he said. He added that criticism of Russia’s handling of Mr. Snowden’s appeal was “simply absurd.”

That issue seems sure to be discussed by the four officials when they meet in Washington. Officials in the United States said that the meeting had long been planned, but that the issue of Mr. Snowden and the implications for the summit meeting were sure to come up.

Ms. Psaki reiterated on Tuesday that “we would like to see Mr. Snowden returned to the United States.”

But American officials stressed that the standoff over the summit meeting was the result of more than just Mr. Snowden. The relationship between Russia and the United States has bogged down over questions about nuclear weapons, a dispute over what to do in Syria, questions about Iran and other issues.

Mr. Lavrov said Tuesday at a news conference in Rome that imposing new sanctions on Iran — like those proposed in a bill passed last week by the House of Representatives — would not be viewed as productive by Russians. He also discussed the need to move ahead with Syrian peace talks that he and Mr. Kerry agreed to in Moscow in May.

“The more we delay calling it, the more victims there will be among civilians,” Mr. Lavrov said, according to the Interfax news agency. He blamed the Syrian rebels for resisting opening talks with President Bashar al-Assad’s government.

Mr. Snowden, meantime, remained in seclusion, having made no public appearances or statements since he left Sheremetyevo airport in Moscow on Thursday. On Tuesday, his lawyer, Anatoly G. Kucherena, said in an interview that Mr. Snowden had received an official residence permit required for any foreigner to live in the country, though he again declined to discuss his client’s exact whereabouts.

He also said he had extended an official invitation to help Mr. Snowden’s father and friends obtain visas to visit him in Russia.
135 2013-08-07 HONG KONG — American officials criticized the Vietnamese government on Tuesday for its new limits on political dissent on the Internet, citing a decree that appears to restrict people from sharing news articles on social media and personal Web sites.

The decree, announced last Wednesday and scheduled to go into force on Sept. 1, states that personal blogs and social media sites “should be used to provide and exchange information of that individual only.”

In a statement, the American Embassy in Hanoi said that the new rule, called Decree 72, “appears to be inconsistent with Vietnam’s obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as its commitments under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.”

Vietnam has received some praise over the last year from human rights activists as it has begun drafting a new constitution that addresses civil liberties and religious tolerance.

But like other Asian nations, particularly China, it is grappling with how to handle the widespread adoption of social media by its citizens — and its ability to broadly disseminate articles critical of the government.
136 2013-08-07 I love the smoky heat of chipotles in this gazpacho. Cucumber and avocado are garnishes that are both cooling and soothing.

1 to 2 tablespoons sherry vinegar or wine vinegar (to taste), plus a little extra for the onion

1 to 2 canned chipotles in adobo (to taste)

1/2 to 1 cup ice water, depending on how thick you want your soup to be

1. Put the onion slices in a bowl, cover with cold water and add a few drops of vinegar. Let sit for 5 minutes while you prepare the remaining ingredients. Drain and rinse with cold water. Cut in half or into smaller pieces.

2. Combine the tomatoes, garlic, onion, olive oil, vinegar, chipotle, water and salt in a blender and blend until smooth. Strain through a medium strainer into a bowl. Taste and adjust salt. Thin out as desired with ice water. Chill for several hours.
137 2013-08-08 The major credit card companies position themselves as being quite broad-minded: observing gay pride month, creating a Shariah-compliant credit card, celebrating diversity among employees. But the companies also do business with hate groups, including by processing donations to anti-gay and anti-Muslim organizations and to white supremacists.

Should credit card companies stop processing payments to such extremist groups? Or in the interest of free speech, should these organizations continue to be allowed to receive donations via credit card?
138 2013-08-08 Everyone who’s ever trashed his boss in private should feel sympathy for Jesse Benton....
139 2013-08-08 Senator Mitch McConnell will retain his campaign manager, Jesse Benton, even though Mr. Benton acknowledged saying he was only working on the campaign to help a Rand Paul presidential bid....
140 2013-08-08 The bank is close to a deal with regulators over whether it gave lowball estimates for trading losses despite evidence within the bank that the bet was spiraling out of control....
141 2013-08-08 Uncertainty is no longer a problem. Facebook starts recycling posts. Troubled teen? That could be an entrepreneur....
142 2013-08-08 Rain delayed play at the the P.G.A. Championship, the season’s fourth — and usually most unloved — golf major, with Jim Furyk and Adam Scott tied for the first-round lead....
143 2013-08-08 One piece of advice: Have your children work outside the family business first. That way, they can prove they are capable and can receive promotions when working for someone else....
144 2013-08-08 Why do you think Brunete’s lost and found campaign was successful? Do you think it was fair? Do you think the success will last?...
145 2013-08-08 Allowing the nation’s largest banks to own physical commodities increases both their power and their potential to disrupt the economy, an economist writes....
146 2013-08-08 Fox Sports has never carried a golf tournament, but late Wednesday it agreed to a 12-year deal to carry the United States Open starting in 2015 on both its broadcast network and Fox Sports 1, a cable network that starts Aug. 17.

It is unusual for a major tournament to change hands. NBC has shown the Open for 19 years, and ESPN for 32. And Fox is paying a steep price of entry: at least double NBC’s and ESPN’s combined annual $37 million rights fee, according to two people briefed on the contract. NBC and ESPN will show their last Open next year at Pinehurst.

The deal will bring another major event to the Fox network, but it will also fill more time on Fox Sports 1, which has college football and basketball, Major League Baseball, Nascar, the Ultimate Fighting Championship and the World Cup. The deal with the U.S.G.A. also includes carrying the United States Women’s Open, the United States Senior Open and the national amateur championships.

The opportunity for Fox to acquire the Open rights came when NBC and ESPN’s exclusive windows to negotiate with the U.S.G.A. ended last month.

Randy Freer, the co-president of Fox Sports, said in an interview, “We were a little surprised that we got the opportunity to participate” in the talks, “but ultimately we like big events.” He added, “We think the U.S. Open can once again be the pre-eminent golf championship in the world.”
147 2013-08-08 Ethics regulators are trying to determine why they were not told about the Kellner matter and if there are other cases that were kept from them, a person with knowledge of the inquiry said.

Subpoenas in the latest inquiry were sent to several current and former Assembly officials, including Mr. Collins, who long served as the chief counsel for the Assembly Democrats, as well as another top lawyer, Carolyn Kearns.

A subpoena was also served to Eliyanna Kaiser, a former chief of staff for Mr. Kellner. In 2009, after a junior staff member in Mr. Kellner’s office complained of sexual harassment, Ms. Kaiser brought the allegations to the Assembly’s central staff, and provided records of sexually suggestive chat transcripts between Mr. Kellner and the aide. But at the time, Mr. Silver’s staff decided against conducting a serious inquiry, or referring the matter to the Assembly Ethics Committee.

“After four years, I’m glad that this is finally being looked at,” Ms. Kaiser said in an interview, adding that she had been frustrated by the Assembly’s lack of interest in the case. Ms. Kaiser said she had been questioned by one of the joint commission’s investigators, who expressed frustration that the case had not been previously revealed by the Assembly. She said the investigator told her, “We should have had all of this after the Lopez investigation.”

The subpoena she received seeks “all documents, including but not limited to communications relating to any inappropriate behavior on the part of Assemblymember Micah Kellner directed toward you or any other staff member.” It continues, “For the purposes of this request, ‘inappropriate behavior,’ includes, but is not limited to, comments, actions and conduct of a sexual nature.”

Mr. Kellner apologized last month for his behavior. On Wednesday night, he released a statement saying, “If I had been aware that documents pertaining to me had been submitted to an Assembly counsel four years ago, I would have immediately requested an investigation. I welcome such an investigation now and I will cooperate fully.”

Mr. Silver’s staff has said that the speaker did not know about the case until earlier this summer and referred it immediately to the Assembly Ethics Committee, which is not connected with the Joint Commission on Public Ethics, whose members are appointed by both the governor and the Legislature.

Skepticism is high in political circles that the Assembly will conduct a thorough inquiry on its own. Assemblyman Charles Lavine, the chairman of the ethics committee, is seen by many as compromised. During the investigation of Mr. Lopez, he privately urged the Joint Commission on Public Ethics to extensively edit its investigative report before its release, but was rebuffed.
148 2013-08-08 Not serving as an anchor for CNN proved lucrative for Eliot Spitzer.

Since 2011, Mr. Spitzer was paid at least $2 million by the cable network — including over $1 million after his short-lived venture into prime-time programming had already been canceled.

His well-compensated television work supplemented a healthy income that Mr. Spitzer receives from his family’s portfolio of white-glove residential apartment buildings in New York City, which earned him and his wife over $2.5 million last year.

The details of Mr. Spitzer’s previously opaque financial life — along with tidbits about his expenses for household help (modest) and income from academic work (not much) — were revealed in copies of his tax returns from the past two years, which Mr. Spitzer’s campaign for city comptroller provided to The New York Times on Wednesday.

The disclosure came after weeks of pressure from Scott M. Stringer, another Democrat running for comptroller, who noted that just last year Mr. Spitzer had castigated Mitt Romney for not disclosing complete tax records in the presidential contest.

Mr. Spitzer’s campaign invited a reporter to review the documents at the Fifth Avenue office of his family real estate empire, which is doubling as a cramped, five-aides-to-a-room campaign headquarters. The suite has amenities like Art Deco detailing and showstopping views of Central Park, another indication that Mr. Spitzer, who is self-financing his campaign, has a pecuniary edge over Mr. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, who agreed to abide by the city’s strict campaign spending limits.
149 2013-08-08 Peter Navarro’s article reminded me that in the early 1960s, in a small and still-thriving college town in Iowa, my father did not sell his first, small manufacturing business to the highest bidder because the new owner would have taken the company out of town.

Ultimately bought by a local citizen, the business lasted in the same community until 2009, and an overall total of nearly 70 years.
150 2013-08-08 Mr. Rice’s fear, widely shared, is that an ecosystem that supports more than 4,300 species of wildlife — and commercial fisheries, tourism and other businesses generating nearly $4 billion annually — is buckling under the strain of decades of pollution generated by coastal Florida’s explosive development.

The evidence of decline is compelling. In 2011 and 2012, unprecedented blooms of algae blanketed the estuary’s northern reaches for months, killing vast fields of underwater sea grass that are the building blocks of the estuary ecosystem. The grasses are breeding grounds for fish, cover from predators, home to countless creatures at the bottom of the food chain and, not least of all, the favorite menu item of manatees.

The sea grass has largely been supplanted by macroalgae, fast-growing seaweeds that clump into huge mats that drift free in the waters. And the character of the estuary is changing: already, algae-eating fish like menhaden are significantly increasing, Mr. Rice said.

Leesa Souto, a conservation biologist who heads the Marine Resources Council, a nonprofit group devoted to protecting the estuary, quoted one expert as saying that the loss of grasses destroyed the habitat for 1.4 billion immature fish.

“We fear the fishery collapse may be forthcoming as these missing juveniles will never reach adulthood two or three years from now,” she wrote in an e-mail.

The scope and suddenness of the algae blooms took scientists by surprise, but their source is no secret: off Brevard County, the estuary is badly overloaded with nitrogen, an essential plant nutrient found in fertilizers, rotting organic matter and human and animal waste.

State and federal authorities long ago limited dumping of nitrogen-rich effluents from sewage-treatment plants and factories. But so-called nonpoint sources of pollution, like lawn fertilizer and septic tanks, have been far harder to control.

Now, some experts say, the rapid urbanization of the Florida coast, from the boom years of the space age to the later growth of retirement condos, appears to have pushed the accumulation of those wastes.

Brevard has grown explosively, to nearly 545,000 in the 2010 census, from 23,700 people in 1950. The Banana River and other fingers of the estuary are a bricolage of pristine nature reserves cheek-to-jowl with beachfront motels, tract homes fronting on canals, even a golf course in the center of the Banana River itself.

Surveys in 2011 and 2012 by the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute at Florida Atlantic University concluded that estuary waters off Brevard contained 45 percent more nitrogen than is acceptable, and three times as much as in the estuary’s southern waters, said Brian Lapointe, a research professor at the institute.

Where the nitrogen came from is unclear. Relying on analyses of nitrogen isotopes in algae collected from the estuary, Dr. Lapointe concluded that most came from sewage — most likely from the 100,000 or so septic tanks that he estimated were dug during Brevard’s rapid expansion.

But a comprehensive search for the origins of the nitrogen has yet to be conducted. A handful of studies in waters outside the estuary have indicated that fertilizer runoff can be a major contributor to algae blooms. Dr. Souto cites a third source: a thick muck that has covered the once-pristine sand on the estuary floor, an accumulation of decades of pollutants and nitrogen-rich decayed plant matter.

“It would almost take a giant vacuum cleaner to remove it,” she said. “It remains a source of nitrogen, and whenever it’s stirred up, it goes back into the water.”

The Brevard waters seemed deceptively healthy in the mid-2000s, perhaps because a prolonged drought reduced the flow of nitrogen into the estuary. But when heavy rains returned in 2011, experts suggest, the resulting slug of pollution triggered the algae blooms.

With the sea grass mostly gone, there are few roots to stabilize the nitrogen-heavy muck when winds stir up the waters. A switch from septic tanks to sewer systems — and, perhaps, a giant vacuum cleaner — might quickly restore the Brevard waters to health. Otherwise, experts say, recovery seems likely to be a longer, more arduous process.

That makes the question of whether the estuary’s problems are linked to the wildlife die-offs all the more important. But that is likely to be a devilishly difficult investigation, scientists say.

The manatees died without warning, while the dolphins and pelicans wasted away over days, losing muscle and becoming disoriented. Manatees eat plants; dolphins and pelicans eat fish. Manatees and dolphins are mammals; pelicans are birds. Pelicans died by the hundreds; other estuary birds seem to have gone mostly unscathed. Other creatures that eat seaweed, like sea turtles, also seem to have remained healthy.

There are few clues. In fact, there are even few dolphins; most decomposed or were eaten by sharks before useful body parts could be recovered.

One of the best clues, however, involves the seaweed that replaced the estuary’s sea grass.

The three Banana River manatees seemed to be in robust health when they died. The sole exception was their intestines, which showed evidence of severe shock or irritation. Autopsies showed that the stomachs of all three manatees were filled with macroalgae, mostly a fanlike seaweed called gracilaria.

“We hypothesize that whatever caused these manatees to die was either ingested or gotten through drinking,” Martine de Wit, a research scientist with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission who autopsied the manatees, said in an interview. “It’s logical to think it’s the macroalgae that they ingested.” A federal laboratory is analyzing seaweed samples in search of toxins.

Both Dr. de Wit and Jan H. Landsberg, a biotoxin expert at the Fish and Wildlife Research Institute of the Conservation Commission who is helping coordinate the inquiry, emphasize that the hypothesis is just one of many. The deaths “might just be coincidental,” Dr. Landsberg said. “The key is not to go down too many rabbit holes.”

And to go down the most promising ones quickly. For the deaths may not be a one-time event; the estuary’s dolphins suffered suspiciously similar, still unexplained die-offs in 2001 and 2008.

“If this spreads,” she said, “we don’t know what the implications are.”
151 2013-08-08 The Bloomberg administration has been unmoved by criticism of the stop-and-frisk program, steadfastly declaring that the tactic is necessary to keep crime down.

But in court papers made public on Wednesday, the city voluntarily scaled back on one aspect of stop-and-frisk practices: it agreed to remove hundreds of thousands of names from a database of information about New Yorkers collected during police stops.

The New York Police Department began building the database in 1999 to compile and review the information learned during stop-and-frisk encounters; the police said the database allowed investigators to quickly sift through information from millions of police stops for clues in their search for suspects or witnesses to a crime.

As the debate grew over the Police Department’s expanding use of the stop-and-frisk tactic, a 2010 state law forced the department to expunge from the database the names and addresses of people who were stopped but not subsequently charged with any crime or issued a summons.

But the law left intact information about a vast number of stops — about 565,000 since 2004 — that resulted in an arrest or summons. Those remaining names and addresses are now being expunged as a result of a settlement to a lawsuit brought by the New York Civil Liberties Union.
152 2013-08-08 The heritage leather-goods label Etienne Aigner is back in a big way, with a 3,500-square-foot SoHo store opening Thursday. Walk through the 12-foot cordovan leather door with brass nailheads (architectural nods to the label’s signature hue and hardware elements) and you’ll find classic items like a doctor bag ($625) as well as new experimentation with ready-to-wear, including a shawl-collar wool cape coat with leather sleeves ($1,095). At 65 Greene Street.

The Breast Cancer Research Foundation is gearing up for its second annual Paddle & Party for Pink in the Hamptons on Aug. 17 with a charity auction on designer paddle boards. Bidding starts at $1,000 for the one-offs like Aerin Lauder’s updated geometric batik in bright yellow and pale blue or Cynthia Rowley’s twisted blurred floral. For more information: hamptonspaddleforpink.org/hamptons/aboutbcrf.asp. ... Also out East, Theory will be host to Organic Avenue pop-ups through Labor Day. Grab a Green Love juice ($9) and get 10 percent off transitional pieces like a silk jumpsuit ($382.50). At 98 Main Street in Southampton, and 46 Newtown Lane in East Hampton.

Hoping to inspire some late summer primal pool behavior, Maslin & Co, purveyor of much-sought-after animal hide-shaped cotton beach towels, is having a sample sale Friday, with a navy and coral zebra “skin” ($98) among specimens available at 50 percent off. At 37 West 26th Street, ninth floor.

Also on Friday, Apiece Apart, Creatures of Comfort and Maryam Nassir Zadeh are having a huge last-chance summer sale with styles up to 70 percent off. At Mode Showroom, 547 Broadway, second floor.

On Saturday, Morgenthal Frederics begins its semiannual sale with cool shades like the Fifth, sleek rectangular tortoise frames with sterling detailing, marked down as low as $100. At 399 West Broadway.

Fall 2013 debut collections are now arriving in stores. Opening Ceremony has the exclusive on Bellavance, designed by Nolan Bellavance and Ava Hama and winner of the 2012 MADE for Peroni Young Designer Award. Look for tailored basics like a wool-and-silk pullover ($598) and pipe-leg trousers ($621). At 35 Howard Street.

Saks Fifth Avenue is carrying fresh takes on evening from Adeam, including a sleeveless dress with transformable panels ($1,450), and will be host for a meet-and-greet with the designer Hanako Maeda on Monday at 2 p.m.
153 2013-08-08 The University of Oslo says it has rejected an admissions application from Anders Behring Breivik, the man convicted of killing 77 people in bomb and gun massacres two years ago. The university rector, Ole Petter Ottersen, said Wednesday that Mr. Breivik, 34, had been informed “that his qualifications do not suffice for admission to the bachelor program.” Mr. Breivik is serving a 21-year prison sentence, which can be extended. Prison officials said he could study in his cell if admitted by a university.
154 2013-08-08 In the 23 years since Erica Tanov first sold Bohemian-inspired lingerie in NoLIta, her company has grown to include ready-to-wear, leather goods and textiles. Last week, Ms. Tanov, now based in Berkeley, Calif., with three Bay Area stores, opened a boutique at ABC Carpet & Home. Paulette Cole, ABC’s chief executive, said she’s “long felt aligned” with Ms. Tanov’s philosophy, which “champions the connection between the self and home.” A highlight of the shop: cotton textiles from Ms. Tanov’s work with disabled artists from Creative Growth, a nonprofit, like the 18-inch pillow ($95), above left, sitting atop quilts ($202 to $453). There are also beeswax candles ($38), vintage Japanese plates ($35 each) and Indian leather notebooks ($46 each); 888 Broadway (East 19th Street), (212) 473-3000 or ericatanov.com.
155 2013-08-08 BANGOR, Me. — The railroad company whose runaway oil train caused a fire and explosion that killed 47 people in a small town in Canada filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday.

The company — Montreal, Maine and Atlantic Railway — filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in United States and Canadian courts, citing debts to more than 200 creditors after the July disaster in Lac-Mégantic, Quebec.

The company chairman, Ed Burkhardt, said previously that a bankruptcy filing was likely after service disruptions because its rail line remained closed in Lac-Mégantic. The company, based in Hermon, Me., also faces lawsuits and enormous cleanup costs related to the disaster.

The parked train, with 72 tankers full of crude oil, was unattended when it began rolling toward town, eventually derailing downtown. Several tankers exploded, destroying 40 buildings in the lakeside town of 6,000 residents.
156 2013-08-08 What’s impressive in “Les Hommes,” set to music by Olafur Arnalds, is how all four work sympathetically together while each demonstrates a particular forte. It was enthralling to watch Lil Buck holding a balance on one foot while very slowly raising the supporting foot until it was on point; Tip Toe’s rippling muscles and fast footwork; Prime Tyme’s gently intense gyrations; and Ringmaster Nugget’s spectacular flexing. (He hyperextends limbs and seems even to dislocate joints.) But the flexing — something all four can do to various degrees — tended to tip the number over into freakishness, and into posing rather than dancing.

Monday’s biggest choreographic name was Paul Taylor, whose dance company will also perform a whole program here on Thursday. His world premiere was “American Dreamer,” danced by six men and six women to music by Stephen Foster. (The songs are heard in Thomas Hampson’s mesmerizingly mellifluous recordings.) The work’s chief fault is that, using only five Foster numbers, it was too short. In a nice touch, Santo Loquasto has a supply of costumes and hats at the side of the stage; the dancers change headgear and outfits for each number. The look, a vaguely period one, is American pastoral.

Here is Mr. Taylor’s latest contemplation of the tension between individuality and conformism, showing his love of form and his sardonic views of society. Sometimes, we see six husbands and six wives; the joke is how each couple is different while ultimately arriving in the same pattern. In the song “Beautiful Dreamer,” Mr. Taylor evokes the female Sleepwalker and male Poet of George Balanchine’s “Sonnambula.” The difference is that Sean Mahoney falls for one sleepwalker (as in Balanchine, he blocks her path in vain, and she steps right over him), then another and next a third. Though these women stay lost in dreams, he keeps losing his heart to them.

The other two world premieres were by younger modern-dance choreographers, Larry Keigwin and Brian Brooks, both on ballet-friendly terms and each using guest dancers from New York City Ballet. Mr. Keigwin’s “Canvas,” to music by Adam Crystal for piano quintet, was intricate, neat and rapturous; Mr. Brooks’s “Entanglement,” though structurally simpler, was stylistically more experimental.

The central charm of “Canvas” was the exciting new freedom that the City Ballet dancers Tiler Peck and Robert Fairchild brought to their duets; Lauren Lovette and Daniel Ulbricht (both also from City Ballet) and the seven resident Keigwin dancers were more peripheral, though each made a vivid contribution. This was an intensely pretty piece; its sheer construction was always entertaining.

For watching dancers step out of their comfort zone, the evening’s best exercise lay in “Entanglement.” Set by Mr. Brooks to five Bach Preludes (played by the pianist Cristina Pato onstage), this combined Teresa Reichlen (on point) and Tyler Angle (both from City Ballet) with Jonathan Royse Windham, a Colorado native (big cheers from the local audience) and member of the modern-dance troupe Gallim Dance. With off-balance steps, tips of the torso and sudden changes of direction, Mr. Brooks challenged all three; he gave solos to each.

Mr. Angle emerged as the most diverse figure; with Ms. Reichlen he had a true pas de deux. But in a duet with Mr. Windham, he partnered with touchingly tutorial care, as if the younger dancer was wilder but always in need of guidance. In one glorious moment, Ms. Reichlen held a sculptural attitude while falling backward in a slow, slow arc. The sense of adventure was palpable.
157 2013-08-08 Although it had a rough start crossing into digital, Leica now sells almost a dozen varieties of digital cameras, including some point-and-shoots. But the most coveted models are still in M-System series, with the range finder body that was introduced in 1932.

Unlike D.S.L.R. (digital single-lens reflex) cameras, in which a photo subject is viewed through a mirror, range finders offer crisper images because the lens is closer to the sensor of the camera. The shutter on a range finder is also incredibly still and quiet — unlike the D.S.L.R., in which the mirror flips up and down at the moment a photo is snapped — so little vibration is added to a photo when the shutter is pressed.

Still, focusing with a Leica range finder is not as easy as just snapping a picture with your iPhone.

First, the camera focus is completely manual. A Leica viewfinder shows two versions of the scene before you. The trick is to line up the images and make them overlap over the area to be in focus.

Leica offers several digital camera bodies. The Leica M-E is the lowest-priced model of the M-System. The bare-bones M-E body costs $5,450. It has an 18-megapixel sensor and can shoot at an ISO of 160 to 2,500 (the ISO number measures the sensitivity to light). Photos taken during the day will be flawlessly clear, while in very low light the images will deteriorate and become grainy without a flash.

The latest high-end camera from the company, the Leica M, was announced late last year and costs $6,950. It features a newly designed 24-megapixel CMOS sensor (CMOS stands for complementary metal-oxide semiconductor), which makes it possible for the camera to shoot in lower-light situations while keeping a crisp image. The Leica M is the only M-System camera that can shoot video.

Leica also offers the Leica M Monochrom, an 18-megapixel camera that can shoot only black and white. Some people might ask why anyone would buy a camera that cannot even take a color picture, but Leica has poured years of research and development into optimizing the sensor on this camera for the subtlety of black-and-white photography.

The results from the Leica M Monochrom are astounding. Pictures have the tonality and contrast that make them look as if they were shot with real black-and-white film. The M Monochrom can also shoot at an ISO up to 10,000, which allows pictures to be taken in extremely low light.

Keep in mind that once you buy a Leica camera body, it still needs a lens. But this, professional photographers say, is where Leica excels.

“Leica makes a lens the way it should be made, with metal and glass, while everyone else is making plastic lenses that are meant to be thrown away in a couple of years,” said Ken Rockwell, a photographer and expert on cameras and lenses. “The Leica lenses are so special because they are smaller, faster and sharper.”

Mr. Rockwell notes that Leica’s lenses, which are still assembled by hand in Germany, do not have the added features of modern D.S.L.R.'s, like motors, and that the company uses the highest-grade glass available.

“The Leica glass,” Mr. Michel said, “adds that special ethereal quality to the image that no D.S.L.R. can match.”

I have tested almost all of the company’s cameras and lenses. The control I have with a manual Leica makes me realize that today’s abundance of buttons and features on most cameras often makes people take poorer pictures.

Leica’s lenses can vary in price from $1,650 for the Leica 50mm f/2.5 Summarit-M, to the Leica 50mm f/0.95 Noctilux-M, which costs $10,950. Once you have recovered from seeing the price of the Noctilux-M, keep in mind it is considered one of the best low-light lenses in the world and has such a wide aperture it can shoot almost in darkness.

The company names all of its lenses based on the amount of light a lens can let in through the aperture; these include the Summilux, Summicron, Summarit and Noctilux.

If you have been doing the math, you might have noticed that the best Leica setup will cost almost $20,000. My personal Leica setup is half that. I own a used Leica M9-P with a Leica 50mm f1.4 Summilux lens, which cost almost $10,000, and although the price might make you choke on your morning coffee, I would give up my iPhone before I’d part with my Leica.

This was true decades ago and is still true today. Henri Cartier-Bresson, considered by many to be the father of photojournalism, said in his biography, “The Mind’s Eye,” that when he discovered the Leica camera in the beginning of his career, “It became the extension of my eye, and I have never been separated from it since I found it.”

But be forewarned: Although Leicas are tough and rugged, if your camera does break, be prepared to wait a couple of months for it to be fixed, because the company’s repair facilities are only in Germany. If you do buy a Leica, it will also take a long time to become completely used to the range finder and manual setup. Leicas are in such high demand that there is a three-month wait to purchase several of the latest models.

“Don’t think that if you buy a Leica you’re going to be taking the same photos as the world’s best photojournalists,” Mr. Rockwell said. “The camera doesn’t take good pictures; the person holding it does.”
158 2013-08-08 The decision concluded an investigation that began in March into the infant formula industry for what the commission said was price fixing of baby formula in the Chinese market.

The statement said evidence gathered during the course of the investigation showed that the companies used various methods to ensure that distributors raised prices, including signing contractual agreements, imposing fines, cutting rebates and restricting the supply of goods.

People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s official newspaper, and at least one analyst of China’s market for baby products have said that prices of foreign-branded infant milk powder had risen by at least 30 percent since 2008, when the Chinese began buying foreign brands in droves because of a wide scandal involving tainted Chinese-made milk powder that caused widespread illness and some deaths.

After the investigation began, at least three foreign companies — Mead Johnson, Dumex and Nestlé — cut their product prices about 20 percent in the Chinese market.

Mead Johnson was fined the equivalent of 4 percent of its 2012 revenue in China, or about $33 million. In its announcement, the agency said Mead Johnson did not actively cooperate with the investigation but was quick to take corrective measures.

Mead Johnson said it did not intend to contest the agency’s decision. A company spokeswoman said in an e-mail on Wednesday, “We believe our business practices were consistent with prevailing interpretations of regulatory requirements applicable to our industry.”

Biostime, which was fined 6 percent of its revenue from last year, or $26.6 million, received the harshest punishment of the six companies for its “serious violations” of the antimonopoly law. A statement by the company, released on Wednesday, said it intended to pay the fine and would continue to work to ensure that its “various business decisions comply with the applicable P.R.C. laws and regulations,” referring to the People’s Republic of China.

Dumex was fined $28 million, Abbott was fined $12.63 million and Friesland was penalized $7.89 million — all representing about 3 percent of their 2012 revenue in China. The Chinese agency said they had cooperated with the investigation and had been quick to change their practices.

Fonterra was fined only about $730,000, but it has been mired in a separate food safety scandal in China related to potentially tainted ingredients used in baby formula products made by other companies. This week, a top Fonterra executive flew to China to issue an apology at a news conference.

Chinese officials have banned imports of New Zealand milk products and several foreign companies have said they would take precautions and recall products containing the Fonterra ingredients. The Chinese state-run news media has run front-page articles and harsh editorials over the case.

Foreign brands have become popular since the Chinese milk industry experienced severe losses after the 2008 scandal, when six babies died and more than 300,000 children fell ill as a result of drinking milk products tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical.

When Chinese officials announced the price-fixing investigation a month ago, they also said they would ensure stricter standards within the domestic industry. Chinese state-run newspapers ran editorials saying they hoped that the new standards would bolster the competitive ability of the domestic companies versus foreign rivals.

For various reasons, including aggressive marketing by the formula makers, many Chinese mothers prefer to give their babies formula rather than breast milk, though breast-feeding has grown in popularity since the 2008 scandal.

The market for infant formula in China is enormous and growing fast. It was estimated to be worth about $12.7 billion in 2012, and is projected to grow to $15.4 billion this year and $18.4 billion in 2014, according to data from Euromonitor, a research organization.

Chinese parents have gone to great lengths to buy foreign-made infant milk powder, and that has led to shortages in at least a half-dozen countries around the world.

Some large retail chains have imposed a limit of two to four cans of milk powder per customer, and Hong Kong has made it a criminal offense to take more than two cans of milk powder out of the territory. The law was imposed in March to crack down on smuggling of milk powder to the mainland.
159 2013-08-08 “Now we’re going to come out and tell everybody that they’ve accomplished nothing this year and we’ve been pedaling backward?” Ms. Russell said. “It’s depressing.”

Across the state, the downward shift was similar: 31 percent of students passed the exams in reading and math, compared with 55 percent in reading and 65 percent in math last year.

The Common Core standards have been adopted by 45 states and the District of Columbia. Although not technically national standards, they are ardently backed by the Obama administration and education officials who contend that outdated and inconsistent guidelines leave students ill prepared for college and the work force. New York was one of the first states to develop tests based on the standards. Kentucky, the first state to do so, also reported plummeting scores.

Even with the drop in scores, New York City still outperformed the state’s other large school districts — in Rochester, for example, only 5 percent of students passed in reading and math. And despite its large number of disadvantaged students, New York City almost matched the state’s performance as a whole.

But striking gaps in achievement between black and Hispanic students and their counterparts persisted. In math, 15 percent of black students and 19 percent of Hispanic students passed the exam, compared with 50 percent of white students and 61 percent of Asian students.

Students with disadvantages struggled as well. On the English exam, 3 percent of nonnative speakers were deemed proficient, and 6 percent of students with disabilities passed.

Despite the drop in scores, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appeared on Wednesday at a news conference just as he had in years when results were rosier. He rejected criticisms of the tests, calling the results “very good news” and chiding the news media for focusing on the decline. He said black and Hispanic students, who make up two-thirds of the student population, had made progress that was not reflected in the scores.

“We have to make sure that we give our kids constantly the opportunity to move towards the major leagues,” Mr. Bloomberg said.

In the past, Mr. Bloomberg has bristled at suggestions that the tests were too easy, and too easy to prepare for, to be considered an accurate measure of student ability. Critics of Mr. Bloomberg latched onto the disparities in the scores, arguing that the mayor’s 12-year effort to overhaul city schools had neglected the most vulnerable students. The politicians vying to succeed Mr. Bloomberg, who leaves office at the end of the year, quickly seized on the results.

William C. Thompson Jr., a Democratic candidate who has been endorsed by the city’s teachers’ union, said the results showed that for years the city had put too much of an emphasis on tests at the expense of deeper learning.

“Let’s be clear: We’ve accomplished nothing,” Mr. Thompson, a former city comptroller, said at a news conference. “Doors of opportunity are closing for families and communities across our city.”

Other candidates were less critical. “We don’t want to confuse test scores going down with stepping away from raising standards,” Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and a Democratic candidate for mayor, told reporters.

In the city, scores fell in every district, but were more pronounced in poorer areas. In nine schools, no students passed the math exams.

And even at some of the city’s highest-performing schools, there were noticeable drops. At the Anderson School in Manhattan, a highly selective school, for instance, 5 out of 65 eighth graders did not pass the English test; last year, the entire seventh grade passed the exam.

At the peak of test scores, in 2009, 69 percent of students passed exams in English, and 82 percent passed in math. After concluding the tests had become too easy, the state made them harder to pass in 2010, resulting in score drops statewide. This year, New York State revamped the tests even more radically.

In April, when the Common Core exams were introduced, some educators said they required too much of students in a short time. A small number of parents, exhausted by the city’s testing regimen, had their children sit out the exams in protest.

At some schools, teachers said they had not received adequate training to prepare students for the test. “It didn’t happen, and our children are suffering for it,” Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said in a statement on Wednesday.

The new tests require students to show more sophisticated analytical skills, by solving math problems with several steps and writing in-depth essays.

On the fourth-grade English exam in 2010, for example, students read a passage about a bear playing sports and were asked to identify the story’s theme. This year, by comparison, they were instructed to use details from a story to form an argument about a girl’s relationship with her grandmother.

The dreary numbers in New York have prompted some critics to argue that the tests are simply too difficult to pass and that education officials have set unrealistic goals.

“We’re now demanding that most students are A students, and that’s ridiculous,” said Diane Ravitch, an education historian and a frequent critic of Mr. Bloomberg’s efforts to remake the school system. “It will feed into a sense that the tests are not even legitimate measures.”

More states are scheduled to introduce Common Core exams in the 2014-15 school year. But there have been signs of turbulence in recent weeks, with several states, including Georgia, Indiana and Oklahoma, halting efforts to roll out exams, citing concerns about cost. The pushback has complicated an effort that has been hailed as one of the most promising changes to American education in modern history.

New York’s bleak scores could prompt unease among elected officials who have staked their reputations on rising test scores.

“For educators and parents who aren’t crazy about testing to begin with, one can understand why they feel like they’re being subjected to bait-and-switch,” said Frederick M. Hess, an education policy scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.

On Thursday, a group of prominent New York business leaders, hoping to stave off the resistance to the Common Core standards, will release a letter urging New York policy makers to move forward with the new standards.

Other advocates of the standards are also looking to high places for support. On Tuesday, the day before test scores were released, city and state officials organized a conference call with Arne Duncan, the federal education secretary, hoping to pre-empt criticism of the exams.

Speaking with reporters, Mr. Duncan said the shift to the Common Core standards was a necessary recalibration that would better prepare students for college and the work force.

“Too many school systems lied to children, families and communities,” Mr. Duncan said. “Finally, we are holding ourselves accountable as educators.”
160 2013-08-08 “The use of sidewalk materials and their layout complement the memorial in a sophisticated and subtle manner,” she wrote in an e-mail on Tuesday. “There were countless mock-ups and sample reviews to make sure that we got the selection of granite, finishes, proportions and layout just right, including full-scale mock-ups.

“We were also intensively engaged in the bollard design, helping to facilitate an elliptical and tapered form that is effective from a security standpoint but not intrusive in size,” Ms. Burden added.

The portion of Greenwich Street between Vesey and Liberty Streets has existed in recent years, but only as a construction haul road. Seeing the partly finished landscaping brings home the fact that one day it will be restored to traffic, though on a highly restricted basis.

The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is constructing the new section of Greenwich Street, which it expects to complete by the end of 2014. Some time around then, or early in 2015, the authority will move its headquarters into 4 World Trade Center.

Four World Trade Center is a deliberately understated building that cuts the lowest profile of any in the complex (if a 977-foot tower can be said to cut a low profile). As designed by Fumihiko Maki, 84, of Maki and Associates in Tokyo, it also contributes a great deal to the streetscape.

Unlike the rest of the tower, which is skinned in reflective glass, the building’s 47-foot-high lobby is clad in clear glass. It almost seems to embrace the street, a gesture made even stronger by an 80-foot-wide space between columns.

The closeness of the lobby to the memorial imposed a special obligation on Mr. Maki and his client, Silverstein Properties, to create a space that was respectful without being sepulchral.

Last week, their intentions for the lobby became clear with the installation of “Sky Memory,” a delicate, 98-foot-diameter titanium arc by the sculptor Kozo Nishino, of Kyoto, Japan. This is his first commission in the United States.

Mr. Nishino has collaborated with Mr. Maki before. But his trade center commission owes itself to a visit by the developer, Larry A. Silverstein, and his wife, Klara, to the ArtCourt Gallery booth at a 2007 art fair in New York City. The gallery represents Mr. Nishino and was showing a model of his work.

“I had no idea about Larry,” recalled Mitsue Yagi, the gallery director. “I said, ‘This artist makes huge-scale artwork.’ Larry said, ‘I’m making a very big building.’”

Despite its great size, the “Sky Memory” sculpture weighs only 474 pounds. It is composed of seven sections of welded, exposed trusswork that are cantilevered and balanced 22 feet above the lobby floor, as if they were floating. The metal shifts in color from deep sapphire blue to pale jade green.

Reflected in the polished black granite wall from which it springs, the arc looks like a circle. Or a zero.

Could that be an intentional reference to “ground zero” by an artist whose works are found in the two Japanese cities on which the United States dropped atomic bombs during World War II?

“It’s less about capturing a moment of time in the past,” Mr. Nishino answered during a conversation at the site. “It’s more about looking into the future.”

A few days later, he wrote in an e-mail that he had begun thinking about the meaning of ground zero in New York, Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

If the setting of 4 World Trade Center turns out to be thought-provoking as well as attractive, Greenwich Street, north of Liberty, will be a very good streetscape indeed.
161 2013-08-09 Credit: Narciso Contreras for The New York Times
162 2013-08-09 The No. 2 executive at the social network made her largest stock sale since the company’s initial public offering, although she still holds shares worth more than $1 billion....
163 2013-08-09 The International Trade Commission upheld a preliminary finding that Samsung’s mobile products had violated two Apple patents. The decision, unless vetoed by President Obama, will result in an import ban on some devices....
164 2013-08-09 With Danish men’s wear and Danish food both flourishing, what could be better than combining the two?...
165 2013-08-09 The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.
166 2013-08-09 Why forecasters can’t forecast. Finding your break-even point. How small-businesses pay higher tax rates than big corporations....
167 2013-08-09 J. Smith-Cameron, who played Jane in the first three Apple family plays, will not return to the role....
168 2013-08-09 Q. How do I check on an order I placed with one of Amazon’s independent sellers if I didn’t get a shipping e-mail or tracking number?

A. You can check the status of any order placed through Amazon — even if it was with a third-party seller — in your account settings. To do so, go to Amazon.com, log in and click the Your Account link at the top of the page. Select “Your Orders” from the menu.

Your Amazon orders will be listed, starting with the most recent purchases, including those from independent sellers. Next to the order description are buttons for things like tracking information, product returns, reviews and seller feedback. There should be a button labeled Contact Seller if no tracking information for was provided.

Click the Contact Seller button to create and send a message to the person or company through Amazon’s Buyer-Seller messaging service.

If you are not satisfied with the response (or do not get one), you can file a claim with Amazon, which guarantees your order if it is not delivered — or arrives damaged or defective. Amazon has more information on third-party sellers on a customer help page.

Q. Is there a way to turn off a multiperson message on Facebook if I don’t want to participate anymore?
169 2013-08-09 The soft and squishy course at Oak Hill Country Club seemed ready to offer up another day of birdies in the second round of the P.G.A. Championship....
170 2013-08-09 The federal International Trade Commission is expected to say on Friday whether it will uphold a preliminary finding that Samsung mobile products violated a handful of Apple patents....
171 2013-08-09 Russia’s economy does need help. In the first quarter, growth fell to a rate of 1.6 percent because oil prices are level. And in that economic climate, few Russians seem willing to risk opening a new business that might create jobs and tax revenue for the government.

Mr. Putin told an audience of chief executives at an economic forum, including Michael L. Corbat of Citigroup and Jeffrey R. Immelt of General Electric, that releasing some businessmen would help revive the economy with “the values of economic freedom and the work and success of entrepreneurs.”

In 2010, the police investigated a total of 276,435 “economic crimes,” according to the Russian prosecutor general’s office, whose statistics show burglary and robbery are prosecuted less than economic crimes.

So many Russian business owners are doing time that support groups have sprung up in Moscow for their families known as “The 159 Society.” It takes its name from the article on fraud in the criminal code. Rus Sidyashchaya, or Russia Behind Bars, organizes weekly dinners for the wives of imprisoned businessmen.

Russia’s infamous penal colonies, rural camps swirled in barbed wire, appear today much as they did when Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn wrote “The Gulag Archipelago” in the 1960s. But at least one of every 10 prisoners today is a white-collar convict.

In the “zone,” as the prison camps are known in colloquial Russian, the business owners live, as nearly all Russian prisoners do, in squat wood or brick barracks. It is a grim, violent and disease-ridden world, they say.

These newcomers are for the most part nonviolent, though many are recidivists. Several indicated in interviews that they did well in prison, having the skills that matter: the ability to boss around other inmates, avoid abuse and bargain with the guards for little extras like cigarette butts or pillows.

Mr. Titov, an amiable former oil products trader who speaks bluntly about corruption in spite of his government job, spends his time combing through the list of economic criminals with a team of lawyers, trying to free as many as possible. “We fight for every one,” he said.

One of those Mr. Titov championed was Ruslan V. Tyelkov, whose short arc from businessman to inmate illustrates both the entrepreneurial spirit that still simmers in Russia and the risks. Mr. Tyelkov, a strapping 32-year-old from Moscow, invested nearly his last ruble to open a wholesale upholstery business that could hardly have gone wrong in Russia: selling leopard-print fabrics.

In 2010, Mr. Tyelkov spent the equivalent of $31,000 for 25,000 yards of Chinese-made leopard-print fabric suitable for chairs and sofas. “It’s very popular here, not only for furniture but cloths, wallpaper, sheets, shoes, bags, everything.”

With no warning, the police arrived at his warehouses and removed every roll on six flatbed trucks, handing it over to a competitor, ostensibly for storage, though it was later sold. Then they arrested Mr. Tyelkov, who spent a year in pretrial detention.

The crime? The police said they suspected copyright infringement of the leopard design. “It was funny at first,” recalled Mr. Tyelkov of his initial meeting with the police. “I asked, ‘Who owns the copyright, a leopard?’ ”

Mr. Titov’s later investigation confirmed the police had colluded with a competitor to seize the merchandise under the pretext of a criminal case, so it could be sold for a profit.

While his business was ruined, Mr. Tyelkov said he did manage to apply his skills to the small challenges of life in jail. He rose to become the informal leader of the cell he shared with a killer, a militant and several drug addicts.

One business owner, the founder of a chain of computer stores, ran his legal operation for nine years from prison, Mr. Titov said, much as some drug kingpins do.

Incarceration has not gone so smoothly for everyone. In his first year in a penal colony in Siberia, the former oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky was stabbed in the face with a shank, or homemade knife. The warden said another inmate was fending off an unwanted sexual advance, something Mr. Khodorkovsky’s press aides denied.

While Mr. Khodorkovsky was in prison his company, Yukos, once the largest private company in Russia, went bankrupt, though investors had valued it as worth more than $40 billion before the arrest.

Most of the imprisoned are not there for any political reason. Their incarceration has to do with the nature of Russian corruption, said Elena Panfilova, the director of the Russian branch of Transparency International, a nonprofit group that studies corruption around the globe. Run-of-the-mill bribery schemes, practiced from China to Mexico, usually involve the police, fire inspectors or other regulators asking for payments on the side to allow a business to operate. In these instances, the interests of the business owners and corrupt officials are aligned — both ultimately want the enterprise to succeed.

But in Russia, the police benefit from arrests. They profit by soliciting a bribe from a rival to remove competition, by taking money from the family for release, or by selling seized goods. Promotion depends on an informal quota of arrests. Police officers who seize businesses became common enough to have earned the nickname “werewolves in epaulets.”

In the first month of the amnesty program, now six months old, the courts released 13 prisoners. The law applies to 27 crimes, including credit fraud and fraud in entrepreneurial activities, and applies to those who have been convicted once, or pleaded guilty if their case was pending, and have agreed to repay damages.

The amnesty law, however, rules out release for Mr. Khodorkovsky, who was convicted twice on politically tinged charges.
172 2013-08-09 Carolina Milanesi, a Gartner analyst, said that if Apple were to score a second victory with the International Trade Commission this week, the company would climb to a significant position of power in patent feuds — not just against Samsung, but against other companies as well.

“Apple can use that as a warning and say, ‘Look, if it hasn’t worked with Samsung, why would it work with you?’ ” she said. “It’s not real power. It’s more like a mind game.”

The patent disputes have led to a possible political skirmish between the United States and South Korea, where Samsung is a celebrated hometown legend. The decision on Saturday vexed the South Korean government, which issued a statement expressing concern that the ruling may have violated Samsung’s patent rights. The government pledged to watch the commission’s ruling on Friday in the separate case for fairness.

Essential patents, like those at the center of the dispute in Saturday’s veto, cover basic technologies that companies have to support in their products to comply with industry standards. In the case between Apple and Samsung, the standard involved wireless communications. The Obama administration said it overruled the decision on Saturday partly because it feared essential patents, which holders agree to license on reasonable terms, were being used in ways that could hurt competition and consumers. Apple and Samsung disagreed on whether Samsung was offering to license it essential patents on reasonable terms.

The decision on Friday is not over essential patents. But if the commission hands Apple another victory, Robert P. Merges, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley, said the Obama administration could again overrule any import ban the commission puts in place, as part of a strategy to diminish the power of patent litigation as an industry weapon.

“I think there are a lot of political implications,” he said, referring to the possible reaction by other governments. “You’ll have the obvious favoring-the-home-team problem. But I would be shocked if they didn’t think this through carefully.”

Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment on the case before the commission’s decision. David Steel, an executive vice president for Samsung, declined to comment.

Already, Apple has scored the biggest legal victory by far, by winning against Samsung in a federal court last year. In that case, a jury awarded Apple $1 billion in damages for violations of mobile patents related to the iPhone and iPad. That award was later reduced to $599 million by a judge, though the figure could go back up as the case drags on in court.

Although the case was a decisive win for Apple, the judge overseeing it denied a request by Apple for a permanent injunction against the sale of some Samsung mobile products. A Federal Appeals Court is expected to hear arguments on Friday from Apple about why such an injunction should be granted.

In another positive development for Apple, a Federal Appeals Court sent a patent case that Apple brought against Motorola Mobility, which is owned by Google, back to the trade commission this week. The ruling gives Apple another shot at winning an important ban on Motorola mobile products after the commission dismissed Apple’s complaint.

Apple has long argued that companies making smartphones based on Google’s operating system, especially Samsung, are copycats that have swiped many of the technical innovations that, at one point, gave the iPhone and iPad a huge edge.

But the wheels of justice grind along slowly, and as Apple’s suits have snaked their way through the courts in the last several years, the popularity of Android phones has continued to grow, swallowing much of the mobile market. In the second quarter of the year, Android phones accounted for almost 80 percent of global smartphone shipments, up from just under 70 percent the year before, according to IDC, the research firm.

The iPhone accounted for 13.2 percent of smartphone shipments in that same period, while Samsung’s share was 30.4 percent, IDC estimated.

It is unclear whether a series of legal setbacks would be more than a speed bump for Samsung, now the world’s largest mobile phone maker. Samsung has argued that it can modify the software in its phones so they steer clear of Apple’s patents, which could allow it to dodge sales bans.

Still, if the tide of legal battles begins to shift decisively in Apple’s favor, the company could extract a juicy financial settlement from Samsung and put the distraction of fighting its biggest rival behind it.
173 2013-08-09 The product placement is subtle. In one scene, the group eats lunch prepared by a roadside vendor who uses Goya seasoning when he cooks. In another scene, which takes place in a bar in New York, the characters drink alcohol from Diageo. Raúl and his friend Juan, played by Mr. Camil, work at Banco Popular.

Mr. Alcazar said the film was made for about $1.2 million, which included money from private investors and advertisers and the Puerto Rico Film Commission.

“My goal was not just to get money, but to create a platform where we were going to get sponsors to be part of the marketing team,” Mr. Irizarry said. To that end, some of the brands will also help market the film. A.T.M.’s for Banco Popular will feature ads promoting the film, and the bank will give away tickets to customers named María Sanchez. Banco Popular also provided the filmmakers with billboard space and a float in the National Puerto Rican Day parade in New York in June. Mr. Alcazar described the parade as the “biggest platform to promote a Puerto Rican film in New York.”

Digital banner ads, film trailers and behind-the-scenes videos will be displayed on advertisers’ social media channels. Advertisers including Target Rent a Car and Bacardi will host private screenings of the film. Goya will have promotional materials for the film on supermarket shelves where its products are sold.

Mr. Irizarry said he estimated the total value of these brand partnerships was about $300,000 in cash and related marketing. Additional brands featured in the film include the newspaper El Nuevo Día, Toro Verde Nature Adventure Park and the Villas del Mar Hau hotel. With the exception of El Nuevo Día, which was both an editorial and brand partnership, all of the featured brands paid for their inclusion in the film.

Manuel Chinea, chief operating officer for Popular Community Bank, the name for Banco Popular in the United States, said the film was “one of those projects that connects the island to the mainland.”

“We felt that the appeal of the movie was going to be to a wider audience in the U.S., not just to Puerto Rico,” Mr. Chinea said. “The bank has always been committed to supporting entrepreneurs and individuals who are doing things in creative ways.”

Being a part of the film could also help the bank extend the awareness of its brand to new customers in the United States, Mr. Chinea said. “As we look to be more efficient and effective with our marketing dollars as traditional media loses effectiveness, we certainly need to find new ways of connecting with our audience,” he said.

Luis Álvarez, a vice president at Méndez & Company, a distributor for Diageo products, agreed. “Marketing and communications have become so exploited and so badly used that one has to find a way to do it honestly and sincerely,” he said.

Gabriel Reyes, the press director for the New York International Latino Film Festival and the president of Reyes Entertainment, said filmmakers were increasingly using brand partnerships to secure funding for their films. “I think independent producers now that really go out and raise money are becoming a lot more savvy about how they can go and take advantage of these opportunities,” Mr. Reyes said.

Finding organic ways to put advertisers into a script is critical to making the product integration seem natural, he said.

“We know people cook with Goya,” Mr. Reyes said. “It’s not some foreign brand that no one has seen.” But perhaps the best way, he added, to get an advertiser to sign on for a brand partnership is to have a well-known actor in the film: “In this case it was Lin-Manuel Miranda. It’s easier to get that deal than if it was somebody out of the blue.”
174 2013-08-09 One solution to New York City’s stop-and-frisk problem is for Judge Shira A. Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan to appoint a federal monitor who would undertake a comprehensive review of the training and training material used by the New York Police Department (news article, Aug. 2).

We believe that the training and written training material are not in compliance with the Supreme Court decision of Terry v. Ohio, which set the standard on the subject. Consequently, thousands of officers are receiving incorrect or imprecise information with a result that they believe they have more discretion to frisk New Yorkers than the law allows.

Addressing and monitoring the training could go a long way toward remedying this problem. Certainly, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly’s obstinate refusal to remedy it requires federal court intervention, in the same way that civil rights violations did in the South in the ’60s.

The writers are former executive directors of the New York Civil Liberties Union and the American Civil Liberties Union, respectively.
175 2013-08-09 His success in effecting change is harder to measure, though. Mr. Sopko’s take-no-prisoners approach has alienated many officials whose work he scrutinizes. Many seethe at what they characterize as his grandstanding and bullying. Some throw out the occasional expletive to make their point.

His work, they say, lacks depth and nuance and too often emphasizes problems instead of solutions. A number of officials said they had begun to tune him out, though at the same time they said they did not want to attract Mr. Sopko’s attention.

The nicest thing many officials will say about Mr. Sopko is that he is not always wrong.

Mr. Sopko “does tell everyone, ‘U.S.A.I.D. can’t manage its programs because they can’t get off the embassy compound,’ ” Larry Sampler, a senior official at the United States Agency for International Development, told reporters at a briefing in Kabul last month. “I can’t say that’s not true.”

“But it’s not universally true,” Mr. Sampler added. As an example, he cited the fact that American officials based in Herat, in western Afghanistan, were allowed to drive their own vehicles because the area had become relatively tranquil.

Mr. Sopko has “created a perception that we’re just pushing money out the door and not paying any attention,” Mr. Sampler said, “and that couldn’t be further from the truth.”

Mr. Sopko, who works from an office tower a few blocks from the Pentagon and makes occasional trips to Afghanistan, bristles at suggestions that he mainly seeks the limelight. He insisted that his goal was to help salvage the war effort by highlighting the need to stop spending money when its impact could not be gauged, or it was simply being stolen.

His critics should “spend less time complaining” about negative news media coverage, he said, “and fix it.”

He was more amused by a State Department effort to have a public affairs official sit in on interviews conducted at the American Embassy in Kabul. The embassy said it was standard procedure at missions around the world for any government employees speaking with the press.

Mr. Sopko, unsurprisingly, had a different take: “The last time I dealt with minders was in the Soviet Union,” he said, chuckling. No State Department officials were present during the interview.

Inspectors general, the government’s internal watchdogs, are usually reserved, issuing reports that tend to be dense and rather dry. Their public statements are often few and far between.

The Afghanistan special inspector general’s office was no different before the arrival of Mr. Sopko. Created by Congress in 2008 and modeled after a similar program in Iraq, the office produced a single audit in its first year. It soon improved, but not enough for Congress, which in 2011 forced out the first special inspector general, Arnold Fields.

Mr. Sopko took over a year ago and immediately stepped up the agency’s metabolism. In his first year, his office has issued more reports, alerts, audits and other items than were put out in the agency’s first four years of existence.

But the work, in Mr. Sopko’s estimation, is pointless unless someone is reading it. “I don’t put out reports just to kill a bunch of trees,” he said. “If you want to make a change, you need to get to the American people.”

That philosophy is evident in the steady stream of reports produced by his office. They are made for easy consumption with executive summaries and clearly stated conclusions, and Mr. Sopko’s public affairs staff aggressively flags them to reporters. The New York Times has cited the work of the special inspector general in multiple stories.

Sometimes, though, the power of embarrassment goes only so far. But “putting people in jail also works — it gets their attention,” Mr. Sopko said. Since he took the job, investigations by his office have resulted in nine people being jailed.

A sampling of his team’s findings in the past month offers a guide to the kind of work it is doing. There was what is known as an “alert letter” warning of “serious deficiencies” in a $47 million State Department program to develop Afghanistan’s justice system; an audit found that $47 million spent to help stabilize contested areas in Afghanistan had yielded little stabilization; another alert letter highlighted the $34 million spent to build a state-of-the-art headquarters for the Marines in southern Afghanistan that is never going to be used.

The reports do garner attention. The Marine headquarters, for instance, has quickly become another data point for skeptics of the Afghan war.

Raised in Cleveland, Mr. Sopko described his parents as New Deal Democrats who imbued him with the belief that the government could do good. His father was a meteorologist for the National Weather Service; his mother was a homemaker.

He became a lawyer, and started out prosecuting mobsters in Ohio. Then, in 1982, he decided to work as a Congressional staff member in Washington. There, he discovered he “loved doing the work that changed policy.”

Three decades later, Mr. Sopko is still in Washington, and still looking to shape policy. “I wish to goodness I had this opportunity four years ago,” he said. “That said, it still has to be done, and now more than ever.”

The troop drawdown may be well under way, but the United States is still committed to spending billions of dollars in Afghanistan in the coming years. Without “lots of troops protecting our people,” Mr. Sopko said, they “won’t have that ability to get out into the country.”

“We could just pump money out the door if we don’t keep at this,” he said.
176 2013-08-09 Last month the Justice Department won an antitrust suit against Apple, convincing Judge Denise Cote of United States District Court that the company had colluded with five major publishers to fix e-book prices. At a hearing on Friday, the department will argue that its plan to remedy Apple’s misconduct will “restore lost competition.” In a narrow sense it may, but the problem with this case all along was that the department ignored the potentially bigger anticompetitive force in the e-book market — Amazon — while focusing on Apple.

Apple’s wrongdoing dates back to 2010, when it introduced an “agency model” in which publishers set retail prices and Apple took a commission. The company also specified in its contracts that if a rival set lower prices than those in the iBookstore, the publishers would have to match them. After these deals, e-book prices went up. The Justice Department charged Apple with illegally conspiring to fix prices.

As reparation, the Justice Department wants Apple to terminate its contracts with the five publishers. The government also wants to ban Apple from signing agreements with suppliers of e-books, music, movies and television shows that are likely to increase the prices at which rivals sell that content. It wants the company to pay for a court-appointed monitor to ensure compliance with antitrust law, and allow other retailers (like Amazon and Barnes & Noble) to sell e-books from their iPad and iPhone apps for a two-year period, without paying Apple a commission on those sales.

What’s in this for consumers? E-book prices, which spiked in 2010, dropped back down in 2012, after publishers started settling with the government. The proposed remedies should prevent future price-fixing and make it easier for readers to make purchases through apps.

Mainly, the Justice Department’s plan will keep Apple from getting back to its old tricks. It does not address the need for a counterweight to Amazon’s dominance. Amazon controls an estimated 65 percent of the market, with Apple at 10 percent and other retailers splitting the rest. (Before Apple started selling e-books, Amazon had 90 percent.) The case against Apple has done nothing to solve that problem.
177 2013-08-09 His possible rebound is an indication of the rise of nationalist populism in other countries in the region like Hungary, and in pockets of Western Europe where citizens disgruntled by economic hardship have been drawn to politicians who tap into identity politics by offering up a potent cocktail of economic nationalism and feel-good patriotism.

In Poland, some fear that Mr. Kaczynski’s revival would create an opening for chauvinist groups on the far right, which have recently targeted immigrants, gay people and left-wing intellectuals.

“Jaroslaw Kaczynski is a polarizing personality motivated by personal ambition whose conservatism and nationalism threaten to stop the development of Poland,” said Krzysztof Iszkowski, a senior member of Ruch Palikota, a leftist party opposing Mr. Kaczynski’s ardent conservatism. “He is living in the past and has an idealized vision of what Poland would be if World War II had never happened.”

A wily tactician, Mr. Kaczynski has been toning down his language as part of a strategy to lure centrist voters and regain power, analysts and friends say. It appears to be working. In early July, his conservative party, Law and Justice, beat Mr. Tusk’s party, Civic Platform, in a closely watched mayoral race in Elblag, a northern city.

Mr. Kaczynski did not respond to an interview request. Adam Lipinski, a member of Parliament for his party and a close friend, said Mr. Kaczynski was seeking to expand his party’s appeal.

Mr. Lipinski was with Mr. Kaczynski on the day he identified his brother’s body in Smolensk, the city in western Russia where the crash killed the president and 95 others, many of them senior officials. He said the event traumatized Mr. Kaczynski, who is still in mourning in a dark suit and black tie three years later and who, Mr. Lipinski said, had stopped drinking his beloved Bulgarian wine and had retreated somewhat from public view.

It also left him more determined than ever to fulfill his and his brother’s legacy, including fighting for the rights of the Polish nation, Mr. Lipinski added. “He is mourning all the time,” he said. “But while some people thought he would become more emotional or aggressive, he has not. If you ask if he changed because of Smolensk or whether Smolensk changed his behavior as a politician, Smolensk has not changed him.”

What has changed is Poland’s economy, which once grabbed headlines as the “eastern miracle” for being the only European Union country to generate growth at the height of Europe’s debt crisis. This year, Poland barely avoided its first recession in two decades. Unemployment is about 13 percent, and growth is expected to be just 1 percent this year.

Mr. Kaczynski has made the faltering economy his rallying cry. At a recent news conference here, he stood in front of an image of a Polish flag waving on a sleek flat-screen television and denounced Mr. Tusk’s government as “losers” who were ruining the country. He has promised populist measures, including returning Poland’s foreign-owned banks — about 70 percent of the banking sector — to Polish hands. “Every solution this government takes is wrong,” he said.

Mr. Kaczynski has also generated public sympathy from the Smolensk crash, which has profoundly divided the country. The crash had particularly raw emotional resonance in Poland because the delegation was on its way to a commemoration of the Katyn massacre, in which 22,000 Polish officers were killed by the Soviet secret police in 1940.

The Polish news reports said that both Kaczynski brothers were supposed to be on the plane but that Jaroslaw had stayed behind to care for his ailing mother. She was protected from the news of the crash for a while. He has never married and lived with his mother, Jadwiga, until her death in January at 86.

Janina Paradowska, a leading political commentator for the weekly magazine Polityka, said Mr. Kaczynski was motivated by personal vengeance, believing that the crash was no accident.

“Jaroslaw Kaczynski had half of himself taken away in that plane crash,” Ms. Paradowska said. “For a while, he was a broken man. But his latest rise in the polls seems to be motivating him to fight.”

The son of Warsaw intellectuals, Mr. Kaczynski, who trained as a lawyer, rose from childhood fame as an actor to become prime minister in 2005, alongside his brother, who was president. If Lech was known as the more pliant of the twins, Jaroslaw was seen as the strong-willed visionary.

After coming to power vowing to cleanse the body politic of former Communist officials, the Kaczynski brothers proved to be divisive figures, not least for stacking the judiciary with supporters.

Devoted Roman Catholics, Jaroslaw Kaczynski and his brother opposed ratification of the Lisbon Treaty in 2008 for fear that its prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation would become Polish law. Lech Kaczynski did eventually sign the treaty, which aimed to give the European Union a bigger role internationally.

In 2010, Jaroslaw Kaczynski ran for president as nostalgia for his late brother helped galvanize supporters. Although his personal tragedy touched many Poles, he lost the election.

In a recent interview with Gazeta Wyborcza, a leading Polish newspaper, Mr. Tusk dismissed a comeback by Mr. Kaczynski, saying his easy populism played on “traditional national miseries.” Poles, he predicted, will come to their senses before the elections in 2015.

“Jaroslaw Kaczynski has not changed,” Mr. Tusk said. “We have known him for 30 years. We know he does not change.”
178 2013-08-09 Iran has built a previously undisclosed launching site and space center near the northeastern city of Shahrud that could theoretically be used for testing ballistic missiles, according to satellite imagery reported on Thursday by IHS Jane’s, an authoritative weapons research publication based in London.

In a report posted on its Web site, Jane’s said its analysis of the satellite imagery showed that the new site, about 220 miles east of Tehran near the Caspian Sea, had been developed over the past three years and would be one of three launching sites in Iran’s space program.

Iranian officials have said they are intent on developing rockets capable of sending astronauts into space, and have alluded to the construction of a new site as part of that goal, but had never specified its location.

The Jane’s report was likely to be viewed with concern by Western officials and Israel. They have expressed suspicions that Iran’s ballistic missile development is part of what they view as the country’s ambition to build nuclear weapons that can be mounted on missile warheads. Iran has denied such ambitions.

The report said the Shahrud site had a launching tower approximately 70 feet tall, identical to one at a site near the city of Semnan, which is about 150 miles east of Tehran. It said both sites might be used to launch the Simorgh rocket, which Iran introduced in 2010 as a way to carry orbital satellites into space, or even bigger rockets.

Jane’s said Iran’s development of the new site, despite the rising economic pressures because of Western sanctions, might be interpreted by some analysts as evidence that the Iranian military wants multiple locations capable of firing ballistic missiles as part of a deterrent strategy against attack. But the report also expressed strong skepticism of such an interpretation.
179 2013-08-09 Mining companies and others dealing in commodities helped pull the stock market out of a three-day slump on Thursday.

News that China’s trade rebounded last month signaled the end of a six-month slowdown for the world’s biggest buyer of raw materials. The report drove prices up for copper and other commodities, and that helped lift Newmont Mining, Freeport-McMoRan and other stocks in the materials industry.

“The one thing that stands out today is the better news out of China,” said David Joy, the chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial. “It comes as a pleasant surprise.”

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index edged up 6.57 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,697.48.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 27.65 points, or 0.2 percent, to 15,498.32. The Nasdaq composite gained 15.12 points, or 0.4 percent, to 3,669.12.

With little other news to drive trading, the stock market had meandered lower this week. The S.& P. 500 fell three days straight and remains down 0.7 percent for the week. It is still up 19 percent this year.
180 2013-08-09 The stakes are high. American intelligence officials said this week that Ayman al-Zawahri, the overall leader of Al Qaeda in Pakistan, has had regular communications with the Nusra Front in Syria, reflecting how favorably the Qaeda leadership views the long-term potential for Syria as a safe haven. Juan Zarate, a former senior counterterrorism official in the George W. Bush administration, said that Syria lay in the center of an arc of instability, stretching from Iran through North Africa, and “in that zone, you may have the regeneration and resurrection of a new brand of Al Qaeda.”

In Syria, the battle lines have hardened in recent months. The Syrian government, backed by Iran and Hezbollah, has seized new momentum and retaken territory in the south and east from the rebels. At the same time, power within the badly fractured opposition, numbering about 1,200 groups, has steadily slipped into the hands of the jihadists based in the northeast, where this week they seized a strategic airport in the area. They also hold sway in the provincial capital of Raqqa.

The idea that Syria could supplant Pakistan as the primary haven for Al Qaeda someday, should the government fall, is a heavy blow to the Western-backed Syrian opposition and its military arm, the Free Syrian Army. It plays directly into the hands of Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, whose government has sought to portray itself as the only alternative to Islamic extremism and chaos, and has made the prospect of full-on American support even more remote than it already was.

Mr. Assad’s argument “began as a fiction during the period of peaceful, unarmed protests but is now a reality” because of Mr. Assad’s own efforts to divide the country as well as the success of the extremists, Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the American Task Force on Palestine, wrote in a recent essay that appeared in The National.

In Raqqa recently, a commander of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria sipped coffee after breaking the Ramadan fast, wearing a Pakistani-style outfit. The commander, Abu Omar, was Syrian, a member of a tribe in the area, but he described his movement’s goals as reaching far beyond the country’s borders.

He did not speak of attacking the United States. But he threatened Russia, and he spoke of a broad-based battle against Shiite-led Iran and its quest to dominate the region, and said Sunnis from across the world were justified in flocking to Syria to fight because of the government’s reliance on Shiite fighters from Lebanon and Iraq.

He rejected calls from some in the Syrian opposition to keep the fighting focused inside Syria and aimed at toppling Mr. Assad. “We have one enemy,” Iran, he said, “and we should fight this enemy as one front and on different fronts.”

He also seemed to suggest that Russia would be a legitimate target for its role in supporting Mr. Assad and for its brutal suppression of Muslim militants in the Caucasus.

“Russia is killing Muslims in southern Muslim republics and sends arms and money to kill Muslims in Syria as well,” he said. “I swear by God that Russia will pay a big price for its dirty role in the Syrian war.”

The leader of the Free Syrian Army, Gen. Salim Idris, recently accused the jihadists of working for or receiving aid from the Assad government, not a completely far-fetched proposition, given that Western officials widely believe the Assad government played a major role in funneling Syrians and other foreigners into Iraq during the insurgency there. Some rank-and-file rebels say that government artillery and warplanes attack them fiercely while largely leaving jihadist positions alone.

Free Syrian Army fighters have clashed with jihadist groups in recent weeks over weapons and supplies, and civilian anti-Assad activists have struggled with them over their efforts to impose religious rules on society. The groups have kidnapped and imprisoned dozens of activists.

Yet the lines dividing the Free Syrian Army from jihadist groups are fluid, and the conflicts have not stopped F.S.A. leaders from working with their fighters, whose fierceness on the battlefield is undisputed. That has helped create a divergence between statements by exile opposition leaders rejecting extremists and their ideology and actions by ground commanders eager for any help they can get.

“We are getting big accusations that we are implementing foreign agendas to divide the Syrian rebel groups or we are agents for the Assad regime,” Abu Omar said. “But we are the ones who made the big military operations against the Assad regime. When we fight any military position we get it or die for God’s sake.”

This week, the jihadist group Jaish al-Muhajireen wal Ansar, or the Army of Emigrants and Supporters, led by a fighter from the Caucasus known as Abu Omar al-Shesheni — the Chechen — worked with Free Syrian Army battalions to take the Menagh air base in Aleppo Province after 10 months of trying.

What appeared to turn the battle around, said Charles Lister, an analyst with IHS Jane’s Terrorism and Insurgency Center, were the relentless suicide vehicle bombings on the walls of the base — five or six times in the past two weeks, he said.

After the battle, Col. Abdul Jabbar al-Okaidi, the head of the United States-backed opposition’s Aleppo military council, appeared in a video alongside Abu Jandal, a leader of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.

In camouflage, Colonel Okaidi offered thanks to “our brothers al-Muhajireen wal Ansar and others,” adding: “We’re here to kiss every hand pressed on the trigger.” He then ceded the floor to Abu Jandal and a mix of jihadist and Free Syrian Army leaders, who stood together, each praising his men, like members of a victorious basketball team.

Such cooperation has complicated efforts to isolate the jihadists within the insurgency, where commanders of all political stripes realize they have little choice but to collaborate with any ally available.

“There’s an awful lot of pragmatism on the ground,” Mr. Lister said. “There’s a realization that without extensive coordination on the ground this could go on for years and years or the opposition could be defeated, so no matter what the long-term objective, it might be still worth it in the medium term to coordinate across groups.”

But that same pragmatism, Mr. Ibish said, suggests there is hope that many of the Syrians fighting alongside extremists are not ideologically committed to those groups’ goal of an Islamic state, and could peel away from it if offered an alternative.

The extremist ideology, he said, “runs counter to most traditional culture and lived realities of modern Syria, which is a heterogeneous and typically tolerant society.”

Abu Omar, in Raqqa, laid out his vision for the future: women must cover their hair, but are not required to cover their faces; bars and nightclubs and eating during the Ramadan fast are forbidden.

“Everyone is free in his house but not free to break God’s law in public,” he said “The Shariah law is the best justice, not the Western democracy which gives us bad regimes like Assad’s.”
181 2013-08-09 Standing before a concrete wall washed in peeling blue paint, the boy is shy but expectant. “What is your biggest dream?” the filmmaker Tinatin Gurchiani asks him, her voice gently prodding. The boy would like to be an actor, but the question is a Trojan horse. Answering it, he soon finds that more than dreams come tumbling out.

A teasing peek into the sometimes sorry lives of others, “The Machine Which Makes Everything Disappear” takes us to Georgia, the war-torn former Soviet republic, and introduces us to people with more hopes than possessions. Dangling the carrot of a part in a movie, Ms. Gurchiani sent out a casting call for Georgians ages 15 to 23, then filmed their auditions. One by one, they stand before the blue wall — the depressed, the radiant and the natural hams — and answer her playfully probing questions. Their posture is guileless and the camera a sneaky emetic, coaxing the most personal details from those unaccustomed to its gaze.

Together, those details shape a sad, strange mosaic of yearning — for fame, family or just financial relief. From time to time, Ms. Gurchiani follows someone home to a ramshackle farm or an ugly apartment building, the run-down locations given a soft beauty by the cinematographer Andreas Bergmann. These visits can feel more contrived than spontaneous, yet the film produces moments that catch in the throat, like the man who sheepishly admits he would need rehearsal to laugh on cue. Then he adds, softly, “But cry, no problem.”
182 2013-08-09 VAIL, Colo. — Each year since 2008, the Vail International Dance Festival has had a “Dance for $20” evening. The audience is simply told who’ll dance, and all seats in the Gerald W. Ford Auditorium are offered at $20 plus the number of cents to match the current year. (Those who sit on the lawn at the back pay in dollars the final two digits of the year — $13 this summer. Nobody knows yet what will happen after 2020.)

I think it’s fair to say that a program advertising Lil Buck and his New Styles Krew; Tiler Peck and Robert Fairchild, both of New York City Ballet; and the dance companies of Paul Taylor and Larry Keigwin — as Tuesday’s program did — is superb value for $20.13. And on Tuesday, their fare included three classics of 20th-century choreography, all in good shape: George Balanchine’s “Tschaikovsky Pas de Deux” (1960) and Mr. Taylor’s “3 Epitaphs” (1956) and “Company B” (1991).

Lil Buck (the performing name of Charles Riley) opened the proceedings with a solo; he and his colleagues Prime Tyme (Ron Myles), Tip Toe (Keviorr Taylor) and Ringmaster Nugget (Adedamola Orisagbemi) also staged a “Jookin Battle.” And the Larry Keigwin Dance Company performed Mr. Keigwin’s “Love Songs” (2006).

If there’s a single work in which Ms. Peck currently leads the world, it is Balanchine’s “Tschaikovsky Pas de Deux.” The choreography epitomizes the alacrity and musicality of the Balanchine style; nobody today plays with her music here as does Ms. Peck. Even at top speed, she seems at leisure. On Tuesday, Mr. Fairchild was making his debut as her partner; he reached a personal new peak of fleetness within classical bravura — tossing off double air turns within tautly rhythmic phrases and circuits of full-stretch jumps with happy élan.

Ms. Peck, matching the altitude, raised her own game. There’s one department in which she can improve: Her eyes are hard. Not so her dancing, which abounds in plasticity; while turning, she easily tips her head and shoulders, or deftly adds a calm port de bras. She gives you the strong pulse of brio while letting you see how she toys with it, here anticipating, there delaying. We can expect these things of her; on Tuesday, she took them further.

In “Jookin Battle,” Prime Tyme and Ringmaster Nugget acted as presenter-referees. Lil Buck and Tip Toe enacted a hilarious and spectacular example of the jookin form of duel (a genre I observed in Memphis last October), gleefully playing at dance insults and parodies of each other’s styles. Here too are extraordinary plasticity, speed and lightness of spirit. But Lil Buck is also a master of control and grace within slow movement. In his untitled and unprogrammed opening solo, it was marvelous just to watch him in profile, making juicy use of every inch of the sole of the foot as he walked. The solo built in speed and virtuosity; he frolics with the Gangsta Walk and steps through the loop of his own linked hands.
183 2013-08-09 At the time, the plant was spending about $2.7 million a year on fuel oil, about twice as much as it might have cost to produce the same amount of energy using natural gas. The plant remained below its capacity to burn natural gas, according to a 2010 report from the Government Accountability Office, and it continues to burn diesel fuel oil, which, in addition to being much more expensive, is a significant source of emissions.

Some critics say officials at the power plant are purposely choosing to burn dirtier fuel, as a political statement.

“We worked to figure out a way to get around the issue of coal,” said Drew Hammill, a spokesman for Ms. Pelosi. “But it is a futile effort until you get rid of the Republican majority. They do not believe in the word ‘green.’ ”

A review of public records and interviews with city and federal officials suggest that the root of the problem is a lack of enforcement by regulators and insufficient oversight from Congress.

Although the power plant is required to submit emissions reports to the District of Columbia’s Department of the Environment, which coordinates enforcement with the Environmental Protection Agency, and to apply for operation permits for new devices, records show that both agencies have failed to ensure that the power plant is in compliance.

E.P.A. officials with jurisdiction over the plant said that the agency did not have the capacity to inspect all facilities that got operating permits under the Clean Air Act, and that it relied heavily on partners like state and local energy agencies to make sure facilities were in compliance with their permits.

But district records show that the city has regularly failed to ensure that the plant is operating legally. In 2011, members of the city agency’s Air Quality Division discovered that one of the plant’s main boilers had exceeded the 10 ton-per-year limit for nitrogen oxides, which can cause severe breathing difficulties, by more than 20 tons per year since 2000.

“Emissions limits are meaningless if there is not adequate testing to ensure that they are being met,” Mike Ewall, the founder and director of the Energy Justice Network, a grass-roots organization advocating clean energy, wrote in a Feb. 13 letter to the city agency.

Donna Henry, a spokeswoman for the city environment agency, said the city had had difficulties finding records to clarify the plant’s emission history.

The chairmen and the ranking members of the House and Senate committees that oversee the power plant declined to comment, as did the office of the architect of the Capitol, often referred to as A.O.C.

“That is where the letdown has been,” said Eleanor Holmes Norton, a Democrat who represents the district as a nonvoting member of the House. “Oversight wouldn’t come from A.O.C., it would come from Congress. You can bet your bottom dollar that the Republicans aren’t doing any oversight on this.”

The Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, has completed several reports on the power plant at the request of members of Congress. But Terrell Dorn, the managing director of infrastructure operations at the agency, said it had not received a request since 2008.

Jim Dougherty, the director of the Sierra Club, said Congress should be held accountable.

“This is more evidence Congress doesn’t have concern for health impacts in the region,” Mr. Dougherty said. “I think they have their own imaginary interests in mind and have no regard whatsoever for the people. They think they are above the law.”

Mr. Dougherty said the Sierra Club was exploring several legal avenues to seek to curb the use of coal at the plant.

Residents of the Capitol Hill neighborhood and leaders of environmental groups have raised concerns with the office of the architect of the Capitol and have asked the city to conduct an emissions study, along with a survey on child respiratory health problems.

“You can see the emissions coming out of the stacks,” said Susan Holmes, a mother of two young children who lives a few blocks from the power plant. “It makes you nervous and worry about what you are breathing in.”

In June, the architect’s office obtained the final permits for a transition at the plant that would allow it to provide electricity to the Capitol complex for the first time in more than 60 years and to operate almost exclusively on natural gas. Mayor Vincent C. Gray recently introduced legislation that would ban the use of coal at power plants in the city 18 months after the revamped Capitol plant begins operation.

But there are no plans to begin construction on the Capitol plant, and Congress has not allocated any money for the project. In addition, according to the Department of the Environment, overhauling the plant would probably result in a “significant” net increase in its emissions.

Ms. Holmes said the power plant needed to be “a good neighbor.”

“I don’t want to see a net increase in emissions, whether it be from coal, oil or natural gas,” she said. “This is in our nation’s capital. We need to set an example.”
184 2013-08-09 Critics, not least at his former employer HSBC, dismiss Mr. Falciani as a manipulator more dazzled by money than high ideals. The data he has leaked — some say sold — since 2008 has wreaked havoc within the banking world, as well as the moneyed and political classes of Europe.

Mr. Falciani’s information formed the basis for the now famous “Lagarde list” that has roiled Greek politics with its revelations of oligarchs and politicians who avoided taxes by stashing millions in Switzerland.

His data is also credited with helping Spain collect 260 million euros ($345 million) in taxes and identify more than 650 tax evaders, including the president of Banco Santander.

In 2012, Mr. Falciani passed his information to American authorities. They, in turn, used the data to pursue an investigation into whether HSBC flouted controls on money laundering, eventually forcing a $1.92 billion settlement with the bank in December.

More than a few rich and powerful people await his next move. Mr. Falciani asserts that only a small portion of the data has been decrypted and used.

Since being released from jail this year after a Spanish judge denied a Swiss extradition request, Mr. Falciani, who is married and has a young daughter, has resurfaced in France. Authorities here have offered protection in exchange for Mr. Falciani giving testimony to local prosecutors who are investigating whether HSBC helped French clients dodge taxes.

“My main objective is to help authorities develop a defense,” Mr. Falciani said.

“We are under attack and losing a lot of tax money,” he said of the Swiss banking system. “If you have enemies who want to invade, laws are not enough and you need armies to build an economic defense.”

A native of Monaco who was educated in the south of France, Mr. Falciani once worked in obscurity at HSBC. In 2005, he was promoted and transferred to Geneva. The following year, he said he raised concerns to his bosses about security flaws in the Swiss computer system that could violate the privacy of depositors.

Ignored by his superiors, Mr. Falciani said he started collecting the information methodically, in an effort to prove the system was vulnerable. The bank denies that he ever alerted them and believes that he amassed the information over a two-year period.

Early on, Mr. Falciani said he got the brushoff from German bureaucrats who weren’t interested in his trove of data. His information was also shunned in France by the previous administration when “authorities tried to make evidence disappear and they didn’t want to know,” he said.

Then the European economy slumped and governments started to take notice.

In a report from the French National Assembly issued in July, the lawmaker Christian Eckert chided authorities for being slow to use Mr. Falciani’s list. According to Mr. Eckert, the information included 127,311 clients, including 6,313 from France who were suspected of tax evasion.

HSBC dismisses Mr. Falciani’s information as flawed, insisting the small sample the bank has seen is filled with errors. At the time of his employment, the bank contends it had only 100,000 customers and that the stolen data affected only 15,000 clients.

“To our knowledge it has always been Falciani’s intention to sell the data,” David Brügger, a bank spokesman, said in an e-mail statement. “Only faced with the prospect of extradition and extended time behind bars, Falciani decided to cooperate with the Spanish authorities. A scheme he is now repeating with France and other countries.”

That theory is echoed by Georgina Mikhael, a former HSBC computer consultant who worked with Mr. Falciani in Geneva.

Ms. Mikhael says she helped Mr. Falciani develop a Hong Kong-based company, Palorva, to sell data to other banks, initially believing he obtained the information through what he called “data mining” from the Internet. She said they went to Lebanon in 2008 to sell their services to four banks. She said she grew suspicious when Mr. Falciani insisted on using a false Arabic name, Ruben Al-Chidiack, for their business dealings.

“He never gives something for free,” said Ms. Mikhael, who noted that after the Lebanon effort failed, Mr. Falciani tried to approach German and French intelligence services, usually carrying a knife in his bag because he feared the risks. “Always he is asking. He is not Robin Hood.”

Ms. Mikhael, who is currently unemployed and lives in her native Lebanon, says that she was Mr. Falciani’s mistress, believing that he planned to divorce his wife. She is now pursuing a defamation lawsuit against him in France, stemming from his contention that he was kidnapped by Mossad secret agents in Geneva who were seeking bank information about people with Hezbollah ties, including her. Ms. Mikhael says she does not have Hezbollah ties and is Christian.

Mr. Falciani disputes that he is peddling his information for cash and the claims — pressed by Ms. Mikhael — “are part of moves that people are keen to play” to harm his reputation. “’Never have I or anyone close to me asked or accepted money for information,” he said.

In 2012, Swiss authorities gave Mr. Falciani safe pass to meet in Switzerland to discuss a deal to plead guilty to data theft with a suspended sentence, provided he stopped sharing the information. Mr. Falciani said he strung them along to protect his own safety, waiting for a new government in France that might take his claims more seriously.

Now that the political tide has turned, Mr. Falciani wants to continue working with authorities.

As the investigations play out, Mr. Falciani said he was holding down a day job, working for a European Union project as a computer researcher to develop algorithms to detect abnormal behavior. But he worries about his long-term safety, wondering whether he will live another year. He notes that his house has been broken into and that his wife was recently fired from a job at a shoe store because of his notoriety

“This business represents thousands of billions of euros,” he said. “From my side, I’m frightened.”
185 2013-08-09 A lawyer with a decade-long record of using litigation, petitions and publicity to seek broader political rights, Mr. Xu was among a number of dissidents whose cases were raised by the State Department at the annual United States-China Human Rights Dialogue held in China last week.

After three days of talks, the acting assistant secretary for human rights, Uzra Zeya, said that the United States believed there was “a deterioration in the overall human rights situation in China,” including a pattern of arrests and extralegal detentions of public-interest lawyers like Mr. Xu. Mr. Xu was the first name on a list of eight people that Ms. Zeya said she had discussed with the Chinese authorities.

Mr. Xu was arrested on July 16 on charges of “assembling a crowd to disrupt order in a public place.” He had been under informal house detention for more than three months.

Mr. Liu, his lawyer, has said the charges are a baseless effort to silence Mr. Xu, who had been encouraging people to join the New Citizens’ Movement, a newly formed group that has demanded that government officials publicly declare their assets.

The Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, started an anticorruption campaign after assuming office in November. But Mr. Xu’s push to organize citizens around corruption, a sensitive issue for the Communist Party, appears to have pushed the government’s limits. His detention has made him the focus of a deepening confrontation between activists and the Communist Party authorities.

Under Chinese law, the government has a little more than a month after Mr. Xu’s arrest to formally charge him. Another legal advocate, Teng Biao, a friend of Mr. Xu, said it was likely that Mr. Xu would be convicted, which could result in a prison sentence of up to seven years.

“Xu Zhiyong has many supporters across the country,” Mr. Teng said in a telephone interview from northeast China, where he was traveling. “If he is convicted, that will be a huge blow” to activists.

Appearing tired and haggard but speaking with steady conviction, Mr. Xu said in the video that the charges against him were really about his push to abolish discriminatory barriers against schoolchildren from rural areas and calling for public disclosure of officials’ wealth.

In the video, Mr. Xu suggested that he was willing to face imprisonment.

“Social progress always demands that someone pays a price,” he said. “I am willing to pay all it takes for freedom, the public good, love and faith.”

The video of Mr. Xu was largely blocked in China, where censors heavily monitor Web sites and people are prevented from seeing banned sites based abroad unless they have access to technology that can outsmart censorship barriers. The footage appeared, at least briefly, on Youku, a Chinese video-sharing site.

Officials at the detention center in Beijing where Mr. Xu’s lawyer and friends earlier said he was being held refused to say whether he remained there.

Mr. Xu won nationwide attention in 2003 as an advocate for the family of Sun Zhigang, a young man beaten to death in a detention center for vagrants and rural migrants without the right official documents. The case provoked an outcry against arbitrary detention in those centers, which the government soon abolished.

In his statement from the detention center, Mr. Xu renewed his call for citizen activism.

“I am proud to have the word citizen put before my name, and I hope that everyone will do the same and put citizen before their names,” he said. “We will certainly be able to build a free, public-spirited, loving and beautiful China, as long as we are united and strive together, and make real our rights as citizens.”
186 2013-08-10 The sales of three giants of the old-media world — the Washington Post, The Boston Globe and Newsweek — in as many days suggest one kind of change, but their prices suggest another.
187 2013-08-10 UBS has agreed to pay $120 million to settle a lawsuit by investors who accused the Swiss bank of misleading them about the financial condition of Lehman Brothers in connection with the sale of structured notes. The preliminary settlement was disclosed in papers filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan and requires court approval. It is UBS’s second settlement in less than three weeks to resolve litigation in the United States tied to the global financial crisis.
188 2013-08-10 Pictures From the Week in Business
189 2013-08-10 The defending champion Bayern Munich began the German season with a 3-1 win over visiting Borussia Moenchengladbach in Manager Pep Guardiola’s first Bundesliga game. Arjen Robben opened the scoring in the 12th minute. Mario Mandzukic and David Alaba also scored for Bayern Munich.
190 2013-08-10 So here we are, with seven more weeks of reality TV disguised as Yankees telecasts.

Barring another injury — and on this decaying team, that is always a possibility — Rodriguez will bask in the spotlight.

He was irrelevant on Friday, a spectacle to distract from the sublime moment in the ninth inning, when Detroit’s Miguel Cabrera, down to his last strike and limping, launched a game-tying homer off Mariano Rivera. The Yankees won, 4-3, on a Brett Gardner single in the 10th. Jayson Nix, who replaced Rodriguez for defense in the ninth, scored the winning run.

On his way to the batting cage Friday afternoon, Rodriguez reverentially tapped the Joe DiMaggio sign — “I want to thank the Good Lord for making me a Yankee” — with his hand. He looked carefree, but who knows what such an unctuous person really feels?

For wanting to keep playing, at least, you cannot blame Rodriguez. In appealing his 211-game suspension from Major League Baseball this week, Rodriguez was not asserting his innocence. He simply thinks he can win his case, or at least convince an arbitrator to reduce his sentence. So he plays on.

Only the legal process keeps Joe Girardi, the Yankees’ straight-arrow manager, from thinking too deeply about the moral quandary of using Rodriguez while excoriating other steroid users, as he did after Ryan Braun’s suspension last month.

“I know people all have their opinions, whether he’s guilty or innocent or whatever,” Girardi said. “But baseball has negotiated a process that says a player is entitled to his appeal, and he is allowed to play during that appeal. So he is playing under the rules of the game, and for that, that’s part of it, and you deal with that. So for me, because of what has been negotiated between the players and Major League Baseball, I am O.K. with it.”

That’s a mouthful, but supporting Rodriguez requires such a disclaimer. Remember, these are the grounds for his suspension, according to M.L.B.’s official release: “his use and possession of numerous forms of prohibited performance-enhancing substances, including testosterone and human growth hormone, over the course of multiple years,” and “for attempting to cover-up his violations of the program by engaging in a course of conduct intended to obstruct and frustrate” Selig’s investigation.

Even the union knows Rodriguez deserves to be punished. Michael Weiner, the executive director, said this week that he would have advised Rodriguez to accept an unspecified suspension, but that 211 games were too many.

Either way, it is all but irrefutable that Rodriguez cheated again. He admitted in 2009 that he had used performance-enhancing drugs in the past, and asked to be judged from that day forward. Yet he simply could not stay clean — over the course of multiple years.

Girardi said he has talked to his 11-year-old son, Dante, about baseball’s off-field troubles and the importance of fair play.

“In this day and age, with camera phones and everything that goes on, the chances of you ever getting away with anything aren’t very good,” Girardi said, repeating his advice. “There are consequences for your actions, and you’re usually going to have to pay for them. I’ve talked to my son about the value of hard work and doing things the right way.”

Girardi’s third baseman has made a mockery of those values. The length of the suspension Rodriguez deserves will be determined by lawyers and documents and precedents and fine print. But he deserves every boo he gets, every bit of scorn and disapproval from the fans.

To be sure, it is easier to cast aside a player whose skills have atrophied, and if Rodriguez helps the Yankees win, the fans will cheer. When you root for a team, you are hopelessly devoted through everything. You know you will outlast the players of the moment.

That is what we want now: to outlast Rodriguez, to get to the point where we can enjoy the game without having to watch someone who so willfully disrespects it. There may always be cheaters, but this one is a sideshow that has lasted far too long.
191 2013-08-10 Stocks fell on Friday and posted their biggest weekly decline since June as investors focused on when the Federal Reserve would begin to scale back its stimulus.

All but one of the 10 Standard & Poor’s 500 sector indexes ended lower.

Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, reiterated late Thursday that the central bank would probably begin cutting back on its extensive bond-buying stimulus next month, as long as economic data continued to improve.

The lack of clarity over the Fed’s plans gave investors reason to pull a record $3.27 billion out of funds based in the United States that hold Treasuries in the latest week, ended Wednesday, data from the Lipper service of Thomson Reuters showed on Thursday.

Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at RDM Financial, in Westport, Conn., said investors were looking ahead to the Fed’s meeting in September, “and the prospect that the Fed begins its long-awaited exit strategy.”

Also on Friday, the stock of J. C. Penney skidded 5.8 percent to $12.87 and ranked as the S.& P. 500’s biggest percentage decliner after William A. Ackman, the company’s top investor, urged the retailer’s board to replace its chairman.
192 2013-08-10 “There have been more abductions and there have been nastier abductions,” said Donatella Rovera, a senior investigator for Amnesty International who has spent long periods traveling in Syria to document rights abuses in the conflict. “There is no denying that the fragmentation of armed groups, and the increased visibility of radical groups, have coincided with an increase in abductions,” she said. “It’s fair to assume there is a relationship there.”

The Committee to Protect Journalists, a New York-based advocacy group, has reported at least 14 cases of local and international journalists who are missing or have been abducted this year. Reporters Without Borders, based in Paris, has recorded 15 cases of foreign journalists who are missing or have been abducted or arrested. But the total number of abductions is believed to be significantly higher because many cases have not been publicly disclosed, usually at the request of the victims’ families, partly for fear of angering the kidnappers or emboldening them to demand higher ransom payments.

Even at the reported numbers, the pace of abductions of foreign journalists appears on a trajectory to surpass the 25 cases in Iraq in 2007, at the height of the conflict there.

“We see more journalists not abducted by the government, but by independent militias who are going after money, and this is worrying,” said Sherif Mansour, the Middle East and North Africa program coordinator for the Committee to Protect Journalists. The trend toward cash ransom, he said, started in late 2012, “but we can see from the targeting that basically they’re going after nationalities that are going to pay.”

Jonathan Alpeyrie, a French-American photojournalist for the Polaris agency, was abducted by Islamist fighters near Damascus on April 29 and released nearly three months later. He said a $450,000 ransom had been paid on his behalf.

“The rebels are so desperate they don’t care about their reputation abroad,” he said in an interview published on Wednesday by the Paris-based Journal de la Photographie. “They see guys like us as an opportunity.”

Ricardo Garcia Vilanova, a photojournalist and cameraman who has spent more than 13 months in Syria over multiple trips since the conflict began in 2011, said he had sensed a new mistrust toward the foreign news media on his most recent visit. He said many Syrians who opposed Mr. Assad resented the Western military reluctance to intervene.

The list of cases in the past few months includes both Syrian and foreign journalists. On July 25, three Syrian employees of Orient TV, an opposition television channel, were abducted in the northern town of Tel Rifaat: Obeida Batal, Hosam Nizam al-Dine and Aboud al-Atik. On July 24, a Polish photojournalist, Marcin Suder, was taken in the northwestern province of Idlib. On June 6, two French journalists employed by the Europe 1 radio station, Didier François and Edouard Elias, disappeared near Aleppo. On April 24, a Belgian academic, Pierre Piccinin de Prata, who was reporting for the Brussels newspaper Le Soir, disappeared. On April 9, Domenico Quirico, an Italian journalist for the newspaper La Stampa, went missing near the western city of Homs.

Two Americans journalists were publicly acknowledged to be missing in the past year. Austin Tice, a freelancer who had written for The Washington Post, McClatchy newspapers and Al Jazeera’s English-language channel, disappeared near Damascus almost one year ago. And James Foley, who had worked for GlobalPost, a Boston-based news Web site, disappeared Thanksgiving Day in Idlib.

In Mr. Foley’s case, an initial decision was made to withhold news of his disappearance, said Phil Balboni, the chief executive and co-founder of GlobalPost, while it quietly investigated what might have happened. Six weeks later, after consultations with Mr. Foley’s family, GlobalPost announced in a news article that he had been kidnapped by unidentified gunmen.

“We reached the point where we concluded that his likely abductors weren’t going to harm him in any way if we went public,” Mr. Balboni said. Based on information from what he described as credible sources, Mr. Balboni said he believed Mr. Foley had been abducted by pro-Assad militiamen and later turned over to the government in Damascus, despite official Syrian denials.

Peter N. Bouckaert, the emergencies director at Human Rights Watch, said overall abductions began to increase when fighting broke out last year in Aleppo, the country’s once-flourishing commercial hub.

The abductions have increased as the insurgency’s reliance on jihadist groups, like the Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, has grown. “They try to kidnap wealthy Syrians and some journalists for ransom,” Mr. Bouckaert said in an interview in June with Syria Deeply, an independent blog about the conflict. “The kidnappers tend to know the wealth of their victims,” he said.

Mr. Bouckaert said a second category of abduction, in which Sunnis and Shias kidnap each other in tit-for-tat hostilities, has also increased. Unexplained disappearances have proliferated as well, he said, “where people are taken by unknown gunmen and never seen again,” as in the case of two archbishops from Aleppo who vanished in April.

“In general, instability is on the rise in Syria, and these kidnappings are part of this instability,” he said. “Kidnappings are a part of the dangers that civilians in general face in this conflict.”
193 2013-08-10 The Justice Department filed conspiracy and racketeering charges against Mr. Caro Quintero in May 1987 related to the killing, and “in the years since, the Department of Justice has continued to make clear to Mexican authorities the continued interest of the United States in securing Caro Quintero’s extradition so that he might face justice in the United States,” it said in a statement.

Current and former drug agents recall the death of Mr. Camarena, which galvanized antidrug campaigns, as if it had occurred yesterday. The D.E.A. office in San Diego is named after Mr. Camarena, as is a school there and a conference room in the American Embassy in Mexico City. The story was the subject of a popular 1990 television mini-series, “Drug Wars: The Camarena Story,” starring Benicio Del Toro. Red Ribbon Week, a popular drug prevention campaign, originated as a commemoration of him.

“At no time should Rafael Caro Quintero see the light of day as a free man,” said Joel Gutensohn, a former D.E.A. agent and president of the Association of Former Federal Narcotics Agents. “We find it astounding that after 28 years his guilt should still be at issue. The release of this violent butcher is but another example of how good-faith efforts by the U.S. to work with the Mexican government can be frustrated by those powerful dark forces that work in the shadows of the Mexican ‘justice’ system.”

Although Mr. Caro Quintero had other charges pending, the judge ruled that his 28 years in prison would count toward any sentence for those charges.

The release followed a series of other such cases, as Mexican courts strive to enforce due process more strictly in a country where forced confessions, torture and prolonged detention on trumped-up charges are common.

But Mr. Camarena’s case has long stood out on both sides of the border as a rare, deliberate murder of an American drug agent on foreign soil that shifted the ground in the drug war and for a time plunged United States-Mexico relations to a low. In the aftermath, Mexico and the United States agreed to work more closely on drug enforcement, ultimately increasing cooperation to unprecedented levels under the previous Mexican president.

After the murder, the United States was determined to find the killers, accusing Mexican officials of botching the case and going as far as to pay bounty hunters in Mexico to abduct a doctor believed to have been involved in Mr. Camarena’s torture. He was later absolved of the crime and returned to Mexico, though several others associated with the case were convicted in the United States on drug and other charges.

Mr. Caro Quintero, head of a drug-trafficking empire based in Jalisco State, where Mr. Camarena worked and had uncovered a large marijuana plantation, was believed to have ordered the killing. He fled to Costa Rica but was detained there, returned to Mexico in 1985, and convicted and sentenced in 1989.

The governor of Jalisco State, Aristóteles Sandoval, said Friday that Mr. Caro Quintero had the right to resume his life there, like any citizen.
194 2013-08-10 A federal judge proposed on Friday that Apple be required to negotiate future contracts with major publishers separately and at defined intervals as part of its punishment for illegally conspiring to raise the price of e-books.

In a sometimes testy hearing in United States District Court in Lower Manhattan, Judge Denise L. Cote said that she was considering a plan in which Apple would negotiate contracts with publishers in a staggered fashion — possibly six to eight months apart — to prevent them from engaging in another price-fixing conspiracy.

Judge Cote ruled in July that Apple colluded with publishers to raise the price of e-books before the introduction of its iPad in 2010. Those charges were brought against Apple and five major publishers by the Justice Department in 2012. The publishers all settled, but Apple held out and went to trial.

The judge’s proposal was a scaled-back version of the guidelines put forth by the government last week, when it suggested that Apple be forced to end its agreements with the five settling publishers and avoid entering similar agreements with producers of movies, TV and music. Apple responded by calling the proposal a “draconian and punitive intrusion” into its business.

The publishers who settled also objected to the Justice Department’s proposed remedy, saying that it would fundamentally change their existing settlements.
195 2013-08-10 Cambodia’s state election body said Friday that it would postpone its announcement of the final results from last month’s general election, a move that could ease fears of violence over opposition protests. The National Election Committee made the announcement after the government acknowledged moving armored vehicles and troops into the capital, Phnom Penh, to keep order if a threatened protest by the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party spins out of control. The opposition has challenged the Cambodian People’s Party’s claim that it won the July 28 election and charges that there were widespread irregularities. The Election Committee said it would release the results later because its own investigations of irregularities had not been completed.
196 2013-08-10 To Christina Augello, artistic director of Exit Theater in San Francisco, which was a founder of Frigid New York and produces the San Francisco Fringe Festival, the use of juries is a black-and-white issue. By her definition — and that of the Canadian Association of Fringe Festivals, which has members in Canada and the United States — FringeNYC and other adjudicated festivals simply do not qualify as fringes.

“The fringe is a noncurated festival by origin, and so anything else that curates or has a jury is not a fringe,” she said.

But Ms. Holy argues that as the nation’s “theater mecca,” New York is unlike other cities. FringeNYC, whose prominent alumni include Kristen Schaal and Bradley Cooper and shows like “Silence! The Musical,” “Dog Sees God,” and “Matt & Ben,” offers a commodity that’s precious even in August: a stage in Manhattan, Ms. Holy points out.

Allowing submissions by first come first served “would mean a line around the block,” she said. “It would be hard to imagine that that wouldn’t be all agent submissions. Because who has the money to hire somebody to be at our office the first morning at 4 a.m.? It’s not the person who’s waiting tables until 4 a.m.”

Fred Backus, an actor and musician in his 11th year as an adjudicator for FringeNYC, said that a fringe festival in New York needs to be juried. “Otherwise, it’s basically who’s got the best marketing and who’s got the most money wins the day,” he said. “And that we have in New York already, every day of the year.”

As it is, deep-pocketed hopefuls who miss the February application deadline sometimes dangle large donations in the hope that the festival will overlook their tardiness. Ms. Holy also gets unsolicited calls from agents who announce, as the festival approaches, that their well-known clients suddenly have openings in their schedules. Neither approach is going to win her favor, she said. But prominent artists do also apply to the festival the conventional way.

“A lot of people think we adjudicate to find the next ‘Urinetown,’ ” said Ms. Holy, who estimated that FringeNYC had received about $5,000 in royalties from that show over the years. “One of the reasons that we chose to adjudicate is so that we can quietly and confidentially decline someone who doesn’t need this opportunity. There are a lot of recognizable names that have come across my desk, and it’s certainly not that the work wasn’t good, but if you have opportunity elsewhere, then you probably don’t need one of our slots.”

Mitch Kess, a composer and Central Park carriage driver, won a slot this year for his show “Horse Play The Musical” after it failed to make the cut last year. No explanation is provided for a rejection, but Mr. Kess responded to his by reworking the musical’s book with a fellow carriage driver, Ariel Fintzi, who came up with its current plot: a love story between a carriage driver and an activist who wants horses banned from the park.

The presentation was more polished this year, too: instead of a CD of songs he sang himself, Mr. Kess submitted a CD featuring hired singers and recorded by the show’s music director, Ted Cruz.

“We know how hard it is to get in,” Mr. Kess said one recent afternoon at Grand Army Plaza, where he was standing with Pickles, a tawny Belgian horse. “There’s a lot of cachet, and it’s a big deal.”

Around 70 to 80 FringeNYC jurors are recruited each year; this year’s range in age from their teens to their 70s, and in experience from scientist to Broadway house manager. Some have been festival participants or interns. Others came to Ms. Holy’s attention by referral. They undertake a complex and time-intensive process of reading, ranking and reporting back to a panel that makes the final decisions.

In assembling the festival, Ms. Holy said, quality is just one consideration. Diversity is also important: it means not only trying to get a mix of ages, experience, geography and points of view, but also making sure that if the same legally troubled celebrity inspires several shows — as happened with Martha Stewart a while back — only one gets in. The need to achieve that balance, Ms. Holy said, is why a lottery system would be wrong for FringeNYC.

Two years ago, in an effort to help with 50/50 in 2020, a campaign for parity for female theater artists, the festival also started keeping track of its gender makeup. This year, from a pool of playwrights and other creators that was 39 percent female, 48 percent male and 13 percent mixed teams, it chose a lineup of shows whose creators were 41 percent female, 46 percent male and 13 percent mixed.

FringeNYC continues to lure industry big shots downtown, of course, and Ms. Holy said she was glad to have them eyeing the talent. But skipping the line while ordinary theatergoers wait is no longer allowed. The festival relies on thousands of volunteers, and Ms. Holy sounded wary of any threat to its spirit, which she described as “we’re all in this together.”

At the two-week San Francisco Fringe Festival, which opens on Sept. 6 and features 36 productions this year, the reigning ethos springs partly from what Ms. Augello called the risk and “plain old fun” of choosing artists by lottery. Even so, she said, she has encountered plenty of people — potential contributors, journalists, performance space owners — who would value her festival more highly if the productions were handpicked.

“I had a critic say to me once, ‘Well, how am I supposed to know what’s good?’ And I thought, well, isn’t that your job?” Ms. Augello said.

But at FringeNYC, the sheer volume of shows can make it baffling to navigate except by following the buzz. In deciding which ones to see, even the adjudicators depend on word of mouth, said Steven Cherry, who has been a festival juror since 2008.

“We have more information than almost anybody, and yet we have very little,” he said. “So it’s really quite a crapshoot.”
197 2013-08-11 REISSMAN--Myron "Mike", died on July 7, 2013. His wife, Dorothy "Tuddy" Reissman, predeceased him in September of 2008, one month short of their 60th anniversary. Mike followed many interests during his 95 years but his life-long passions were mus...
198 2013-08-11 CREMIN--Robert H. On August 2, Bob's long journey through dementia came to an end. He leaves behind, his loving wife, Linda Cassin Cremin. He loved and was so proud of his children, Sam (Annette) Lisa (Bruce Harlan) Mallory (Rob Rutherford) Marian...
199 2013-08-11 There is more than enough blame to go around for the largest municipal insolvency in American history. But in restructuring, the city’s interests, not creditors’, should be foremost....
200 2013-08-11 Italy’s Luna Rossa benefited from a big penalty against Artemis Racing just before the start to complete a four-race sweep of the America’s Cup challenger semifinals Saturday on San Francisco Bay. Luna Rossa’s chrome-hulled catamaran earned a berth in the best-of-13 Louis Vuitton Cup final against the powerhouse Emirates Team New Zealand beginning next Saturday.
201 2013-08-11 Bolt, who ran in the seventh and final heat, qualified with ease and at ease in 10.07, but first, he had to deal with a flashback to the 2011 world championships in Daegu, South Korea.

Bolt was disqualified in the 100 final there after a false start, and after he settled into the blocks in Lane 3 on Saturday night, there was another false start in his sector.

This time, the guilty party was not Bolt, but Kemar Hyman of the Cayman Islands in Lane 4.

“The false start didn’t affect me,” Bolt said. “I saw him move. I knew it was him, so I wasn’t worried.

“I made a mistake in Daegu, and now I am staying focused and I have been looking for this moment, these championships, to come for some time.”

Perhaps quite a bit longer than Muscovites, who hardly turned out in great number. The stadium’s capacity has been reduced to 50,000, from nearly 80,000, and yet there were vast blocks of empty seats whose vivid yellow, orange and red color schemes made the dearth of fans at Luzhniki Stadium even more glaring.

No attendance figures were released, but when Edna Kiplagat of Kenya became the first woman to successfully defend a world title in the marathon, it appeared that much of the stadium was empty as she crossed the line in 2 hours 25 minutes 44 seconds on a warm and humid day.

The atmosphere later for the men’s 10,000 — won by the British star Mo Farah with a torrid final lap — was livelier but still no match for the camera-flashing, roar-filled night last year in London, where Farah won the Olympic title on his way to a distance double.

But this was Farah’s first world title in the 10,000. To claim it, he had to hold off Ibrahim Jeilen, the Ethiopian who passed him in the closing meters to win in Daegu.

After a relatively slow race in which his underdog opponents showed little imagination, Farah took the lead again on the last lap. Jeilen again made his move, but this time, Farah held him off on the final curve and straightaway to win in 27 minutes 21.71 seconds, with Jeilan second in 27:22.23 and Paul Tanui of Kenya third in 27:22.61. Farah’s American training partner, Galen Rupp, was fourth in 27:24.39.

Except for his disqualification, Bolt has not lost an individual final at a world championships or an Olympics since finishing second in the 200 to Tyson Gay at the 2007 world championships.

He remains a heavy favorite here in the 100 and above all the 200, but Gatlin did beat him for the first time, winning the 100 in Rome in June. Bolt has since run 9.85 in London, with Gatlin’s best time this year a 9.89. Could Gatlin beat Bolt again in Sunday’s final?

“I hope so,” Gatlin said. “There was one point where you guys asked me if I could beat Bolt, period, and I did it once and now we have the building block. And hopefully, it will be, ‘Can you beat Bolt three times?’ ”

Neither Bolt nor Gatlin has run as fast in training as Vicaut, who won his heat in 10.06 on Saturday but has been approaching 9.20 at full tow in Paris. The principle has been used by elite swimmers who have used towing machines in pools. The idea is to accustom the body to the sensations and improve body position and biomechanics.

“The point is to break down this known speed barrier, to imprint a memory of extreme speed in the nervous system and muscles,” Vicaut’s coach, Guy Ontanon, told the French newspaper L’Equipe. “And that’s what he must use and recreate in competition so he won’t be surprised the day he’ll go faster than ever.”

Beating Bolt would presumably require faster than ever from Vicaut, whose personal best remains 9.95, but he and Gatlin and everyone else will be on their own Sunday.

“I don’t know what will happen, but you definitely ain’t going to have no guy out there pulling you when you’re out of the starting blocks in the finals,” Gatlin said, laughing. “You’ve got to make sure you do it yourself.”
202 2013-08-11 This is a huge, complex problem. In fact, there are many reasons for the reluctance of banks and private investors to fund residential mortgages without government backing.

For starters, banks have grown accustomed to earning fees for making mortgages that they sell to Fannie and Freddie. Generating fee income while placing the long-term credit or interest rate risk on the government’s balance sheet is a win-win for the banks.

A coming shift by the Federal Reserve in its quantitative easing program may also be curbing banks’ appetite for mortgage loans they keep on their own books. These institutions are hesitant to make 30-year, fixed-rate loans before the Fed shifts its stance and rates climb. For a bank, the value of such loans falls when rates rise. This process has already begun — rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages were 4.4 percent last week, up from 3.35 percent in early May. This is painful for banks that actually hold older, lower-rate mortgages.

Private investors, like mutual funds and pension managers, aren’t hurrying back to the residential mortgage market, either. Deep flaws remain in the mortgage securitization machine, and it needs to be retooled before investors will begin buying these securities again.

Perhaps the largest problem for investors who might otherwise be willing to return to the mortgage market is the lack of transparency in privately issued securities. Investors interested in mortgage instruments are not allowed to analyze the loans going into these pools before they buy them.

The banks putting together the deals typically provide some data, like borrowers’ incomes and credit scores, as well as whether the loans backed primary residences or second homes. But investors don’t get access to actual loan files that can tell them what they need to know about the quality and types of the mortgages packed inside the deals.

A CIVIL case filed by the Justice Department last week against Bank of America highlights the downside of nondisclosure. In that matter, prosecutors accused the bank of misleading investors when it sold them a mortgage security in early 2008. Although the bank contended in marketing materials that the security contained prime loans that met its underwriting standards, more than 40 percent of those loans did not comply with those standards, prosecutors said.

Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said the bank was fighting the case.

“These were prime mortgages sold to sophisticated investors who had ample access to the underlying data and we will demonstrate that,” he said in a statement last week.

But the Justice Department contends that the bank failed to disclose important facts to investors about the quality of the mortgages in the $850 million pool, which wound up performing badly. As of June 2013, prosecutors said, 15.4 percent of those mortgages had defaulted, indicating that they were of a far lower quality than advertised. The Justice Department estimates that investors will lose more than $100 million on the deal.

Then there’s another issue. Investors are also unlikely to take an interest in mortgage securities because serious conflicts of interest are still embedded in the process.

For example, in the aftermath of the crisis, investors learned that they could not rely on the trustee banks charged with overseeing these loan pools to do their jobs. The trustees are supposed to make sure that firms administering the loans treat investors fairly. These duties include taking in and distributing payments as well as foreclosing on borrowers.

Even though the trustees are supposed to work for investors, these watchdogs are actually hired by the big banks that not only package the mortgage securities but also provide administrative services for them. So it was perhaps not surprising that the trustees failed to make the big banks buy back loans that didn’t meet the quality standards set out when the securities were originally sold. Such buybacks could have prevented billions in losses for investors, and the trustees’ inaction indicated where their allegiances lay.

Yet another reason for investors around the country to steer clear of mortgage securities is the recent action by Richmond, Calif., to seize underwater home loans and reduce the amount of debt outstanding on the properties. Many of the loans that the city officials want to restructure are held by mutual funds and pensions.

Pimco and BlackRock, two huge mortgage investors, are among those represented in a lawsuit filed last week against Richmond, contending that such a plan would violate the contracts that investors agreed to when they purchased the loans. And the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the overseer of Fannie and Freddie, has concluded that Richmond’s action could threaten the safety and soundness of the companies’ operations, harming taxpayers.

Mr. Obama’s views on the path forward for housing finance are welcome. But much work needs to be done before private capital will come back to this market. Eliminating conflicts of interest and increasing transparency in the securitization process will go a long way to achieving that end.
203 2013-08-11 In his Economic View column, “For Obamacare to Work, Everyone Must Be In” (Aug. 4), Robert H. Frank described the “adverse selection” quandary — the idea that buying health insurance is more attractive financially for those who are ill, thus causing more healthy people to drop out and resulting in ever-higher rates.

In the column, Professor Frank said that “we must ask those who would repeal Obamacare how they propose to solve the adverse selection problem.”

But some Obamacare opponents want to replace adverse selection with “no selection” — by leaving uninsured Americans uninsured. Or maybe they would replace it with “reverse selection,” taking people off Medicaid and other subsidized insurance.

Obamacare opponents ignore the financial costs of leaving things the way they were. Then they complain that we are spending too much.

Imagine a lottery in which prospective ticket buyers have different expected returns if they win. The smaller the prize looks, the less likely that people will buy in. That’s how some healthy Americans regard health insurance, and thus they decline it.
204 2013-08-11 I am having a disagreement with some of my friends regarding how to handle an exit interview. Clearly there are different situations to consider, but I believe that, in general, it’s best to be honest. Most of my friends counter that you should just say what the company wants to hear, in order to keep the employer as a good reference. I understand that argument, but I don’t feel comfortable not disclosing what I know to be true and why I am leaving an organization. I am pretty sure I know what you will say, but what is your opinion?

It sounds as if you and your friends have very different ideas about the point of an exit interview. I think you are both wrong.

The exit interview is a strange ritual. While it seems to be about giving the ex-employee one final forum to tell it like it is — which I think is what you’re interested in — it isn’t. Nor is it some sort of last chance to impress the people you no longer work for, as your friends seem to think.

The exit interview exists to benefit the organization, not you. It’s a company’s closing opportunity to extract potentially useful information from someone who has quit or has been dismissed.

Imagine that you just gave notice after confronting your incompetent manager about mistreatment of you and your colleagues. You can “be honest” by rehashing this dispute. At best, that might help the company you no longer work for resolve a problem. But what’s in it for you? Nothing. The bottom line is, if you think this is a good time for venting, settling scores or otherwise achieving the One Final True Justice behind whatever has prompted your departure, you are wasting your time.
205 2013-08-11 Although the world’s attention has been focused on Cairo, where about 140 Islamist Muslim Brotherhood supporters have been killed in clashes with the police since Mr. Morsi’s ouster, the chaos in Sinai in some ways represents a more troubling prospect. Unlike the Brotherhood, which has a longstanding commitment to nonviolence, the jihadists here are out for blood, and they appear to have been energized by the military’s reassertion of power. Some Egyptians fear a renewal of the kind of terrorism they suffered during the 1990s, especially if the military resorts to an even broader and more forceful crackdown.

The northern Sinai may be both a symptom and a cause of Egypt’s festering crisis: one of the military’s reasons for ousting Mr. Morsi was the belief that he was too soft on the jihadists here and saw them as potential allies. Yet the military, for all its warlike talk, seems unable to thwart the mysterious bands of gunmen who own the night here.

“We are living in a state of constant terror, but we see nothing from the police or the army,” said Mitri Shawqi Mitri, a 53-year-old Christian shopkeeper whose son, Mina, was kidnapped by gunmen early this month. “Everything has stopped for us, there is no work, all the churches have closed, the priests have fled.”

Like many Christians living in Sinai, Mr. Mitri plans to leave, and a wall of his modest house in the town of El Arish has the words “For Sale” scrawled on it in Arabic. At least one Christian priest here has been killed in the past month, and several Christians have been kidnapped, including two women and Magdy Lamy, the shopkeeper who was beheaded. Many others have received death threats from militant Islamists warning them to leave Sinai, Mr. Mitri and other local Christians said.

As Mr. Mitri sat talking to a reporter in his home, he received a text message from the kidnappers, who were demanding a ransom of 150,000 Egyptian pounds, about $21,500. “They want to know if I have the money in the house with me,” he said, his face creased with anger and fear.

The military announced last week on its Facebook page that its counterterrorism operation over the past month in Sinai had led to 103 arrests, and the destruction of 102 tunnels, 40 underground fuel storage tanks and 4 houses used by extremists. The reference to tunnels, presumably those used to smuggle weapons and goods into Gaza, tallies with the military’s routine suggestions that Hamas, the Palestinian militant group that controls Gaza, is involved in the violence. However, there is no evidence to suggest that is true.

Most residents here say the authorities appear to be on the defensive, with soldiers and the police hunkered down at their posts and suffering daily casualties.

Although the attackers mainly hit the police and the military, a dozen civilians have been killed in the cross-fire and many others have been wounded, according to local hospital officials. Hanny Aish, a worker at a cement factory, was on a bus in the wee hours of July 15 when a rocket-propelled grenade crashed through the window, killing 3 of the 20 people on board and wounding the rest.

“I was sitting behind the driver, and all of a sudden I had flesh and blood all over me,” Mr. Aish, who suffered glass cuts across his body and shattered eardrums, said during an interview at his home.

The attackers’ target appears to have been an armored vehicle that passed by just afterward. But as in the rest of Egypt, even the most basic perceptions of the conflict reflect a bitter division between supporters and opponents of Mr. Morsi. The first group tends to blame the military for all the recent attacks here, saying it is staging fake jihadist attacks to build a pretext for a future crackdown.

Sameh Muhammad, a conservative Muslim whose brother Salem was killed in the same bus attack in which Mr. Aish was wounded, said he believed an Egyptian military jet had fired a missile at the bus — despite the testimony of witnesses like Mr. Aish and photographs that appear to show that the bus was struck from the side.

“We heard that a witness saw the jet firing a rocket at the bus,” said Mr. Muhammad, a religious teacher dressed in a white skullcap and gown, with the long, scraggly beard of a hard-line Salafist Muslim. “They always say that Islamists have done this kind of crime,” he said, as a pretext “to crack down on the whole movement.”

Jihadism has long been a problem in Sinai, which was under Israeli occupation from 1967 to 1982. The area’s independent Bedouin tribes have resisted full integration into the state, and smuggling and drug trafficking to neighboring Israel and Gaza have been rampant here for decades.

But the Egyptian state has contributed to the problem, local leaders say. “They treated us all as traffickers and criminals, and this marginalization made a fertile ground for terrorism,” said Sheik Abdelhadi Etaik Sawarka, a leader of one of the area’s main tribes.

After the 2011 revolution in Egypt, the security services withdrew from Sinai, leaving a vacuum where armed Islamists thrived, and some foreign fighters filtered into the area. The militants also gained access to more sophisticated weapons from Libya after the civil war in that country, analysts say.

There are persistent rumors that the fighters have acquired surface-to-air missiles that could threaten aircraft in Egypt and Israel, though these have not been confirmed.

The identities of the attackers in Sinai remain mysterious: no one has claimed responsibility, and the Egyptian authorities have said little about them, helping to fuel conspiracy theories. But “it appears that Islamist militants are taking advantage of a fluid situation,” said Michael Wahid Hanna, an expert on Egyptian politics and the military at the Century Foundation.

The biggest concern for the United States and Israel, Mr. Hanna added, is “the possibility that Egypt has lost control over what’s going on in the Sinai.”

Some Islamists and Bedouins here claim that Mr. Morsi’s administration was a welcome relief from the heavy-handed approach of Hosni Mubarak and his predecessors. But the change was mostly a matter of tone. Mr. Morsi ordered a crackdown on the jihadists, especially after 16 soldiers were killed by gunmen at a Sinai military base last August, though the subsequent military campaign was short and yielded few results.

All the Islamic groups with an official presence here deny responsibility for the recent violence. But some of the more conservative Islamists also talk with a certain confidence about their situation, as if they held a trump card.

“If the military pushes the Brotherhood down here, it will have to push all the Islamic groups down, because they are all supporting the Brotherhood,” said Sheik Asaad el-Bayk, a Shariah court judge and a leader in a new hard-line Islamic movement called People of the Sunna and the Community. “They cannot do that, because it would mean major violence.”
206 2013-08-11 If a couple really love each other, they can overcome the effects of an extramarital affair, a marriage and family therapist says....
207 2013-08-11 Finally, more than most cars, the M6 Gran Coupe is transformed by the time-warping addition of BMW’s typically excellent stick shift.

In my previous review of the M5 sedan, M6 coupe and M6 convertible, I found their standard 7-speed M DCT transmission to be a weak link. These cars are rockets, but they also feel a bit aloof and robotized. The dual-clutch, paddle-shifted transmission seems to put even more anesthetic between the driver and the car.

But in the M6 Gran Coupe, with the same horsepower, the ligature of clutch and shifter connected me to the car in the manner I’d been craving. (A manual transmission, I should add, is also available in other M5 and M6 models.)

The feeling was reinforced on the track at the Monticello Motor Club in the Catskills, where the M6 put on quite a show for such a large car. The direct-injection Valvetronic V-8 reacted more readily to the accelerator’s lash, reminding me of the technology and potency packed inside. Spanking that shifter, I consistently took the BMW to nearly 150 m.p.h. on the long straightaway, about 10 m.p.h. faster than my speed in Jaguar’s new 495-horsepower F-Type sports car. Not bad for a luxury-stuffed grand touring car that weighs 4,400 pounds, about 200 more than the M5.

M Carbon Ceramic brakes, a $9,250 option, brought the car to heel with no loss of stopping power on a blazing summer day.

Still, it was hard to believe that a clutch pedal could so transform my feelings toward a car. There had to be other reasons, right? Yet a BMW engineer assured me that the Gran Coupe’s hardware and tuning are virtually identical to the other midsize M cars, from the hydraulic steering and electronic shocks to the limited-slip differential and the rear subframe bolted directly to the body.

That other reason, I supposed, was purely subjective: the Gran Coupe’s sheer beauty cast its athleticism into sharper relief.

The price shoots the moon for this combination of style and performance: $115,225 to start (including a $1,300 gas-guzzler tax) and $131,575 as tested. At least the manual transmission is free. To those who argue that BMW should charge less for the stick-shift version, I’d suggest another glance at the Ferrari catalog: be thankful that BMW offers a manual at all.
208 2013-08-11 The animation appears unfinished. The sexual innuendo is flagrant for a film ostensibly aimed at children. And the plot — grocery store mascots come alive at night to fight generic Brand X antagonists intent on taking over the shelves — is impenetrable and even offensive. Dressed in Nazi-inspired regalia, the villains declare their intention to send the “Ikes,” or brand icons, to the “expiration station.”

As Disney’s “Planes” this weekend closes out a summer filled with animated successes — Universal recently proclaimed “Despicable Me 2” the most profitable film in its 100-year history — the torturous production of “Foodfight!” stands as a cautionary tale regarding the pitfalls of a complex industry.

Mr. Kasanoff started Threshold in 1992. Formerly known as Amalgamated Widgets, the company billed itself as an intellectual property hub, harvesting rights to video games like Duke Nukem or Lego animated projects; its subsidiary Threshold Digital Research Labs provided animation and effects work for a variety of clients, including a “Star Trek” attraction in Las Vegas. Threshold also tried to court the young-male demographic of the emerging World Wide Web with content like the series “Bikini Masterpiece Theater.”

In 1999, Mr. Kasanoff and a Threshold employee, Joshua Wexler, conceived a film in which food mascots would come alive when away from prying eyes, much like the playthings in “Toy Story.”

“Imagine,” an information packet for potential licensees later read, “shopping cart chase scenes up and down the aisles in the same manner as ‘Ben-Hur.’ ”

Mr. Kasanoff raised an initial $25 million for production costs in conjunction with a Korean investment consortium and expected the rest of the budget, which Threshold projected at $50 million, would come from foreign presales and loans against those sales. He worked with IBM for on-demand processing power off site, an early precursor to cloud computing that Mr. Kasanoff predicted would save the production millions in operating expenses.

He also decided that he would produce and direct, despite never having supervised a full-length animated feature.

“His approach, because he had gotten the money for it, and no one could say no to him, was very idiosyncratic,” said Kenneth Wiatrak, a layout artist on the project. “You didn’t know from day to day what would occur. Would there be a review? Would he suddenly want to change the whole thing?”

Citing legal reasons, Mr. Kasanoff declined to comment for this article.

With preproduction under way, Mr. Wexler and consultants met with major brands, enticing them with the notion of free on-screen placement in exchange for promoting the film upon its release.

Chef Boyardee, Twinkie the Kid and others were not the stars. Those roles were reserved for original Threshold characters like Dex the Dogtective, a private investigator searching for his missing girlfriend; Sunshine Goodness, a raisin spokeswoman; Daredevil Dan, a squirrel piloting a small-engine airplane and serving as the comic relief. Threshold’s aim was a role reversal: that the proprietary characters would soon be courted to endorse their own breakfast cereals or chocolate bars.

Nothing at Threshold had ever been deemed so crucial to the company’s success. “For us,” Mr. Kasanoff told the press, “this is ‘Casablanca.’ ”

“Foodfight!” was originally intended to be a computer-animated film resembling the original Warner Brothers Looney Tunes shorts. Animators call this look “squash and stretch,” with figures performing wildly exaggerated motions.

This changed when a portion of the film was reportedly stolen during a break-in at Threshold’s Santa Monica, Calif., offices around Christmas in 2002. With no backup available, the production started from scratch in 2004, after months of additional conceptual work.

The break had given Mr. Kasanoff a new idea, one that probably sealed the film’s fate. He wanted to direct it like a live-action movie, complete with retakes, motion-capture performances and more spontaneity. As a result, he and animators were speaking two different languages.

A roving Mr. Kasanoff, animators said, would request that things be “more awesome” or “30 percent better” and didn’t understand why someone trained in texture couldn’t do modeling work. (The production’s previous software had allowed for such flexibility, but the new system, Maya, was geared toward specialists.)

Mr. Kasanoff sourced out part of the production to House of Moves, a motion-capture company, and Image Metrics, which had developed software to sync animation to a voice actor’s filmed performance. But Image Metrics had a limitation: Performers had to stare straight ahead and keep still. The result was subdued, with eyes appearing vacant or looking in the wrong direction.

“There’s a very conscious exaggeration in animation that makes it feel alive, and the mo-cap didn’t work like that,” Mr. Wiatrak said. “It gave you a first pass of animation, but it wasn’t particularly lively.” Animators would then have to attempt to apply plasticity to natural movements, which only increased their jarring motion.

As the production wore on, the more overt innuendo began to give staff members pause. The villainous Lady X performs a seductive dance in a schoolgirl outfit for Dex, who appears to sport a visible reaction in his trousers. McKee Foods wouldn’t allow Daredevil Dan make catcalls at Little Debbie. One snack mascot was to declare a case of “peanut envy.”

It is not unusual in the animation industry for workers to amuse themselves by sexualizing their characters. “I thought: ‘They’re just having fun writing this. It won’t make it into the finished film,’ ” said an animator, Mona Weiss.

In 2005, Threshold secured roughly $20 million in additional financing through private investors represented by StoryArk, a financing firm that had been impressed by the brand tie-ins, the celebrity voice cast and a new distribution deal Mr. Kasanoff had struck with Lionsgate. The studio balked, however, when planned release dates in 2006 and 2007 didn’t materialize.

“It wasn’t as tightly structured as I had experienced subsequently in other places,” Mr. Wiatrak said. “Studios doing large animated features have a defined pipeline, a hierarchy of how shots are launched, reviewed and approved. The process here was less formal.”

The mortal wound for “Foodfight!” was inflicted when StoryArk’s investors, frustrated by the missed release dates and the fact that Threshold’s production company had defaulted on a secured promissory note, invoked a clause ultimately giving the insurance company, Fireman’s Fund, the right to step in and complete the film as quickly and cheaply as possible.

Shots barely realized were pushed through. “The film was already ruined,” said Ken Bailey, an animator during the project’s last stages. “They were just trying to salvage what they could.”

The film was shelved until 2012, when Fireman’s Fund obtained the full copyright to “Foodfight!” and began selling it to territories. Some of the plush toys and storybooks made it to stores and eBay. In the United States, Viva Entertainment waited until Walmart could assure good display placement and released it in May.

Viva’s president, Victor Elizalde, said the film was “already profitable” after the company’s modest investment, which he declined to disclose.

Animators arranged for viewing parties, remembering particularly stressful deadlines or half-baked sequences they were ashamed to put their names on. Internet forums performed blunt post-mortems.

“It’s an utter travesty of cinema,” one poster wrote on Somethingawful.com. On AVClub.com, Nathan Rabin wrote, “The character design alternates between nightmarish and hopelessly generic.”

While Threshold remains in operation and is soliciting money on Kickstarter for a documentary on meditation, it has yet to tackle a second animated feature.

“Early on, it looked to me like, ‘O.K., this is great,’ ” Mr. Bailey said. “It was one of the best ideas for a kids’ film I’d ever seen.”

Or as the Threshold licensee packet put it, “All of this technology, work, time, talent and artistry will make ‘Foodfight!’ unlike anything ever before seen on film.”
209 2013-08-11 Since 1991 I’ve competed in a fantasy football league with my college buddies, most of whom hail from the great state of . Fantasy football leagues typically draft online, but we still conduct our business face to face, convening once a year, in late August, at a faded South Jersey hotel, thick with cigarette smoke. It’s a weekend filled with steaks, beer, bootlegs and affectionately toothless insults; a weird alternate universe where I wash down Cool Ranch Doritos with Mountain Dew and occasionally sleep in my clothes.

For the uninitiated, fantasy football is a statistical competition in which participants draft real-life players to fill imaginary teams. And when the real player scores, so does the imaginary team. The payoff at the end of the playoffs is a combination of money, bragging rights and, sometimes, a trophy.

It’s not as exciting as it sounds.

Yet every Sunday in the fall, millions of participants like my friends and me surreptitiously track the performance of the quarterback — or some other player we’d normally have no interest in — while brunching with our wives’ friends; we scrutinize weather forecasts and scour injury reports. You can begin to lose your marbles. There was an occasion, in a London hotel years ago, when I actually asked my late father for guidance on my lineup. To his , he was unforthcoming.

Over the years, my friends and I have all married; some guys have divorced, married again, divorced again. Many have kids, and most have lost their jobs at some point. A majority of us have gained weight, and some of us have become both hairier and balder. Only our enthusiasm for these imaginary teams and for the draft has remained constant.

A few years ago, I offered to host the draft on my Greenwich Village terrace, but apparently I failed the most important criterion. “Do you have a pool?” a league member asked. “Because the hotel has a pool.” I confessed that while I could have almost anything their hearts desired delivered to my apartment, day or night, I did not, in fact, have a pool.
210 2013-08-11 SMILE! ONE OF YOU WILL BE MAYOR OF NEW YORK!

New York City is not as “progressive” as Andrew Meier seems to think, or else Rudy Giuliani and Mike Bloomberg would not have occupied City Hall for two decades. You could make the case that Bloomberg would give any of these characters a stiff race were he on the ballot in November. But without a major personality with strong funding to run as a Republican, one of the Democratic candidates — the one who prevails in the primary and runoff — will be the next mayor. That feat will have been accomplished, most analysts expect, by winning the majority of a party electorate of about 600,000, so that the next mayor will be installed by perhaps 350,000 of the city’s 8.5 million people and more than 4 million voters. JOHN BURKE, New York, posted on nytimes.com

This election season is like a parody of a mayoral election, a dismal reality series on an obscure cable station that is quickly canceled and forgotten. No such luck; this is for real. None of the candidates have the stamina, charisma or smarts to govern the biggest and brawniest city in America. Maybe it’s time to move to Detroit, which has no place to go but up. PIETRO ALLAR, New York, posted on nytimes.com

One thing Bloomberg has been big on is public health. It’s hard to take his ban on large sodas and his opposition to smoking seriously though, when he allows his administration to pass a $127 million subsidy to FreshDirect for its proposed Port Morris truck yard. This would bring 1,000 truck trips per day through the South Bronx, where asthma rates are already higher than the national average. I would love to see our next mayor address systemic issues through policy rather than rely on nonprofits and impotent programs to deal with the problems created by unchecked business interests. LAURA WALDMAN, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

SHOULD REDDIT BE BLAMED FOR SPREADING A SMEAR?

The day of the bombing I was volunteering at the finish line of the marathon, and I wrote a firsthand account for the subReddit “r/running.” My post shot to the top of r/running and then to the top of Reddit’s front page, where it stayed for a couple days. Within hours I was getting messages from CNN, CBS and international media outlets. It was eye-opening to see how much mainstream media uses Reddit for stories. But what I really remember from that week is Reddit’s good side. Hundreds of Redditors wrote me individually to ask how they could help; the r/Boston subReddit organized “pizza drives” for local police; all sorts of little subReddits did whatever they could — for example, r/guitar organized a fund-raiser to buy a new guitar for a bombing victim. I think it’s a pity that the Sunil Tripathi fiasco has defined Reddit for the world now. Reddit is just a cross-section of all humanity — some of the bad, but a lot of the good as well. KATHLEEN HUNT, Boston

‘IT’S MORE LIKE A SUICIDE THAN A SPORT’

I can’t help thinking, perhaps tritely, that Hervé Le Gallou died doing something he loved — something that fulfilled his life and made him more alive than if he hadn’t done it at all. And despite the obvious loss in this self-induced death, it seems appropriate to celebrate someone who lived so fully engaged. PAUL COSTANZA, San Francisco, posted on nytimes.com

Adam Davidson’s critique of rent regulation in Manhattan missed some important developments in law and policy over the last two and a half years. Soon after taking office in 2011, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo began an unprecedented strengthening of New York’s rent laws to protect the state’s one million rent-regulated tenants. Price and income ceilings were raised, stemming the tide of units leaving rent regulation, which declined from 14,477 units lost in 2010 to 7,845 in 2012 — a 45 percent decrease. In 2012, the governor separately created the Tenant Protection Unit, which proactively enforces rent laws by targeting landlords who may be abusing the system. Meanwhile, much of the newly constructed affordable housing subsidized by New York State through bonds issued by the Housing Finance Agency (some 5,562 new units since January 2011) is required to remain rent-regulated. Rent regulation is not likely to go away; thanks to the governor, it is now expanding. DARRYL C. TOWNS, Commissioner and Chief Executive, New York State Homes and Community Renewal
211 2013-08-11 I very much appreciated Emily Cooke’s review of Susan Choi’s new novel, “My Education” (July 21), but I was somewhat perplexed by Cooke’s assertion that “if a number of the great novels of the past century have been stories of gay love, no really adequate literature of bisexuality exists.” It seems to me that canonical “gay” fiction could be thought of as fundamentally “bisexual.” When one reads Virginia Woolf’s “Mrs. Dalloway,” James Baldwin’s “Giovanni’s Room,” Jeanette Winterson’s “Written on the Body,” or even a work generically encoded as “lesbian,” like Patricia Highsmith’s “Price of Salt,” as “gay” texts, this designation derives from diagnostic practices that readers bring to the texts rather than from the texts themselves. These texts might just as easily be thought of as “bisexual,” given the juxtapositions they offer of loves queer and heterosexual.

We may bring certain reading practices to the text as L.G.B.T.Q. readers looking to find ourselves in fiction, or for a variety of other reasons. Acknowledging one’s particular reading practices doesn’t mean one has to let go of them: it’s important to me, for example, to read “The Shampoo,” by Elizabeth Bishop, as a poem about lesbian love, even though Bishop would most likely recoil at its being designated “lesbian” poetry. We read the way we want to — perhaps even the way we need to — to make literature meaningful in our lives. It is the job of critics, however, to trouble facile categorizations that limit the multiplicity of readings inherent in a text.
212 2013-08-11 Five years ago this month, before imploded and the global economy lurched to a halt, issued a report that encapsulated the financial system’s biggest problem. The -finance company, which was wobbling on account of rising defaults, tried to reassure investors that it had $47 billion in capital, which was considerably more than the $30 million required by law. At the time, the report’s authors seemed to fear that some investors might think Fannie was too cautious. In any event, a month later, that protection seemed like a joke. Fannie may have conformed to the rules, but the rules didn’t conform to reality. The lender and its brother company, , were declared insolvent and handed over to the U.S. government.

Remarkably, five years after the crisis, the health of the financial industry is just as hard to determine. A major bank or financial institution could meet every single regulatory requirement yet still be at risk of collapse, and few of us would even know it. Despite endless calls for change, many of the economists I’ve spoken with have lamented that the reports that banks issue about their finances remain all but useless. The sprawling Dodd-Frank Act, which rewrote banking regulation in 2010, didn’t resolve things so much as inaugurate a process of endless rules-writing by regulators. Meanwhile, the is in the early stages of figuring out how it will change the way it regulates banks; and the gargantuan issue of coordinating regulations across borders has only barely begun. All of these regulatory decisions are complicated, in part, by a vast army of financial-industry lobbyists that overwhelms the relatively few consumer advocates.

Economists have also been locked in their own long-running arguments about how to make the banking industry safer. These disagreements, which are generally split between the left and the right, can have the certainty and anger of religious wars: the right accuses the left of hobbling banks and undermining prosperity; the left counters that the relatively lax regulation advocated by the right will lead to a corrupt oligarchy. But there actually is consensus on one of the most important issues. Paul Schultz, director of the Center for the Study of Financial Regulation at the , led a project that brought together scholars of from the left, the right and the center to figure out what caused the financial crisis and how to prevent a sequel. They couldn’t agree on anything, he told me. But a great majority favored higher equity requirements, which is bankerspeak for the notion that banks shouldn’t be allowed to borrow so much.

I conducted my own Schultz test by talking to Anat Admati and Charles Calomiris, prominent finance professors at Stanford and Columbia, respectively, who roughly define the opposite ends of the argument over bank regulation. Admati is a Democrat, Calomiris a Republican. In her recent book, “The Bankers’ New Clothes,” for example, Admati has argued that bankers misrepresent their finances. Calomiris, who used to be a banker, is generally seen as friendly to the field. As I spoke to them both, they also disagreed on everything until the conversation turned to borrowing. At which point, they independently explained that banks borrow too much, that the government rules are too confusing and that the public has been misled.

I asked Admati and Calomiris to explain their problem with the current system. I randomly chose ’s most recent annual S.E.C. report, a 300-page tome filled with complex legal jargon outlining the bank’s performance. The key number that we looked for was the capital-adequacy ratio, which is a measure of how much capital you need to back up the risk of your assets. This is supposed to be the one number that makes clear whether a bank is prepared for a crisis. A high ratio means the bank’s owners could bear most losses without requiring a bailout. A low number means the opposite.

It was extremely hard, though, to know how Citi was faring. Calomiris pointed out that the bank reports several different measures, ranging from what appears to be a safe capital ratio of 17.26 percent (implying the bank maintains a loss-absorbing buffer of $17 for every $100 of the assets it owns) to a potentially worrisome 7.48 percent (with stops at 14.06, 12.67 and 8.7 percent). When I asked Admati how healthy the bank was, she replied, “It’s hopeless for anyone to know.”
213 2013-08-12 Residents of Brownsville, Brooklyn, were divided over the policing strategy after a federal judge ruled that it violated the constitutional rights of minority New Yorkers.
214 2013-08-12 A rare coin, known to collectors as a double eagle, was once sold for $7,590,020. On Monday, it was moved to an exhibit at the New-York Historical Society....
215 2013-08-12 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg responds to a federal judge’s finding that the controversial police practice violated the constitutional rights of minorities.
216 2013-08-12 The actress was a guest presenter at last night at MTV’s Teen Choice Awards, where she wore a sweet pink frock and a matching red lip....
217 2013-08-12 Ace Hotels plans to open a luxury project in November in the Casco Viejo neighborhood in Panama City....
218 2013-08-12 Julie Levin joined the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., as chief growth officer. She assumes duties from Dan Sutton, senior vice president and director for business development, who left to join Google as senior product marketing manager for Google+. Ms. Levin had most recently been head of business development at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Little & Company, Minneapolis, was renamed Little.

MicroMass Communications, Cary, N.C., formed a unit, the MicroMass Medical Communications Group, to be led by Rob Peters, senior vice president for strategy at the agency. The unit will specialize in work for life science companies.

Gary Pascoe joined Commonwealth, Detroit, as chief creative officer for North America. He had been executive vice president and executive creative director at JWT/Team Detroit, part of WPP, working on the Ford brand in North America. At Commonwealth, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, he will have creative oversight of work for the Chevrolet brand in North America. Also, Commonwealth hired three creative directors: Bog Guisgand, Erika Kayuk and Duffy Patten.

Jason Peterson, chief creative officer at the Chicago office of Havas Worldwide, will also serve as its co-president. He assumes those duties from Norm Yustin, who recently resigned, the agency said. Joy Schwartz will continue as the other co-president of the office. Havas Worldwide is part of the Havas Creative division of Havas.

PGOA Media, Franklin, Tenn., sold the rights to publish three print brands that are distributed through Sunday newspapers — American Profile, Relish and Spry — to Athlon Sports Communications, Nashville, which publishes Athlon Sports Magazine, also carried in Sunday newspapers. Financial terms were not disclosed. PGOA will retain the rights to the digital properties of the three brands — americanprofile.com, relish.com and spryliving.com — along with its other digital properties like dailyparent.com and the Relish tablet edition.

Wes Phelan joined Johannes Leonardo, New York, part of WPP, in a new post, senior art director. He had been a creative director at MetropolitanRepublic, Johannesburg, South Africa.

Lisa Pilger, vice president and director for local media at RPA, who is based in the agency’s Atlanta office, received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Atlanta Broadcast Advertising Club.

Red Square Agency, Mobile, Ala., reorganized itself into two divisions: RSQ, with a focus on digital work, and Red Square Gaming, which will specialize in a full range of advertising services for marketers in the casino gambling industry.

Red Tettemer & Partners, Philadelphia, is being renamed Red Tettemer O’Connell & Partners to recognize the contributions of Steve O’Connell, partner and executive creative director. Also, the agency is opening an office in the Venice section of Los Angeles, to be led by Perry Morris, an account director at the agency who has been promoted to managing director for Red Tettermer O’Connell & Partners West.

Bill Reihl joined Ketchum, New York, part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group, as managing director for the global brand marketing practice, working with Kelley Skoloda, partner and director for the global brand marketing practice, based at Ketchum Midwest in Chicago. Mr. Reihl had been leading the global consumer marketing practice at Weber Shandwick, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Nick Shore joined Astronauts Wanted: No Experience Necessary, New York, a new joint venture between Sony Music and Judy McGrath, as chief creative strategist. He had been senior vice president for strategic insights and research at MTV, New York, part of the MTV Networks division of Viacom; Ms. McGrath was the longtime chief executive at MTV Networks.

Trapp Communications, Lexington, Ky., was acquired and absorbed by Fuseideas, Boston. Financial terms were not disclosed. Trapp becomes the Lexington office of Fuseideas, with six staff members including the principals of Trapp: Leslie Trapp, client services manager, and Cindy Trapp, creative director.

Kristine Welker, vice president and chief revenue officer of the Hearst Magazines Digital Media division of Hearst Magazines, was named vice president, publisher and chief revenue officer of a magazine that Hearst Magazines, part of the Hearst Corporation, will test in the first quarter of 2014 in a collaboration with the celebrity doctor Mehmet Oz. Plans call for 800,000 copies of the first pilot issue to be published, 350,000 to be distributed to newsstands and the rest to be sent to subscribers of existing Hearst magazines.

Brian Wheelis joined McGarrah Jessee, Austin, Tex., as media engagement director. He assumes duties from Bill Morgan, who became associate media director at CMD, Portland, Ore.; Mr. Morgan joined McGarrah Jessee in 2011 from Portland, where he had worked for Wieden & Kennedy. Mr. Wheelis had been global marketing solutions manager at the Austin office of Facebook.
219 2013-08-12 A reader questions how effective incubators are at creating successful companies....
220 2013-08-12 Union General Lorenzo Thomas enjoyed asking those who opposed the enlistment of African Americans to step out of their ranks on the parade ground, then having them hauled off to the stockade....
221 2013-08-12 On the Stop-and-Frisk Decision: Floyd v. City of New York

Memoranda and orders filed by Judge Shira A. Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, following a two-month nonjury trial over the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk tactics. The judge ruled that police officers have for years been systematically stopping innocent people in the street without any objective reason to suspect them of wrongdoing.
222 2013-08-12 Trying to bridge the gap between computer programming, design and art, four Brooklyn instructors have started a school to help students revel in the poetic possibilities of technology....
223 2013-08-12 Tracking Pinterest metrics. A company that pays better than Walmart does — but has lower prices. A conference about conference panels....
224 2013-08-12 She was referring to an analysis of Police Department data commissioned by the Center for Constitutional Rights, a plaintiff in the lawsuit. Police officers record data on each stop that they conduct, including the factors that led to the stop.

In one example, the judge, Shira A. Scheindlin, noted how reasons for the stops differed for blacks and for whites.

The percentage of stops resulting in an arrest has remained at roughly 6 percent over the past 10 years.

Stops by the police grew substantially under the Bloomberg administration, though the practice began to decline last year.
225 2013-08-12 Metropolitan Diary: A man commented to his wife on the skill required to manage packs of dogs in the city....
226 2013-08-12 Children with chronic stomach pains are at high risk for anxiety disorders in adolescence and young adulthood, a new study has found....
227 2013-08-12 Mr. Obama acknowledged these challenges at his news conference on Friday, noting that while Al Qaeda’s core leadership in Pakistan had been “decimated,” the terrorist organization has “metastasized into regional groups that can pose significant dangers.” He insisted that this development did not contradict his assertion in his May speech that the struggle against terrorism had fundamentally changed. In that speech at the National Defense University, he offered a path to wind down the war against terrorists, a campaign against a lethal yet less able network of regional Qaeda affiliates launching “periodic attacks against Western diplomats, companies and other soft targets.” He also warned of homegrown extremists like the Tsarnaev brothers who are accused of carrying out the Boston Marathon attacks.

Mr. Obama also said in May that targeted killing operations needed to be tightly limited.

The United States carries out strikes only against terrorists who pose a “continuing and imminent threat” to Americans, he said, and only when it is determined it would be impossible to detain them, rather than kill them. But the increased reliance on drones in Yemen suggests the limit of the resources the United States can employ in combating the new threats.

A senior American official said over the weekend that the most recent terrorist threat “expanded the scope of people we could go after” in Yemen.

“Before, we couldn’t necessarily go after a driver for the organization; it’d have to be an operations director,” said the official, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss delicate intelligence issues. “Now that driver becomes fair game because he’s providing direct support to the plot.”

Senior American intelligence officials said last week that none of the about three dozen militants killed so far in the drone strikes were “household names,” meaning top-tier leaders of the affiliate, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. But the American official said the strikes had targeted “rising stars” in the Yemen network, people who were more likely to be moving around and vulnerable to attack. “They may not be big names now,” the official said, “but these were the guys that would have been future leaders.”

Yet just how effective the strikes have been is unclear. In the past several years, the drone strikes have set off a major public backlash against the United States in Yemen, Pakistan and across the Muslim world, prompting in part Mr. Obama’s decision to constrain their use.

The administration has been criticized by some analysts for overreacting to the threat in Yemen, but intelligence officials now believe they have evidence that at least one target was the United States Embassy in Sana.

That is not the only obstacle American efforts must confront in the aftermath of the Arab Spring. Security analysts also note that many of the Arab spy services that the United States relied on in the past in places like Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen have been upended in the political turmoil, robbing the C.I.A. and American intelligence of long-trusted allies.

“U.S. intelligence has drastically lost its influence over Arab intelligence partners as a consequence of the Arab awakening and, more worryingly, its intelligence probing capability,” said Magnus Ranstorp, research director of the Center for Asymmetric Threat Studies at the Swedish National Defense College in Stockholm. “Without a longer-term U.S. strategy that builds capacity in key countries, counterterrorism is effectively reduced to tackling the superficial symptoms and to putting out perpetual terrorist fires,” he said.

But developments in the past week or so are testing the American ability to respond effectively to the more diffuse threat, as well as the administration’s strategy to help strengthen regional allies to fight extremists on their soil so the United States does not have to send in troops to do so.

Earlier this month, Interpol issued a global alert asking member countries to help track hundreds of terrorism suspects who escaped in a wave of prison breaks over the past month, and requesting assistance in determining whether any of the operations “are coordinated or linked.”

Al Qaeda’s Iraq affiliate orchestrated attacks in late July that freed hundreds of inmates from two prisons in Iraq, including Abu Ghraib, American officials said. A few days later, more than 1,000 prisoners escaped under murky circumstances at a prison near Benghazi. In another attack, fighters stormed a prison at Dera Ismail Khan, just outside Pakistan’s tribal belt, freeing nearly 250 inmates.

“The escapes don’t dramatically increase the risk to the U.S. homeland, but they illustrate the difficulty of combating regional Al Qaeda affiliates — both because those organizations are resilient and U.S. partners are unable to even keep captured fighters locked up,” said Brian Fishman, a counterterrorism analyst at the New America Foundation.

Also this month, federal law enforcement authorities filed murder charges against Ahmed Abu Khattala, a prominent militia leader in Benghazi, in connection with the attacks on a diplomatic mission there last Sept. 11 that killed the United States ambassador and three other Americans.

Roughly a dozen other militants that the authorities believe joined in the assault have also been identified, and charges under seal have been filed against some of them, according to American officials.

Investigators have made only halting progress on the case, leading some F.B.I. agents in Tripoli, the Libyan capital, to voice frustration that there have been no arrests so far, the officials said. Capturing the suspects will most likely require significant negotiations between the State Department and the Libyan government over who will conduct any raids and where the suspects will be tried. The military’s Joint Special Operations Command has drafted plans to capture or kill the suspects, but for now that option has been set aside, Pentagon officials said.

In the same region, the United States and its allies are still hunting for Mokhtar Belmokhtar, the mastermind of the January seizure of an Algerian gas plant that left at least 37 foreign hostages dead, including three Americans.

A potential new center for Al Qaeda’s operations may be developing in Syria. As foreign fighters pour into Syria at an increasing clip — now estimated at more than 6,000 combatants — extremist groups are carving out pockets of territory that are becoming havens for Islamist militants, posing what United States and Western intelligence officials say may be developing into one of the biggest terrorist threats in the world today. Mr. Obama acknowledged these emerging threats on Friday. “We are not going to completely eliminate terrorism,” he said. “What we can do is to weaken it and to strengthen our partnerships in such a way that it does not pose the kind of horrible threat that we saw on 9/11.”
228 2013-08-12 The safety of our chemical plants and refineries is an issue of great importance. Through our Center for Chemical Process Safety, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers strives to educate those responsible for the administration of these facilities that it is critical to use safe processes and to work with local communities and emergency response teams in carrying out these directives.

This is highly personal for us, as our organization’s members work in these plants and live in these communities.

President Obama’s directives highlight the need for continuing vigilance and improvement. As recent accidents illustrate, there is still much work to do to ensure a workplace culture of safety that goes beyond regulation. The American Institute of Chemical Engineers and its members are working to be a significant part of the solution.
229 2013-08-12 When state lawmakers passed a bill in June that would allow the financially troubled Hudson River Park to sell its air rights to developers across the street in order to pay for its pressing maintenance problems, the idea seemed like a novel solution. The plan would tap new revenue for the park, which was meant to be self-sustaining, without resorting to unwanted development within its boundaries.

But in recent weeks, preservation groups have scrutinized the legislation, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is expected to sign, and raised concerns about the potential impact on neighborhoods facing the park, which stretches along the river from Battery Place to 59th Street. In a letter to three lawmakers whose districts include the park and who either sponsored the bill or supported it, four preservation and community groups faulted the process, saying they had been denied a voice, and that developers would benefit but the communities would suffer the consequences.

“We, as well as other groups in the affected communities, were taken completely by surprise,” said Andrew Berman, executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation, a nonprofit group. “Most of us hadn’t heard about it until the day before the vote. We’re concerned about overdevelopment on the waterfront blocks, which are the visual face of the neighborhood. Knowing that this potential Pandora’s box has been opened is very worrisome to us.”

The park’s maintenance was supposed to be paid for by revenue from commercial developments on several piers in the park, including the Chelsea Piers recreational complex and Pier 40, at Houston Street. But despite numerous proposals since the park’s founding in 1998, no development has gone forward on Pier 40. The 15-acre pier now needs some $100 million in repairs to its steel pilings and roof.

In the past year, some of the parents whose children use athletic fields on the pier floated the idea of building housing within the park as a way to finance those repairs. Currently, the only allowable uses for the pier are retail space and entertainment. But the housing concept proved unpopular among other residents, as well as a member of the Assembly, Deborah J. Glick, whose district includes Pier 40.
230 2013-08-12 ■ Ruud Wanck, chief digital officer for the Europe, Middle East and Africa operations of GroupM, part of WPP, will also serve as global chief operating officer for the GroupM Interaction unit of GroupM, which is a new post.

■ Frank Pedersen joined Deep Focus, New York, part of Engine USA, as managing director, a new post. He had most recently been an adviser and consultant and before that was chief executive for the United States operations of LBi, which is now known as DigitasLBi.

■ Graham Ritchie joined Hill Holliday, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as chief strategy officer, assuming duties that had been handled by Baba Shetty, chief strategy and media officer, who left in the fall to join the Newsweek Daily Beast Company, New York, part of IAC/InterActiveCorp, as chief executive. Mr. Ritchie had been a managing partner at Publicis Mojo, Auckland, New Zealand, part of the Publicis Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe. Coincidentally, Mr. Shetty, who left Newsweek Daily Beast in June, also has a new job; he joined the Boston office of DigitasLBi, also part of Publicis, as chief strategy and media officer.

■ Eric Larson joined ePrize, Pleasant Ridge, Mich., as chief revenue officer, a new post. He had been vice president for customer experience solutions at the Chicago office of Oracle.

■ Brownstein Group, Philadelphia, is expanding through the start up of a creatively focused agency named Nucleus Digital, to be led by Adam Deringer, chief marketing officer at Brownstein and previously the agency’s chief digital officer. Mr. Deringer’s title at Nucleus Digital will be partner and general manager.

■ Allison & Partners, San Francisco, part of MDC Partners, opened an office in Mountain View, Calif., to be led by Monika Raj, as managing director. The agency also has offices in cities that include Atlanta, Chicago, London, Seattle and Washington.

■ MediaPost Communications, New York, named an all-female jury to judge its OMMA Awards, for excellence in online advertising, for 2013. The choice of the 40 women came after Barbara Lippert, an editor at large at MediaPost, wrote a blog post complaining about the paucity of female judges at the 2013 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity in Cannes, France, as well as at advertising awards shows in general. Ms. Lippert will serve as one of the OMMA judges.

■ The Southern California Honda Dealers Association, as part of its Helpful Honda advertising campaign, has become an official partner of the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Los Angeles Galaxy soccer team, the University of California, Los Angeles Athletics and the University of Southern California Trojan Athletics. Financial terms were not disclosed. The sponsorships will extend the dealers’ event marketing program, which is centered on “helpful” activities like randomly paying for drivers’ gasoline and parking meters, to the sports team. Plans include offering free parking at Dodgers games to Honda drivers, giving seat upgrades at Galaxy matches and free washes for Hondas at U.C.L.A. football games. The agencies involved are Secret Weapon Marketing, Santa Monica, Calif., and Scout Sports and Entertainment, part of Horizon Media.
231 2013-08-12 For this is the symbol of transition. Moyes is the man honored or burdened with replacing Alex Ferguson who retired this summer after 26 years as Giggs’ manager, and as the most successful team manager in the history of this club, and this era.

Moyes was chosen, by Sir Alex himself, to be the successor. This appointment will change Moyes, or change United, over the coming few years.

Quite simply, the 50-year-old “new” manager must win far more meaningful prizes than the near walkover that his team achieved over a Wigan side that had lost of its Premiership status since winning the Cup, and now has to start afresh in effectively the second division of English soccer.

By abandoning the daring, swift passing style that won it the F.A. Cup, and opting instead for a more direct, long ball route, Wigan virtually conceded the Wembley show piece game. It played into United’s hands, seldom troubled the defense, and left itself open to the attacks.

The first goal was a sweeping move, begun by Giggs’ back heel, spread wide by van Persie to Patrice Evra on the left, and when Evra crossed the ball back into the penalty area there was the Dutchman, rising without a challenger and guiding the ball with his head inside the furthest post.

That was after six minutes and again just before the 60th minute, Giggs moved to distract Wigan, and when van Persie tried a speculative low shot it diverted into the net off the foot of a hapless defender, James Perch.

Game over. United’s players called it a solid performance on a hot day. Michael Carrick and Giggs were asked on television what the players felt about England’s bookmakers placing their team third favorite — behind Chelsea and Manchester City — in the odds to win the 2013-14 title.

Their response was to ask who are these people, these non-players, who appear to be writing them off before a ball is kicked in defense of the Premiership that they won in a canter three months ago?

The betting should roll off experienced campaigners like sweat off the brow, yet clearly it irritated them to a degree. There are reasons. Moyes is a competent coach and manager, but he has never before had the privilege of so many riches at a club, and Sunday was his first trophy at the top end of the sport.

The Premiership kicks off next weekend, and United has failed to land any of the creative players — such as Cesc Fabregas and Thiago Alcantara — that it bid for.

ManCity, meanwhile, has a new and proven coach in Manuel Pellegrini, and City’s Abu Dhabi money has recruited four coveted players — Fernandinho, Stevan Jovetic, Alvaro Negredo and particularly the lively Spanish winger Jesus Navas.

Chelsea? Chelsea has what the bookies regard as a special factor, the return of the arch winner, Coach José Mourinho. It has seemed at times that Mourinho’s biggest play in the market has been to try to undermine Moyes and Manchester United by his constant references in the media to trying to tempt United to sell his club Wayne Rooney. As the clock ticks by, and Rooney for one reason or another is a no-show in Manchester’s pre-season preparations, the tactic seems to be working.

If he can’t have Rooney, at the very least he can unsettle United with the conjecture. And leave Rooney a disgruntled malcontent around the training ground, neither in nor out of the fold.

One suspects that United’s American owners will block any sale, at least to Chelsea, until the price is right, and until after United plays Chelsea at Old Trafford on Aug. 26.

That still leaves almost a week, until the transfer deadline on midnight on Sept. 2, to get the business done. By then, United might have landed players it wants to liven up its midfield.

So the Community Shield was just window dressing. The Premiership season begins Saturday, and the disruptive buying and selling can happen anytime even after the ball is rolling.

Other issues are at play. One is the scheduling of national team friendlies this coming week. Eight United players, including the “injured” Rooney, will report for duty ahead of England’s preparatory game Scotland.

The midfield player Shinji Kagawa, flies to Saitama and back for Japan’s match against Uruguay on Wednesday — and then, if fit and awake, journeys with United to Swansea on Saturday.

This interruption isn’t new. Goal-line technology, in the Premier League at least, certainly is. Throughout the game at Wembley on Sunday, there were 14 cameras trained on the goal lines. They were redundant because there was nothing to dispute at any time. Nevertheless, England is the guinea pig now for this expensive Hawk Eye system that should tell referees whether the whole of the ball crossed the line or not.

Last season there were 380 Premier league matches. Thirty one of them had close — or at least argumentative calls — and three of those would have been reversed with the implementation of Hawk Eye.

Watching Englishmen and Aussies questioning the judgments of cricket umpires at the Ashes by referring their decisions to infra-red technology, and sometimes undermining the officials by their frivolous appeals, one shudders to think what the soccer players will make of machine overruling man on the goal lines.
232 2013-08-13 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
233 2013-08-13 The New York Times’s staff scours the Web for interesting and peculiar items. Tuesday’s selections include a video interview with Charlie Rose in which Larry Ellison, Oracle’s chief executive, sees a dark future for Apple without Steve Jobs....
234 2013-08-13 The Senate’s committee on homeland security and New York State’s top financial regulator are investigating gaps in the oversight of upstart virtual currencies like bitcoin....
235 2013-08-13 A special purpose acquisition company raises money through an I.P.O. and then looks for a company to buy. But the promoters often make bad choices, earning almost no returns for investors....
236 2013-08-13 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
237 2013-08-13 “Had a nice conversation with Tim Cook today,” tweeted Carl C. Icahn, the longtime activist investor, as shares of Apple surged....
238 2013-08-13 The proposal by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board could provide investors with deeper insights into the health of corporations....
239 2013-08-13 Herbalife is at the heart of a Wall Street brawl. Now the company’s response to its handling of a product safety issue in 2011 is drawing scrutiny....
240 2013-08-13 Retail sales improve, but book-store owners are taking donations. Some companies will profit from global warming. Why Facebook is losing teens....
241 2013-08-13 A new hotel in Ibiza will be Hard Rock’s first in Europe. It is scheduled to open in May....
242 2013-08-13 Israel shouldn’t submit to the E.U.’s restrictions on cooperating with entities operating beyond the 1967 line....
243 2013-08-13 What are the arguments people make for and against the policy? How do you feel about the judge’s decision?...
244 2013-08-13 Shirley Herz, a theatrical press agent whose career stretched from the days of planting blurbs in Walter Winchell’s newspaper column to the television and Internet eras, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 87.

Her death was confirmed by Kevin P. McAnarney, a publicist. Ms. Herz, who received a Tony Honors for Excellence award for her work in 2009, had suffered a stroke last month, according to the Web site of the Association of Theatrical Press Agents and Managers.

Ms. Herz publicized shows for almost 65 years, among them Broadway fare like “La Cage aux Folles” and the Off Broadway work of groups like the Abingdon Theater Company and the Irish Repertory Theater.

Her client list also included dance troupes, films, television shows and even the Moscow Circus. Angela Lansbury, Rosalind Russell and Josephine Baker were among the stars she worked with.

Ms. Herz was born on Dec. 30, 1925, in Philadelphia. She said she fell in love with the theater as a child when she saw Katharine Hepburn in “The Philadelphia Story.” But it was another actress, Barbara O’Neil, who got her into the publicity business. Ms. Herz was selling watches at the Georg Jensen store in New York when Ms. O’Neil walked in.

“I’d met her in Philadelphia as an autograph hound,” Ms. Herz recalled in a 2000 interview for the press agents association. “She saw me and said, ‘What are you doing here?’ I told her I was looking for a job in the theater. When I got home to Philadelphia the next day, there was a phone call from her, saying call so-and-so and they’ll help you get a job. And that’s how I got my first press job.”
245 2013-08-13 SAN FRANCISCO — Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton waded into the battle over voting rights on Monday in the first of a series of speeches in which she says she plans to address some of the most pressing issues in Washington.

Mrs. Clinton, in remarks delivered at the American Bar Association conference here, condemned the recent Supreme Court ruling on the Voting Rights Act, which has paved the way for states to pass laws that would require voters to present government-issued photo identification at the polls.

Mrs. Clinton, like many Democrats and voting rights groups, argued that the court’s ruling would limit voters’ participation, particularly among minorities, the poor and younger voters who disproportionately cast their ballots for Democrats. Texas, Mississippi and Alabama all announced that they would move ahead with strict voter identification requirements, and on Monday, Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina signed a similar measure.

“Anyone who says racial discrimination is no longer a problem in American elections must not be paying attention,” Mrs. Clinton told the lawyers gathered at the Moscone Center in San Francisco. She urged them to fight voter identification laws in their communities, but she also pleaded with the members of a “gridlocked Congress” to quickly enact legislation that would make it easier to vote.

“Our government cannot fully represent the people unless it has been fairly elected by them,” Mrs. Clinton said.

Although she has largely avoided politics since leaving the State Department in February — devoting her time to delivering paid speeches to trade groups and finishing a memoir about her time as the country’s top diplomat — she said Monday that voting rights would be the first of several major issues, including transparency in government and the global impact of the United States’ foreign policy, that she plans to address in the coming weeks.
246 2013-08-13 Fortunately for the Yankees, a rather forgettable day at the plate for Rodriguez was nullified by Kuroda’s mastery of an Angels lineup that has struggled most of the season. With Albert Pujols on the disabled list with a foot injury and the slugger Josh Hamilton, the team’s marquee addition last winter, struggling much of the season, Kuroda easily disposed of the Angels.

“With it being a close game, I wanted to avoid the big home run, so I was able to keep the ball down,” Kuroda said.

Kuroda allowed only three hits and one walk while striking out seven to record his 11th win of the season. The Angels hit only four balls out of the infield against Kuroda, who lowered his team-leading earned run average to 2.33, second lowest in the American League behind the Seattle Mariners’ Felix Hernandez.

Kuroda has allowed only five runs in his past 51 innings.

“I don’t know if you expect anyone to be that dominant, but he’s been brilliant,” Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said.

When asked about his recent mastery, Kuroda said: “I wish I had the answer to that. I wish someone would tell me what was working.”

Kuroda finished the eighth having thrown 107 pitches. Girardi said he did not consider sending out Kuroda for the ninth despite the fact that closer Mariano Rivera, who has blown his past three save opportunities, was unavailable. Rivera, who had thrown 81 pitches since Wednesday, was given a day off after Girardi and the pitching coach Larry Rothschild spoke with him earlier Monday.

“Sometimes he just needs a day,” Girardi said.

Rivera said after the game that he felt fine physically.

When Boone Logan went out to the mound to start the ninth inning, a section of fans began chanting, “We want Mo.” The chants continued when Dave Robertson took over for Logan, and they intensified when Robertson allowed an inherited runner to score and then issued an intentional walk that loaded the bases with one out.

“It’s not easy to pitch when they’re chanting, ‘We want Mo’ when you’re warming up,” Robertson said. “You have to just deal with it and finish the game.”

Robertson struck out Mark Trumbo and Chris Nelson to preserve the victory. Curtis Granderson’s third home run of the season, a blast to right field in the seventh, was the deciding run.

Up until the ninth inning, the most lively moments of the game involved Rodriguez.

His hard-hit single in the second inning was met with a loud ovation. He was then booed when he was caught stealing after Lyle Overbay struck out.

In the fourth inning, Rodriguez was cheered when he came to the plate with Robinson Cano on first base. He was then booed when he grounded into a double play.

In the sixth, with the Yankees clinging to a 1-0 lead and runners on first and second, Rodriguez came to the plate to cheers and then grounded into another double play, which brought more boos.

Yankee fans have developed a love-hate relationship with Rodriguez, with his every move meriting their attention.

As long as he stays in the lineup, Rodriguez will most likely overshadow his teammates’ performances, as he did Monday, when for a few moments he brought a nostalgic feel to the new Stadium.

Manager Joe Girardi said that Derek Jeter, who has been on the disabled list with a strained calf since Aug. 6, was expected to hit off a tee and take soft-toss pitches in the batting cage Monday. Barring a setback, Jeter could take batting practice by the end of the week. Jeter is expected to continue his rehabilitation in Tampa, Fla., when the Yankees head to Boston this weekend.
247 2013-08-13 Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr., chairman of The New York Times Company, sold 50,000 shares of his company’s stock last week, a day after declaring that the family-owned newspaper was not for sale.

According to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing released on Monday evening, Mr. Sulzberger sold 50,000 shares at $12 a share on Aug. 8. The filing noted that Mr. Sulzberger continued to own 173,675 Class A shares in company stock.

Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for The New York Times Company, said that the stock sale “is part of Arthur’s normal estate planning.” She said that the 50,000 shares represented a small percentage of his holdings, which in addition to Class A shares include stock options and shares held in a family trust.

“Personally, he is still very invested in Times Company stock,” Ms. Murphy said.

The Times Company has a dual share structure: Class A stock, which is publicly traded, and a special class of stock, Class B, that allows the Sulzbergers to elect about 70 percent of the company’s board.

Mr. Sulzberger’s sale followed a week of upheaval in the newspaper industry, in which The Times sold The Boston Globe to John W. Henry, owner of the Boston Red Sox, and the Graham family announced that after 80 years it was selling The Washington Post to Jeffrey P. Bezos, founder of Amazon.

After those sales, there was speculation among media analysts that Mr. Sulzberger and his relatives would follow suit and consider selling The Times. The Times is one of the last major American newspapers run by a family.
248 2013-08-13 Gov. Jerry Brown signed legislation on Monday that guarantees transgender students access to interscholastic sports, gym classes, locker rooms and bathrooms based on their gender identity, irrespective of their biological sex. Interscholastic athletic commissions in several states, including California, have policies that allow students to compete on teams that correspond with their gender identities rather than the sex listed on their school records. California will be the first state to write access for transgender students to sex-segregated activities into law.
249 2013-08-13 Judge of Federal District Court in New York upheld the bedrock principle of individual liberty on Monday when she ruled that the tactics underlying ’s program violated the constitutional rights of minority citizens. She found that the city had been “deliberately indifferent” to police officers illegally detaining and frisking minority residents on the streets over many years.

Judge Scheindlin was clearly speaking of Mayor when she concluded: “The City’s highest officials have turned a blind eye to the evidence that officers are conducting stops in a racially discriminatory manner. In their zeal to defend a policy that they believe to be effective, they have willfully ignored overwhelming proof that the policy of singling out “the right people” is racially discriminatory and therefore violates the United States Constitution.”

The judge made clear that she was not striking down the program — which remains an important tool for law enforcement — but requiring the city to use that tool in a way that does not discriminate against African-Americans and Hispanics and that comports with constitutional guarantees against unreasonable search and . Given the city’s refusal to alter its practices significantly, Judge Scheindlin had little choice but to appoint an outside monitor to oversee sweeping changes in how the trains its officers and carries out the stop-and-frisk policy.

Under the Fourth Amendment, police officers can legally stop and detain a person only when they have a reasonable suspicion that the person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a crime. Over the years, however, the Police Department has adopted a strategy that encourages cops to stop and question mainly minority citizens first and to come up with reasons for having done so later. This has resulted in people in some neighborhoods being stopped without reason scores of times a year. These unconstitutional stops, Judge Scheindlin wrote, have exacted a “human toll” in demeaning and humiliating law-abiding citizens. She is currently overseeing three lawsuits against this troubled program. The ruling issued on Monday, in Floyd v. The City of New York, was filed by plaintiffs alleging racial profiling in street stops.

At the heart of the Floyd case are statistics showing that the city conducted an astounding 4.4 million stops between January 2004 and June 2012. Of these, only 6 percent resulted in arrests and 6 percent resulted in summonses. In other words, 88 percent of the 4.4 million stops resulted in no further action — meaning a vast majority of those stopped were doing nothing wrong. More than half of all people stopped were frisked, yet only 1.5 percent of frisks found weapons. In about 83 percent of cases, the person stopped was black or Hispanic, even though the two groups accounted for just over half the population.
250 2013-08-13 ATLANTA — A federal judge on Monday ruled that a white former employee had no standing to bring claims of racial discrimination in a lawsuit against Paula Deen, the celebrity chef who was the target of criticism this summer after she acknowledged using a racial epithet.

The former employee, Lisa T. Jackson, who managed one of Ms. Deen’s restaurants in Savannah, Ga., until 2010, had alleged that widespread discrimination against black workers created a difficult work environment for her. She also said such prejudices were “more personally offensive” to her because her nieces are biracial.

But Judge William T. Moore Jr., of Federal District Court in Savannah, ruled that Ms. Jackson did not meet the standard for protection under federal law and said she was no more than “an accidental victim of the alleged racial discrimination.”

Judge Moore also said it was not the responsibility of the courts to mediate instances of friction between employers and their workers. He cautioned that allowing Ms. Jackson’s claim to proceed would “serve to conscript federal courts as human-resources departments that are responsible for imposing and monitoring a federally created standard for harmony in the workplace.”

Judge Moore’s order does not affect Ms. Jackson’s sexual harassment allegations in the lawsuit, which focus on the conduct of Ms. Deen’s brother, Earl W. Hiers, known as Bubba.
251 2013-08-13 Yet like others interviewed in Brownsville on Monday morning, he said he also appreciated the need for a strong police presence to combat crime in this, one of the city’s most dangerous neighborhoods. He added, however, that large, frequent police patrols should be enough to deter those looking for trouble.

Others said they could see the merits of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s argument that stop-and-frisk tactics could be an invaluable crime-fighting tool, one that city officials insist has helped cut crime in New York to record lows. But if the idea sounded good, they said, the way the practice played out in a real-life, high-crime neighborhood amounted to a perversion of justice.

“They stop you for the stupidest stuff,” said Eugene Myers, 57, “but for the real stuff, it seems like the police don’t even go after that.” He had been stopped for wearing a hoodie or for resembling suspects in other crimes, he said, but assaults in the hallways of his building seemed to go unnoticed.

While several said that guns and drugs were major problems in the neighborhood and that stops were a legitimate way to address them, they said that in their experience, the stops targeted appearances and behaviors that had little or no relation to crime.

“Do what you’re supposed to do, but stop stopping people who aren’t doing anything,” said Dante Johnson, 43, unspooling a list of innocuous activities he said he had seen people stopped for, like riding bikes and walking dogs.

In a courtyard of the Brownsville Houses, a group of young men gathered around, one holding a smartphone, reading aloud a news account of the court ruling. They had each been stopped dozens of times, they said, and all said they believed the Police Department had institutional quotas for stopping and frisking; a few, reflecting the neighborhood’s endemic wariness of the police, said the practice was a conspiracy among officers to give young black men records and turn them out of their homes.

“They’ve been talking about the stop-and-frisk thing for five, six, seven years and nothing’s changed,” said Gregory Campbell, 41. “They just say it, say it, say it, but the cops come out here and keep doing it. It’s going to take a lot more than just talk.”

And to the residents of Police Service Area No. 2, that was all Judge Scheindlin’s decision was: talk.

“The judge is in the chamber,” said Demetrius Denson, 35. He said that though officers might be instructed to use less force or stop fewer people, officers could sidestep any new rules by provoking people on the street into acting nervously or suspiciously.

He lived in Brownsville until about three years ago, he said, but moved upstate because “it’s too much like a jail.”

Taurel Price, 22, said he had racked up more than $400 in traffic tickets from being pulled over in his own car.

“It might change in certain areas,” he said, “but definitely not in Brownsville.”
252 2013-08-13 Even more important, Judge Scheindlin found that many stops were based almost entirely on race, in violation of the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection under the law, and that the city has long responded with deliberate indifference.

But even if these practices were constitutional, they’re still a bad idea. Of course, one wouldn’t know that listening to Mayor and other true believers, who insist that aggressive stop-and-frisks have reduced violent crime. But they’re wrong.

The most obvious reason is the brute numbers. For every 100 individuals stopped and frisked, only about 6 are arrested, often for minor offenses like marijuana possession. The success rate for finding a gun borders on the nonexistent: 1 in every 1,000 stops. In fact, purely random stops have produced better results.

For another thing, the government’s reasoning is empirically suspect, and conflates correlation with causation. The homicide rate has been dropping during the time that has been policy. By its defenders’ logic, stop-and-frisk works — even though there are many other reasons for the drop in homicides. Moreover, when the number of stops dropped by 20 percent last year, there should have been a corresponding rise in homicides. There wasn’t.

And there is a more important argument that isn’t captured by the numbers. Aggressive stop-and-frisks sow community distrust of the police and actually inhibit crime control, creating a generation of disaffected minority youths who believe that cops are racists.

Last, the pro-stop-and-frisk camp ignores the strategies other cities have employed to reduce crime without violating civil liberties, like “focused deterrence,” which works with communities to go after the few individuals who are typically responsible for driving up crime rates.

None of this means that stop-and-frisk should be junked. As Judge Scheindlin made clear, she is “not ordering an end” to stop-and-frisks. She’s ordering the police to follow the law.

When my students ask, what should a cop do to “follow the law,” I think back to Martin McFadden, the detective in Terry v. Ohio. Detective McFadden, a veteran of the police, saw two men he thought were acting suspiciously. But he didn’t immediately stop or frisk them. Instead, he took up a post to watch them.

It soon became clear that the men were scoping out a location for a robbery. He watched as one man walked by the spot several times; he then watched the other go through the same motions. Only then, based on his belief that he had seen enough to think the men were “casing a job, a stickup,” did he stop and frisk the men, finding two guns.

Instead, the New York Police Department has watered down the standard so that almost any black or Hispanic male can be deemed suspicious without need for further investigation. That means me. Now imagine if it meant you, too.

That still leaves the question, “What now?” Mayor Bloomberg is sure to appeal Judge Scheindlin’s decision, both in the court of appeals and the court of public opinion. But that’s not the only option.

He could actually welcome Judge Scheindlin’s decision to appoint an independent monitor to supervise reform. Mr. Bloomberg already claims crime reduction as part of his legacy. It’s not too late for him to claim that and more: that he reduced crime and finally did so in a way that was fair, egalitarian and not racially discriminatory. And it’s certainly not too late for his successor.

Just imagine what a legacy that would be. And not just for the mayor, but for as well.
253 2013-08-13 Pakistan accused Indian troops of shelling its territory along the disputed Kashmir border on Monday and killing a civilian, the latest in a series of allegations of cross-border attacks made by both sides over the past week. The resumption of violence along the border threatens to sabotage recent overtures by the two countries aimed at resuming peace talks and increasing the flow of trade. A Pakistani military official accused Indian troops of “unprovoked firing” early Monday in three sectors along the Kashmir border, Battal, Chirikot and Satwal, and killing a civilian. A senior Indian Army commander said Indian troops had been responding to unprovoked firing from Pakistan and targeted military posts, not civilian areas. He accused Pakistan of violating a 2003 cease-fire agreement in Kashmir multiple times over the past four days. The mountainous Kashmir region is divided between Pakistan and India, but claimed in its entirety by both.
254 2013-08-13 BEIJING — The wife and the mother of Neil Heywood, the British businessman whose mysterious death in China set off the downfall of a senior Communist Party official last year, have pressed for compensation over what the Chinese authorities had determined was a murder, according to people with knowledge of the case.

Family members of Mr. Heywood began pressing for compensation months ago from the family of Gu Kailai, the wife of the Chinese official, said one person with knowledge of the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate politics of the case.

Ms. Gu was convicted last year of poisoning Mr. Heywood in November 2011 in a hotel in the municipality of Chongqing, a region of 30 million in southwest China that was governed by Ms. Gu’s husband, Bo Xilai. Ms. Gu was given a suspended life sentence, which generally equates to life in prison. The trial of Mr. Bo on charges of bribetaking, corruption and abuse of power is expected to start soon.

Officials at the British Embassy in Beijing discussed the Heywood family’s concerns with Chinese Foreign Ministry officials twice in July, an embassy spokesman said Tuesday.

There is no sign that the Gu family intends to pay any compensation. It is unclear how much money in assets, cash or investments Ms. Gu herself owned.

Mr. Heywood’s mother, Ann Heywood, released a statement to The Wall Street Journal on Sunday in which she said her “overriding concern has been for the security and well-being of Neil’s two children,” who live with Mr. Heywood’s widow, Wang Lulu, in Beijing.
255 2013-08-13 “It points to something missing in our understanding of gravity,” said Joseph Polchinski, of the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics in , Calif., one of the theorists who set off this confusion.

Down this rabbit hole are many of the jazzy magical mysteries of modern physics: Black holes. The shortcuts through space and time called wormholes. Quantum entanglement, also known as spooky action at a distance, in which particles separated by light-years can still instantaneously appear to remain connected. The reward for going down this hole could be a new understanding of why we think we live in a universe with space and time at all, with suitably unpredictable consequences. After all, if Einstein hadn’t been troubled a century ago by logical inconsistencies in the Newtonian universe, we might not have GPS systems, which rely on his theory of general relativity to keep time, in our pockets today.

Black holes are the most extreme predictions of Einstein’s theory, which describes how matter and energy warp the geometry of space and time the way a heavy sleeper causes a mattress to sag. Too much matter and energy in one place could cause space to sag so far that the matter inside it would disappear as if behind a magician’s cloak, collapsing endlessly to a point of infinite density known as a singularity. Einstein thought that idea was ridiculous when it was pointed out to him at the time, in 1916, but today astronomers agree that the universe is speckled with such dark monsters, including beasts lurking in the hearts of most galaxies that are millions and billions of time more massive than the Sun. Many of them resulted from the collapse of dead stars.

General relativity is based on what Einstein later called his “happiest thought,” that a freely falling person would not feel his weight. It is known simply as the equivalence principle; it says that empty space looks the same everywhere and to everyone.

One consequence of this principle is that an astronaut would not feel anything special happening when he fell through the point of no return, known as the event horizon, into a black hole. Like a bungee jumper, he would feel weightless then and all the way until he hit the bottom, which could take seconds or years depending on how big the hole was, and he would be stretched like a noodle by tidal forces and then crushed into a speck. At the event horizon there would be “no drama,” in the lexicon — at least in the physical sense, as opposed to the intellectual trauma of knowing you were not ever going home. Things or people went in, they got crushed to infinite density and disappeared. That was the traditional view of black holes.

Things got more interesting, however, in 1974 when , the British cosmologist, stunned the world by showing that when the paradoxical quantum laws that describe subatomic behavior were taken into account, black holes would leak particles and radiation, and in fact eventually explode, although for a hole the mass of a star it would take longer than the age of the universe.

This was a breakthrough in combining general relativity, the gravity that curves the cosmos, with quantum theory, which describes the microscopic quirkiness inside it, but there was a big hitch. Dr. Hawking concluded that the radiation coming from a black hole would be completely random, conveying no information about what had fallen into it. When the black hole finally exploded, all that information would be erased from the universe forever. “God not only plays dice with the universe,” Dr. Hawking said in 1976 in a riposte to Einstein’s famous doubts about the randomness of quantum theory, “he sometimes throws them where they can’t be seen.”

Particle physicists cried foul, saying that this violated a basic tenet of modern science and of quantum theory, that information is always preserved. From the material in the smoke and flames of a burning book, for example, one could figure out whether it was the Bible or the Kama Sutra; the same should be true of the fizz and pop of black holes, these physicists argued. A 30-year controversy ensued.

It was front-page news in 2004 when Dr. Hawking finally said that he had been wrong, and paid off a bet.

Now, however, some physicists say that Dr. Hawking might have conceded too soon. “He had good reason,” said Dr. Polchinski, “but he gave up for the wrong reason.” Nobody, he explained, had yet figured out exactly how information does get out of a black hole.

That was the task that four researchers based in Santa Barbara — Ahmed Almheiri, Donald Marolf, and James Sully, all from the , and Dr. Polchinski of the Kavli Institute set themselves a year ago. The team (called AMPS, after their initials) found, to their surprise, that following the known laws of physics would lead to a contradiction, the firewall paradox.

Their calculations showed that having information flowing out of a black hole was incompatible with having an otherwise smooth Einsteinian space-time at its boundary, the event horizon. In its place would be a discontinuity in the vacuum that would manifest itself as energetic particles — a “firewall” — lurking just inside the black hole.

Being incinerated as you entered a black hole would certainly contradict Einstein’s dictum of no drama. If this were true, you would in fact die long before the bungee-jumping ride ever got anywhere close to the bottom. The existence of a firewall would mean that the horizon, which according to general relativity is just empty space, is a special place, pulling the rug out from under Einstein’s principle, his theory of gravity, and modern cosmology, which is based on general relativity. This presented the scientists with what Dr. Bousso calls the “menu from hell.” If the firewall argument was right, one of three ideas that lie at the heart and soul of modern physics, had to be wrong. Either information can be lost after all; Einstein’s principle of equivalence is wrong; or quantum field theory, which describes how elementary particles and forces interact, is wrong and needs fixing. Abandoning any one of these would be revolutionary or appalling or both.

Dr. Polchinski was very surprised by the result. “It seemed like such a simple argument that it must have been considered and resolved earlier,” he said. After trying to kill it by talking to colleagues in Santa Barbara, he e-mailed Dr. Susskind of Stanford, an old hand at black holes and information, expecting that Dr. Susskind would point out the error.

“But after a week or two of disbelief,” Dr. Polchinski said, “he was as confused as we” were.

Dr. Susskind said: “The arguments are very clear. Nobody knew what to make of them.”

The firewall argument hinges on one of the weirder aspects of quantum physics, the action called entanglement. As Einstein, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen pointed out in 1935, quantum theory predicts that a pair of particles can be connected in such a way that measuring a property of one — its direction of spin, say — will immediately affect the results of measuring the other one, even if it is light-years away.

Einstein used this “spooky action at a distance” to suggest the absurdity of quantum mechanics, but such experiments are now done in labs every day. You can’t use it to send a message faster than light, because the correlation shows up only when the two experimenters get together and compare their respective results. But it plays a crucial role in quantum computing and cryptography — and, it turns out, in explaining how information encoded in the Hawking radiation gets out of a black hole.

Consider two particles (let’s call them Bob and Alice) that have been radiated by a black hole. Bob left it eons ago, as it began leaking radiation; quantum entanglement theory dictates that in order for the black hole to keep track of what information it has been transmitting, Bob out there has to be entangled with Alice, who just left.

But that scenario competes with another kind of entanglement, between particles on either side of the event horizon, the black hole’s boundary. If space is indeed smooth, as Einstein postulated, and if quantum field theory is correct, Alice must be entangled with another particle, Ted, who is just inside the black hole.

But quantum theory forbids promiscuous entanglements. In the language of quantum information, Alice can marry either Bob or Ted, but not both, even if the second marriage happens inside the black hole where most of us can’t see it.

Alice should have a consistent explanation of the universe, Dr. Polchinski explained, “just as we ourselves must, even though we are inside the cosmic horizon.”

And so smoke pours from the AMPS group’s computers and has continued to pour from the particle accelerators of the mind, fueled by coffee and blackboard chalk this last year. Firewall or not? Does information live or die? Is Einstein at last wrong? Experiments would not help, even if we had a black hole in a laboratory, because the putative firewall, if it exists, would be just inside where it can’t be seen safely.

At a firewall workshop this winter, John Preskill, a Caltech theorist who won a bet with Dr. Hawking on the randomness of information from a black hole, declared that physicists were back where they had been 40 years ago.

Dr. Bousso said his first response to the AMPS paper was, “Come on, you gotta be kidding me.” He added, “Everybody goes through their stages of grief.”

About 40 papers have been devoted to firewalls in the last year, and more are on the way. Daniel Harlow of and Patrick Hayden of suggested that the issue might be moot; the computation necessary to verify that Alice and Bob are entangled could take longer than the age of the universe and the black hole would evaporate in the meantime, making it impossible ever to go inside and experience the contradiction.

Failing that, which of the items on Dr. Bousso’s “menu from hell” might have to go depends on who is speaking.

In some ways, it would be easiest to give up quantum field theory, which describes what empty space should look like, in the case of someone who is being accelerated, perhaps by gravity pulling him down a black hole. After all, quantum theory, with “virtual” particles flitting in and out of existence and spooky entanglements is already strange. On the other hand, as Ed Witten of the Institute for Advanced Study, who has so far watched the firewall debate from a distance, said, “Quantum field theory is how the world works.” It had a major triumph just a year ago, when the Higgs boson, a subatomic particle responsible for the mass of other subatomic particles, was discovered after a 40-year search, at the at .

Meanwhile, physicists have more reason than ever to think that information cannot be lost. A celebrated 1997 paper by Juan M. Maldacena of the Institute for Advanced Study describes nature as a kind of hologram, in which the information about what happens inside a volume of three-dimensional space, for example, is encoded in quantum equations on its two-dimensional boundary, the way a 3-D image is encoded on the face of your bank card.

Mark Van Raamsdonk, a young theorist at the University of British Columbia, likes to use a spookier analogy to describe this, namely the chip that controls a Matrix-like video game. (Feel free to insert your own woo-woo music here.)

The discovery that the information needed to describe what happens in some volume is proportional to the area enclosing that volume is the strangest and most far-reaching consequence of Dr. Hawking’s discovery that black holes explode, and is still wreathed in mystery.

Dr. Maldacena’s universe is often portrayed like a can of soup, in which galaxies, black holes, gravity, stars and so forth, including us, are the soup inside, while the information to describe them resides, like a label, on the outside. Think of it as gravity in a can. The equations that represent the label are deterministic and there is no room in them for information to be lost, implying that information in the universe inside is also preserved.

Which leaves the firewall as the only way to stop the illegal marriage of Alice and Ted, Dr. Polchinski said — an odious solution because it contravenes the basic principle of general relativity.

He pointed out, however, that in a sense physicists had already thrown Einstein under the bus. In Dr. Maldacena’s holographic universe, considered to be the last word on quantum gravity, the dimensions of space-time do not seem to matter. “We’ve known for years that space-time is not fundamental,” Dr. Polchinski said. “General relativity is not fundamental.”

He went on, “space-time is emergent. Gravity is emergent. Maybe sometimes it doesn’t always emerge.”

But if space and time and gravity are not fundamental, what is?

Recently a new way of solving the firewall conundrum and of answering that haunting question has attracted a lot of attention, although no consensus. Dr. Maldacena and Dr. Susskind have proposed that Einstein could come to his own rescue via one more far-out notion in modern physics: wormholes.

In 1935 Einstein and Rosen found that, mathematically anyway, black holes could come in pairs connected by shortcuts through space — then known as Einstein-Rosen bridges, now known as wormholes. A wormhole would not be traversable by any means we now know about, ruling out time travel and other violations of relativity, despite the dreams of science fiction writers and interstellar pioneers.

In 2010, Dr. Van Raamsdonk of suggested that such wormholes were the geometric manifestations of quantum entanglement. After all, neither of these phenomena, which seemed to transcend local space, could be used for sending direct messages. Brian Swingle at had made a similar suggestion a year earlier.

In effect, what these theorists were saying was that without the phenomenon of entanglement, space-time would have no structure at all. Or as Dr. Maldacena put it, “Spooky action at a distance creates space-time.” If true, this insight would be a step toward a longtime dream of theorists of explaining how space and time emerge from some more basic property of reality, in this case, bits of quantum information. The theorist John Wheeler, of Princeton, who had coined the term “black hole,” called this concept “it from bit.”

Taking this idea seriously, Dr. Maldacena and Dr. Susskind proposed that a similar kind of wormhole arrangement existed between the black hole in the AMPS case and its Hawking radiation. Instead of a tunnel snaking through hyperspace and opening at the maw of another black hole, the wormhole would split into a zillion spaghetti-like strands ending on each of the pieces of Hawking radiation. That would mean that Bob, the Hawking particle in the cartoon version of the theory mentioned above, might be light years away from the event horizon, but he would still be connected to the interior of the black hole, as if there were a doorway in that opened up into a basement in .

Because of this wormhole connection, Dr. Maldacena explained, “Ted and Bob are the same.” So the result is sort of like the happy ending of one of those screwball romantic comedies that involve mistaken identity and the handsome vagabond turns out to be the prince in disguise; Alice can marry Ted who is really Bob and the bonds of matrimony extend smoothly across the edge of the black hole.

In that case, then, there is no firewall, no contradiction in the laws of physics. And Einstein survives to fight another day.

“If right, this is clearly a major insight into gravity and quantum mechanics,” an enthusiastic Dr. Susskind said. “I think of it as a very dramatic thing,” he said, noting that long after Einstein’s career was presumed to be over, at 56, “he produced these ideas” of entanglement and wormholes having no idea they were connected.

But Einstein is not safe yet.

“At first whiff,” Dr. Preskill wrote in a recent blog post, the Maldacena-Susskind conjecture “may smell fresh and sweet, but it will have to ripen on the shelf for a while.” He added, “For now, wormhole lovers can relish the possibilities.”

Dr. Maldacena and Dr. Susskind admit that the wormhole hypothesis is still a work in progress. Few of their colleagues are convinced yet that it has been formulated in sufficient detail, let alone that it can solve the firewall paradox. “All I can say,” Dr. Susskind said in an e-mail on the eve of a firewall workshop next week at the Kavli Institute where wormholes and everything else will surely be scrutinized, “is that no one has a completely solid case and that certainly includes me. Time will tell.”

Dr. Polchinski said, “My current thinking is that all the arguments that we are having are the kind of arguments that you make when you don’t have a theory.” We need a more complete theory of gravity, he concluded.

“Maybe ‘space-time from entanglement’ is the right place to start,” he wrote. “I am not sure.”

Dr. Bousso, who has been e-mailing with Dr. Maldacena, is skeptical that the wormholes will eliminate firewalls. “My own view is that it’s time to move on, accept, and actually understand firewalls,” he said. After all, he added, there’s no principle of nonviolence in the universe, except for Einstein’s equivalence principle, which says the black hole’s horizon is not a special place. But maybe it is, after all.

Meanwhile, Dr. Bousso said, the present debate had raised his estimation, “by another few notches,” of the “stupendous magnitude” of Dr. Hawking’s original discovery of the information paradox.

The firewall paradox,” he said, “tells us that the conceptual cost of getting information back out of a black hole is even more revolutionary than most of us had believed.”
256 2013-08-13 IF INFORMATION IS NEVER LOST ... According to quantum mechanics, information that falls into a black hole will not be lost forever. Even after the black hole explodes, the information contained in it can still be recovered. If information cannot be lost, each particle that escapes from a black hole must be linked to another particle that escaped earlier.

According to Einstein’s theory of general relativity, particles pass smoothly over the threshhold of a black hole. If the particle were a person, he or she would experience “no drama” at the border. In order for space-time to be smooth, each particle that leaves a black hole must be linked to another particle inside the black hole.

Particles can have only one link. When forced to choose between the two laws, physicists have generally sided with the idea that information is never lost. If an exiting particle must be linked to a partner outside the black hole, it will have to break the link with its partner inside. The energy released in these breaks would create a “firewall” — a ring of fire around the black hole that violates the theory

of “no drama.”

If each escaping particle remains connected to the black hole through a wormhole, only one link would be required to connect the particles. Both laws of physics would be preserved. The distant particle and the particle inside the black hole could be the same particle.
257 2013-08-13 Surrounded by a whirlwind of media coverage and critical praise, the AMC drama “Breaking Bad” began its final run of eight episodes on Sunday night with the biggest audience in the show’s history, 5.9 million viewers.

The hugely discussed episode – it was the subject of more than 750,000 messages on Twitter on Sunday – proved its potency in the category most desired by many television advertisers: viewers between 18 and 49 years old. The episode reached 3.6 million viewers in that group, the second-best number of the year on cable television, topped only by another AMC hit, “The Walking Dead,” which hit 8.1 million in that category.

The total audience was up more than 100 percent from the previous season premiere for “Breaking Bad,” 2.9 million total viewers.

“Breaking Bad” has been the standard-bearer for the television trend of “binge watching,” so an increase was to be expected as new viewers have been joining the series. But few shows more than double their audience in their final season.

AMC followed “Breaking Bad” with the premiere of a new drama, “Low Winter Sun,” which did not receive strong reviews. Its total audience of 2.5 million is still excellent by cable standards, but obviously represented a significant falloff. It also had only 1.4 million viewers in the 18-49 category, a drop of more than two million from its lead-in show.

AMC extended its night with an edition of “Talking Bad,” a takeoff on its successful “Talking Dead” show, which follows “Walking Dead” episodes. That show, which featured an interview with Vince Gilligan, the creator of “Breaking Bad,” managed 1.2 million viewers. But it was placed an hour after the end of the “Breaking Bad” premiere in order to accommodate “Low Winter Sun,” which probably cut down sharply on the number of “Bad” fans who watched.
258 2013-08-13 Q. Have any studies assessed the risks of hearing loss faced by New Yorkers who ride the subway? Does it help to cover your ears?

A. A widely discussed 2006 study of transit noise in New York City, measuring noise on buses as well as in subway cars and on platforms, was described at the time as the first such formal study published since the 1930s.

Done by scientists at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and published in The Journal of Urban Health, the study concluded that noise levels at subway and bus stops could easily exceed recognized public health recommendations and had the potential to damage hearing, given sufficient exposure.

For example, guidelines from the Environmental Protection Agency and the World Health Organization set a limit of 45 minutes’ exposure to 85 decibels, the mean noise level measured on subway platforms. And nearly 60 percent of the platform measurements exceeded that level.

The maximum noise levels inside subway cars were even higher than those on the platforms, with one-fifth exceeding 100 decibels and more than two-thirds exceeding 90 decibels.

The study recommended properly fitted earplugs and earmuff-type protectors in loud transit environments, saying they could cut noise levels significantly at the eardrum. And it warned that personal listening devices only increased the total noise and risk.
259 2013-08-13 For ginger juice, grate a 1-inch piece of ginger. Wrap in a piece of cheesecloth, twist both ends of the cheesecloth and, holding the package over a bowl, wring out so that the juice is squeezed through the cheesecloth into the bowl.

1. In a bowl or measuring cup, whisk together all of the ingredients for the dressing. Taste and adjust seasoning. You can make it spicier if desired.

2. Cook the noodles. I like to cook wheat udon and soba the Japanese way. Bring 3 or 4 quarts of water to a boil in a large pot. Add the noodles gradually, so that the water remains at a boil, and stir once with a long-handled spoon or pasta fork so that they don’t stick together. Wait for the water to come back up to a rolling boil — it will bubble up, so don’t fill the pot all the way — and add 1 cup of cold water. Allow the water to come back to a rolling boil, and add another cup of cold water. Allow the water to come to a boil one more time, and add a third cup of water. When the water comes to a boil again, the noodles should be cooked through. Drain and toss with1 tablespoon sesame oil.

3. Combine the noodles, pepper, cucumber, tomato, cilantro, chives or scallions and black sesame seeds in a large bowl. Toss with the dressing and serve. The salad can also be refrigerated for a few hours before serving. In this case add half the cilantro now and the rest just before serving.

Advance preparation: The noodles can be cooked up to 3 days ahead. Make sure to toss them with the oil. The prepared salad will keep for a day in the refrigerator. The dressing will keep for 3 or 4 days in the refrigerator. You may need to thin it out before using.

Nutritional information per serving: 324 calories; 12 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 5 grams polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 44 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 247 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 11 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
260 2013-08-13 Corporate deals and technology stocks were among the few standouts on Wall Street on Monday during a quiet day when the main market indexes ended relatively flat.

BlackBerry jumped 10.5 percent after the smartphone maker said it would consider a sale. Dole Foods rose 5.3 percent after the chief executive said he would take the company private, and Steinway Musical Instruments gained 9.3 percent after receiving a new buyout offer.

Apple helped lead technology stocks higher, making them among the biggest gainers in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Apple’s stock rose 2.8 percent after the AllThingsD site said the company would release the latest version of its iPhone on Sept. 10.

Still, the overall stock market lacked direction. The S.& P. fell 1.95 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,689.47. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 5.83 points, or less than 0.1 percent, at 15,419.68.

Apple, which rose $12.91, to $467.30, makes up 7.9 percent of the Nasdaq composite index and its advance pushed the index up 9.84 points, or 0.3 percent, to 3,669.95.
261 2013-08-13 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg angrily accused the judge of deliberately denying the city “a fair trial” and said the city would file an appeal.

Striking a defiant tone, Mr. Bloomberg said, “You’re not going to see any change in tactics overnight.” He said he hoped the appeal process would allow the current stop-and-frisk practices to continue through the end of his administration because “I wouldn’t want to be responsible for a lot of people dying.”

The judge found that for much of the last decade, patrol officers had stopped innocent people without any objective reason to suspect them of wrongdoing. But her criticism went beyond the conduct of police officers.

“I also conclude that the city’s highest officials have turned a blind eye to the evidence that officers are conducting stops in a racially discriminatory manner,” she wrote, citing statements that Mr. Bloomberg and the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, have made in defending the policy.

Judge Scheindlin ordered a number of remedies, including a pilot program in which officers in at least five precincts across the city will wear cameras on their bodies to record street encounters. She also ordered a “joint remedial process” — in essence, a series of community meetings — to solicit public comments on how to reform the department’s tactics.

The judge named Peter L. Zimroth, a partner in Arnold & Porter L.L.P., and a former corporation counsel and prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, to monitor the Police Department’s compliance with the United States Constitution. The installation of a monitor will leave the department under a degree of judicial control that is certain to shape the policing strategies under the next mayor.

Judge Scheindlin’s decision grapples with the legacy of Terry v. Ohio, a 1968 ruling by the Supreme Court, which held that stopping and frisking was constitutionally permissible under certain conditions. But she said that changes to the way the New York Police Department employed the practice were needed to ensure that the street stops were carried out in a manner that “protects the rights and liberties of all New Yorkers, while still providing much needed police protection.”

The judge found that the New York police were too quick to deem suspicious behavior that was perfectly innocent, in effect watering down the legal standard required for a stop.

“Blacks are likely targeted for stops based on a lesser degree of objectively founded suspicion than whites,” she wrote.

She noted that officers routinely stopped people partly on the basis of “furtive movements,” a category that officers have testified might encompass any of the following: being fidgety, changing directions, walking in a certain way, grabbing at a pocket or looking over one’s shoulder.

“If officers believe that the behavior described above constitutes furtive movement that justifies a stop, then it is no surprise that stops so rarely produce evidence of criminal activity,” Judge Scheindlin wrote.

She found that in their zeal to identify concealed weapons, officers sometimes stopped people on the grounds that the officer observed a bulge in the person’s pocket; often it turned out that the bulge was caused not by a gun but by a wallet.

“The outline of a commonly carried object such as a wallet or cellphone does not justify a stop or frisk, nor does feeling such an object during a frisk justify a search,” she ruled.

She emphasized what she called the “human toll of unconstitutional stops,” noting that some of the plaintiffs testified that their encounters with the police left them feeling that they did not belong in certain areas of the city. She characterized each stop as “a demeaning and humiliating experience.”

“No one should live in fear of being stopped whenever he leaves his home to go about the activities of daily life,” she wrote.

One of the plaintiffs in the case, Lalit Clarkson, 31, a union organizer, said after the ruling that “the stop-and-frisk policy criminalizes a whole race and community of people, just for going to work, going to get some food, going on a train to go downtown.”

The decision, he said, represents the legal system’s validation of what the black community has known for a long time: that the stop-and-frisk tactics rely on racial profiling.

“What we know, in our community, to be the truth, has never before gone through a massive legal process” and been “shown, point by point, step by step” to be true, he said.

The judge’s ruling, in Floyd v. City of New York, a 2008 class-action lawsuit that represents the broadest legal challenge to the department’s practices, follows a two-month nonjury trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan earlier this year. Her decision cites testimony of about a dozen black or biracial men and one woman who described being stopped, as well as the conclusions of statistical experts who studied police paperwork describing some 4.43 million stops between 2004 and the middle of 2012.

But the stops were not the end of the problem, Judge Scheindlin found. After officers stopped people, they often conducted frisks for weapons, or searched the subjects’ pockets for contraband, like drugs, without any legal grounds for doing so. Also, she found that during police stops, blacks and Hispanics “were more likely to be subjected to the use of force than whites, despite the fact that whites are more likely to be found with weapons or contraband.”

About 83 percent of the stops between 2004 and 2012 involved blacks and Hispanics, even though those two demographics make up just slightly more than 50 percent of the city’s residents. Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Kelly have explained that disparity by saying it mirrored the disproportionate percentage of crimes committed by young minority men. But Judge Scheindlin dismissed the Police Department’s rationale.

“This might be a valid comparison if the people stopped were criminals,” she wrote, explaining that there was significant evidence that the people being stopped were not criminals. “To the contrary, nearly 90 percent of the people stopped are released without the officer finding any basis for a summons or arrest.”

Rather, Judge Scheindlin found, the stops overwhelmingly involved minority men because police commanders had come to see them as “the right people” to stop.

“It is impermissible to subject all members of a racially defined group to heightened police enforcement because some members of that group are criminals,” she wrote.

Mr. Bloomberg pledged that lawyers for the city, in appealing to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, would argue that the judge was biased against the police. As evidence, he cited the fact that the judge, who has overseen numerous stop-and-frisk cases over the last decade, had encouraged the plaintiffs to steer the Floyd case into her courtroom by marking it as related to an earlier case she had overseen.

The mayor said the judge did “not understand how policing works” and had misinterpreted what the Constitution allowed.
262 2013-08-13 A spokeswoman for Mr. Rudd defended his use of the notes, which were clearly visible throughout the debate and on which he relied most heavily during his closing arguments, in comments reported by the Australian Associated Press.

“There were no objections raised at any time,” said the spokeswoman, whose name was not given in keeping with norms for Australian political campaigns. “We have always believed this rule is aimed at preventing the use of props.”

The contest, although formally set by Mr. Rudd less than a week ago, has effectively been under way since Ms. Gillard announced in January, unusually early, that the elections would be held in September. Ms. Gillard insisted at the time that she was aiming for political stability, but the plan effectively opened a bruising campaign season that will last almost nine months.

Mr. Rudd has recently faced unusually pointed media criticism, particularly from publications owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation. Last week, Mr. Rudd blasted Mr. Murdoch, an Australian-American media mogul, after his Sydney-based tabloid, The Daily Telegraph, ran a series of anti-Rudd editorials on its front page. In one, Mr. Rudd was depicted as Colonel Klink from the 1965-71 television comedy “Hogan’s Heroes,” sporting a Nazi uniform and a monocle.

Reflecting the tenor of the campaign, David Speers, a political editor at the Murdoch-owned satellite news network Sky and the moderator of the debate, defended his conduct after receiving withering criticism on social media.

“I’ve been copping a lot of flak on Twitter and elsewhere for not jumping in and ripping those notes off Kevin Rudd,” Mr. Speers said Monday in an interview with ABC Radio. “Has he broken the rules? Well technically, yes, I think he probably has.”

Whatever the value of focusing on the form over the substance of the debate, the opposition does appear to have a point. Rules released Friday by the National Press Club, which hosted the debate, state, “The Leaders may have a pen and paper on the lectern and no other documentation or props.”

The news comes at a perilous time for the Labor Party, which dumped the deeply unpopular Ms. Gillard in the hopes of averting a landslide loss that would decimate its ranks in Parliament.

Mr. Rudd’s return saw an immediate bounce in the polls for Labor, which has led a tenuous minority government since its poor showing in the last federal elections in 2010. But several recent polls seem to show that initial surge of support having plateaued or even slightly reversed from its peak.

On Monday, Mr. Abbott was gaining headlines of his own after making a gaffe in Melbourne while criticizing Mr. Rudd for his style of decision-making. Mr. Abbott, a Rhodes scholar, said in a speech to his party that “No one, however smart, however well educated, however experienced, is the suppository of all wisdom,” when he apparently meant to say “repository.” The comment became a sensation on Twitter and other social media.
263 2013-08-14 The reinsurance arm of Third Point, the hedge fund run by Daniel S. Loeb, priced its initial public offering at $12.50 a share, at the bottom end of an estimated price range....
264 2013-08-14 Eike Batista has taken further steps toward dismantling his once high-flying empire of energy, logistics and mining companies by selling a controlling stake in the LLX logistics firm....
265 2013-08-14 The French chef Anne-Sophie Pic’s new collection of recipes features dishes that are meant to inspire more than instruct, like scallops topped with rose petals and crab topped with tea foam....
266 2013-08-14 A little sympathy for those who were wrong....
267 2013-08-14 Questions of ethics and offensiveness come up in two examples of visual journalism....
268 2013-08-14 He knows a government shutdown won’t stop the Affordable Care Act. But he won’t outright oppose the plan....
269 2013-08-14 Mr. Icahn’s message to Apple was clear: it should buy back more stock and fast. It would be a smart, relatively effortless move, the author writes....
270 2013-08-14 Optimism rises. The Pebble disappoints. Is Europe’s recession over?...
271 2013-08-14 Learn more about the Civil Rights Movement by playing our crossword, either online or in print....
272 2013-08-14 Paulson & Company has agreed to buy Steinway Musical Instruments for about $512 million. That means that Kohlberg & Company, which previously agreed to buy Steinway, will be watching from the orchestra seats....
273 2013-08-14 Ideally, with whatever you choose to act as the room divider, the driving factor should be how it integrates into the space during the majority of the time the room is in use. If it feels as if it belongs to the overall room scheme, then it will be a bonus feature when it’s pulled out as a divider.

Q. I was never able to afford a house while my daughter was small; to put her through college, I lived in a studio co-op that I now own. Now she cannot get a job. How can I make a 420-square-foot studio accommodate two women with a lot of clothes? I cannot afford to rent a bigger apartment; I need to save money for retirement or to help her with graduate school. — Landless, Brooklyn

Q. Yes, indeedy, please advise on small space living. There is a terrific exhibit at the Museum of the City of New York, which shows living in a small studio (I think the measurement was 325 square feet.) It was fascinating to see how one could live in a small space relatively well but there was not a lot of room for clothing or books or my upright piano. —Bklynbar, Brooklyn

A. Dear Landless and Bklynbar: I think the answer to living well in the extreme conditions of tight square footage is to think outside the confines of the conventional and allow yourself to exploit the priorities of your particular situation. In the case of living with your daughter and all of your combined wardrobe, I would think of the apartment as though it were a giant walk-in closet that is so luxurious you can sleep and have a meal in it. Surround yourself as much as possible with built ins — hanging and drawers and shelves for shoes and folded clothes; close off some of the storage, and expose other elements to allow nicer things to be put on display. Utilize storage from floor to ceiling as well, as spaces like this require making every square foot work. It takes a bit of finessing the layout and expense in getting the storage custom built, but the end result is the functionality you absolutely need to make cohabitation pleasurable for the next few years.

Q. We’re planning to make our “final move” in several years. From:two bedrooms, kitchen and three baths, a media room, library/office, living room, dining area, breakfast room and family room, about 3,000 square feet total. To: about 1,600 square feet in a retirement facility, Living room with dining area, kitchen, two bedrooms, 2 1/2 baths, open den area. We’re planning on no overnight guests, though there is a convertible sofa useful for a guest or for one of us to occupy if sleeping together is inconvenient. We have many books and 40-year-old contemporary rosewood furniture to suit the den. We must consolidate the media room and family room into one space — the second bedroom. Apart from the electronics, it could contain some of the “family room” furnishings, which consist mainly of the work of North Carolina artisans (except for the Kentucky-made convertible sofa), all more-or-less clean-line contemporary. Our current living-dining room is mainly 19th-century antiques and reproductions, mahogany walnut and cherry. Current breakfast room contains a 19th-century New England single-board cherry drop-leaf table plus a modern cherry bookcase and hutch plus modern rush-seat chairs: basically, we have two dining rooms: one cherry and one mahogany. We have more than enough semi-antique and newer Persian rugs to cover the floors, but we like some bare wood. We would continue to entertain, annually 8 people twice, 20 people once and couples 4 times, as we both love to cook. We are in our early 70s. Any ideas? — Julie, Asheville, N.C.

B. Dear Julie: When reading through your description of your moving scenario and your furnishings, the following thought came to the forefront:

The combined living and dining setup of your new space requires that the dining room furniture that you decide to use must blend harmoniously with the living room furniture. In deciding which pieces are able to live in sync together, you will need to think about not only wood finishes (I personally have no issue blending light and dark woods in the same room; if distributed well throughout the space they can live together easily), you will also have to think about the scale and proportions of your furniture. Generally, I find furniture modeled on 18th-and 19th-century antiques is of a different scale than, say, Danish modern furniture. The older antiques will generally sit more upright and the more angular lines of modern furniture will rarely relate very well to carved antiques. There are exceptions to this “rule” but as you will need to edit your furniture when you downsize, choosing what to use in this main space becomes an issue of finding that balance among the various design elements. One way to approach it is to keep all of the lounge seating of the same general style, thus the seat heights will relate well and then, include one or two small side tables from another style, for instance, the 19th-century antiques. As for entertaining, I would recommend keeping the rush chairs (if they are sturdy) as the extra seating for those occasions and buying a 48-inch round folding table with a floor-length tablecloth and using that for groups larger than your regular table can accommodate. In this arrangement you have the ability to set yourself up with two dining tables and create an elegant atmosphere for a party. For the 20-person occasion, renting tables and chairs simplifies the need to have an elaborate setup and allows you to change the way the dining is done from one party to another. I do it myself at Thanksgiving and have found it to be a reasonable and easy way to handle that large scale and rare sit-down event.

Q. I would be interested in what are best improvements to make to a large family home with all the kids off to college and with an eye to selling the property in five to 10 years. What types of improvement don’t break the bank (think of those three tuitions) but still will increase the value for resale. For example, I wouldn’t want to invest in a major kitchen remodel but would be interested in things to do to a kitchen short of gutting to the studs. — Zee, California

A. Zee in California wanted to know what the best improvements would be to make a large family home appealing from a new buyer’s perspective. While a new kitchen is always a big selling point, renovating it is a major hassle and investment. That said, you should consider what you can do to improve the kitchen you have, as it will enhance your life while living in the house and those improvements will generally come back to you in resale value. Some ideas you might consider to freshen up your kitchen would be to change out any particularly worn elements; repainting cabinetry, replacing appliances, lighting fixtures and flooring are all possible options that don’t require a gut renovation. You might consider changing out the counters, as they often can look worn out and dated if they haven’t been changed in a long time. Kitchen countertop materials, like appliance colors, go through stylistic fads where one material is the “it” thing for a five to 10-year period and then it falls out of favor as “hopelessly out of date.” I cannot tell you what will be the most au courant material for counter tops in five to 10 years, but currently, quartz countertops are very popular. There is a good reason for this:They are manufactured from an aggregate of ground stone and a binding agent, thus allowing for a broader range of color and patterning (or no pattern), which previously was the limitation when considering natural stone. Unlike laminate or Corian type surfaces, quartz counters look and feel cool to the touch, more like natural stone. They wear well and resist staining, which is another issue inherent in most marbles and limestone.

Beyond the kitchen, going through the house with an eye to upkeep and maintenance will always enhance the appeal of the home to a new buyer. Keeping the walls painted and fresh, floors in good condition and gutters and landscaping pristine make a huge impression on new buyers.

Downsizing With Children Halfway Out the Door

Q. We are relocating due to a job transfer. Our youngest is starting college and our oldest is halfway through, but lives off campus in a house year round. Eldest is studying to be a jazz musician, so he may have to move home after college for a period of time before he is established. Youngest will be home for college breaks and summers. We are currently in a 3,500 sq foot ranch with oversized rooms (+ 600 sq ft finished basement) and we use every square foot. Would like to downsize, but don’t really know how. Kids aren’t fully launched but not sure how to accommodate them in their new part time status in the new home. Homes we are looking at are more expensive (due to market we are moving to) so we will need to downsize due to financial constraints anyway. How can we downsize while still making our home inviting to our kids when/if they return? —Caseylight1, Storrs, CT

A. Caseylight1 is tackling a requirement to downsize to new housing while the kids are halfway out of the nest. In thinking about the new housing type to which you will be relocating, I recommend seeking out a three-bedroom situation, so when the two kids both come home you all have separate bedrooms. The way the rooms are furnished, however, can be approached quite differently in this new home from the conventional daughter's room, son's room scheme. Instead of giving each child a fully furnished full-time bedroom, why not make only one of the secondary bedrooms rooms a full bedroom, with an adult size bed. The second bedroom could double as a den or study, providing a dual function of part-time sleeping space and daily functional space for the parents.

The idea would be to not think of the rooms in terms of gender-specific or child-specific decoration, but rather, a more universal decor, as the second full bedroom may be used by a daughter now and then shift to a son’s full time space once he moves back from college. If you acknowledge from the outset with both children that the needs of those who live in the home full time (i.e., the parents) must be accommodated first, and that while you welcome one or both of your children at any time, you have to make the best use of the more limited space you have. In the worse-case scenario that both children find themselves living at home full time for an overlapping period, you may at that point have to shift the furniture out of the den and store it temporarily, and possibly think about renting storage. Since that scenario is not a given, planning for only one child at home full time will be a more effective use of your space and can reduce some of the stress of trying to decide where to economize in this move.
274 2013-08-14 Do you think the growing number of indoor parkour gyms threaten the sport’s “renegade soul?” Or, is it just a positive development for a sport gaining popularity?...
275 2013-08-14 Hollywood studios will soon begin receiving overdue payments for the distribution of their films in China, the Motion Picture Association of America chief executive Christopher Dodd said in a statement on Tuesday....
276 2013-08-14 Hackers rigged the Web site of Tibet’s government in exile to infect the computers of Chinese-speaking visitors, a researcher said Tuesday, outlining the latest in a series of cyberattacks aimed at activists from the Himalayan region of China. The Chinese-language Web site of the Central Tibetan Administration, the exile group based in Dharamsala, India, was altered by attackers to infect visitors with rogue software, a Kaspersky Lab security researcher, Kurt Baumgartner, said in a blog post. It was not immediately clear how long the site had been compromised. It was restored on Tuesday, a spokesman, Tashi Phuntsok, said.
277 2013-08-14 On stage at a mayoral forum in Harlem on Tuesday, the moderator strode along a line of cushy Ultrasuede chairs, stopping at each with a pointed question: What percentage of government contracts should be reserved for businesses owned by members of minority groups and women?

“What’s that, Ms. Quinn?” asked the moderator, Cornell Belcher, cocking an ear toward the chair reserved for Christine C. Quinn, speaker of the City Council. “Fifty percent?”

The crowd cackled; Mr. Belcher was speaking to an empty chair. Only Ms. Quinn’s name, printed and taped to the back of the seat, represented her at the forum, which was hosted by the New York Real Estate Chamber.

In fact, an empty seat in place of Ms. Quinn has become common at the candidate forums that have cropped up with increasing frequency as the race gets down to the wire.

Ms. Quinn is known for a brash style that can often abrade, and her sidestepping of intimate settings like those at forums can be strategic, political analysts say. A way to avoid foot-in-the-mouth moments altogether, the thinking goes, is not to put a foot in the door in the first place.
278 2013-08-14 The judge handling Detroit’s Chapter 9 bankruptcy has appointed Chief Judge Gerald Rosen of Federal District Court as a mediator in the case. Judge Rosen said Tuesday that his aim is to bring those involved in the case together “in a neutral forum, away from the glare of the spotlight” and resolve as many disputes as possible. He said he would work with a small team of other mediators. The order from Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes said the proceedings would be confidential. Detroit says it has at least $18 billion in liabilities and is being run by a state-appointed emergency manager.
279 2013-08-14 This fall, Mrs. Clinton and her staff will move into offices at the foundation’s new headquarters in Midtown , occupying two floors of the Time-Life Building. Amid speculation about her 2016 plans, Mrs. Clinton is adding major new initiatives on women, children and jobs to what has been renamed the Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation.

Worried that the foundation’s operating revenues depend too heavily on Mr. Clinton’s nonstop fund-raising, the three Clintons are embarking on a drive to raise an endowment of as much as $250 million, with events already scheduled in and . And after years of relying on , the former White House counsel whose friendship with Mr. Clinton stretches back decades, to run the organization while living part-time in , the family has hired a New York-based chief executive with a background in management consulting.

“We’re trying to institutionalize the foundation so that it will be here long after the lives of any of us,” Mr. Lindsey said. “That’s our challenge and that is what we are trying to address.”

But the changing of the guard has aggravated long-simmering tensions within the former first family’s inner circle as the foundation tries to juggle the political and philanthropic ambitions of a former president, a potential future president, and their increasingly visible daughter.

And efforts to insulate the foundation from potential conflicts have highlighted just how difficult it can be to disentangle the Clintons’ charity work from Mr. Clinton’s moneymaking ventures and Mrs. Clinton’s political future, according to interviews with more than two dozen former and current foundation employees, donors and advisers to the family. Nearly all of them declined to speak for attribution, citing their unwillingness to alienate the Clinton family.

Last Thursday, Mr. Clinton arrived two hours late to an exuberant welcome at a health clinic about 60 miles north of . Children in zebra-striped loincloths sang as Mr. Clinton and Ms. Clinton made their entrance, and the former president enthusiastically explained how his foundation had helped the South African government negotiate large reductions in the price of drugs that halt the progress of HIV. Aaron Motsoaledi, ’s minister of health, heaped praise on the effort. “Because of your help we are able to treat three and a half times more people than we used to,” he told the crowd.

The project is typical of the model pioneered by the Clinton Foundation, built around dozens of partnerships with private companies, governments, or other nonprofit groups. Instead of handing out grants, the foundation recruits donors and advises them on how best to deploy their money or resources, from helping donate advanced water-purification packets to developing countries to working with credit card companies to expand the volume of low-cost loans offered to poor inner city residents.

The foundation, which has 350 employees in 180 countries, remains largely powered by Mr. Clinton’s global celebrity and his ability to connect corporate executives, A-listers and government officials. On this month’s trip, Mr. Clinton was accompanied by the actors and and the son of the mayoral candidate , a longtime donor.

For most of the foundation’s existence, its leadership has been dominated by loyal veterans of the Clintons’ political lives. , who was a Rhodes scholar with Mr. Clinton and ran Mrs. Clinton’s failed attempt at a in the 1990s, is widely credited as the driving force behind the foundation’s largest project, the Clinton Health Access Initiative, which, among other efforts, negotiates bulk purchasing agreements and price discounts on lifesaving medicines.

Mr. Band, who arrived at the White House in 1995 and worked his way up to become Mr. Clinton’s closest personal aide, standing behind the president on golf courses and the global stage, helped build the foundation’s fund-raising structure. He conceived of and for many years helped run the Clinton Global Initiative, the annual conference that draws hundreds of business leaders and heads of state to New York City where attendees are pushed to make specific philanthropic commitments.

Today, big-name companies vie to buy sponsorships at prices of $250,000 and up, money that has helped subsidize the foundation’s annual operating costs. Last year, the foundation and two subsidiaries had revenues of more than $214 million.

Yet the foundation’s expansion has also been accompanied by financial problems. In 2007 and 2008, the foundation also found itself competing against Mrs. Clinton’s presidential campaign for donors amid a recession. Millions of dollars in contributions intended to seed an endowment were diverted to other programs, creating tension between Mr. Magaziner and Mr. Band. The foundation piled up a $40 million deficit during those two years, according to returns. Last year, it ran more than $8 million in the red.

Amid those shortfalls, the foundation has sometimes catered to donors and celebrities who gave money in ways that raised eyebrows in the low-key nonprofit world. In 2009, during a Clinton Global Initiative gathering at the , the foundation purchased a first-class ticket for the actress , a special guest, who brought her beloved Yorkie, according to two former foundation employees.

In interviews, foundation officials partly blamed the 2008 recession and difficulties in getting donors to provide operating support rather than restricted grants for specific programs for the deficits.

But others criticized Mr. Magaziner, who is widely seen within the foundation as impulsive and lacking organizational skills. On one occasion, Mr. Magaziner dispatched a team of employees to fly around the world for months gathering ideas for a climate change proposal that never got off the ground. Another time, he ignored a report — which was commissioned at significant expense from the consulting firm McKinsey & Company — on how the foundation could get involved in forestry initiatives.

Mr. Magaziner’s management style and difficulty keeping projects within budget were also raised in discussions that surrounded the 2011 Simpson Thacher review. (One person who attended a meeting with Mr. Magaziner recalled his lying on a conference room table in the middle of the meeting because of terrible back spasms, snapping at a staff member.)

Mr. Band repeatedly urged Mr. Clinton to fire Mr. Magaziner, according to people briefed on the matter. Mr. Clinton refused, confiding in aides that despite Mr. Magaziner’s managerial weaknesses, he was a visionary with good intentions. The former president, according to one person who knows them both, “thinks Ira is brilliant — and brilliant people get away with a lot in Clinton world.”

Indeed, by then, Mr. Magaziner had persuaded Mr. Clinton and the foundation to spin the health initiative off into a separate organization, with Mr. Magaziner as its chief executive and the Clinton Foundation appointing a majority of its board members. The financial problems continued. In 2010 and 2011, the first two years when the health initiative operated as a stand-alone organization, it ran annual shortfalls of more than $4 million. A new chief financial officer, hired in 2010, left eight months later.

A foundation official said the health initiative had only three chief financial officers in 10 years and that its financial problem was a common one in the nonprofit world: For all the grant money coming in — more than $160 million in 2011 — Mr. Magaziner had also had difficulty raising money for operating costs. But by the end of 2011, the health initiative had expanded its board, adding two seats. took one.

As the foundation grew, so did the outside business ventures pursued by Mr. Clinton and several of his aides.

None have drawn more scrutiny in Clinton circles than Teneo, a firm co-founded in 2009 by Mr. Band, described by some as a kind of surrogate son to Mr. Clinton. Aspiring to merge corporate consulting, public relations and merchant banking in a single business, Mr. Band poached executives from Wall Street, recruited other Clinton aides to join as employees or advisers and set up shop in a Midtown office formerly belonging to one of the country’s top hedge funds.

By 2011, the firm had added a third partner, Declan Kelly, a former State Department envoy for Mrs. Clinton. And Mr. Clinton had signed up as a paid adviser to the firm.

Teneo worked on retainer, charging monthly fees as high as $250,000, according to current and former clients. The firm recruited clients who were also Clinton Foundation donors, while Mr. Band and Mr. Kelly encouraged others to become new foundation donors. Its marketing materials highlighted Mr. Band’s relationship with Mr. Clinton and the Clinton Global Initiative, where Mr. Band sat on the board of directors through 2011 and remains an adviser. Some Clinton aides and foundation employees began to wonder where the foundation ended and Teneo began.

Those worries intensified after the collapse of , the international brokerage firm led by , a former governor of , in the fall of 2011. The firm had been among Teneo’s earliest clients, and its collapse over bad European investments — while paying $125,000 a month for the firm’s public relations and financial advice — drew Teneo and the Clintons unwanted publicity.

Mr. Clinton ended his advisory role with Teneo in March 2012, after an article appeared in The New York Post suggesting that Mrs. Clinton was angry over the MF Global controversy. A spokesman for Mr. Clinton denied the report. But in a statement released afterward, Mr. Clinton announced that he would no longer be paid by Teneo.

He also praised Mr. Band effusively, crediting him with keeping the foundation afloat and expressing hopes that Mr. Band would continue to advise the Global Initiative.

“I couldn’t have accomplished half of what I have in my post-presidency without Doug Band,” Mr. Clinton said in the statement.

Even that news release was a source of controversy within the foundation, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions. Mr. Band helped edit the statement, which other people around the Clintons felt gave him too much for the foundation’s accomplishments. (The quotation now appears as part of Mr. Band’s biography on the Teneo Web site.)

Mr. Band left his paid position with the foundation in late 2010, but has remained involved with C.G.I., as have a number of Teneo clients, like , and UBS Americas. , a British financial services company that paid a $340 million fine to New York regulators last year to settle charges that it had laundered money from , is a Teneo client and a sponsor of the 2012 global initiative.

Last year, Coca-Cola’s chief executive, , won a coveted spot on the dais with Mr. Clinton, discussing the company’s partnership with another nonprofit to use its distributors to deliver medical goods to patients in Africa. (A Coca-Cola spokesman said that the company’s sponsorship of foundation initiatives long predated Teneo and that the firm plays no role in Coca-Cola’s foundation work.)

In March 2012, David Crane, the chief executive of NRG, an energy company, led a widely publicized trip with Mr. Clinton to , where they toured green energy and projects that NRG finances through a $1 million commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative.

Officials said the foundation has established clear guidelines for the Clinton Global Initiative to help prevent any favoritism or special treatment of particular donors or sponsors.

Teneo was not the only worry: other events thrust the foundation into internal turmoil. In 2011, a wave of midlevel program staff members departed, reflecting the frustration of much of the foundation’s policy personnel with the old political hands running the organization. Around the time of the Simpson Thacher review, Mr. Lindsey suffered a stroke, underscoring concerns about the foundation’s line of succession. , a chief of staff in Mr. Clinton’s White House, stepped in for several months as temporary chief executive.

While much attention has focused on Mrs. Clinton’s emerging role within the foundation, advisers to the family say her daughter’s growing involvement could prove more critical in the years ahead. After years of pursuing other career paths, including working at McKinsey & Company and a hedge fund, Ms. Clinton, 33, has begun to assert herself as a force within the foundation. Her perspective is shaped far more than her parents’ by her time in the world of business, and she is poised to play a significant role in shaping the foundation’s future, particularly if Mrs. Clinton chooses to run for president.

She formally joined the foundation’s board in 2011, marking her growing role there — and the start of intensifying tensions between her and Mr. Band. Several people close to the Clintons said that she became increasingly concerned with the negative impact Mr. Band’s outside business might have on her father’s work and that she cited concerns raised during the internal review about potential conflicts of interest involving Teneo.

It was Ms. Clinton who suggested that the newly installed chief executive, Eric Braverman, be considered for the job during a nearly two-year search. A friend and a former colleague from McKinsey, Mr. Braverman, 38, had helped the Clintons with philanthropic projects in Haiti after the earthquake there. And his hiring coincided with Ms. Clinton’s appointment as the vice chairwoman of the foundation board, where she will bear significant responsibility for steering her family’s philanthropy, both in the causes it tackles and in the potential political and financial conflicts it must avoid.

Ms. Clinton has also grown worried that the foundation she stood to inherit would collapse without her father, who turns 67 next week. Mr. Clinton, who had quadruple-bypass surgery in 2004 and no longer eats meat or dairy products, talks frequently about his own mortality.

Mr. Catsimatidis said Ms. Clinton “has to learn how to deal with the whole world because she wants to follow in the footsteps of her father and her mother.”

Over the years, the foundation has dived into virtually any cause that sparked Mr. Clinton’s interest: childhood obesity in the United States, sustainable farming in , mentoring entrepreneurs, saving elephants from poaching, and more. That list will shift soon as Mrs. Clinton and Chelsea build their staffs to focus on issues including economically empowering women and combating .

In the coming months, as Mrs. Clinton mulls a 2016 presidential bid, the foundation could also serve as a base for her to home in on issues and to build up a stable of trusted staff members who could form the core of a political campaign.

Mrs. Clinton’s staff at the foundation’s headquarters includes Maura Pally, a veteran aide who advised her 2008 presidential campaign and worked at the State Department, and Madhuri Kommareddi, a former policy aide to .

Dennis Cheng, Mrs. Clinton’s deputy chief of protocol at the State Department and a finance director of her presidential campaign, will oversee the endowment drive, which some of the Clintons’ donors already describe as a dry run for 2016.

And Mrs. Clinton’s personal staff of roughly seven people — including Huma Abedin, wife of the New York mayoral candidate — will soon relocate from a cramped Washington office to the foundation’s headquarters. They will work on organizing Mrs. Clinton’s packed schedule of paid speeches to trade groups and awards ceremonies and assist in the research and writing of Mrs. Clinton’s memoir about her time at the State Department, to be published by Simon & Schuster next summer.
280 2013-08-14 Judge Shira A. Scheindlin was absolutely correct when she ruled that New York’s stop-and-frisk program violated the Constitution as to the Fourth Amendment rights of individuals. The ruling was a stinging blow to the arrogant Michael R. Bloomberg, whose aim, before leaving office, seems to be focused on depriving New Yorkers of their individual liberties.

There is nothing wrong with the basic premise of stop-and-frisk, if it is applied fairly across all segments of the population. The number of actual arrests compared with the number of stops is laughingly low, and the barometer the police have used in making those stops is clearly biased and focused on poor neighborhoods and minorities.

Peter L. Zimroth is an excellent choice to establish and monitor appropriate and effective reforms that will make stop-and-frisk an effective crime-fighting tool, while also protecting all New Yorkers from racial bias.

It’s hard to say which is more troubling: a federal judge finding widespread racial profiling and unconstitutional stop-and-frisks, or the seeming lack of a meaningful remedy. A designated monitor and a handful of body-worn cameras are too limited to do much by way of reforming the habits of almost 35,000 police officers.

More than 50 years ago, the Supreme Court ruled that the best way to deter the police from engaging in illegal searches was for trial courts to hold pretrial suppression hearings, subject the arresting officer to cross-examination and to exclude any illegally obtained evidence from the accused’s trial.
281 2013-08-14 Giants safety Antrel Rolle said he was unsure about his status for the rest of the preseason after spraining his right ankle during practice this week.

Wearing a gray walking boot Tuesday at the team’s practice facility in East Rutherford, N.J., Rolle said he considered himself lucky that the injury was not more severe, like a high-ankle sprain or a fracture. He collided with tight end Bear Pascoe during one-on-one drills Monday and was carted off the field as teammates and coaches huddled around him.

A magnetic resonance imaging test revealed a moderate lower ankle sprain. Rolle said he was not certain about the timetable for his return but was optimistic that he would be ready to play in the Giants’ regular-season opener Sept. 8.

“I’m going to do whatever it takes to make sure that’s not even a possibility,” Rolle said of missing Week 1. “Treatment two times a day, three times a day, four times a day — whatever it takes.”

UNION AGREES TO H.G.H. TESTS The N.F.L. Players Association “tentatively agreed” to let the league take 40 blood samples for human growth hormone tests each week during the season, with a positive result drawing a four-game suspension, according to a memo the union sent to the players.

A copy of the association’s memo, written in a question-and-answer format, was obtained by The Associated Press. The memo said a computer program would “randomly select” five players each from eight teams every week to take the blood tests.
282 2013-08-14 Their efforts, backed by $2.2 million in grants from George Soros’s Open Society Foundations, set the stage for a stunning repudiation of what has become the department’s signature street-level tactic, long defended by successive mayoral administrations.

In the City Council in late June and in a federal court on Monday, the Police Department suffered severe setbacks to its crime policy, and is now facing a court-ordered monitor, two police oversight bills and the possibility that its perceived legacy of a significant decline in crime may come with an asterisk.

“They redefined it successfully,” said Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, crediting advocates from the Communities United for Police Reform, which includes the civil liberties group, the Center for Constitutional Rights, that brought the federal suit, Floyd v. City of New York.

“By using data we’re required to produce,” Mr. Browne said, the advocates managed to reframe the debate over the stop-and-frisk policy as a numbers-oriented calculation of how often the police interactions resulted in arrests or summonses.

In a vast majority of the recorded stops, officers cited a reason other than fitting the description of a suspect as being the basis. And in nearly 90 percent of the cases, the person stopped was neither arrested nor given a summons.

“Stop-and-frisk isn’t stopping criminals,” said Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union. “It is stopping innocent people.”

The battle over police stops in New York has many origins, but most see its beginnings in the killing of Amadou Diallo by a team of specialized police officers, who shot the man as he stood in the vestibule of his Bronx apartment building in 1999. That violent encounter — in the course of a stop on a darkened street — led to a report by Eliot Spitzer, then the state attorney general, titled “The New York City Police Department’s ‘Stop and Frisk’ Practices.”

“Obviously the killing of Diallo was a flash point,” said Andrew G. Celli Jr., who as the head of the civil rights bureau under Mr. Spitzer worked on the report. “But underneath it was a seething sense that people were living in a police state.”

The report shined a light on an area of policing that remained largely cloaked during the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a time when data about police stops were not public, and advocates sparred more often with the department over individual actions by officers than over broad policy.

Once it became clear that the department collected detailed data on stops — from the UF-250 forms filled out by officers for each interaction — a push began for more access. The Council passed a law in 2001 requiring the department to release data on stops, including by race.

“I don’t think anybody understood at the time how important that legislation was,” said Ms. Lieberman, of the civil liberties union. “But this is a classic example of how a fight over transparency supports a campaign for reform.”

The first release of data, for stops in 2002, showed that a little more than 50 percent of the stops were of blacks and about 31 percent were of Hispanics, roughly the same as during the period studied in the Spitzer report.

To the department, those numbers made sense, because they roughly matched the racial breakdown of suspects identified by witnesses or victims of crimes. It is an argument still made forcefully by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, as it was by Mr. Giuliani when he was mayor.

Yet after taking office, Mr. Bloomberg and his police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, seemed willing to move past the issue. The city settled a lawsuit, brought shortly after the Diallo killing by the Center for Constitutional Rights, and the unit responsible for the shooting was dissolved. Under terms of the settlement, it modified the UF-250 form and created a written policy against racial profiling.

At the same time, the number of stops quietly rose each year.

The police shooting of Sean Bell, in 2006, set the stage for a new confrontation with advocates, who began asking again about data on stops. The New York Civil Liberties Union found that the department had not released it to the Council in years.

When the new stop data were finally released in 2007, the numbers were startling: 508,540 stops in 2006, up from 97,296 four years earlier. Civil rights lawyers filed the Floyd suit the next year. (The suit takes its name from David Floyd, a Bronx man who said he had been stopped more than once by the police and who served as lead plaintiff in the class action.)

Advocates from different groups — including, among others, the Legal Aid Society, Make the Road New York, the Malcolm X Grassroots Movement, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, and the Center on Race, Crime and Justice at John Jay College of Criminal Justice — began meeting informally.

But it was not until the first large meeting in June 2011 at 75 Varick Street, and the creation of the single coalition, that momentum began to gather, said Joo-Hyun Kang, the coalition’s director. “We’re talking about a year and a half, which is not a long time period to pass what I’d call landmark legislation,” she said, referring to a pair of oversight bills passed by the Council. (The bills were vetoed by Mr. Bloomberg; an override vote is planned for this month.)

For Mr. Celli, the former state civil rights lawyer, the Police Department missed several opportunities to change itself in ways that might have avoided a public backlash.

“They should have embraced the I.G. and sought to frame exactly what the person’s powers would be,” he said, referring to one of the bills creating an inspector general for the police. The other, a more direct response to the stop-and-frisk policy, would expand the ability of New Yorkers to sue the department over bias-based profiling.

The federal judge in the stop-and-frisk case, Shira A. Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, was more critical of the police, finding the department to be “deliberately indifferent to the discriminatory application of stop and frisk.”

Nonetheless, by last year, the department began to change, significantly dropping the number of stops. Commissioner Kelly denied that political pressure or the court case led to the decline, saying it had been the result of redeployment and better training.

Whatever the explanation, after record highs in the first quarter of 2012, the number of stops plummeted to near record lows by early 2013.

Jeffrey A. Fagan, a Columbia University law professor who testified against the city in the Floyd case, said the Police Department did not open itself up for self-criticism on the issue of stops.

“They became defiant about sticking to the story,” he said. “And they dismissed any questioning as being grumpy old civil rights advocates.”
283 2013-08-14 BERKELEY, Calif. — CONGRESS began its summer recess last week and won’t reconvene until after Labor Day. You’d be forgiven for not noticing a difference. With just 15 bills signed into law so far this year, the 113th Congress is on pace to be the most unproductive since at least the 1940s.

But just because the legislature has ceased to function doesn’t mean our government has. Political decision making has moved to peripheral public entities, where power is exercised less transparently and accountability to voters is less direct. What we’re losing in the process isn’t government — it’s democracy.

Take the . Absent any Congressional legislation to speak of — no short-term spending to increase job growth, no long-term plan to reduce the budget deficit — the nation’s central bank has been forced to do all the heavy lifting with the economy. The $85 billion of bonds it buys each month is now the main form of government stimulus to the economy as well as the linchpin of continued job growth. Congress’s inability to pass effective fiscal policy means that the Fed’s monetary policy, to keep long-term interest rates as low as possible, has become the only game in town for boosting private spending and investment.

But the strategy also poses serious risks, like asset bubbles, if borrowers use the cheap money to speculate; bond collapses, if the Fed slows its bond buying too quickly and spooks the market; and inflation, if low interest rates cause buyers and sellers to expect prices to rise. It could also increase , by giving wealthy investors a cheap source of funds to expand their portfolios. Forcing the Fed to become the sole decision maker on the economy is also why the selection of a new Fed chairman has become so important — even more important than it ought to be.

Congress’s has also encouraged the to enter the political fray. Normally the judicial activism of recent years could be checked by Congressional action. But not now. Justice ’s opinion for the majority in the 2010 Citizens United case, which struck down limits on corporate campaign contributions, rested partly on the presumption that Congress would require corporations to disclose their political expenditures. But no bill requiring full disclosure has stood a chance of making it through the quagmire.
284 2013-08-14 Mexico’s proven oil reserves have fallen since the 1980s from nearly 60 billion barrels of oil to a little more than 10 billion as shallow-water oil fields have been tapped out. The national oil company, Petróleos Mexicanos, does not have the capital or expertise to extensively explore deep-water prospects in the Gulf of Mexico or technically challenging shale fields requiring modern techniques like horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, which have substantially increased production north of the border.

In a report this week, Citi Research estimated that Mexico might have 29 billion barrels of oil and gas reserves in the Gulf of Mexico that could be recoverable with foreign capital and expertise. Mexico could also have an additional 13 billion barrels of recoverable oil shale reserves. All told, energy experts say the country could increase its production by as much as 25 percent by 2024, to nearly four million barrels a day — potentially vaulting Mexico to the fifth or sixth position among the most prolific oil producing countries.

An additional million barrels of oil a day on world markets would represent less than 2 percent of current global demand, but that could still provide an additional cushion — along with booming production in the United States and Canada — to ease oil price spikes during periods of instability in the Middle East and North Africa.

Currently, world oil markets are well supplied and several OPEC nations have expressed concerns that they are losing the North American market because of the expansion in American oil shale drilling in recent years. Increased production from Mexico, which is not a member of OPEC, would further decrease the cartel’s leverage.

The United States would be the most likely beneficiary of a new Mexican oil boom since its fields are close to Gulf of Mexico refineries, which are already designed to process various grades of Mexican crude.

“The impact on the global market could be very significant,” said David L. Goldwyn, a State Department coordinator for international energy affairs in the first Obama administration. “You could have increased production of light sweet crudes from the deep water Gulf, which would provide significant pressure on OPEC production. It means pressure on the Saudis, Kuwaitis, the Venezuelans and Russia.”

Mr. Goldwyn said an increase in Mexican oil production could drain foreign oil company investment from countries like Angola, Venezuela and Nigeria as well as the new Arctic oil and gas regions, where costs for exploration and development are high.

The Mexican president’s proposal is expected to be enacted by the Mexican Congress next year. But oil experts caution that it could take as long as 10 years — for Mexico to conduct seismic testing and an auction for deep-water prospects, and for the foreign companies to do their own appraisal drilling — for production to begin in earnest. Experts say, however, that shale drilling and enhanced oil recovery from older wells could begin sooner.

Jorge R. Piñon, former president of Amoco Oil Latin America, said foreign oil companies would want to be sure that the profit-sharing contracts would be lucrative before they invested in Mexico since the country would not formally give the companies a share of the oil reserves. “I’m extremely cautious about it,” he said. “The question is will they offer a real competitive option or only offer half of a solution.”

Under the Mexican proposal, foreign companies would receive a share of revenues from oil and gas fields rather than the hydrocarbon volumes themselves to sell. Oil companies prefer to be able to report to investors that they have acquired actual reserves for future production, but they have accepted similar agreements in other countries.

The Citi Research report noted that depending on how the agreements are negotiated, oil companies might be able to report reserve holdings under Securities and Exchange Commission accounting rules, though Mexico will still insist that reserves are held by the state. Under the rules, reserves that are equal to the value of the cost recovery and revenue earned could be allowed to be listed on company books.

Should that be the case, the report concluded, “the results will be revolutionary for the country.”
285 2013-08-14 Nearly two weeks after Syria said it would allow United Nations experts to investigate three sites where chemical weapons may have been used in that country’s civil war, their visit has been further delayed because an agreement has yet to be reached with Syria on measures to ensure their safety, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon’s office reported on Tuesday.

In a statement, the office said Angela Kane, the high representative for disarmament affairs, remained engaged with the Syrian government in the hope of agreeing “as soon as possible” on ways “to ensure the proper, safe and efficient conduct of the mission.”

As soon as that agreement is reached, the statement said, “the mission will depart without delay.”

The statement apparently was issued in response to a raft of queries to Mr. Ban’s office about the status of the panel’s investigation, which is led by Ake Sellstrom, a Swedish scientific expert appointed by Mr. Ban. United Nations officials said on July 31 that Syria had consented to the panel’s visiting three sites, and that the panel would be traveling to Syria as soon as possible.

Pressed about the precise reasons for the delay, and whether Mr. Ban was concerned that the panel’s credibility might be at risk, a spokesman for the secretary general, Eduardo del Buey, told reporters at a regular daily briefing, “The devil is in the details, and the details are being worked out.”

The Syrian government had originally insisted that the panel investigate only one site, Khan al-Assal, near the northern city of Aleppo, where an attack was reported on March 19, but the government later agreed to expand the inquiry to two other locations. Neither Syria nor the United Nations has disclosed the identity of those sites.

United Nations officials have said that Dr. Sellstrom’s panel has received unconfirmed evidence that 13 sites in Syria have been subjected to the use of chemical weapons. His panel’s purpose is to ascertain whether such weapons were used, not who used them.
286 2013-08-14 It was more than a year ago that SHO Shaun Hergatt on Broad Street closed. Now Mr. Hergatt, the Australian chef who secured a pair of Michelin stars for his namesake restaurant, has a new place in the Hotel Chandler in Midtown, in partnership with ESquared Hospitality. It is serene and gracious in shades of gray, with photographs of vegetables. Mr. Hergatt says he will emphasize produce from farms in the region, most of which he has visited. “This will be a much more personal restaurant than SHO,” he said. Artichoke ravioli, foie gras with peaches, striped bass with nasturtium and carrots, and duck with hyssop and beets will be on the menu, which lists the vegetable or herb before the protein, a growing trend. He will offer tasting menus of 4, 6 or 10 courses ($90 to $180), besides à la carte items. Prix fixe lunch is $35. Artisanal producers dominate the wine list. (Opens Monday): 12 East 31st Street, (212) 995-8599, juninyc.com.

BARLEY & GRAIN The owners of the wine bar Tangled Vine turn to whiskey and beer at their new spot across the street, owned with another partner. The food ranges from vegetable croquettes to porterhouse for two. (Wednesday): 421 Amsterdam Avenue (80th Street), (646) 360-3231.

VIRGOLA Joseph Marazzo has converted a narrow space in an alley into an Italian wine and oyster bar just six feet wide: 28 Greenwich Avenue (West 10th Street), no phone, virgolanyc.com.

SUSHI NAKAZAWA Daisuke Nakazawa, who apprenticed with the chef Jiro Ono and appeared in the film “Jiro Dreams of Sushi,” brings his expertise to this omakase restaurant with a 10-seat sushi bar and a dining room. It is owned by Maurizio de Rosa and Alessandro Borgognone, restaurateurs who had the idea after Mr. de Rosa studied sake and decided to open a sushi restaurant serving omakase tastings paired with sake. Until September, only the sushi bar will be open (Monday): 23 Commerce Street (Seventh Avenue), (212) 924-2212, sushinakazawa.com.

CASA POMONA Six months after a water-main break, this restaurant will be back with a new chef, Don Flores, who will create a tapas menu and other Spanish dishes. (Thursday): 507 Columbus Avenue (84th Street), (212) 362-3200, casapomonanyc.com.

SNACK TAVERNA HELL’S KITCHEN An uptown branch of the West Village Greek spot is to open in October: 522 Ninth Avenue (39th Street).
287 2013-08-14 “There’s got to be something other than mines,” said Ms. Krey, whose husband, John, is one of the leading opponents of expanding the mine.

In February 2012, the New South Wales planning authorities approved plans intended to extend the life of the Mount Thorley Warkworth Mine by more than a decade, to 2033. Those plans involved expanding the operation, owned by a subsidiary of Rio Tinto, onto land that Rio Tinto had pledged in 2003 as a permanent conservation zone to shield Bulga from the mine.

Bulga residents feared that the noise and dust from an expanded mine would irrevocably damage the environment and reduce home values that were already low. In addition, Saddle Ridge, a spiny natural buffer between the town and the mine, would be demolished. Also, a large section of the critically endangered Warkworth Sands Woodland would face eradication, the residents argued.

Many environmental studies were conducted, but no one, not even Rio, is disputing that the expansion would destroy the ridge and the woodland. Rio is asserting that the economic benefit outweighs the environmental impact and is offering to set aside land elsewhere. Graham Witherspoon, a spokesman for Rio, declined to comment on any environmental or financial impact the mine may have on the community.

A citizens’ group, the Bulga-Milbrodale Progress Association, filed a suit to stop the expansion, and in April, the state’s Land and Environment Court issued a ruling in the group’s favor, citing “negative social impacts on local community” and threats to its “sense of place.”

Now, Rio Tinto has taken the unusual step of asking the New South Wales court to entirely void the ruling, which was handed down by Judge Brian J. Preston. His ruling in April represented the first time the lower Land and Environment Court had ruled against an approved mining grant of this scope and scale, and it had the potential to significantly expand the court’s authority.

In a 2009 affidavit to the state’s Department of Planning, Rio Tinto argued that an expansion would give it access to an additional 163 million tons of coal over the lifetime of the mine. The decision to expand the mine, it said, was based on a sharp increase in the long-term average price of coal to $53 per ton in 2009, from $33 per ton when the 2003 grant was approved. The represents more than $8 billion in additional revenue for the company over the life of the mine.

Mining, whether for the high-quality thermal coal around Bulga — the kind used to fuel power plants — or the iron and gold in the country’s vast open west, is woven deeply into the fabric of rural Australia, where it provides many of the best-paying and most stable jobs. It has also been the engine powering a decade of robust economic growth that has largely spared the country from the effects of the global downturn.

Rio Tinto says that if the ruling is upheld, production at the mine will begin to slow next year, with the eventual loss of more than 1,300 jobs across the region, the Hunter Valley.

That prospect has unsettled many mineworkers, including several interviewed during a recent tour of the Mount Thorley complex, which looks like a network of vast dusty shelves scored crudely into the hills, descending in places into deep pits.

Although the mine’s environmental manager said the complex was home to a population of curious kangaroos, there was no sign of life beyond the huge Caterpillar trucks that crawled slowly along the tracks.

Jemma Callaghan, 37, drives one of those trucks. She moved to the Hunter Valley six years ago for a permanent position after the grind of rotating shifts as a driver in other states left her exhausted. Whatever sense of security she gained in the move, she said, has now evaporated.

“You’re thinking about this 24/7 — what am I going to be doing in six months’ time?” she said.

Wayne Dark, 54, said he had worked at the mine for more than 26 years and, like many others who are dependent on it, finds its potential shutdown almost impossible to fathom. “For a range of people to have committees and talk for years and years about this, and then it’s granted, and for one man to come along and go, ‘No, I’ve changed my mind,’ I just find that very hard to swallow,” he said.

But for longtime Bulga residents like Stewart Mitchell, those arguments miss the point. When Mr. Mitchell was young and Bulga was an even smaller town than it is today, the sound of just a single engine echoing around the valley near his family’s farm was enough to stir up excitement, he said.

“We used to run out onto the veranda when we heard a car coming,” Mr. Mitchell, 71, said over the evening din at Bulga’s only pub, the Cockfighter Creek Tavern. “Not anymore, of course.”

Today, a fleet of building-size vehicles rumbles noisily day and night, carting away the pulverized hills one load at a time in the search for coal and, residents say, blanketing the surrounding area with dust. From the vantage of a sloping hill where Melanie Caban’s family has lived for about 80 years, the trucks are clearly visible and audible. Like the others in town, Mrs. Caban has stories of sleepless nights connected to the mine, but she is hardly a partisan. Her husband works there.

The planned extension stretches in places to within about a mile of the town center — so close that Rio Tinto says it was obliged to buy at least two dozen houses that would have been too close to be inhabited safely. Her choice is perhaps as clear as anyone’s in Bulga.

“If they come any closer,” she said, “we’ll have to go.”
288 2013-08-15 MORRISSEY--Jane E.,of Bronxville, NY, died peacefully in Dallas, TX on August 10, 2013 of complications following surgery to relieve a blocked artery. She was 76 years old. Born in New York City, Jane graduated from The College of New Rochelle and...
289 2013-08-15 COUTURE--Jerold L. Remi Arts, Inc.,and Regina Resnik Presents mourn the passing of our esteemed legal advisor, board member and friend, Jere Couture. Jere's legal acumen, moored to his generosity, warmhearted personality and his richly mellifluous...
290 2013-08-15 Channel 4′s first female meteorologist has become a kind of celebrity in Oklahoma City....
291 2013-08-15 Seeing all the colors of a rainbow, at a cost of $600? For some, it’ll be worth the price....
292 2013-08-15 A new analysis from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York finds that the increase in auto lending is not primarily driven by loans to risky borrowers....
293 2013-08-15 Andy Cohen says he will not be a host of the 2013 Miss Universe pageant, scheduled to be held in Moscow in November....
294 2013-08-15 Disrupting lawyers. Alternatives to QuickBooks Online. Social media tips. The best cities for tech start-ups....
295 2013-08-15 The reinsurance arm of Third Point, the hedge fund run by Daniel S. Loeb, opened at $12.25 a share, below its initial public offering price, before rebounding....
296 2013-08-15 At first, the manufacturer’s leaders were devastated to learn that the company’s performance was so much worse than they had believed....
297 2013-08-15 The instrument in focus this year is the saxophone, and as usual the winner will receive a $25,000 music scholarship, a recording contract with the Concord Music Group and one of the most prestigious honors available to an emerging jazz musician....
298 2013-08-15 By relying on lowest-common-denominator regulatory standards, Europe’s banking regulators are stopping well short of prudent reforms, an economist writes....
299 2013-08-15 South Carolina Coach Steve Spurrier said the all-American defensive end Jadeveon Clowney would play against North Carolina on Aug. 29.

Clowney missed a scrimmage Saturday and a practice Monday with a bruised shoulder. Spurrier had said Monday night that if Clowney’s sore shoulder did not improve, he might miss South Carolina’s season opener. Clowney returned to practice Tuesday.
300 2013-08-15 One witness claimed to have heard Mr. Kelly say that the stop-and-frisk tactics were intended to frighten minority men into leaving any guns they owned at home. A precinct commander described “the right people” to stop, with a reference to young black men. And a statistical analysis of millions of police interactions revealed that few people subjected to stop-and-frisk methods had been engaging in wrongdoing.

These three items of evidence were central to Judge Scheindlin’s conclusion that the Police Department has a policy of conducting stops “in a racially discriminatory manner.”

In particular, the statement attributed to Mr. Kelly, as well as the phrase about the “right people,” served as the lens through which the judge interpreted a mountain of data about 4.4 million police stops. That data showed that stops overwhelmingly involved black and Hispanic people and that the people stopped were rarely found to be engaging in criminal activity.

Judge Scheindlin found that the department operated on the notion that black and Hispanic people were the right people to stop — a theme, she wrote, that was evident in statements made by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg out of court, and in directives made by commanders during station house roll calls.

The judge repeatedly cited testimony by the onetime highest ranking uniformed member of the department, Joseph J. Esposito, who was asked about the reasons for some stops. At one point, Mr. Esposito explained: “Well, who is doing those shootings? Well, it’s young men of color in their late teens, early 20s.”

It was a similar sentiment that Judge Scheindlin detected in a recording of a deputy inspector exhorting a subordinate to conduct more stops.

That meant stopping “the right people at the right time, the right location,” the deputy inspector, Christopher McCormack, said. Pressed on what he meant, he noted that black teenagers and young men were behind some crimes being committed in his precinct.

At another point, Judge Scheindlin noted that Mr. Kelly had said, according to a state senator who was present for the conversation, that young black and Hispanic men were the focus of the stops because the commissioner “wanted to instill fear in them, every time they leave their home, they could be stopped by the police.”

Mr. Kelly had filed an affidavit denying that he made such a statement, but the judge credited the account of the state senator, Eric Adams, who testified during the trial.

The city offered explanations for the statistics on millions of stops that so troubled Judge Scheindlin. The low arrest rate of people stopped reflected the fact that officers were proactively stopping criminals before they had a chance to go through with their crimes, according to city lawyers. And minorities were disproportionately stopped because they lived in the same high-crime neighborhoods where the police deployed many of its officers.

But Judge Scheindlin was not swayed by those arguments. She concluded that the low arrest rate meant that the people who were being stopped were rarely the criminals the police sought; all they had in common was the color of their skin.

“The city adopted a policy of indirect racial profiling by targeting racially defined groups for stops based on local crime suspect data,” she wrote.

She cited the example of one witness who testified, Cornelio McDonald, who had been stopped by an officer looking for the culprits behind robberies and a burglary in Queens.

“The only information known about the suspects in these robbery patterns was that they were male and black — a very general description,” Judge Scheindlin noted. “McDonald was a black man crossing the street late on a winter night with his hands in his pockets, and as a black man he was treated as more suspicious than an identically situated white man would have been.”

She added, “In other words, because two black males committed crimes in Queens, all black males in that borough were subject to heightened police attention.”

In a footnote, the judge noted how Mr. Bloomberg — and his lawyers in her courtroom — took comfort in the fact that the percentage of stops involving blacks and Hispanics was slightly less than the percentage of violent crimes committed by those groups: in both instances above 80 percent.

Mr. Bloomberg, Judge Scheindlin said in a footnote, has publicly said the gap is evidence that racial profiling does not occur. In fact, she noted, he has even suggested that the police “disproportionately stop whites too much.”

Judge Scheindlin found that line of thinking problematic because it assumed the people stopped were criminals, which she concluded was rarely the case. She suggested that city officials were deliberately indifferent to the racial profiling that she found to permeate the Police Department’s operations.

The “city’s highest officials,” Judge Scheindlin wrote, “have willfully ignored overwhelming proof that the policy of targeting ‘the right people’ is racially discriminatory.”
301 2013-08-15 The July 18 editorial “Agriculture’s Misnamed Agency” left the wrong impression. If you don’t live in rural America or work in agriculture, it is easy to misunderstand the important work our Wildlife Services program does every day to help farmers.

Annually, predators account for the loss of more than 500,000 head of livestock valued at $138 million; birds cost catfish, rice and sunflower farmers up to $50 million a year. Most often those needing help are small producers, least able to absorb losses.

Lethal control is our last resort. Last year Wildlife Services dispersed 8 out of every 10 animals it encountered in damage situations. But dispersal isn’t always possible, or effective. So when we conduct lethal control, we target the animals causing the damage. Our biologists comply with law and regulations and we report our actions on our agency’s Web site.

Wildlife Services also works across the country — including New York — to help many other Americans. In New York, we work around airports to reduce bird strikes with airlines. We protect threatened and endangered species, including New York’s piping plover and least tern. In 2010 during a rabies outbreak in Central Park, we trapped, vaccinated and released 500 raccoons, protecting both wildlife and New Yorkers.

We were disappointed by the lack of understanding of Wildlife Services. Our expertise and professionalism help not just our nation’s farmers and ranchers, but all Americans.
302 2013-08-15 WASHINGTON — Producer prices were flat in July, providing further evidence of very little inflationary pressure in the economy.

The Labor Department reported on Wednesday that a drop in natural gas and gasoline costs left its seasonally adjusted producer price index unchanged for the month. Analysts polled by Reuters had expected a 0.3 percent increase.

But the very slight increase in the producer price index outside of the volatile energy and food sector components is likely to attract attention at the Federal Reserve, which has recently noted the risks to the economy from inflation that is too low.

The so-called core producer prices, which are seen as indicators of trends in inflation, rose just 0.1 percent during the month, below the 0.2 percent gain expected by analysts.

Inflation has been trending lower for much of the last year despite signs of growing strength in the economy and the Fed warned last month that low inflation could hurt the economy.

The data on Wednesday showed that the core index was up 1.2 percent in the 12 months through July, the lowest reading since November 2010. Analysts had expected a 1.4 percent annualized increase, down from 1.7 percent in June.
303 2013-08-15 Directions come from Sunset Park, Brooklyn, delivered by dispatchers with an interactive station map and an evolving sense of traffic patterns. Crews travel in pairs. Loading a truck can take 45 minutes, to say nothing of replenishing a station nearby.

“If we bring 37 bikes,” one worker said beside an Eighth Avenue station last week, “by the time we’re gone there’s two left.”

To combat this problem, the program has leased three spaces as staging areas for bikes that can be brought to nearby stations that tend to empty quickly: an office building beside Penn Station; Pier 40, along the Hudson River; and a lot at Delancey Street on the Lower East Side. The plan follows a model tested at other international hubs, like Waterloo Station in London.

New York will also introduce “bike trailers,” bikes that can haul a small number of other bikes attached to them, to negotiate congested areas in which trucks can become snarled in traffic.

The number of trucks, still the workhorses of the distribution plan, will increase, too: A spokesman for the Transportation Department said that three large box trucks would be added by the end of the month, bringing the total to six. (The number of smaller trucks will be reduced to five, from eight.) There are now 50 people charged with balancing bikes; there were 15 when the program began.

Given the program’s history of software trouble, an unbalanced bike stock, as the Bloomberg administration takes care to point out, is not the worst problem to have.

“The challenges are related to the success of the system itself,” Janette Sadik-Khan, the city’s transportation commissioner, said. “The numbers are so big you really have to take a ‘Star Trek’ transporter just to keep up with the demand.”

Less than three months after the program was introduced, more than 70,000 people have become annual members. Between those cyclists and others who buy temporary passes, riders have taken more than 40,000 trips on some of the system’s busiest days — about seven for each bike in circulation.

But distribution challenges have unquestionably curbed the system’s ridership, leaving some commuters with a daily uncertainty: Will a bike be waiting?

“That’s my biggest anxiety every morning,” said Anthony Mauceri, 50, a Long Island Rail Road commuter, standing beside a subway entrance on West 33rd Street last week. “I come out of here and look.”

On the program’s Facebook page, where riders still bemoan customer service response time and unreliable updates on the system’s app for station information, members frequently appeal for more bikes in their neighborhoods.

One user suggested a megastation on East 14th Street, stretching from First Avenue to Avenue C. Others have surrendered altogether.

“Citi Bike, I love you,” Keith Edwards, 28, from the East Village, wrote on the page on July 30, “but I give up for now.”

Mr. Edwards, who stopped using the bikes for his commute to Midtown but hopes to continue riding for recreation, likened his annual membership to a troubled romance. “You know it’s not good for you,” he said. “But it’s going to be around on the weekends.”

Some New Yorkers have been more patient. Around 5:30 p.m. on a recent weekday, Alex Bertles, 23, sat astride his bike near West 31st Street and Eighth Avenue, where a full station prevented him from parking for several minutes.

As a man approached a bike, reaching for the handlebars, Mr. Bertles made his move. “This is my guy,” he said, racing toward the soon-to-be-vacant spot.

At a neighboring station, on West 33rd Street, a code of etiquette seemed to have developed among the waiting. The next available bike dock went to the next in line, not the nearest to the spot, distinguishing cyclists from the less altruistic drivers who often angle for parking spaces.

Around 6:30 p.m., a crew arrived in a box truck to ease the strain. The workers were taking 40 bikes, according to orders, clearing over half the station and, for about 40 minutes, holding forth as de facto program ambassadors for passing New Yorkers.

They were asked how to dock a bike (shove it really hard), where to apply for bike share jobs (check the Web site), what happened to the bikes in the rain (nothing), whether they were interested in a $20 men’s perfume (they were not), and, in one brazen exchange, whether they could give away a bike.

Just one, the man said to a worker. He would never say a word.

But the supply, the worker suggested, was already stretched too thin.

“If I give out a bike,” he said, hauling a half dozen into the back of the truck, “I’ll have to kill you.”
304 2013-08-15 So a decline in their growth rate should be worrisome to the United States. But Jim O’Neill, the economist who coined the term BRIC more than a decade ago, thinks one of the new beneficiaries of the shift in the global economy is most likely to be the United States. “I find myself thinking the U.S. is going to be one of the biggest winners,” said Mr. O’Neill.

It could gain from the Chinese government’s stated intention to shift from big government investment projects to a more consumer-driven economy. That could create demand for American products, while making commodities cheaper for American companies. Rising wages in China could also encourage manufacturing in the United States.

There were signs in recent trade statistics that this shift may already be under way. Exports from the United States to China grew in June while imports from China declined. The overall trade deficit dropped to its lowest level since 2009. China’s newfound restraint is at the fulcrum of the shift. Its government is trying to temper the economy, the largest among the developing nations. In doing so, it shoulders much of the blame for the slowdown elsewhere in and in Latin America. The price of commodities like iron and copper, which previously buoyed the developing countries producing them, are now sinking as Chinese leaders are reining in the grand developments that needed metals.

Brazil was growing largely because of commodities like iron ore and soybeans, which it was exporting to China. Two years ago, the Brazilian economy grew 7.6 percent. This year, however, economists predict the number will be around 2.3 percent.

“After years of strong growth, many Brazilians grew optimistic, but for many people who improved their lot, there is now a sense that their potential to rise further is limited,” said Samuel Pessoa, a researcher with the Brazilian Institute of Economics at the Fundação Getúlio Vargas, an elite university in . “People are worried.”

There is little prospect that the BRIC economies will ever return to the roaring growth that had come to seem normal.

“Many superficial observers just assumed that the BRIC countries would keep growing at the rate they did in the first decade, which was very unlikely,” said Mr. O’Neill, who recently retired from Goldman.

Mr. O’Neill said that as China moved to a more consumer-based economy, “the winners and losers of the new China are probably going to be quite different than the winners and losers of the old China.”

Even the most optimistic forecasts do not see the United States or Europe reaching the double-digit levels of growth that China and India have enjoyed over the last decade. Analysts are expecting that growth in the United States will rise from less than 2 percent this year to nearly 3 percent next year. Because the developed economies still account for nearly 60 percent of the global economy, even a slower pace of growth can provide more economic activity than faster growth in the developing world. There are fears that even the lackluster recovery in United States, Japan and Europe could be derailed if China’s problems grow significantly worse. Some economists in China are warning that leaders may not be able to smoothly wean the country off years of government-fueled development.

For emerging economies, analysts say that the current cooling of growth is taking some of the countries to a more sustainable pace of expansion after years of acceleration that some considered unhealthy. In China, the 14.2 percent expansion seen before the peak in 2007 is not likely to be reached again, though the expected growth of 7.5 percent next year is still impressive.

“Even though it’s slowed down some, there is still a big opportunity,” said Barry P. Bosworth, a China expert at the .

Brazil and India have deeper problems. India has not been hurt by falling commodity prices, but the economy has been constrained by corruption and inefficiency. The value of the Indian rupee fell recently to a record low against the dollar.

In Brazil, many economists say the declining value of the country’s iron ore and soybeans has revealed that Brazil’s leaders failed to invest in infrastructure when the money was pouring in.

Silvésio de Oliveira, a soybean farmer in the midwestern state of Mato Grosso and a vice president of his state soy and corn farmers’ association, said years of insufficient investment in highways and ports finally caused a crisis this year.

Mr. Oliveira said an “infrastructure collapse” drove up freight costs and led several big foreign purchasers, tired of waiting for deliveries that never came, to cancel their orders.

Carlos Langoni, a former governor of Brazil’s central bank, said that infrastructure had become a significant constraint on growth. But he also noted that some of the country’s problems are similar to those in other developing economies.

“Expectations were too high,” said Mr. Langoni, who is now the director of the Global Economics Center at the Fundação Getúlio Vargas. “The new emerging countries are no different from the old ones: once you reach a certain income level, it becomes harder to grow.”
305 2013-08-15 Put your best foot forward in a pair of The Man Repeller x Superga kicks, a range of jazzy styles like a velvet high-top ($140) and metallic bouclé low-top ($145). Each comes with regular laces as well as a set of longer laces so that wearers have the option of wrapping them around their ankles to approximate Leandra Medine’s sneaker look. At Superga, 78 Crosby Street.

In other footwear news, the InStyle for Nine West capsule collection encapsulates fall’s top styles, from single sole pumps ($89) to polished ankle boots ($149). At 750 Lexington Avenue.

The men’s wear store SEAN, the exclusive retailer in the United States for the French label Emile Lafaurie, has a new West Village outpost, which is the place to go if you’re in the market for a wool suit ($620) or a casual painter coat ($225). At 13 Eighth Avenue.

And the ID Pop Shop returns to Chelsea Market through Aug. 25 with a curated selection of things from independent — and independent-minded — New York City designers. The mix includes a Naturevsfuture vest dress made of surplus cotton pointe and cut and sewn in the Garment Center ($220). At 75 Ninth Avenue.

For those who feared that Alexander Wang had depleted his back-stock when he gave away clothes at his “one-time only special event” last month, rest easy: the always-anticipated August sample sale will go on, from Tuesday through Saturday, Aug. 24. Look for markdowns up to 70 percent on fall 2012 merchandise like a pelican satchel in bandage ($350). At 131 Greene Street.

Other steep discounts this week include the Kisan sample sale, Thursday through Sunday, where you can find items like a Vanessa Bruno striped blazer ($98) for up to 80 percent off; and the Scoop NYC warehouse sale, also beginning Thursday, where pieces like a Gant by Michael Bastian madras shirt ($39) and Current/Elliott tropical-print boyfriend shorts ($55) are up to 85 percent off. Kisan is at 125 Greene Street; Scoop NYC is at 430 West 14th Street.

The Cynthia Rowley summer sale out East continues through Sunday, with perfect pieces for the season’s last hurrah, like a confetti-print full-skirt dress now up to 85 percent off. At 696 Montauk Highway, Montauk, N.Y.
306 2013-08-15 Michael Rapino, the chief executive of Live Nation Entertainment, has sold $11.7 million of stock in the company in recent days, representing about 38 percent of his direct holdings, the company revealed in a regulatory filing late Tuesday.

The sales, made on Friday and Monday, apparently came as the company was in the process of dismissing Nathan Hubbard, the president of its Ticketmaster division. News of Mr. Hubbard’s imminent departure -- for reasons that are still unclear -- emerged on Monday evening.

According to the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Rapino sold 640,000 of the 1.7 million shares he owned, not counting about 3 million stock options.

Jacqueline Peterson, a spokeswoman for Live Nation, said late Tuesday that Mr. Rapino sold the stock for estate-planning purposes. She said the shares represented a small portion of his total equity stake in the company, including options, and that this was the first time in the eight-year history of the company that Mr. Rapino had sold shares. Live Nation was spun off from Clear Channel Communications in 2005.

Since Live Nation merged with Ticketmaster in early 2010, the company’s stock price has mostly remained sluggish. But it has nearly doubled since the end of last year, when Irving Azoff, its former executive chairman and Mr. Rapino’s chief rival, left the company. The stock closed at $18.19 on Tuesday.

Last year, Mr. Rapino earned a total of $28.5 million from the company, including about $21.6 million in grants of stock and options, according to Live Nation’s most recent proxy report, in April.

Live Nation was believed to be close on Tuesday to signing an agreement terminating Mr. Hubbard’s employment, but the company has made no public statement about it.
307 2013-08-15 SEOUL, South Korea — North and South Korea agreed on Wednesday to reopen a joint industrial complex in a sign that the two sides are inching toward a thaw after months of high tension earlier this year.

The breakthrough came during what the South billed as a final round of make-or-break negotiations on whether to restart or permanently shut down the Kaesong factory park, which had been the last remaining symbol of the two countries’ earlier economic cooperation.

The complex had been in operation for almost a decade, surviving through other periods of tension unlike other cross-border projects set up during a period of rapprochement and then halted one by one as relations soured in recent years. Kaesong’s future was thrown into uncertainty this year after North Korea pulled its workers out in April amid a crisis that began with the North’s third nuclear test and the resulting international sanctions. The South responded to the withdrawal of the workers by recalling its factory managers.

Relations have been less strained in recent months, which analysts attribute partly to pressure on the North from China, the country’s main benefactor, to stop provoking South Korea and the West. The United States had warned China that a failure to rein in the North would lead to a further buildup of American military in the region, anathema to the Chinese. The North may have had other reasons for re-engaging with the South, including that Pyongyang has long relied on the factory complex for much-needed hard currency and for tens of thousands of jobs. South Korea also recently promised $7.3 million worth of humanitarian aid for its impoverished neighbor, a conciliatory gesture that coincided with a call by the South for “one last round” of talks on restarting Kaesong.

Since last month, North and South Korea had held six earlier rounds of talks but had been unable to agree on the terms under which they could resume operations at the complex. They could find no compromise on the South Korean demand that the North take responsibility for monetary losses caused by the suspension of production and take steps to ensure that it would not shut the complex again for military or political reasons.
308 2013-08-15 “I wouldn’t look for a significant reduction in unemployment in the next year,” he said. “At best, we can hope for a stabilization of the job market.”

The fact that households in Germany and France helped to drive the rebound “suggests that the recent period of relative calmness in the euro zone is encouraging core consumers to spend money and might raise hopes of a narrowing of the economic imbalances within the currency union,” said Jonathan Loynes, an economist in London with Capital Economics.

A surprisingly strong showing came from Portugal, where the economy grew 4.4 percent in the second quarter, the highest rate in the 28-nation European Union. The return to growth after two years of deep recession was hailed by the center-right government in Lisbon as proof that austerity policies, imposed in return for a bailout of 78 billion euros ($104 billion) negotiated in May 2011, were finally bearing fruit.

Besides Portugal, there were signs of life elsewhere in the battered “periphery” of the euro zone. Spain’s economy shrank by 0.4 percent, improving on a 2.0 percent slide in the first quarter.

The economy of Cyprus, still reeling from the collapse of its banks and the troika’s remedy, shrank 5.6 percent at an annualized rate, the worst showing of any union member but a modest improvement from its 6.8 percent first-quarter decline. Even the hapless Greek economy, which has suffered 20 consecutive quarters of decline, got a small glimmer of hope with signs that the pace of contraction is slowing.

Economists say that cleaning up bad loans at Europe’s banks and getting them to lend again would help the economy gain firmer footing. Politicians are not expected to act until after Germany’s elections. The European Central Bank said last month that it would seek to encourage lending to Southern Europe by making it easier for banks to use certain securities as collateral.

Still, Mr. Loynes wrote, the weaker European economies “remain a very long way from the rates of expansion required to address their deep-seated problems of mass unemployment and cripplingly high debt.”

“The recession may be over,” he added, “but the debt crisis is decidedly not.’”

In the August vacation season, with much of Europe preparing for a long holiday weekend, politicians were generally muted in their reaction to the G.D.P. report. Officials said that there was no reason for complacency, but added that they saw some chance at longer-term growth.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who is seeking a third term in Sept. 22 elections, had no immediate comment. But her economics minister, Philipp Rösler, wasted no time in proclaiming that “there is every reason for people in Germany to look optimistically into the future.” Ms. Merkel has been the main proponent of structural reform in the weaker economies of Southern Europe. But neither economists nor politicians used Wednesday’s figures to proclaim a victory for pro- or anti-austerity camps.

“It’s a very good sign that we are not declining into a longer recession,” said Jürgen Matthes, senior economist at the Cologne Institute for Economic Research. But, he added, “We can only really say what is successful when the numbers prove it.”

As for an election benefit for Ms. Merkel, he noted: “ ‘It’s the economy, stupid’ holds true everywhere. These numbers are not a decisive factor — but they help.”

Germany’s federal statistics office and several analysts attributed the boom in Germany to stronger consumption, investment and activity in the construction industry after a severe winter. From January through the end of March, the euro zone economy over all contracted 1.2 percent, according to Eurostat.

Investor reaction to the G.D.P. figures was understated in Europe, where stocks and the euro barely budged.

The expansion of the region’s economy had been foreshadowed by recent indicators showing that factories have been increasing output and consumers and businesses were gaining confidence.

“You can see that things have gotten better in Europe because foreigners are coming and spending more money,” said Irene Sassi, an assistant in a souvenir store in downtown Siena, Italy. “But Italians are still coming in smaller numbers than they used to, and they buy food and drinks, not contrada flags or scarves. In our pockets, the situation has not improved recently, that I can tell you.”

France, whose economy declined in the two previous quarters, saw household spending grow and companies increase exports of goods and services, though investment declined slightly.

The French government was quick to welcome the news and to take credit for the stronger-than-expected growth, which came after several less optimistic economic assessments from both the International Monetary Fund and Insee, the French statistics agency.

President François Hollande refrained from making a statement, but both his finance minister, Pierre Moscovici, and his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, were quick to interpret the growth in G.D.P. as an endorsement of the government’s strategy to bring down the deficit, which was 4.8 percent of G.D.P. last year, to meet the European Union target of 3 percent. The strategy has included raising taxes and a labor deal aimed at encouraging employment.

Mr. Moscovici said in a statement that the growth “results at once from an improvement in the European economic context and from a firming up of interior demand.”

Mr. Moscovici, who just days ago predicted that there would be no growth this year, sounded pleasantly surprised, noting that the volume of French exports had increased 2 percent and that consumer spending rose 0.4 percent. Opposition politicians said they were pleased to see growth, but warned against reading too much into the number. “I see this number as a technical correction that does not erase the general sluggishness of the French economy,” said Luc Chatel, a member of the French Parliament and a former government minister from the center-right Union for a Popular Movement party.

Economists were more cautious, arguing that structural changes are needed in France for a lasting economic turnaround. The government is considering changes in the pension program as well as other measures to encourage job creation, but has not yet taken the steps needed to enact them, they said.

“We don’t know if this kind of recovery from quarter to quarter will last,” said Jean-Paul Fitoussi, an economics professor at the Institute of Political Studies at the Sorbonne, adding that since he had seen no new “engine of growth’” the improvement was surprising.

“I don’t yet see any strong policies at work to get out of the present situation,” he said.
309 2013-08-15 “You wouldn’t want to leave the salon smelling like Pert,” Mr. Carby said.

While some women these days are avoiding added fragrance in cosmetics applied to the skin (common in their grandmothers’ time but frowned upon by organizations like the Environmental Working Group), they seem more carefree about spritzing chemicals on their hair.

Indeed, Yann Marois, executive director of global marketing at Ojon, which is known for its fragrant conditioners, said that there’s perhaps an unglamorous reason for the stronger scents: the need to mask natural odors.

Women today are getting “more and more chemical treatments,” Mr. Marois said. “Because they have damaged hair, they wash their hair less. And to expand time between washes, they want scents that will last.”

He pointed to the popularity of hair oils (like Kérastase’s Elixir Ultime, $42 for 250 milliliters), intended for women with damaged hair, which tend to have the strongest scents, he said.

“The Ojon oil itself has a smell and the product is created over fire, so the scent is smoky, a little bit like coffee,” said Mr. Marois, speaking of the Restorative Hair Treatment ($33 for 3.1 ounces). “Some people loved the scent, but it was also polarizing. To be honest, some people hated it.”

Ojon kept the original treatment on the shelves, while working on a milder scent of soft vanilla, which was released a couple of years ago, and sales of the two versions are now about equal, Mr. Marois said.

Vanilla is also a component of Thierry Mugler Angel, a best-selling and long-lasting Oriental perfume that has inspired many of the new hair formulas, Mr. Carby said. In fact, Mugler was ahead of the curve, introducing its hair mist, which retails for $39 for 1 fluid ounce, in the early 1990s after a loyal customer of the perfume requested it, said Amber Mitilineos, director of marketing at the company.

More currently, Mr. Carby spent months concocting an intense, decadent-smelling fragrance for Show Beauty, a collection of styling products (including a perfume to be sprayed on hair) to be sold at Bergdorf Goodman starting in late September.

Based on English rose and on what he called “a playful crème brûlée,” it is backed by Tamara Ecclestone, the British socialite. The scent was meant to be “powerful and enveloping,” said Ms. Ecclestone’s business partner, Scott Harvey-Nicholls, the chief executive of Show Beauty, but “not completely domineering.” But the heady fumes lingered well into the next day after a reporter tried the treatment oil ($55 for a hefty flacon).

Oribe strove to avoid such an olfactory wallop, said Daniel Kaner, president and a founder of the company. “Most people, the first thing they do with shampoo is they unscrew the cap and smell it,” Mr. Kaner said. “And once the consumer smells it, it then has to pass the first test, which is ‘Does it offend me?’ ”

Mr. Kaner and his colleagues settled on a perfume-quality blend featuring yuzu zest (“citrus notes are crowd pleasers,” he said) and butterfly jasmine, the Cuban national flower (Oribe, the Miami-based hairdresser, is Cuban-American).

Founded in 2008, the company this April released a “hair refresher” that works like a sort of deluxe Febreze for the mane. The purse-size spray ($22 for 1.6 ounces) contains cetrimonium chloride, a conditioning agent, and supposedly absorbs odors while leaving the Oribe scent (after a recent dinner out, it did a decent job of dulling eau de Korean barbecue). In May, Kathie Lee Gifford heralded the product on “Today” as one of her favorite things.

Kattia Solano, founder of Butterfly Studio in the Flatiron district, which recently began stocking Oribe, said that “there are people that love fragrance and some that don’t, so I always have my clients smell the product before applying it on them.”

Still, a dedicated fragrance for hair is now in the pipeline, Mr. Kaner said. And it will have competition.

Serge Normant Avah perfume for hair and skin ($60 for 1.7 fluid ounces), which arrived in stores in June 2012, is a concentrated version of the line’s signature musk, jasmine and ylang-ylang scent. It has won over his celebrity clients like Julia Roberts, said Mr. Normant, adding that perfumes are a particular passion of his. “I grew up with Opium and the old Guerlain perfumes,” he said. “They were scents with a point of view.”

Several perfume brands, like Marchesa, Narciso Rodriguez, Clean and even Justin Bieber, have also come out with hair mists — perhaps at the peril of passers-by with sensitive noses.

“You want just a hint of something personal,” Mr. Normant said. “The last thing you would want is to give people a headache.”
310 2013-08-16 McCARTHY--Catherine A. (Sugrue), 96, of River Edge, NJ passed away on August 14th. Catherine graduated from Cathedral High School and, at age 65, received a B.S. from William Paterson College. Beloved wife of the late Edward Francis McCarthy. Devo...
311 2013-08-16 The New York Times’s staff scours the Web for interesting and peculiar items. Friday’s selections include a review of the Steve Jobs movie and a glam profile of Marissa Mayer as the “it” chief executive....
312 2013-08-16 It’s both too high and too low....
313 2013-08-16 A tale of two predictive successes....
314 2013-08-16 The move clears the way for UBS to buy back a portfolio of distressed assets that were moved off the UBS books during the financial crisis....
315 2013-08-16 Walmart’s sales disappoint. How to get a business loan. And what “Breaking Bad” gets right about the meth business....
316 2013-08-16 Metropolitan Diary: A fan of Shakespeare in the Park thought he was receiving a compliment from someone 40 years younger....
317 2013-08-16 Mr. Snowden, who was recently granted temporary asylum in , is believed to have given the documents to The Post months ago.

The Post, which did not publish every document its accompanying article relied upon, cited other problems as well. In one case in 2008 that was not reported to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court or Congress, it said, the system collected metadata logs about a “large number” of calls dialed from Washington – something it was already doing through a different program – because of a programming error mixing up the district’s area code, 202, with the international dialing code of Egypt, 20.

Jameel Jaffer of the said that while some of the compliance violations were more troubling than others, the sheer number of them was “jaw-dropping.”

In a statement, the N.S.A. said its surveillance activities “are continually audited and overseen internally and externally.”

“When N.S.A. makes a mistake in carrying out its foreign intelligence mission, the agency reports the issue internally and to federal overseers — and aggressively gets to the bottom of it,” the statement said.

Another newly disclosed document included instructions for how N.S.A. analysts should record their rationales for eavesdropping under the FISA Amendments Act, or F.A.A., which allows wiretapping without warrants on domestic networks if the target is a noncitizen abroad. The document said analysts should keep descriptions of why the people they are targeting merit wiretapping to “one short sentence” and avoid details like their names and supporting information.

“While we do want to provide our F.A.A. overseers with the information they need, we DO NOT want to give them any extraneous information,” it said.

A brief article in an internal N.S.A. newsletter offered hints about a known but little-understood episode in which the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court found in 2011 that the N.S.A. had violated the Fourth Amendment. The newsletter said the court issued an 80-page ruling on Oct. 3, 2011, finding that something the N.S.A. was collecting involving “Multiple Communications Transactions” on data flowing through fiber-optic networks on domestic soil was “deficient on statutory and constitutional grounds.”

In a statement, the N.S.A. said the problem related to “a very specific and highly technical aspect,” which it reported to the court and Congress “once the issue was identified and fully understood.” Privacy protections for Americans were strengthened, it said, and the court allowed the surveillance to continue.
318 2013-08-16 “So we’re basically sitting here ready to spend the money, create the jobs, but we don’t have a permit to even start turning dirt,” he said.

There was minimal debate on the three-page bill, which was supported in testimony by a group of strange bedfellows — including representatives for Koch Industries, the Texas Conservative Coalition and the Sierra Club. That was not lost on the bill’s author, Representative Wayne Smith, Republican of Baytown.

“This is not a statement about climate change,” Mr. Smith told fellow lawmakers in March. “This is about efficiency for business. So I’m not making any statement that has anything to do with greenhouse gases and climate change.”

He did not respond to requests for comment for this article.

Senator Juan Hinojosa, Democrat of McAllen, who sponsored the bill, said the state should have agreed to the regulations years ago.

“Quite frankly, it hurts businesses,” Mr. Hinojosa said of Texas’ lawsuits and adversarial relationship with the E.P.A. “It doesn’t help them. And this is a good example of that.”

Last month, a federal judge dismissed one such suit, in which Texas had sued the E.P.A. for taking over greenhouse gas permits after the state refused to do so itself in 2010. The judge said the suit had no standing because the E.P.A. was simply trying to help businesses get the needed permits.

“That’s the irony of ironies here,” said Jim Marston, director of the Environmental Defense Fund’s Texas office. “E.P.A. stepped in, actually to make it easier for industry.”

Industry representatives were not willing to go that far.

“We have always been in favor of the State of Texas issuing these permits, because we just anticipated delays in projects” if the E.P.A. had to issue them, said Celina Romero, a lawyer for the Texas Pipeline Association.

But asked if the association’s members were frustrated that the state would not cooperate earlier, she declined to comment.

Mr. Abbott and the state environmental agency say the E.P.A. gave states an unfairly short time for developing the new permit rules.

The accelerated timeline “gives room for argument” that the state was wronged, said David Spence, a professor of business and law at the University of Texas at Austin. (The University of Texas at Austin is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.) Still, he said, the requirements did not come out of nowhere. The Bush E.P.A. believed it did not have the authority to regulate greenhouse gases, he noted. It was the Supreme Court that indicated it should do so in 2007.

Nonetheless, of all the states, “only Texas said, ‘We’re never going to regulate greenhouse gases,’ ” Mr. Spence said. “I guess everyone can draw their own conclusions over whether that’s a prudent interpretation of the law, or just political posturing.”
319 2013-08-16 A judge ordered Hattiesburg on Thursday to stage a special mayoral election after accusations of fraud led to a protracted legal dispute. Mayor Johnny L. DuPree won the June 4 election by 37 votes, but lawyers for his challenger, Dave Ware, said that widespread misconduct had allowed Mr. DuPree to win. A jury considered Mr. Ware’s allegations last month, but the proceedings ended in a mistrial and Mr. DuPree stayed in office. Mr. Ware continued his courtroom fight, and Judge William F. Coleman agreed on Thursday to support his campaign’s motion for a special election. Gov. Phil Bryant will schedule the new vote for the city of about 47,000 people.
320 2013-08-16 While the city’s own bond rating has been raised, to its highest level in 30 years, the school district’s credit has been downgraded to junk, with warnings that more downgrades may come.

The unusual situation stems from a combination of politics and long-term structural problems. Decades of dwindling population and resources had already greatly weakened the schools, but now the Republican-controlled state government has drastically cut aid to the district. This move struck some in the Democratic-controlled city as punitive, though Gov. Tom Corbett, a Republican, has said the statewide cuts in education had nothing to do with party politics but with the simple need to do something about the state’s own poor finances. Federal aid to the district has also been chopped.

The Philadelphia School District is an anomaly — unlike many school districts across the country, it has no elected board of education, and never has, at least in modern memory. That means the normal political dynamics found in other places with troubled schools cannot play out here. When the voters get fed up, there is no way they can throw out unsuccessful board members.

As was the case with Detroit, the district’s full debt is even worse than what is known because retiree health and pension obligations have not been disclosed. That is about to change, though, because of new accounting rules that require them to be made public.

Even after the June staff cuts, the district had an estimated $304 million deficit for the coming year — at a time when it is already paying nearly that amount, $280 million, to service its existing debt each year.

Now Thursday’s announcement by Mayor Nutter that he would take out general obligation bonds to come up with the $50 million for the schools risks the city’s own hard-won credit rating by taking on medium-term debt to pay for day-to-day operations — a practice that is widely seen by municipal analysts as a sign of desperation.

Mr. Nutter said that he hoped to be able to pay back the debt by using future sales tax revenues, though that will require an agreement with the City Council, whose president, Darrell L. Clarke, wanted to use some of that money for city workers’ pensions.

To help close the district’s deficit, school officials had asked for $180 million in emergency aid — $120 million from the state and $60 million from the city, with the remainder coming from proposed concessions from three unions — including a 10 percent pay cut for teachers — and other trims. But only $45 million has thus far been approved by the state, and that will not be passed along to the school district until Governor Corbett is satisfied that sufficient reforms have been enacted.

The teachers’ union said it believes no further changes are necessary to allow the release of the money. All of this is being fought out in the middle of negotiations over a new teachers’ contract, with the old one expiring on Aug. 31. All told, the district is asking for $133 million in union concessions and other trims, including the teacher pay cut, but the union is so far refusing to surrender.

“There was no agreement to link the $45 million to the collective bargaining agreement,” Jerry T. Jordan, the president of the Philadelphia Federation of Teachers, said in an interview.

This has left school officials, teachers and parents scrambling.

Daniel Lazar, principal of Greenfield Elementary School in central Philadelphia, sent a letter to parents last week asking for a $613-per-student donation to fill a $355,000 budget gap at his school.

Tomika Anglin says she was so stunned by the request that she has decided to home school her 12-year-old daughter from now on.

“I couldn’t think when I got the letter,” she said. “It was just amazing to me that a public school was charging tuition. They couldn’t put that in a movie because no one would believe it.”

Mr. Lazar said in an interview that the letter was a request rather than a demand, and that any funds raised would be used to help rehire employees like school counselors and teachers’ aides who were laid off. “This wasn’t something that I wanted to do,” he said.

Though the drama now unfolding in the city schools comes after more than a half-century of urban decline and population exodus, in recent years, the migration away from Philadelphia has leveled off. Young professionals and empty-nesters have lately been moving back, reinvigorating the downtown.

“The boosters of Philadelphia, which doesn’t include me, love to talk about the vibrant downtown,” said Zack Stalberg, president of the Committee of Seventy, a local group that promotes clean government, and former editor of The Philadelphia Daily News. “But that’s a relatively tiny portion of the city. Center City and the nearby neighborhoods are doing fine, but elsewhere people’s ambition is still to leave the city when they can afford it, so they can count on a better education for the kids.”

As middle-class people have left Philadelphia, the tax base has withered, raising the overall poverty rate of those who remain. Over the years, it has forced both the city and school district to impose more taxes on a population that is more needy of public services, yet less able to pay for them.

That is not telling parents like Helen Gym or students like Madison and Sharon Tyler anything they do not already know.

The two students had been selling rubber-band bracelets for $5 to raise money for the school district, and earlier this week went back-to-school shopping with their parents even though, at the time, it was not clear that schools would even open.

“All my life I have been waiting for my middle school experience, and now I’m told that might not happen,” said Madison, 10.

And for Ms. Gym, as for many parents, the most distressing aspect was that the current crisis, even if it can be resolved, is most likely just a foreshadowing of what is to come.

“I just don’t know where this ends,” she said. “There is no bottom to this situation.”
321 2013-08-16 For years, New York City has tried to create more affordable housing by encouraging developers to include apartments for low- and middle-income households in return for being allowed to construct bigger buildings.

But a new report by the office of City Councilman Brad Lander, a Brooklyn Democrat and housing expert, says that that strategy is producing too few affordable units and that the city should require developers to build more of them.

The report, to be released on Friday by Mr. Lander and the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, which represents nonprofit groups that promote affordable housing, found that the optional program known as inclusionary zoning had generated about 2,700 permanently affordable units since 2005, or less than 2 percent of all apartments developed in the city during the same period.

Under the program, the city allows developers of market-rate housing to build more units than would normally be allowed when neighborhoods are rezoned for new development, as long as they make 20 percent of the new homes affordable.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the real estate industry have favored the exchange of more density for affordable set-asides on a voluntary basis. But affordable housing advocates and some mayoral candidates argue that the time has come for mandatory programs to make a dent in the housing shortage for low-income New Yorkers.

Figures released this year by New York University’s Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy show that the median monthly rent in New York City rose by 8.5 percent from 2007 to 2011, even as real wages — wages that have been adjusted for inflation — dropped in the recent recession. As a result, 31 percent of New Yorkers paid 50 percent or more of their income in rent and utilities by 2011 and were considered “severely” rent burdened, according to the center.
322 2013-08-16 SAN FRANCISCO — The new eastern half of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge will open to traffic the first week of September after all, state transportation officials announced Thursday, reversing an earlier decision to delay the opening for months after defective earthquake safety bolts were found.

Officials said drivers would be able to use the bridge while workers continue with repairs for a few months under a temporary solution that federal authorities endorsed last week.

Members of the Toll Bridge Program Oversight Committee, an umbrella organization overseeing the construction, voted unanimously to connect the new part of the bridge to the existing western half over the long Labor Day weekend. The bridge will close for construction on Aug. 28 and will reopen with the new stretch on Sept. 3.

A report last week by the Federal Highway Administration that supported the temporary solution was the deciding factor in Thursday’s announcement, said Andrew Gordon, a spokesman for the Bay Bridge.

The decision came so close to the opening date that officials decided not to proceed with an extravagant celebration planned to mark the completion of the bridge, which at $6.4 billion is the most expensive single piece of infrastructure in California’s history.

“There will be no public celebration,” Mr. Gordon said. “There will be a low-key chain cutting.”
323 2013-08-16 The all-star lineup of journalists who appear in “Herblock: The Black and the White” concur that Herblock (the editorial cartoonist Herbert Block, who adopted that pen name), was a rare talent: an incisive satirist, a prescient judge of character, a wielder of a sure graphic line and a class act to boot. Michael Stevens’s laudatory documentary trumpets all these qualities, engaging in the very sort of mythologizing that its subject might have punctured in his heyday.

It would be hard to pinpoint that heyday in a career sustained from the Depression nearly till his death, soon after Sept. 11, 2001, including over half a century at The Washington Post. Mr. Stevens’s film is partly a Herblock history of America, with the highlights being his stances on McCarthyism and Nixon. Further wisdom is delivered, unsettlingly or cornily, by a dead ringer for Herblock (played by Alan Mandell), clad in a periwinkle sweater and sitting in a cluttered office.

It’s fortunate that the cartoons on display are such instantly satisfying works of popular genius, because, despite its subject, “Herblock” shows how even an edifying talking-heads documentary bumps up against the limitations of the format. Even as we admire Herblock’s gut sense, informed not by reflexive cynicism but by a big heart for his country, all these encomiums grow wearying to watch. But you could do worse than this introduction to an inspiring artist and farsighted patriot.
324 2013-08-16 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga pulled out of the United States Open with a knee injury. Tsonga, ranked eighth, has not played since June 26, when he retired from his second-round match at Wimbledon.
325 2013-08-16 Re “Dr. Google Will See You Now,” by Seth Stephens-Davidowitz (Sunday Review, Aug. 11):

Might the reason fewer people search Google for “depression” in August relate to the fact that psychiatrists traditionally take that month off and therefore people are not receiving diagnoses of depression and are thus less likely to feel the need to clarify the clinical meaning of the term?

Similarly, Dec. 25 is observed as a legal holiday, whether or not someone is a practicing Christian, so it is likely that it is a day of relative relaxation and unlikely to be a day someone is confronted with the concern of finding out the technical meaning of “major depression.”

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz uses Google data to conclude that cold winters cause depression and suggests that moving from Chicago to Honolulu could lower depression by 40 percent.

We need not query Google to figure out whether depression is greater in cold places. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that states with the lowest proportion of adults meeting depression criteria include Minnesota and Wisconsin, while Alabama and Mississippi are among the highest. The suicide rate is actually higher in Hawaii than in Illinois.

Why would public health data not parallel Google searches? As Mr. Stephens-Davidowitz notes, not all searches indicate depression, and the depressed do not all search Google. But his claim that the bigness of the data compensates is wrong: it just means that misleading contrasts are statistically significant. Perhaps unhappy affluent people search for depression, but the clinically depressed do not.

Extrapolating from correlational data that have not been validated to give real people health advice, even with a playful tone, should be done with great caution.
326 2013-08-16 First-time applications for state unemployment benefits dropped 15,000 to a seasonally adjusted 320,000, the lowest level since October 2007, the Labor Department said. Economists had expected initial claims to come in at 335,000 last week.

The four-week moving average of new jobless claims, which irons out week-to-week volatility, fell to its lowest level since November 2007.

Carl Riccadonna, a senior economist at Deutsche Bank Securities, said the drop in new jobless claims to prerecession levels was consistent with a pickup in the pace of hiring, if not in August, then at some time in the next couple of months.

“The critical component is going to be the August jobs report,” he said. “If that comes in at least where it was in July, then this is going to keep the Fed on track to initiate tapering at the September meeting” of the Fed’s policy makers.

Employers added 162,000 jobs to their payrolls last month, with the unemployment rate dropping to 7.4 percent.

In another report, the Labor Department said its Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent last month, in line with economists’ expectations, as the cost of goods and services including tobacco, apparel and food increased.

The C.P.I. gained 0.5 percent in June. In the 12 months through July, the C.P.I. advanced 2 percent, the largest annualized increase since February, after rising 1.8 percent in June.

The rise in inflation to the Fed’s 2 percent target suggested that the downward drift in prices seen early in the year was over, which could comfort some central bank officials who have warned about the potential dangers of inflation running too low.

Even stripping out energy and food, the core rate of consumer prices still rose 0.2 percent for a third consecutive month. That took the increase over the last 12 months to 1.7 percent after core C.P.I. gained 1.6 percent in June.

The uptick in prices fits with the view of Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, who has said he considers the low inflation temporary.

James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, who has voiced concern that inflation was still too low, said he was encouraged by July’s rise in consumer prices.

“To the extent that you have got higher inflation numbers in this report, that would be bolstering the notion that inflation would be naturally moving back toward target,” Mr. Bullard told reporters in Louisville, Ky.

Last month, there were increases in the prices of gasoline, transportation and shelter. Medical care services recorded a second month of gains in July. Medical care, which makes up about 10 percent of the core C.P.I., was subdued in April and May.

The news on the factory sector was a bit downbeat, with the Fed reporting that manufacturing output slipped 0.1 percent last month, held down by a 1.7 percent fall in the production of motor vehicles and machinery. That, together with a drop in utilities production, left industrial output unchanged in July.

Separately, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said its Empire State general business conditions index fell to 8.24 in August from 9.46 in July. A reading above zero indicates expansion. But details of the report were fairly encouraging, with strong gains in the labor market.
327 2013-08-16 It would drive Steve Jobs nuts to know that the new movie about his life has all the sex appeal of a PowerPoint presentation. It isn’t only that Microsoft PowerPoint has become synonymous with the dry, dreary, droning of corporate meetings, it’s also that Microsoft was itself a favorite target of Jobs. (“The only problem with Microsoft,” he said, “is they just have no taste.” Also: “They just make really third-rate products.”) Jobs, who died in 2011 at 56 from complications of pancreatic cancer, thought of himself as an artist, one who, in talking about the design of the Macintosh, said, “Great art stretches the taste, it doesn’t follow tastes.”

The historical record is all that’s stretched in “Jobs,” which stars Ashton Kutcher and was directed by Joshua Michael Stern. Compression and omissions are part of any biography. So it’s to be expected that a two-hour movie about one of the most important public figures in recent times leaves out a lot, including famous feuds, forgotten colleagues and even significant business ventures. The point isn’t that there are gaps; the point is what and who have been left out. It’s understandable that a movie that concentrates on Jobs’s earlier years would overlook his involvement with Pixar, which he capitalized in 1986; given the filmmakers’ difficulties dealing with his difficulties it’s also understandable that they slide over a little player called the Xerox Corporation.

The story of Jobs visiting Xerox’s Palo Alto research center in 1979 and realizing that the company was, as he put it, “sitting on a gold mine,” is an oft-repeated foundational tale, partly because he appropriated some of Xerox’s ideas. It was during this visit, he later said, that he could see “what the future of computing was destined to be.” In the movie this epiphanic moment seems to occur earlier, during an acid trip. It’s the early 1970s and Steve, who’s dropped out of college, is bumming around, usually barefoot. One day he and two friends, Chrisann Brennan (Ahna O’Reilly) and Daniel Kottke (Lukas Haas), go on a lysergically enhanced picnic that culminates with Steve drifting into a field and, as the camera twirls around him and the sun shines upon him, throwing his arms open to the infinite.

Before long, Steve has embraced his destiny, hooked up with Steve Wozniak (Josh Gad, delivering a sympathetic, sensitive performance) and is staring into a different immensity: the Apple computer and the technological revolution that it helped bring about. Things move quickly for Steve, who one minute is cobbling together the first Apple in his family’s garage and the next is crunching numbers with an investor, Mike Markkula (Dermot Mulroney). There are good, bad, happy, sad times, mostly with guys (women barely register), though it all gets heavier after Steve starts driving a Porsche and shacks up in a mansion with only an Einstein poster for company, a trajectory echoed in the soundtrack: “Life’s Been Good,” “Roll With the Changes,” “You Can Do (Whatever).”

Written by Matt Whiteley, the movie is bookended by scenes of the middle-aged Jobs, doing what some believed he did best: pitching new products. Fuzzed up and hunched over, Mr. Kutcher looks somewhat like the young Jobs, and there are moments — as when he gives another character a small, devious look as if sliding in a knife — that the casting seems more than a matter of bottom-line calculation. But Mr. Kutcher doesn’t have the tools that some actors use to transcend weak material and either he didn’t receive any help or didn’t allow any real direction from Mr. Stern. Mr. Kutcher’s tendency to cap so many emotional scenes with small, self-satisfied smiles is especially unfortunate because they can’t help but bring to mind his other career as a pitchman for digital cameras.

The greater blame rests on the filmmakers, who never find a way to navigate the “passions, perfectionism, demons, desires, artistry, devilry and obsession for control” that Walter Isaacson enumerated in “Steve Jobs,” his 2011 authorized biography. Mr. Stern and Mr. Whiteley pile up Jobs’s multitudes: he screams and smirks, the score rises triumphantly only to ease and darken. Other characters announce to Steve and one another that he’s changed. But how and why? There are nods at his adoption and the daughter he initially refused to acknowledge, but those never amount to much and, after a while, you don’t care. The Great Man theory of history that’s recycled in this movie is inevitably unsatisfying, but never more so when the figure at the center remains as opaque as Jobs does here.
328 2013-08-16 The Talladega murals teach history by making it visually riveting. The magnetism of the medium makes the message accessible and thrilling. The undeniably powerful impact of form (deliberately deployed color, shape, composition, style) on highly specific subject matter makes this show doubly important; we live in a moment when form, and formalism, are often disparaged as passé diversions, if not downright socially irresponsible. The centrality of form to the strength of these images could not be timelier.

Woodruff’s murals may be the greatest to emerge from the American Social Realist and mural movements of the 1930s and ’40s. This notion will raise eyebrows among admirers of Thomas Hart Benton, who led those movements and exerted an important influence on Woodruff. But this exhibition suggests that Woodruff supersedes Benton in every way — in visual and narrative force, in his assured synthesis of history and also in his humanity.

This is the first New York museum exhibition devoted to Woodruff’s art since the Studio Museum in Harlem mounted a small retrospective of his work in 1979, the year before the artist’s death at the age of 80 in Manhattan. While not a retrospective, it has considerable sweep, supplementing the murals with some 40 additional works by Woodruff: smaller paintings, wonderful mural studies and terse linocut prints that date from roughly the same period. The show could have been much larger, but the smaller works give some indication of where Woodruff was as an artist by 1938, when the Talladega commission materialized.

Born in Cairo, Ill., and raised in Nashville, he studied art in Indianapolis and at the Art Institute of Chicago before spending four crucial years (1927-31) in Paris. Hired as an art instructor at a college in Atlanta, he began trying to bend the lessons of European Modernism, especially Post-Impressionism and Cubism, into a socially aware art. A Cubistic painting of an Atlanta shantytown from 1933-34 is one result; a more bucolic but nonetheless charged landscape indebted to van Gogh is another.

In 1936, Woodruff spent time in Mexico, working as an apprentice to Diego Rivera, the leader of the Mexican mural movement, who taught him the basics of fresco painting. Although it was a medium he would never use, its high-keyed colors clearly influenced the palette of the murals. Rivera’s influence is also visible in “Night Blooming Cereus,” a depiction of two opulent white blooms and a fleshy bud. It suggests a conscientious botanical work by the 19th-century landscape painter Martin Johnson Heade, but as executed by the more emphatic hand of the Modernist Marsden Hartley.

The works make it clear that the Talladega commission spurred a substantial artistic leap in Woodruff’s career. Almost overnight, he seems to have gone from being primarily a landscape painter to an artist at ease with large, multifigure compositions that draw inspiration from all over the art historical spectrum, most prominently African art, Cubism, Social Realism and Renaissance painting, as Ms. Heydt explains in her catalog essay.

Woodruff was not familiar with the story of Amistad when he was invited to do the mural, so he traveled to New Haven to study the trial. There he also found an admiring portrait of Cinque by Nathaniel Jocelyn (1796-1881) and fine pencil likenesses of each of the other defendants by William H. Townsend (1822-1851). These contribute to the power of the trial scene, where the captives, layered in shallow space like angels in a Fra Angelico painting, are extremely expressive and individualized. (Woodruff included a self-portrait in the crowd.)

Though working in oil on canvas, Woodruff adopted a high-keyed, white-backed palette like that of Renaissance frescoes by painters like Signorelli and Pontormo. He also persisted in the practice evident in his smaller paintings of making every square inch of canvas contribute actively to the whole. Thus the marvelous array of detail: the wood grain of the schooner, the top hats across the foreground of the trial scene, the parrotlike carpetbag peeking out near the lower left corner of the repatriation mural, the ropelike gingham-covered basket to one side in the Underground Railroad scene.

Nothing from the inanimate world enlivens Woodruff’s painting as much as the garments. The artist, who looks quietly natty in photographs, painted many of his figures in bright, often patterned, almost dandyish attire, with soft drapes and folds that catch the light, making it seem as if many of them were clothed in silk. Widespread use is made of windowpane plaids, stripes and especially dotted neckerchiefs. (One is worn by the most raggedly dressed figure in the murals, the young man seated, ready to register for school, in “Opening Day.”)

The runaway slave who kneels like one of the Magi at the center of “The Underground Railroad” wears a shirt of green-on-green polka dots. A handsome man in pinstriped red trousers, a phthalo blue waistcoat and a lime-green vest, gracefully posed like one of Pontormo’s princes, welcomes new students in “Opening Day at Talladega College.” He echoes the near-center position and presence of the regal, well-turned-out figure of Cinque in “The Trial of the Amistad Captives” and, especially, “The Repatriation.” Some of these garments have the starchy look-at-me presence of clothing in limner folk-art portraits from the early 19th century.

In their easy drapes and swirling folds, these garments add visual intensity to the actors in these dramas; moreover, they hint at the bodies beneath them and the complex souls within. They are part of the indomitable optimism that is the glory — and the content — of Woodruff’s great murals.
329 2013-08-16 In 1961 the photographer Bruce Davidson boarded a bus with a group of anti-segregationist Freedom Riders traveling from Montgomery, Ala., to Jackson, Miss. Two years later he was in Washington for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech. In 1965 he joined the historic five-day march from Selma to Montgomery. Photographs from those and other excursions to the South as well as from Mr. Davidson’s hometown New York were gathered together in the book “Time of Change: Civil Rights Photographs, 1961-1965,” published in 2002. This poignant exhibition presents 37 of them.

The photographs avoid partisan sensationalism. There are images of watchful National Guard soldiers among ordinary people, both black and white, made during the 1961 bus trip. One shows a group of white men heckling the Freedom Riders. Walker Evans-like pictures show people living in extreme poverty in sharecropper cabins. But few document instances of overt violence and many are not obviously political. The rail thin, elderly black woman in a bright dress holding an umbrella striding purposefully past a clapboard wall in South Carolina is not the sort of subject that incites righteous indignation. Is there racial tension between the two women sitting next to each other at a New York lunch counter in 1962, one black with pearls in her hair, the other white wearing pearls around her neck? Maybe, maybe not.

A lyrical, ruminative mood prevails. Looking at Mr. Davidson’s deeply humane photographs is like seeing the world through the eyes of a wandering poet, like Walt Whitman with a camera.
330 2013-08-16 The backwoods reality show “Duck Dynasty” drew 11.8 million viewers Wednesday night on A&E, the largest audience ever for a nonfiction telecast on cable television.

That total, which included 6.3 million viewers in the advertiser-preferred demographic of 25- to 54-year-olds, built on the high ratings won in April, at the conclusion of Season 3, when the audience reached 9.6 million.

The series follows the travails of the Robertson family of West Monroe, La., and their company, Duck Commander, which makes duck calls for hunters. The show mixes commerce, family life, the great outdoors and beards suitable for members of the band ZZ Top — sported by the patriarch of the family, Phil, and three of his sons.

“The Robertsons represent a lot things we as Americans cherish,” said David McKillop, the general manager and executive vice president of the network: “self-made wealth, independence, three generations living together.”

Though a reality show, Mr. McKillop said, “Duck Dynasty” fits nicely with the themes of classic family television. “When the show came in, the direction I gave: This is not a hunting show, make this like ‘The Waltons.’ ”

The show’s popularity extends beyond TV. At a recent Walmart meeting, the company announced that “Duck Dynasty” T-shirts were the best sellers in its men’s, women’s and boys’ sections.
331 2013-08-16 As environmentalists and industry advocates debate the merits and risks of fracking, as the practice is frequently called, its consequences are increasingly visible. Last week, the government reported a sharply improved trade balance for June, largely because of lower oil imports.

By 2020, new oil and gas production could increase the country’s economic output by 2 to 4 percent beyond what it otherwise would be, add as many as 1.7 million jobs and perhaps reduce the bill for energy imports to zero, according to a report by the McKinsey Global Institute.

“This is a giant turnaround,” said Daniel Yergin, a longtime energy expert and author of a recent book, “The Quest: Energy, Security and the Remaking of the Modern World.” “This is fundamentally improving the competitive position of the United States in the world economy.”

But that windfall is at risk if the government permits natural gas exports to increase quickly, Mr. Liveris warns.

“What a hand the United States has been dealt!” he said in an interview in his office here.

To nurture the nation’s good luck, he says, the government needs to plan an energy policy that carefully balances the interests of the oil and gas companies that want to freely export natural gas with those of industries like Dow Chemical that fear that an export boom could outpace domestic gas supplies and bring higher energy prices.

An Australian by birth and citizenship, Mr. Liveris has emerged as the principal opponent of unfettered natural gas exports. Mr. Liveris has founded a lobbying organization to promote his cause, and he sharply criticized an Energy Department report last December that said liquefied gas could produce $30 billion a year in export earnings without meaningfully driving up domestic gas prices for consumers.

“Why should we gamble?” he asked. “I think we should be out of the gambling business on energy policy. I mean, we’re not in the gambling business on food policy. We’re not in the gambling business on defense.”

After spiking in the last decade, natural gas prices in the United States have hovered between $3 and $4 per million B.T.U.'s this year. That is down from a high of $12 before the recession, and a fraction of what it costs in Asia and Europe.

That price differential is one reason exports are so appealing for domestic energy companies, who are willing to spend billions to build export facilities to ship liquefied natural gas in tankers in the hopes of selling it overseas.

On the other hand, cheap domestic supplies mean Dow — one of the biggest private consumers of natural gas in the country — and other chemical companies are now paying much less than their foreign competitors for the raw material they turn into products like plastic, raising profit margins. It could also bring back jobs to the United States as manufacturers that use natural gas for energy benefit, Mr. Liveris says, although that renaissance is just in its infancy.

Mr. Liveris withdrew his company from the National Association of Manufacturers this year when his ideas clashed with those of other members, particularly Exxon Mobil, which hopes to convert a Louisiana gas terminal that was built to import the fuel to process exports instead. In an interview, Ken Cohen, an Exxon Mobil vice president, said that having a major business leader like Mr. Liveris supporting “protectionism” is so incongruous that “it’s almost like man bites dog.”

Mr. Liveris even came close to withdrawing Dow Chemical from the American Chemistry Council over the export issue, until the trade group modified its pro-export position.

So far, the Obama administration has granted permits to three terminal projects, two in Louisiana and one in Texas, and it appears to be on a gradual path to approve a handful more over the next several years to avoid risking the natural gas price spike Mr. Liveris fears.

But there is increasing pressure to move more quickly, because Canada is planning to build a few export terminals on the Pacific Coast, which could compete for Asian markets.

In the United States, roughly 15 proposed gas projects await regulatory approval; if all were approved they could export the equivalent of more than a third of the domestically consumed natural gas. Along with an expected future increase in natural gas consumed by vehicles and industry, such an export boom would undoubtedly push prices up.

But few experts say they believe most of those terminals will be approved. They say only a handful of the companies applying have the deep pockets to attract sufficient financing to build the facilities, which can cost $7 billion or more each.

Credit Suisse estimates that by 2017 United States gas exports will reach 3.6 billion cubic feet a day, or 5 percent of current domestic demand, and most experts say export levels could reach between 8 billion and 10 billion cubic feet a day well into the 2020s. At the same time, gas producers say they can easily pump more natural gas, especially if prices go up from the current low level of between $3.30 and $3.40 per million B.T.U.'s.

Not surprisingly Mr. Liveris has become a lightning rod among economists and business leaders, particularly those in the oil and gas drilling business, who say he is espousing protectionism merely to promote the interests of his own company.

“He is coming across as a hypocrite and a self-serving person,” said Mr. Souki, chief executive of Cheniere Energy, which won the first permit to export gas, from its Sabine Pass, La., terminal. “He wants free trade for everything he manufactures but no free trade for anybody else.”

Mr. Liveris concedes that the interests of his company coincide with his views. But he says that as the chief executive of Dow Chemical he also represents the interests of energy consumers at large, and he understands better than most what high gas prices can mean for the economy.

He says he remembers the impact of escalating domestic natural gas prices between 2001 and 2005, when the company was forced to cancel plans to build a $4 billion chemical plant in Texas.

“I’m protecting my shareholders,” he said, adding that $5 billion to $6 billion in new Dow Chemical investments were depending on the continuation of low gas prices “and not repeating the ‘01-to-'05 movie.”

“What would make that repeat movie occur?” he asked rhetorically. He pointed to his native Australia, which he said exported 90 percent of its gas. That has caused, he said, “the collapse of the manufacturing sector — and, by the way, the retail sector’s paying through the nose. We’re paying Japanese electricity prices in Australia, yet Australia is gas-rich.”

Dow Chemical has assembled a list of more than 120 manufacturing projects, representing investments of $100 billion, that are being planned or are already under construction in the United States at least partly because of lower gas prices. The beginnings of the manufacturing renaissance Mr. Liveris imagines for petrochemicals, fertilizers, steel, aluminum, pulp paper and cement can be seen at its giant complex of plants in Freeport, Tex., the largest of its kind in the world.

The complex is a wonder of chemical engineering that has 6.5 million miles of pipe, employs more than 8,000 people and consumes enough electricity to power a city of three million people. And it is growing bigger.

The company is investing $4 billion to build a ethylene plant to manufacture a vital building block for adhesives, plastic packaging and sealants; a propylene plant that will produce a chemical used to make mattresses, toys and shampoo; a chlorine plant; and a herbicide plant. More could come — if prices for natural gas, the vital feedstock for all the chemicals, remain low.

As he surveyed workers setting rebar and installing framing for concrete to build a control room for two new plants, Earl Shipp, Dow Chemical’s vice president for United States Gulf Coast operations, said, “You know, we can’t do this without affordable natural gas.”

Some others who are investing heavily in the gulf region, however, do not agree with Mr. Liveris.

Peter L. Cella, chief executive of the Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, said that there was a risk that domestic natural gas prices could rise in the future, but that prices also could fall. “We need enough demand growth to keep the supply coming,” he said. “We believe markets work best when there are no artificial constraints or stimulants to supply and demand.”

Mr. Liveris says that he also favors free markets, but that energy, like defense and food, requires special care to protect the national interest. Exporting natural gas is fine, he says, but not at the price of importing it back in the form of goods made with cheap gas elsewhere.

“The paint ingredients need the paint can,” he said. “The paint supply chain needs trucks. The trucks go to warehouses. Warehouses go to retail. I’m not importing finished goods. I’m making them in the United States of America.”
332 2013-08-16 U.S.T.A. officials had long said they were committed to adding a roof on Ashe as soon as they could figure out how, but a roof was not initially in the renovation project when it was announced last year.

Ashe Stadium sits on swamplike soil, which makes adding the weight of a roof an engineering challenge.

Danny Zausner, the chief executive of the National Tennis Center, said the association consulted every architect who had been involved in the design of a stadium roof in North America. Ashe is the largest stadium in tennis, seating more than 22,500, and is more like a baseball stadium than a tennis venue. The U.S.T.A. needed a roof three or four times the size of the one at Wimbledon’s Centre Court.

Zausner cited BC Place in Vancouver, British Columbia, as one of the few North American stadiums that had added a roof after being built. A cable-supported fabric retractable roof was built on to the 30-year-old stadium in 2011.

In the last 10 years, the U.S.T.A. conducted four studies trying to find a roof plan that was functional, financially feasible, aesthetically pleasing and structurally stable. It was not until 2010 that a design succeeded in more than two of those areas, Zausner said.

That plan came from the Rossetti firm, the original architect and structural designer of Ashe Stadium 16 years ago, which lost out in the bidding process in 2009 but continued to work on its concept for another year.

“We had to find out how to support 5,000 tons of steel on soil that is mush,” said Matt Rossetti, the project’s designer.

A 5,000-ton superstructure will be built around and above the existing stadium. The roof, which will be made of a Teflon-like translucent fabric stretched over a steel frame, will be supported by eight steel columns.

To deal with the soil conditions, the eight columns, which Rossetti described as tree branches, will sit on massive concrete bases, each of which will be supported by 20 piles driven 150 to 200 feet deep.

The roof will close from two sides, on glides, in five to seven minutes. It will cost more than $100 million, half the price of previously considered plans.

Zausner said tennis association officials were not pessimistic about the prospects of a roof, just frustrated at how long it was taking to come up with a workable plan. For example, they spent more than a year trying to determine if removing upper-bowl seating would allow for a roof on top of the stadium, only to realize it was impossible. The design team also spent more than six months evaluating climate control.

Rossetti said the conceptual breakthrough came six months ago, when architects determined they could support the roof with eight columns instead of 32, which would not only lighten the load but also limit the impact on walkways and amenities near the stadium. Two months ago, the design team proved its plan would work.

Zausner said that if the plans received the necessary approvals from various city agencies, construction of the Ashe roof could begin as early as next spring. The Ashe roof, the new Armstrong Stadium and a new Grandstand each will take up to two years to complete but will not affect the ability to host the Open, Zausner said.

The first phase of the renovation, which includes a two-story viewing plaza for the practice courts and replacing Courts 4 and 5 with three new courts, could be finished by next year’s Open. The Grandstand, which will move to the southwest corner of the grounds and increase in capacity to 8,000 seats, is expected to be ready for the 2015 Open, along with wider walkways, a new food court and expanded amenities. (Smith did not rule out that the Grandstand may one day have a roof, too.)

Tennis association officials said the renovation would be financed by bonds and revenue generation and not by an increase in ticket prices, although the project will increase the capacity of the tennis center by 10,000 spectators per day.

Although the roofs at the Australian Open can be closed for rain or heat, and the Centre Court roof at Wimbledon can close for rain or darkness, the roof at Ashe will close for only one reason.

“We want this to be an outdoor tournament,” Smith said. “We’re only going to close it if it will rain or is raining.”
333 2013-08-16 The Dow industrials lost 225.47 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 15,112.19. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 24.07 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,661.32. The selling swept across all 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500.

The Nasdaq composite index dropped 63.16 points, or 1.7 percent, to 3,606.12.

“It seems like an overreaction today,” said Randy Frederick, managing director of active trading and derivatives at the Schwab Center for Financial Research.

Mr. Frederick said many investors were speculating that the improving economy meant that the Fed would start pumping less money into the financial system in the coming months. If that results in lower bond prices and even higher yields, it could lead more investors to dump dividend-paying stocks in favor of bonds.

“Some of the stocks getting hit hardest recently are big companies paying dividends,” Mr. Frederick said. Utilities stocks are down 3 percent this week, for example, the worst of the S.& P. 500’s industry groups.

The government said on Thursday that the number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits dropped to 320,000 last week, the lowest level since October 2007, two months before the start of the recession.

A slowly improving economy should eventually lead to higher spending and more sales for big companies. But right now, investors are more focused on the Fed’s next move, said Natalie Trunow, the chief investment officer at Calvert Investments.

“There’s this counterintuitive reaction to economic news,” Ms. Trunow said. “Positive data comes out and markets aren’t excited about it. They say, ‘Uh-oh, the stimulus will be removed.’ ”

Wal-Mart fell $1.99, or 3 percent, to $74.41 after the company cut its profit and revenue forecasts for 2013. It also reported second-quarter results that missed Wall Street’s estimates.

Shares of Cisco Systems fell $1.89, or 7 percent, to $24.49, for the biggest drop of the 30 big companies in the Dow, after the company announced plans late on Wednesday to cut 5 percent of its work force, roughly 4,000 employees, as its sales slow.

Cisco’s announcement led to selling in other technology stocks, as it is widely regarded as a bellwether for the entire industry. That is because the company sells a wide range of products to corporations and governments and its fiscal quarters end a month later than most major technology companies’, which gives investors an early look into current conditions.

The Dow has slumped 2 percent so far this week, and the S.& P. 500 is down 1.8 percent. However, the Dow is up 15.3 percent for the year so far, while the S.& P. 500 is up 16.5 percent. Both indexes closed at nominal highs on Aug. 2.

In the bond market, interest rates climbed, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, a benchmark for interest rates on mortgage loans, jumped as high as 2.81 percent in early trading. The selling in the 10-year note eased a bit later in the day and its price ended down 15/32, to 97 22/32, giving it a yield of 2.77 percent, up from 2.71 percent late on Wednesday.

Higher long-term interest rates could cool housing sales. “A sharp increase in long-term rates translates into a sharp increase in mortgage rates,” Ms. Trunow said. “That’s bound to impact the housing market.”
334 2013-08-16 Q. What were some early lessons running your first company, SenseNet?

A. I made every mistake possible. One of the biggest mistakes I made was that, in your first company, you can really get attached to the idea of equity and ownership, and so it becomes much more of a baby to you. You lose that after you do it a couple of times, but I was overly greedy early on with the ownership. It was a huge learning curve.

Q. Tell me about the culture of your current company.

A. We have a wildly different environment. For example, everybody knows everybody’s salary. It’s pure transparency, which manifests itself with a much greater level of trust. Everybody knows each other’s ownership stake, too.

Q. What was your thinking behind that?

A. The first few months of the company, all we did was talk about culture. We didn’t even know what we were going to do first. We really overthought how to build an environment.

The usual corporate doctrine can be configured poorly for employees. It’s almost designed to enable evil to happen. You can tell an employee they have 10,000 shares, but it doesn’t mean much if I just give myself 100 million shares or whatever. Their stake is going to be worthless. Most of the engineers out there have no idea what their ownership stake really is. They’re just told, here’s how much you own. It’s worth this now, and it could be worth that later.

Q. What happens if you want to pay somebody above-market wages? How do people react?

A. I can’t hire them. So far I’ve not been able to go “out of bounds” to hire people. I try to get the consensus of the team, but if they say it doesn’t make sense, then I don’t hire them.

A. I’m good at arguing. I’m good at getting people to believe in things. But if I can’t get them to believe that we should hire this person for a certain amount, then I might actually be wrong.

When we first started with this, we’d send out the package details of every new hire to the entire team. That caused a lot of stress. So we’ve switched that and now just their peer group will know the new hire’s compensation and be forced to a vote. The information is shared on a drive that everybody can see, but we don’t broadcast it out to everybody. Very few people look at them, though. But they know the information is there if they want to see it, and that creates more trust in a deeper way.

Q. What else about your culture?

A. We have a trial on-boarding process. Anyone we hire goes into a 45-day test period. But we have a really high bar, and only about 65 percent make it through. At the end we have a fresh, clean start and we decide if we want to get married. It turns out to be much healthier for on-boarding when you make sure everybody likes who we’re bringing on.

Q. And with the 35 percent who don’t work out, what’s the pattern?

A. Sometimes people don’t fit into our environment. We’re still at a stage where culture makes an extreme difference. Sometimes we’re not an organization that’s as supportive for them as we’d hope to be. A couple of people who didn’t make it through required an additional level of mentoring. And we believe in mentoring. But if they need an excessive amount, they won’t develop. They won’t grow fast enough, and it’s not the right place for them, or for us. So we save each other the hassle.

Q. A lot of companies struggle to create an environment where people have frank discussions about employees’ performance. How do you do it?

A. You’re expected to have hard conversations as often as you can. That’s how you get better. You’re expected to sit down with your peers and say: “You know what? You really didn’t do that well.” And those conversations are amazing because they de-stress the frustration that people can feel. So you’re unhappy with the way somebody managed the project. You sit down and you talk with them. Maybe you didn’t understand the full picture. We’re all human beings. You have a basic belief that everyone’s here for the same goal and is competent. Then, once you understand their pain points to work through, you can better eliminate where they really failed.

Q. How do you hire?

A. We want ambition. We want people who are hungry. We want people who love what they do. A big screen for us is seeing what people’s personal hobbies are. We look for the playgrounds people play in. We want people who are writing books or building an app or doing other things that show that it’s not just a job — they have an actual native passion for it. So we usually ask a lot about people’s hobbies.
335 2013-08-16 TOKYO — Japan’s hawkish new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, observed the anniversary of his nation’s defeat in World War II by sending an offering to a controversial Tokyo war shrine instead of visiting it himself, a compromise move meant to try to satisfy his right-wing base without inflaming passions in the region.

Mr. Abe’s deliberations on a possible visit to the Yasukuni Shrine — which he had talked of doing before becoming prime minister in December — were closely watched as an early test of whether he would revert to the strident nationalism of his first troubled tenure as the country’s leader. Critics said the prime minister had been holding back for months to help appeal to more mainstream voters before parliamentary elections, which his party won in a landslide last month.

The prime minister’s balancing act highlighted his struggle since taking office to juggle two conflicting political goals: a deeply felt personal desire to revise what his supporters call an overly negative postwar portrayal of Japan’s conduct during the war, and an effort to solidify ties in the region to help the United States offset China’s growing strength. He pushed through a small defense spending increase and supports expanding Japan’s self-defense forces. But he has dropped his vow to revise official apologies for the war that Japan made to other Asian nations in the 1990s.

Mr. Abe has largely avoided touching on delicate historical issues since he took office, with the exception of another offering he made to Yasukuni in April. Mr. Abe’s supporters say he is responding at least in part to pressure from American officials, who fear that historical issues may isolate Japan, the United States’ largest Asian ally, at a time when the Americans must cope with China and a nuclear North Korea.

Mr. Abe had refused to say clearly for days whether he would go to the Shinto shrine, which honors the nation’s war dead, including executed war criminals. The offering of an envelope full of cash was signed by Mr. Abe and delivered by an aide, Koichi Hagyuda, who said that Mr. Abe regretted not being able to come, a secretary for Mr. Hagyuda said.
336 2013-08-17 At City Winery in New York City, June celebrated the release of her album “Pushin’ Against a Stone,” announcing it was time “do the dadgum song already!”...
337 2013-08-17 John Isner defeated No. 1 Novak Djokovic, 7-6 (5), 3-6, 7-5, on Friday, finally converting a break point on his 10th opportunity to seal the victory in the Western & Southern Open quarterfinals in Mason, Ohio. After his win, Isner pretended to tear open his shirt to reveal a Superman logo, a celebration move he has borrowed from Cam Newton, the quarterback of the Carolina Panthers.

“It was a fantastic win for me,” Isner said. “Certainly one of my greatest memories as a tennis player.”

Djokovic was bidding to become the first player to win singles title at all nine Masters events on the ATP Tour. Isner has never won a Masters title.

Isner will play No. 7 Juan Martín del Potro on Saturday.

Second-seeded Andy Murray, the reigning Wimbledon and United States Open champion, fell, 6-3, 6-4, to No. 6 Tomas Berdych.
338 2013-08-17 A former fund-raiser for Representative Michael G. Grimm, whose campaign finances are under investigation by federal prosecutors, pleaded guilty on Friday to visa fraud.

The former fund-raiser, Ofer Biton, an Israeli immigrant who helped direct hundreds of thousands of dollars from supporters of a revered rabbi to Mr. Grimm’s campaign before his election to Congress in 2010, was arrested last August and charged with lying on his visa application.

Followers of the rabbi, Yoshiyahu Pinto, have said in interviews that Mr. Grimm or Mr. Biton told them that the campaign would find a way to accept donations that were over the legal limit, were given in cash or were given by foreigners who did not have permanent resident status.

Congressional campaigns are not allowed to accept cash donations of more than $100 and foreigners without resident status are barred by law from donating to political campaigns. At the time of Mr. Biton’s arrest, lawyers not involved in the case said that the charges appeared to have been meant to persuade him to cooperate with the authorities in the investigation of Mr. Grimm, a Staten Island Republican, who has not been charged with any wrongdoing.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Grimm, Carol Danko, said that “the visa issues had nothing to do with Congressman Grimm.”

Prosecutors said last September that they expected to charge Mr. Biton with extortion and money laundering, but no additional charges ever materialized.

In Federal District Court in Brooklyn on Friday, Mr. Biton, 40, was barely audible as he told the judge, Roslynn R. Mauskopf, that he had lied about the source of $400,000 that he claimed to have put into a new business that could have made him eligible for a permanent visa.
339 2013-08-17 Pictures From the Week in Business
340 2013-08-17 Nike withdrew its offer to sponsor a top American pole-vaulter this week after he placed tape over the company’s swoosh logo on his shoes during a recent competition.

The pole-vaulter, Brad Walker, who holds the United States record in the event, said he was not taking a swipe at Nike but was making sure that a Velcro strap stayed tight, an adjustment he said he had frequently made in the past.

Nike, however, took umbrage at his decision, he said.

“Big no no,” Walker wrote in a Facebook post Thursday. “I am no longer a Nike athlete because while trying to use one of their products, I had to use tape to hold together a shoe that shouldn’t break down within 6 months.”

Walker had been negotiating a sponsorship contract with Nike for some time, but he said he was not satisfied with the size of the offer.

The clash over the swoosh logo brought attention to athletes in nonmainstream events, like the pole vault, who often struggle to attract hefty endorsement contracts similar to those given to gold medalists like the swimmer Michael Phelps. Several athletes, including those in track and field, have criticized an International Olympic Committee rule that limits how they can promote their sponsors, hampering their ability to earn money, the athletes say.

“I think there’s a general misunderstanding that Olympic athletes are doing fine,” Walker said in an interview. “There’s no money in the sport anymore, and the shoe company deals reflect that. Basically, it’s getting to the point where it’s hard to make a living in the sport, and unfortunately the sport is dying a slow death.”
341 2013-08-17 A Swiss lawyer accused of helping American clients conceal millions of dollars in offshore accounts pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit tax fraud in federal court in New York. The lawyer, Edgar Paltzer, 57, a dual United States-Swiss citizen, admitted he opened bank accounts in Switzerland in the name of entities he formed for American citizens, knowing they intended to evade taxes. “I was aware that this conduct was wrong,” he said, pleading guilty to newly filed criminal charges as part of a plea agreement. As part of his plea, Mr. Paltzer agreed to forfeit any fees he earned and cooperate with the United States government. “His cooperation is complete and without any limitation,” Thomas Ostrander, Mr. Paltzer’s lawyer, said after the hearing. Mr. Paltzer, a former partner of the Swiss law firm Niederer Kraft & Frey who is licensed to practice in New York, was first charged in April on one count of conspiracy. That indictment accused him of conspiring with American taxpayers from 2000 through at least 2012 to help them hide their Swiss accounts from the Internal Revenue Service.
342 2013-08-17 “Communities across the city have suffered long enough,” Ms. Quinn said, adding, “There should be no further delay to long-needed reforms.”

While Ms. Quinn has argued that the Police Department should take steps to reform its use of the tactic, her criticism had been less emphatic than that of Mr. de Blasio, the public advocate, who focused on the topic in his first television commercial.

Her more subtle critique of the practice — along with a pledge to retain Raymond W. Kelly, who has expanded its use, as police commissioner — has left some confused about her position.

In a televised interview on Friday, Thomas Roberts, an anchor for MSNBC, referred to Ms. Quinn as a supporter of the stop-and-frisk tactic.

Ms. Quinn interjected. “No, no, no,” she said, shaking her head, “that’s actually not accurate.” She said she agreed with the court’s ruling against the city.

But Mr. Roberts was perplexed, asking Ms. Quinn why, then, she would keep Mr. Kelly on the job. Ms. Quinn said that in her administration, “unconstitutional stops will end.”

Later in the day, pressed about Mr. Kelly, Ms. Quinn drew an even sharper distinction with the current administration.

“Ray Kelly has implemented Mike Bloomberg’s vision of stop and frisk,” she said. “Chris Quinn’s vision of stop and frisk is totally different. And then it will be his choice of whether he wants to implement that, or not.”

Mr. de Blasio’s blunt statements have engendered their own confusion: he supports changes to the stop-and-frisk tactic, as Ms. Quinn does, but not its elimination.

Of the major Democratic contenders, only John C. Liu, the city comptroller, has said he would abolish the practice entirely, a point that Ms. Quinn explained to Mr. Roberts on MSNBC.

Asked about it later, Ms. Quinn laughed.

“You typically don’t take airtime, particularly not on national cable shows, to mention other people’s names,” she told reporters. “But since Mr. Roberts was putting incorrect facts out there, I felt like I needed to correct the record.”

As his tenure increasingly comes under fire in the mayoral race, Mr. Bloomberg, for his part, could barely contain his exasperation with the Democrats.

On his radio program on Friday, the mayor complained about the Democratic candidates’ eagerness to reform policing tactics and criticism of his ideas to raise revenue for public housing.

“If anybody’s got any better ideas, I’d like to hear them — concrete ideas,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “Not just say, ‘Oh, there’s better ways — if you elect me, then I’ll tell you.’ ”

He also suggested an idea: a fingerprinting system so that only residents of public housing could enter their buildings.

By the end of the day, nearly every candidate for mayor, including Ms. Quinn, had condemned the idea.

The mayor’s spokesman, Marc La Vorgna, later took to Twitter to defend his boss.

“I look forward to 20 years from now,” Mr. La Vorgna wrote, “when everything will use biometrics, and people will look at candidates’ comments today and laugh.”
343 2013-08-17 ATLANTA — One other major national championship was decided here on Sunday evening, the Roth Open Swiss Teams.

Several teams were in contention when the last round began, but Carolyn Lynch of Scottsdale, Ariz.; Mike Passell of Las Vegas; Bart Bramley of Dallas; Lew Stansby of Dublin, Calif.; and Cezary Balicki and Adam Zmudzinski from Poland won their final match by almost a blitz to finish 6 victory points ahead of Martin Fleisher, Chris Willenken and Zia Mahmood of New York City; Michael Kamil of Holmdel, N.J.; Chip Martel of Davis, Calif.; and Michael Rosenberg of Cupertino, Calif. Team Monaco (Pierre Zimmermann, Franck Multon, Fulvio Fantoni, Claudio Nunes, Geir Helgemo and Tor Helness) was third.

In the last round, the Lynch team gained two big swings. The first came from a slam that was missed by their opponents. The second was from the diagramed deal.

In the given auction, Bramley (South) opened two spades in the modern style. After two passes, East was not strong enough to jump to four no-trump. And when East balanced with three diamonds, South could describe his hand, a limited 6-5 in the majors, at the three-level. Then it was easy for Stansby (North) to sacrifice in five hearts over five clubs.

Finally, spare a thought for West. With two aces, the trump king and a partner who had bid freely at the three-level, he doubled and found that he could not defeat a small slam.

West led his diamond ace, then shifted to a club. South ruffed, drew trumps, ran the spades (discarding three diamonds and one club from the dummy) and won 12 tricks, for plus 750. (The curious may care to analyze the deal with the spade eight and nine exchanged between South and West.)
344 2013-08-17 In “Once Upon a Time in Mumbai Dobaara,” Shoaib (an effective Akshay Kumar) is a gangster to his core: he looks the part — sunglasses, slicked-back hair, sleek suits — and has a firm grip on Mumbai’s underworld. The character’s rise was told in the action-packed 2010 movie “Once Upon a Time in Mumbai,” but for this sequel, Milan Luthria, who directed both, wanted to show that his villain has a heart.

The result is a slightly convincing love story that revolves around the young beauty Yasmin (Sonakshi Sinha), an aspiring actress from Kashmir who is clueless about Shoaib’s dirty dealings. She therefore has no qualms about standing up to him, which he finds endearingly refreshing. He can’t help swooning. Neither can his young right-hand man, Aslam (a likable Imran Khan), whom Shoaib took under his wing as a child.

A retro vibe pervades the movie, yet since it has suits from the ’70s and a Walkman from the ’80s, the intended era is unclear. The slick song-and-dance numbers (a little electro, a lot of driving percussion) mostly advance the tale.

But the incongruous filmmaking ultimately bogs things down. Poor pacing and editing result in a lack of transition between scenes; poignant moments are punctuated with distracting music; and the dialogue is overstuffed with platitudes that land like corny messages from fortune cookies. While the budding romance between Aslam and Yasmin is believable, it is hard to see how the suave, savvy Shoaib would risk losing his enterprise to get the girl.
345 2013-08-17 After the financial collapse of 2008, most forms of real estate were shunned. But not farmland. Prices shot up, driven by rising commodity prices from global demand, low interest rates in the United States and high auction prices begetting higher prices.

Now commodity prices have fallen. Corn has gone to about $4.60 a bushel this week from over $8 a bushel last year. Soybeans have fallen to about $12.60 a bushel from over $17. Yet the value of farmland for row crops has continued to rise.

“We’re kind of at an inflection point,” said Brent Gloy, a professor of agricultural economics at Purdue University. “We’ve had five years of spectacular profitability that was somewhat unanticipated. The U.S.D.A. was forecasting much lower than this, so it surprised people.”

Yet there are still reasons to think that there will be buyers for land who will hold on to it for decades to come. A report released by U.S. Trust highlighted the graying of America’s farmers and their need to sell or lease their land as they age.

“Can land go up and down?” asked John Taylor, national farm and ranch executive for U.S. Trust, which manages 900 farms for investors. “Sure. But I’ve never seen land go to zero. And with world demand, there is no vacancy factor on good U.S. farmland.”

All of this raises the issue of whether it is time to sell.

Brian C. Duke, vice president for Northern Trust, said that even with the run-up in prices for commodities, the annual return of farmland remains about 3 percent. Since 2000, the value of land in Illinois, for example, has increased 207 percent. For an investment comparison, The Dow Jones industrial average went up 42 percent in that period. Triple-digit appreciation has a way of luring new investors.

More experienced investors said that appreciation isn’t the goal: to realize it you have to sell the land. “The capital gain is nice, ” said Albert Kirchner, who is known as Bud and owned a manufacturing company. “We don’t look at the capital gain. We look at it from a productivity standpoint.”

Mr. Kirchner owns 6,000 acres of corn and soybean land in Illinois, an 8,000-acre cattle ranch in Montana and 1,200 acres of timberland in Florida. But his benchmark since he started investing in land after World War II has remained a 4 percent annual return.

At that number and using Agriculture Department estimates that the average farmland value in Illinois is $7,800, Mr. Kirchner’s land would be worth $46.8 million, with an annual return of $1,872,000.

But for the person who has bought land recently at auction, getting even 4 percent becomes more challenging. At $12,000 an acre, a 4 percent return is $480. Kevin Casner, who farms 2,400 acres in Carrollton, Mo., with his son Adam, said the rents in his area ranged from $150 to $450 an acre. (Those rents were negotiated before commodity prices started to fall, and will presumably drop.)

A landlord can squeeze a farmer only so far on rent. Mr. Lindstrom said that an acre of his family farm was producing 175 bushels of corn, which equals a little more than $740 at $4.25 a bushel. But a farmer has some pretty hefty fixed costs. He said that, per acre, seed is $100, nitrogen is $100, dry fertilizer is $100, taxes are $50, insecticide is $30, chemicals are $50, and cash rent is $300 on average. That is $680 without factoring in the cost of equipment and labor. There is no room to increase the rent in this example by $180 more an acre.

This balance between commodity prices and land values and rents can change. It is why all land investors need to have a long enough time frame. “If you’re wanting to park money for five years, farmland is really not what you should be investing in,” Mr. Duke said. “You need to have that longer-term approach.”

Many farmers and investors fear the past decade could be too much of a good thing.

“In real terms the gain we’ve seen in farmland values over the last 10 years are greater than those we saw in the 1970s,” said Professor Gloy of Purdue. In the early 1980s, farmland prices crashed when interest rates went up and farmers could not continue to borrow to finance their operations.

The two things that could set off a decline are a further drop in commodity prices and higher interest rates.

Matt Ward, one of the owners of Premier Grain Farms in Walker, Iowa, said that a drop of $2 a bushel in the price of corn translated to a loss of about $400 an acre. If all 15,000 acres he farms were planted evenly, that would translate into $6 million less in revenue than the land produced last year.

Investors who have sharecropping agreements that designate a split in the harvest between farmer and owner will see their return reduced immediately. Those who have cash leases are likely to have to negotiate lower rents when the lease is renewed.

Another option for an investor has been a variable cash lease. The owner would accept a lower cash rent up front and negotiate an additional payment if the price of the commodity or the yield was higher. There is now less chance of upside potential.

As for interest rates, the fear is that they will rise and the value of land will fall. Mr. Lindstrom, the farm owner who works for UBS, said there was no way to finance land at today’s rates of 5 percent and make money. Cash buyers, he said, are at risk of losing their principal.

“Could the land go from $10,000 to $15,000 an acre?” he said. “Sure, but not today and not with corn at $4.25. I’d be surprised if we don’t go from $10,000 to $8,000 or $7,000. Land has tripled in the last five to six years.”

Still, this was the man who passed on buying land at $3,300 an acre because he thought it was overpriced. “We just tried to buy more ground and were willing to go to $7,500 an acre,” Mr. Lindstrom said.

“It went for $10,500. My instincts tell me we’ll buy that ground, and we’ll buy it cheaper.”
346 2013-08-18 The increasing use of emoji icons can be baffling to American adults who, whether they realize it or not, are taking their social cues from Japanese teenagers....
347 2013-08-18 Emily Dunn Hutchins, a daughter of Teresa Dunn Hutchins and Michael T. Hutchins of Ridgewood, N.J., was married Saturday evening to Eugene Everett Peroni III, a son of Mercedes Miller Peroni of Malvern, Pa., and Mr. Peroni Jr. of Conshohocken, Pa. The Rev. James J. Balija, a priest of the Catholic Apostolic Church of North America, officiated at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx.

The couple, both 29, met at Lehigh, from which they graduated. They are each pursuing an M.B.A. at Cornell.
348 2013-08-18 Emily Lauren Chapuis, the daughter of Debra Kusmer Chapuis and Glen E. Chapuis of St. Louis, was married Monday to Amanda Ward Shanor, the daughter of Gloria Jakovac Cheatham and Charles A. Shanor, both of Atlanta. Rabbi Stephanie L. Bernstein officiated at the Rosedale Conservancy in Washington. On Saturday, the Rev. Martha C. Highsmith, a Presbyterian minister and a cousin of Ms. Shanor, performed a nondenominational ceremony at the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis.

The couple met at Yale, from which they received law degrees.

Ms. Chapuis (left), 33, is an associate in the Washington office of Jenner & Block, a law firm in Chicago. She graduated summa cum laude from Tulane.

Her father is a professor of business at St. Charles Community College in St. Charles, Mo. Her mother is a social worker at the Delta Gamma Center for Children With Visual Impairments, a nonprofit organization in St. Louis that provides educational programs and support services to children with vision loss and their families.

Until Monday, Ms. Shanor, 32, was a law clerk to Judge Judith Rogers of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Washington. She graduated cum laude from Yale. She is an author, along with her father, of “Counterterrorism Law: Cases and Materials,” a textbook.

Her mother, now retired, was the assistant general counsel for labor, employment and employee benefits for Georgia-Pacific, the forest products company in Atlanta. Her father is a professor at Emory Law School, where he teaches labor, constitutional and national-security law. Ms. Shanor is the stepdaughter of Susan McRae Shanor and of Walter B. Cheatham II.
349 2013-08-18 HANOI, Vietnam — A Vietnamese appeals court has overturned one dissident’s six-year prison sentence and halved the term of another in a rare show of leniency by the country’s Communist authorities.

The decision followed meetings last month between President Obama and President Truong Tan Sang of Vietnam. Mr. Obama pressed Vietnam to take concrete steps to improve its human rights record, a major sticking point in relations between the two countries.

The first dissident, Nguyen Phuong Uyen, 21, was convicted of violating national security laws in May for distributing leaflets critical of the Communist Party, and sentenced to six years. The appeals court on Friday revised her punishment to a three-year suspended sentence and released her. The other dissident, Dinh Nguyen Kha, 25, was given four years in prison instead of eight.

Nguyen Thanh Luong, a lawyer who was in the court, said Saturday that the judges had cited the young ages of the defendants in the decision.

He said he believed it was the first time an appeals court here had freed someone convicted of a national security crime. “This is a positive sign,” Mr. Luong said, “and this should be encouraged.”
350 2013-08-18 Emirates Team New Zealand tore the tarp in the center of its catamaran and lost two men overboard before holding on to beat the Italian team Luna Rossa in a scary opener to the Louis Vuitton Cup finals in San Francisco Bay on Saturday. Both crew members were lifted out of the water by a rescue boat within seconds.

The winner of the best-of-13 Vuitton Cup advances to the America’s Cup match against Oracle Team USA, which has been accused of cheating by both teams.
351 2013-08-18 “Texas is really ripe” for an expansion in bike infrastructure, said Mia Birk, the firm’s president and a former bicycle program manager with the City of Portland, widely regarded as a national model for biking infrastructure. “There’s so many cities that are growing and thriving, and really looking for ways to create healthier opportunities for residents and businesses.”

Rising obesity rates across the country have drawn increased attention to Texas, where two-thirds of residents are overweight or clinically obese. The unwanted publicity of landing high on various “fattest cities” lists has heightened interest in doing more to encourage bicycle use, according to some city officials.

“I think what made city leaders take notice is we kept getting on lists that didn’t look so good for the city,” said Julia Murphy, a biking manager in San Antonio’s sustainability department. “We were all tired of having that reputation.”

In Brownsville, the health argument, along with the prospect of drawing more jobs to the border city, has helped increase support for expanding bike lanes and closing off some city streets several times a year for biking events, according to Ramiro Gonzalez, the city’s planning director.

“We have a high obesity rate here in Brownsville, so the idea kind of stemmed out from that,” Mr. Gonzalez said. “The research shows it’s just a domino effect. If you have a healthier population, you might attract different kinds of business and corporations.”

For many longtime biking advocates, there is a sense of momentum around Texas that was not there even a few years ago.

“People who are trying to attract people and businesses to their cities get it,” said Robin Stallings of BikeTexas, an advocacy group. “If they want to get their kids to come back after college, if they want to get any kind of high-tech industry, they need this stuff.”

“Our population is trending younger, and I think younger populations are wanting more density and want to live closer to where they live, play, shop and eat,” Ms. Spanjian said.

The recent creation and expansion of bike-share systems in three Texas cities has both promoted biking and fueled increased calls for expanding biking infrastructure in those communities. San Antonio introduced the state’s first bike-share system in 2011 with 13 stations, Ms. Murphy said. By the end of August, the city will have 52 stations and 500 bikes.

Houston followed suit in 2012, and then Fort Worth began its system in April. Austin plans to have the first 10 stations of a planned 40-station system operating by the end of this year.

In all four cities, initial financing for the bike-share systems came from a mix of public grants and private donations and sponsorships.

“I don’t think it’s a coincidence that within two years of each other, we have four Texas cities with bike-share programs,” Ms. Spanjian said.

Developing such programs in Texas poses unique challenges, Ms. Birk said, because the cities are more spread out and less crowded than in many other states. “When you have very high density but that smaller footprint, you also have a competition over space and a lot of humans debating how we use that space,” Ms. Birk said. Many Texas cities, she said, have almost the opposite problem: so much space that it is more difficult to convince people that biking is a practical way to get around.

Advocates often stress the value of biking for short trips and as a means of connecting with public transportation.

“About two to three miles is the sweet spot where it really can be more efficient and faster to take a bike,” said Annick Beaudet, a City of Austin planner who had previously worked as bicycle program manager for the city.

Gannon Gries, who moved to Fort Worth in 2004, regularly commutes via bike to his office at a downtown architectural firm. The three-mile route, and biking in the city in general, has become easier in recent years, he said.

“When I first started, there were no bike lanes, no nothing — just the Trinity Trails around the river,” Mr. Gries said. “Now there’s a lot more signage, and there’s dedicated lanes.”

In Texas, where strong population growth has lawmakers in a constant search for more highway construction financing, city officials are balancing efforts to maintain and expand vehicular capacity while still encouraging new bike lanes and trails.

Julia McCleeary, a Fort Worth senior planner, said the city’s strategy had been to encourage cyclists to use roads that were originally built to accommodate more traffic than they currently receive.

“They were roads that perhaps served a greater purpose 40 years ago, but now that there’s a freeway nearby, there’s a lot of excess capacity,” she said.

Advocates say the goal is to see bicycle use become more common around the state, even if, in most cases, bikes only supplement a transportation routine that still relies more on automobiles.

“We’re not trying to take away cars,” Ms. Murphy said. “That’s the fine line you walk. Our media campaign is ‘There’s enough road to go around.’ ”
352 2013-08-18 So began my refresher course. While some readers wrote to say nice job and have a nice day, others got right to the point: I was a government patsy, employed by a newspaper that has worked in concert with various insidious powers to suppress what really happened in Dallas. One reader charged me with a “virtually treasonous act.”

The rough consensus among these unhappy readers was that at least two gunmen were involved, and that the Warren Commission was inept at best, corrupt at worst. In addition, I was a thought-free tool — a sap, really — who, among other failures, had made no reference to the House Select Committee on Assassinations report of 1979, which concluded that while Oswald fired the fatal shot, there also existed the probability of a conspiracy among unknown participants.

It might spawn another conspiracy belief for my critics to learn that I am of proud conspiracy-theorist stock. While other fathers pursued hobbies like golf, mine spent his free time trying to expose a government cover-up of the existence of U.F.O.’s. His preferred family outing was to pull over the station wagon and search the night skies for extraterrestrial activity.

My father was also obsessed with the murder of Kennedy, one of his few heroes. Our family bible was not the Bible but Mark Lane’s “Rush to Judgment,” a sort of conspiracy primer on the assassination. Other children discussed the films of Walt Disney; my siblings and I discussed the film of Abraham Zapruder.

As time moved on, though, my questions about the Kennedy assassination gave in to a general acceptance that Oswald had acted alone. Probably.

But a half-century after the tragedy, I remain in the minority. According to an Associated Press-GfK poll conducted earlier this year, 59 percent of Americans believe in an assassination conspiracy. Presumably, that includes my three siblings.

At least I am in fast company. Among the nonbelievers is the prominent presidential historian Robert Dallek, whose most recent book, “Camelot’s Court: Inside the Kennedy White House,” is one of many Kennedy books coming out in time for the assassination’s 50th anniversary in November.

“If there was some grand conspiracy, it would have been outed by now,” he said.

Mr. Dallek is more intrigued by the apparent need to believe in a conspiracy. “They can’t accept that someone as inconsequential as Oswald could have killed someone as consequential as Kennedy,” he said. “To believe that only Oswald killed Kennedy — that there wasn’t some larger plot — shows people how random the world is, how uncertain. And I think it pains them; they don’t want to accept that fact.”

Jesse Walker, the books editor at Reason magazine and the author of “The United States of Paranoia,” also to be released in the coming days, said that conspiracy theories have a long and potent history in this country and are hardly embraced by only the fringe.

“Conspiracy theories emerge at this place where our natural tendency to find patterns and tell stories meets our natural tendency to have suspicions and fears,” he said.

Now and then I think of that nun at Friendly’s all those years ago. More often, I think of my father, who taught me about Watergate and other true conspiracies, dying without seeing a U.F.O. or trusting the official story of how his hero had died.

The murder of a president has not been easy for any of us who remember it.

“I love my country and find it hard to shrug and ‘move on,’ ” one of the more thoughtful conspiracy theorists wrote to me. “Good luck to us all.”
353 2013-08-18 “The first channel for dogs, available through DirectTV and online, entertains dogs home alone with scientifically developed behavior patterns, movements, and sounds from a dog’s perspective.”

Thanks for having me in to pitch, guys. I’m very excited to be here. I know you’re slammed getting a new network up and running with fresh programming, so I’ll just jump right in with a few series ideas I believe dog viewers will love:

MAD DOGS This stylish period piece is set in a time when the most popular breeds were German shepherds, collies and beagles. Those were the days when the rugs you soiled were polyester and the kitchen floors linoleum. Humans spent so much time drinking martinis and sleeping with one another’s spouses that they cut a pet a lot of slack. It was a sweet gig, except for all the secondhand smoke.

LAW AND ORDER: SPECIAL CANINE UNIT Our crack team of investigators chase down the perverted sons of bitches who hump small pets, den furniture and human knees.

CURB YOUR DOG Larry, a middle-aged Doberman, playing a dog very much like himself, annoys and is annoyed by all the other dogs in his tony West Los Angeles neighborhood.

DEXTER THE DOG Early traumatic experiences in a puppy mill left this morally ambiguous Airedale with violent instincts, which he channels into trying to rid the neighborhood of vermin — except when he slips up and gnaws the wrong target by mistake.
354 2013-08-18 Another app, uShip Mobile, helps truckers to find potential cargo and place bids to carry the shipments. And FleetSafer Mobile helps truckers to stay focused on the road by blocking calls, texts and e-mails while they’re at the wheel.

Health-oriented apps include the FatSecret Calorie Counter, which can help truckers battling the weight challenges that come with a sedentary job and roadside fast-food temptations.

Keeping track of Transportation Department weigh stations and regulations is an important part of any trucker’s job. Not to worry: there’s an app for that.

Don Carpenter, 39, a long-haul driver from Rehoboth Beach, Del., said he hardly used his CB radio anymore. His world has turned digital.

“There’s 3G and 4G almost everywhere now, so cellphones have really taken over,” Mr. Carpenter said while taking a break in his cab last spring at the Love’s Travel Stop here on Interstate 81, an hour and a half west of Washington. He added that electronic log books and GPS units had become commonplace.

Mr. Carpenter, who was on his way to pick up a load of chocolate bars destined for St. Louis, had a device called PrePass stuck to the inside of his windshield that functions somewhat like an E-ZPass electronic toll tag, though this one helps him to move quickly through weigh stations. Mr. Carpenter’s PrePass transmits his vehicle’s prescreened safety information to the weigh station, which gives him a green light to keep on moving.

“It takes away all the guessing and keeps the D.O.T. off your back,” he said, pointing out that aside from the watchful eyes of regulators, most trucking companies use GPS tracking to monitor where each truck is at all times, within a few hundred feet.

That doesn’t mean that CBs and truckers averse to modern gadgets have faded away. It became clear from the CB chatter at Love’s truck stop that not everyone was on the smartphone bandwagon. The sky was dark and had the ominous metallic smell of an impending storm.

Trucker 1: “It s’posed to snow tonight? Come on back.”

Trucker 2: “Sounds like it is, driver. Gonna be all up and down 81.”

NYT: “Do you have an iPhone?”

Trucker 1: “Ain’t got no iPhone. Can’t hardly afford one of them $10 phones.”

Mr. Carpenter said that most long-haul drivers he knew had some kind of entertainment devices in their rigs. Equipped with climate-control systems that run off small generators or hybrid batteries charged by the engine, an 18-wheeler’s sleeper can be a fine place to watch television during rest breaks. Smartphones add to the entertainment mix by providing a Wi-Fi hotspot for surfing the Internet.

So what’s next for the trucking industry, and how will technology shape the future of shipping? The answer may be found in the fleets of light-duty trucks used by companies in industries like construction and oil and gas exploration.

New technology ensures that such trucks are operating at peak efficiency; fleet managers can monitor driving habits with information from sensors in the trucks that convey such data as vehicle speed, throttle position and fuel consumption.

For example, new Ram light-duty pickups intended for fleet use include mileage-enhancing features like an adjustable air suspension and a more efficient transmission. Smartphone apps and analytic tools can be integrated into the dashboard infotainment screen.

More of this sort of integrated technology is bound to make its way into big rigs, a boon for drivers who now rely on a cup holder-mounted smartphone as their trucks’ nerve center.

In a few years, those holdouts you can still hear drawling on a CB may make the switch to smartphone-based CB-style voice apps. While that would be over and out for the radios that truckers have used for decades, the lingo will probably stick around.
355 2013-08-18 She made just a few promises in her vows. “I didn’t need to say, ‘I vow to honor and cherish you’ because we already cherished each other,” she said. “It seemed obvious.”

Brides and grooms began writing their own vows in the mid-19th century, according to Elizabeth Abbott, who has written several books about marriage. American feminists and the like-minded men they married were among the first to reword traditional vows.

“They wrote vows together to express a common view of marriage,” Ms. Abbott said. “They thought about it really carefully because it was quite radical at the time, whereas today, I would say, it’s very personal.”

In the 1960s and 1970s, couples often wrote their own vows as a way of rebelling against their parents’ marriages, which many brides and grooms then viewed as unequal, unexamined and uncool.

“My first wedding, I performed in 1975 in ,” said the Rev. Roger Fritts, who wrote “For as Long as We Both Shall Live,” a guide to creating your own vows and ceremonies and who is now the pastor of the Unitarian Universalist Church in , Fla. “That summer, I did 27 weddings, and almost all of the couples wanted to write their own vows.”

Today’s homemade vows rarely aim to change society, but they can be remarkably personal and idiosyncratic. Brides and grooms promise to honor and cherish things like each other’s sense of humor, movie preferences, shopping sprees, long work hours, a love of swimming in cold water or of driving old Volkswagens.

“The best vows I’ve ever heard were at a wedding I thought was just a party, and it ended up being: ‘Surprise! We’re getting married right here on the spot,’ ” said Kate Lacroix, 39. She recalls how the groom said, “ ‘I promise I’ll never forget your number again’ — and he recited her phone number — ‘and I now know exactly what you like in a Chipotle burrito.’ ”

Ms. Abbott said couples today place great importance on these kinds of highly personal, carefully crafted vows. “It’s a talisman against the misfortunes of marriage,” she said.

On the Weddingbee blog, couples share and discuss one another’s homemade vows-in-progress. One bride posted vows there that included the lines: “I promise to be corny every chance that I get and to ask you to dance whenever I can. I also promise to laugh and agree with you when you tell me I can’t dance.”

Also, writing your own vows is in the ‘my life is your life’ spirit of , and reality shows about marriage. “This is just one other way we’ve broken down the walls and are allowing people to see our humanity,” said Ms. Lacroix, who married Joel Barnard on June 29 with homemade vows, in their backyard in Boulder.

When composing her vows, Ms. Lacroix did not seek inspiration in novels, poems, wedding books or wedding blogs. The point was to avoid a template. Instead, she relied on a diary she and Mr. Barnard, now 42, had kept together, along with the e-mails and texts they had sent to each other since meeting online.

He began his vows this way: “I, Joel Barnard, am the luckiest man alive. Who would have guessed a few clicks of a mouse could have led me to you? A woman so fascinating, so brilliant, so hilarious, so loving, so utterly bizarre at times.”

Ms. Lacroix said she had organized her vows into two sections: How I Knew I Wanted to Marry You, and Here Are My Promises to You. Among those promises: “I vow to at least attempt to stop putting paper towels into the recycling bin, even though it’s confusing because of the word ‘paper,’ ” and “I vow to see what the relationship needs and to look deeper than my self-interests.”

She avoided anything that resembled pillow talk, that rhymed or that was too precious or poetic. “A marriage is about the day-in-and-day-out workings,” she said, something many wedding officiants advise couples to keep in mind when coming up with their vows. “It’s not florid and lofty and remarkably romantic. It’s ‘Hey, Babe, it’s your turn to empty the dishwasher.’ ”

Mr. Fritts even suggested sitting down at the kitchen table to write them. “So many vows have grandiose promises in them, but at the kitchen table, you’re more likely to be down to earth, practical, modest,” he said.

Ms. Kellerman, an author of “Marriage From the Heart,” a book about how to build a healthy and enlightened marriage, encouraged couples to write vows together and to polish them like silver.

“For vows to work properly, they have to be carefully reviewed, discussed, pulled apart, put together again until an ‘aha’ moment arrives when the couple feels the rightness of what they’ll be saying together,” she said.

The Rev. , pastor of in , advised couples to keep the vows succinct, about three minutes each, and to memorize them. “I would like it if they didn’t have to pull out a little funky piece of paper or reach down in their bosom,” he said.

Ms. Kellerman also said couples must be willing to work hard and dig deep to write strong homemade vows. “If you are not really engaged and just going through the process, it will backfire,” she said. “If you have a lot of stress, it’s not worth it. I love some of the traditional vows. If you’ve been married long enough, like me, you’re real happy about ‘in sickness and in health.’ ”

Homemade vows are still serious lifelong promises. “These are incredible things people are promising,” Mr. Fritts said. “They’re saying: ‘Look, if we have a child born with a chronic disease, I’m going to be there. If you get hit by a car and you’re crippled and in a wheelchair, I’m not going to leave you.’ ”

Some couples find the words for their vows from movies or television shows like (In one episode, the character Marnie said to her boyfriend: “I want to have your babies. I want to watch you die.” That would be a wedding vow that would pretty much say it all, in two short sentences.)

Mr. Barnard, who also vowed to help search for Ms. Lacroix’s cellphone whenever she loses it (which is often), plans to frame his vows and hang them on the wall above his desk.

“It’s easy to forget about them and let them drift off into the ether,” he said. “I think it’s really important to stay aware of them and keep yourself in check.”
356 2013-08-18 In Mitchell S. Jackson’s powerful debut novel, “The Residue Years,” we know how things will end for Champ Thomas and his mother, Grace, before we know how they get there. In the prologue — one of the few I’ve read that is organic to the story that follows — a mother is visiting her son in prison. This imbues what follows with a sense of hopelessness that becomes ever sharper in contrast to the novel itself, which is, in its way, full of impossible hope.

Told in chapters that alternate between Champ and Grace, “The Residue Years” describes a black family in Portland, Ore., trying hard to remain a family. Grace is just out of rehab, hoping to stay straight and get her kids back, to make up for all the wrong she’s done. Her eldest, Champ, who recognizes his own sharp intelligence, is in college and living with a girlfriend he loves and disappoints in near equal measure. Champ’s two younger brothers live with their father and have started to distance themselves from Grace in the way of children let down one time too many. For both Grace and Champ, bringing the family back together might offer a way to something better.

“The Residue Years” is also about cycles of poverty and addiction, and as such it offers a stark look at the ravages of drugs in black urban neighborhoods. Champ slings crack to support his family, unapologetic because it brings in money and he has responsibilities. He also has a dream: He wants to buy the house where he remembers being happiest, even though a new family lives there now and the house is not for sale. Grace gets a legitimate job, but she’s never far from the influences that have always held her back. There’s just too much temptation in too many places, and most of the time she has to face that temptation alone. The beating heart of this novel is a journey toward a home that is always just beyond grasp no matter how fiercely Grace and Champ reach. Their story is as moving as it is unbearable.

Jackson’s prose has a spoken-word ­cadence, the language flying off the page with percussive energy, as when Champ takes his brothers to the barbershop: “KJ’s ambivalent about his cut. Looks to me, with his shoulders hiked. My bro is always demurring, always deferring. But since it’s a 0.00 percent of reclaiming a vacated seat, it won’t be no assurance from intimate distance today. Give him a low one-lengther, I say from my perch. Dude’s averse to cuts.”

There is warmth and wit, and a hard-won wisdom about the intersection of race and poverty in America. Before Grace finds work, she has to contend with a complicated past that includes time in prison; most employers aren’t interested in “complicated.” When she does get a job, she has to pay court fees and fines and feed herself, all on a fast-food worker’s wages. There is no way up and no way out.

Champ, meanwhile, has always known the limits of his options. He played basketball in high school but wasn’t quite good enough to make it to the next level — he couldn’t make a name for himself, or even a nickname. “My word,” he says, “a nickname is a christening, meaning you got a shot, meaning they think you can go, which is one chance more than most of us, so no wonder the chosen are all there is to speak of. No wonder when, for most, hoop’s about our only shot to be better and bigger than the rest, to secure a life that counts.” That Champ keeps trying to have a life that counts despite the odds is one more way this novel treads so finely between hope and despair.
357 2013-08-18 I enjoy Stephen King’s work, but I’m not a huge fan — horror is not my favorite genre, and for every “Dolores Claiborne,” he has a “Cujo.” But I admire his commitment to his craft, his no-nonsense approach to the work and his immense enthusiasm. After reading this, I also admire his strong bond with his wife and their creative approach to parenting. People snarking about nepotism in reaction to this article seem to not realize that children raised on storytelling games, given challenging books to read and encouraged to make up bedtime tales for their parents would undoubtedly be primed for creative lives. AMY VINCENT, New Orleans, posted on nytimes.com

It would be absurdly naïve to think that Stephen King, with all his millions, didn’t have a thing to do with his children’s choice of career or their sudden recognition. It’s no different from rich Hollywood actors whose children stand there waiting for their Oscars. CAROLYN, Saint Augustine, Fla., posted on nytimes.com

Good Lord, who wouldn’t want to follow in the amazing footsteps of Stephen King? There is absolutely nothing wrong with his children working in the same creative field. In fact, it’s terribly brave. MARGARET BURKETT, Oyster Bay, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

AN AMERICAN MAN’S QUEST TO BECOME AN OLD CASTILIAN

In this beautiful article, Michael Paterniti seems saddened when the scales fall from his eyes and he sees that indeed manual labor takes a toll, as do drinking and smoking. An isolated village is likely dying, and its charm is also a death rattle. But I find this is when I start to really like a place: when it feels not like a fairy tale but like an old shoe. When a magical place becomes not magical, it helps me realize that so many of the supposedly ordinary places in my life are also quite special, I’ve just gotten too familiar with them to notice. P. SCOTT CARNEY, Champaign, Ill., posted on nytimes.com

That happy moment when an artcle catures something I’ve felt but haven’t been able to articulate for years. @RuthGallogly
358 2013-08-18 By turns raffish and intimate, boisterous and quaint, Greenwich Village below Washington Square Park and West Fourth Street has such a distinct local feel that it might best be described with one self-referential word: “Villagey.”

The Beats are gone, and so are many of the coffeehouses and beloved food shops of this once largely Italian immigrant quarter, like Le Figaro Cafe and the recently shuttered Joe’s Dairy. But somehow the area maintains a singular identity.

“The ghosts of Bohemia are still here,” said Hugh Gran, an artist who lives and works in the $1,800-a-month rent-stabilized loft on LaGuardia Place where he grew up in the 1970s. “Though of course it’s become commercialized, the bohemian aspect doesn’t just disappear.”

Less rough-edged than the East Village, and decidedly less chichi than the meatpacking district and most of SoHo, the Village south of Washington Square retains a personal, down-to-earth element that can still be felt at venerable haunts like the Olive Tree Cafe, with its chalkboard tables and Charlie Chaplin films, and at old-school music spots like the Bitter End and the Back Fence.

“It still feels personal, honest and sincere, almost like you’re going to see a local rock or folk band play,” Mr. Gran said of the music scene. “There’s a little bit of that mixed in with the drunken college kids.”

These kids, of course, are students at New York University, whose buildings dominate the streetscape around the revamped Washington Square Park and east of LaGuardia Place. And more N.Y.U. structures are on the way. Last year the City Council granted final approval to a huge university expansion plan that would add four buildings, totaling a skyscraper’s worth of new square footage, to two sprawling apartment complexes north of Houston Street. The plan, which had been unanimously opposed by Community Board 2, will significantly alter the open, tower-in-the-park aesthetic of the complexes, Washington Square Village and Silver Towers. The planned expansion faces a legal challenge from a consortium of faculty, community and preservation groups.

All this notwithstanding, Genc Jakupi, a resident of the area since 2005, has increased his commitment to its future. In 2011 he left his Thompson Street studio co-op, which he now rents out, and moved into the space above Miss Lily’s, the hopping Jamaican diner he co-owns on Houston. Later, when he and his partners learned that a Subway restaurant might open next door, they persuaded the landlord to lease them the space for a hip variety store, a bake shop and Melvin’s Juice Box. “You might as well invest in a place you enjoy living,” Mr. Jakupi said. “Everything I need is within a three- or four-block radius.”

He walks to art films at the Angelika Film Center, the Film Forum and the IFC Center. He plays basketball down the street at the Avenue of the Americas. And he meets friends around the corner at the 98-year-old Caffe Dante, across Macdougal Street from a row of neo-Federal-style town houses, landmarks whose facades are painted in candy-shop colors.
359 2013-08-19 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board found deficiencies in some audits of brokerage firms....
360 2013-08-19 Samsung’s latest mobile device is another example of how the South Korean manufacturer is willing to make just about anything in any size to see what sticks with consumers....
361 2013-08-19 Despite warnings about skin cancer, a study indicated that 30 percent of white female high school students had used a tanning bed in the previous year....
362 2013-08-19 At labs around the world, researchers have been experimenting with bioprinting, but there are many formidable obstacles to overcome.
363 2013-08-19 The institute has vowed to go to court to oppose any attempt to sell its art, but will not try to block bankruptcy proceedings....
364 2013-08-19 Terese Kelly rejoined Rosica Communications, Paramus, N.J., as vice president for media relations. She had most recently been senior vice president for media relations at Havas PR, New York, part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas Creative, which is owned by Havas. Ms. Kelly worked at Rosica in the late 1990s as an account executive.

Ryan McLaughlin joined Tribal Worldwide, New York, part of the DDB Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, chief strategy officer. He had been director for social and media platforms at R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Reid Miller joined Taxi New York as executive creative director. He succeeds Stephens Leps, who becomes group creative director, the agency said. Mr. Miller had been managing partner and group creative director at Gotham, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Taxi New York is part of the Taxi unit of the Young & Rubicam Group, owned by WPP.

Courtney Moody joined Univision Communications in a new post, vice president of business development for automotive, based in Birmingham, Mich. She had been director for global portfolio planning at General Motors, Detroit.

The National Advertising Division of the Advertising Self-Regulatory Council, New York, administered by the Council of Better Business Bureaus, referred advertising claims by MillerCoors to the Federal Trade Commission for further review after MillerCoors refused to take part in a review of some of those claims. The claims, for cans of Coors Light beer, included phrases in ads and social media and on the cans that included “the world’s most refreshing can,” “new double-vented wide mouth” and “locks in frost-brewed taste.” The claims were challenged by the Anheuser-Busch division of Anheuser-Busch InBev. MillerCoors declined to respond to the challenge, deeming it “frivolous” and defending the claims as truthful or puffery. When advertisers will not participate in the self-regulatory process, the division refers the ads to the F.T.C. for review.

OAG, New York, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, is being renamed Rapport U.S. as it becomes part of the Rapport agency, part of the Orion Holdings division of IPG Mediabrands. Rapport is based in London and specializes in out-of-home advertising, as OAG has.

George Pappachen, chief privacy officer at the Kantar Media unit of WPP, New York, and global strategy and business development director at the Data Alliance unit of WPP, was named to a new post, executive vice president of strategy and business development for the Kantar Media Ad Intelligence unit of Kantar Media.

Gary Perrelli joined the New York office of Ensequence as senior vice president for interactive sales. He succeeds Mike Kelley, who left, the company said, to pursue other opportunities. Mr. Perrelli had most recently been vice president of national accounts and affiliate advertising sales for the Disney and ESPN Media Networks, part of the Walt Disney Company.

Prestige Brands, Tarrytown, N.Y., expanded its agency roster by naming Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as its agency for digital and online marketing. Billings were not disclosed. Prestige, which sells over-the-counter products like Clear Eyes, Dramamine and PediaCare, works with AFG&, New York, also known as Avrett Free Ginsberg, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for advertising in traditional media like television and print.

Saeger Media Group, Santa Monica, Calif., and Swift, Portland, Ore., are merging to form an agency named Swift with offices in Portland and Santa Monica. Katy Saeger, chief executive at Saeger Media, becomes chief communications officer at the combined agency.

Louis A. Sarmiento joined Pulse Creative, New York, in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had been vice president and publisher at The Daily Front Row, New York.

Gary Schechner joined the Los Angeles office of Rosetta, part of the Publicis Groupe, as partner and head of marketing. He assumes duties from John Baglivo, who had been senior vice president for marketing before he left to join Prophet as chief marketing officer. Mr. Schechner had led advertising, marketing and social media for the AMPM chain of convenience stores that is part of Arco, which BP recently sold to Tesoro.

Smirnoff vodka, sold by Diageo, named 72andSunny, part of MDC Partners, as its worldwide creative agency. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled for more than a decade by JWT, part of WPP, which did not take part in a review. The new Smirnoff agency has offices in Los Angeles and Amsterdam.

Dorion Taylor joined Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as director for new business. He succeeds Erika Collins, who is director for new business at the Carmichael Lynch Spong unit of Carmichael Lynch. Mr. Taylor had been marketing operations manager at the Target Corporation, Minneapolis.

Vitro, San Diego, part of MDC Partners, hired four staff members. They are Eugene Kim, director for social media; Bill Sager, design director; Danielle Waldron, executive director for integrated strategy, a new post; and Peter Yesawich as digital creative director, also a new post.
365 2013-08-19 Booms are alike, busts differ....
366 2013-08-19 In a new ad, Bill de Blasio says he is the only candidate who will end stop-and-frisk tactics, though the word “only” is proving problematic for him....
367 2013-08-19 Researchers have confirmed what many pet owners have long suspected: Dogs, too, are contagious yawners....
368 2013-08-19 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
369 2013-08-19 A Q. and A. about the encrypted messages, discretion and trust involved in writing a story about Laura Poitras and Glenn Greenwald and their work with Edward Snowden....
370 2013-08-19 The Spanish word for baby eels was “angulas” — not “anguilas,” as he had written — she said. Mr. Claiborne initially dismissed her complaint, insisting in a note of reply that he was right and she was wrong. She stood her ground, though, sent another letter with considerable etymological proof and so impressed Mr. Claiborne with her culinary erudition that he invited her to cook him a meal.

After the meal, which was served at the Casases’ summer home in East Hampton, not far from Mr. Claiborne’s, he called his literary agent, who helped Mrs. Casas get her first book contract. She and Mr. Claiborne remained friends until his death in 2000.

Mrs. Casas published seven cookbooks, including “Delicioso! Regional Cooking of Spain” (1996), “Paella! Spectacular Rice Dishes From Spain” (1999), and “La Cocina de Mama: The Great Home Cooking of Spain” (2005).

In all of them, she took pains to describe Spanish culinary culture as well as its ingredients. The tapas tradition, for instance, emerged among the fiercely independent-minded people of Andalusia in the 19th century, she wrote, partly because it permitted them “to eat by whim, free from rules and schedules.”

Mrs. Casas’ first exposure to anything Spanish came in her ninth-grade Spanish class at Garden School, a private high school in Jackson Heights, Queens. She later majored in Spanish literature at Vassar. Her fate as a Spainophile was sealed, her daughter said, during a semester abroad in Madrid in the early 1960s, when she met her future husband, Dr. Luis Casas, who would collaborate on several of her books.

At the time, though, he was a medical student, and the son of her student-exchange host mother.

The young couple spent a lot of time tapas bar hopping. In a 1979 interview, Mrs. Casas told Mr. Claiborne, “We rarely got home before 5 in the morning, and then got up to make an 8 o’clock class.”

Penelope Fexas was born on May 25, 1943, in Whitestone, Queens, one of two children of Antonia and Achilles Fexas, Greek immigrants. Her father was an optometrist. Her only sibling, Tom, an influential designer of racing yachts, died in 2006.

Besides her daughter, Elisa, she is survived by her husband and a granddaughter.

The Spanish government awarded Mrs. Casas the National Gastronomy Prize in 1983, in recognition of her role as a herald of the Spanish cooking tradition in the United States. Her last book, “1,000 Spanish Recipes,” completed shortly before her death, is to be published in 2014.

In interviews, Mrs. Casas said she hoped to clarify the identity of Spanish food for Americans, who generally confused it with Mexican and South American cuisines.

“People thought of Spanish cuisine as spicy, full of rice dishes,” her daughter said. “They had no real sense of what Spanish food was. She would talk about tapas bars, and they would think she was saying ‘topless.’ ”
371 2013-08-19 In “New Tools Pinpoint Natural Gas Leaks, Maximizing a Fuel’s Green Qualities” (Business Day, Aug. 7), new technology is described that some say can improve the way we detect methane emissions in the country’s vast natural gas pipeline system. But zeroing in on methane releases is only the first step in reducing the amount of this potent greenhouse gas that we put into the atmosphere.

Another critical step is the acceleration of investments needed to repair older pipeline systems. If we identify needed repairs but the money isn’t there to do the work, then we will surely be unable to reduce methane emissions as fast as most climate scientists tell us we should.

On the other hand, if we can generate enough capital to make necessary repairs, we will not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but we will also create and sustain thousands of jobs repairing and replacing pipelines. These investments are one of the quickest and most cost-effective ways to benefit the environment and American workers, and will also leave the system more efficient and reliable for consumers.
372 2013-08-19 BEIRUT, Lebanon — A United Nations team arrived in Damascus on Sunday to begin a long-awaited investigation into the alleged use of chemical weapons in the civil war in Syria.

The United Nations said in a statement that the team would begin its work on Monday, though many questions remained about how effectively it would be able to address one of the most charged issues in the conflict.

Numerous reports of chemical weapons use have surfaced during the Syrian conflict, which is now well into its third year and has left more than 100,000 people dead. President Bashar al-Assad and rebels seeking to oust him have accused each other of deploying chemical weapons, though the rebels have accused the government of using chemical weapons many more times. The sides have traded accusations about a chemical strike in the village of Khan al-Assal, near the northern city of Aleppo, where an attack was reported on March 19 that killed dozens of people.

Mr. Assad’s government finally agreed to allow the investigators in after months of negotiations over where they could work. While the United Nations originally pushed for unfettered access, the final agreement will allow the investigators to visit three sites: Khan al-Assal and two others that have not been made public.

The team, which is led by Ake Sellstrom, a Swedish scientist, will seek to determine whether chemical weapons were used and, if so, what type, but it will not assign blame for their use.
373 2013-08-19 “We’ve said all along that we want immigration reform, but American voters, American taxpayers, are done with this bill that passed in the Senate because it’s a bill that came together with no debate,” said Mr. Gosar, who early this month hosted two meetings in Kingman, a Republican stronghold near the Nevada border, where increased security is central to the immigration debate. “What’s so scary about having a conversation with America?”

Mr. McCain is undeterred. Last week, to turn up the pressure, he urged evangelical pastors and Hispanic civic leaders to mobilize their communities. He also encouraged immigrant advocates to remain active, while reminding them to be respectful of those with differing opinions. A week ago, from a conference room in Phoenix, he issued a call for action to members of the Arizona Chamber of Commerce, saying, “We will not succeed if we don’t have the active support of our business leaders.”

Mr. McCain was quick to concede that the bill had shortcomings. “I don’t think that any legislation that is a series of compromises that need to be made is perfect,” he said at the public meeting here on Tuesday. But he is open to making one more concession, if that is what it will take: the “piecemeal approach,” as he put it, that is favored by Mr. Gosar and many other House Republicans who have been unwilling to throw their weight behind the all-encompassing legislation.

“We now have, for better or for worse, 11 million people who are residing in this country illegally,” Mr. McCain told more than 100 people at the meeting. “Does that mean they should be permanently punished?”

Pacing the floor, he turned on the charm, cracked jokes and more than once invoked religion to justify restructuring the country’s immigration laws, saying an overhaul was exactly what “a nation founded on Judeo-Christian principles” would want.

Attempting to turn one of the main arguments used by opponents into ammunition for supporters, he told the audience that doing nothing amounted to “de facto amnesty.”

“There’s no way you’re going to round up everyone and send them across the border,” he said.

Addressing concerns about border security, he offered numbers outlining what the immigration bill before the House would provide: 20,000 additional Border Patrol agents, 350 miles of fence and billions of dollars for security, including drones and a radar system named Vader, which was developed to track Taliban fighters planting roadside bombs in Afghanistan.

When one man at the meeting brought up the deadly shootings by Border Patrol agents, he responded, “When these things happen, there has to be investigations, there has to be oversight by Congress, there has to be hearings.” (On Monday, the Justice Department exonerated agents involved in two shootings in 2011 in Douglas, Ariz., and Nogales, Mexico, saying they had committed no crime.)

The unrelenting reality, Mr. McCain said later at the meeting, was that “sometime in the next few days, the Border Patrol is going to find more bodies in the desert” — migrants who died of dehydration or exposure in the extreme heat. Somewhere, he went on, smugglers were waiting to bring more people across the border, crossings during which “young women are treated in the most unspeakable fashion” and others are abandoned and left to die.

“What I respectfully ask you to do,” Mr. McCain said, “is to contact our members of Congress and tell them how important this legislation is.”

Immigration has been a politically difficult subject for Republicans, who have had to balance a need for change, which they have acknowledged, against the animosity among their most loyal supporters toward the idea of giving illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship. Many Republicans have avoided the face-to-face free-for-alls that stirred passion among voters in years past, choosing to conduct meetings by telephone or behind closed doors to focus only on immigration.

Representative Matt Salmon, a Republican who represents Mesa and other suburbs east of Phoenix, spent a lot of time in recent days talking to groups with different opinions on immigration, like border sheriffs and evangelical leaders. He also fielded phone calls at his district office, mostly from people telling him, “We don’t like this Senate bill at all, we don’t support it,” he said.

The immigration legislation as it stands “has many problems,” Mr. Salmon said, “starting by the fact that it’s willy-nilly throwing money at border security and there isn’t even a clear objective on what constitutes a secure border.”
374 2013-08-19 Photographs posted on the group’s Web site on Sunday showed Ms. Hutsol with a swollen, red nose, a bloody eye and cuts above her lip, and Mr. Svatsky with welts on the side of his head, blackened eyes and a swollen lower lip.

Ms. Shevchenko, in a telephone interview from Odessa, said that she and her colleagues had been returning to the apartment building after grocery shopping and had planned to cook shrimp for dinner when three men ambushed them in the darkened courtyard.

“I saw that some guy is starting to run to us,” she said. “It was not just a hooligan. It was not a person who was just passing by.”

“He ran to Viktor and started to beat him,” she said. “We started to scream, and Anna started to beat this guy with her backpack. I didn’t have anything. I started to run, to escape. This guy started to beat Anna. I started to escape from the yard, and there were two men who started to run after me. They pushed me and I fell down, and they kicked me in the head and ran back and continued to beat Anna and Viktor.”

An Odessa regional police spokesman, Vladimir Shalivenko, told Agence France-Presse that the case was being investigated as an assault involving “minor bodily harm.”

Ms. Shevchenko said that Mr. Svatsky and Ms. Hutsol had been treated at a hospital and were recovering, but that at the time of the attack on Saturday had not yet healed from previous assaults in Kiev.

Last month, Mr. Svatsky was beaten savagely near Femen’s office in Kiev and spent two weeks in a hospital. Then, Ms. Hutsol was attacked outside her apartment and her dog was stolen, and, on the same day, Ms. Shevchenko, two other Femen members and a photojournalist were beaten and detained overnight by the Ukrainian authorities.

Those attacks coincided with a visit to Kiev by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Patriarch Kirill I, the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, for festivities related to the anniversary of the church’s founding.

Ms. Shevchenko said the group had initially believed that the attacks were instigated by the Russian government to prevent a repeat of a situation early this year in Hanover, Germany, in which Ms. Shevchenko, topless, ran toward Mr. Putin, who was visiting a trade show with Chancellor Angela Merkel. Ms. Shevchenko, who had a profane slogan written on her chest accusing Mr. Putin of being a dictator, came within a few feet of the Russian leader before security officers wrestled her to the ground.

Odessa, which is known as a hub for international sex trafficking, would seem to be a logical place for a Femen protest. But it is also one of Ukraine’s most popular resort cities, and the group’s leaders said the only thing they had planned was time at the beach.

Ms. Shevchenko said that in recent days the group had let down its guard. “We were a little bit relaxed,” she said. “We thought that everything was over, and it was just guys from Russia. We went to Odessa just to have a small vacation.”

While the Ukrainian government previously brought legal pressure against the group, including criminal charges related to hooliganism and public indecency, Ms. Shevchenko said the attack in Odessa had convinced leaders of the group that a broader effort is now under way to intimidate them and drive them out of Ukraine. She said they might leave.

“Really, we are thinking about” leaving the country, Ms. Shevchenko said. “We can’t just stay here and wait for another attack and a moment when they kill somebody. Now, I think, it can really happen.” She added, “It’s physical pressure, and they are not afraid to do it.”

Ms. Shevchenko said she had a constant sense of being followed, even while on vacation. “We thought maybe we had paranoia,” she said. “Now we can say it’s true; they follow us everywhere.”
375 2013-08-19 Since 1954, there have been only 63 Chapter 9 filings that dealt with cities, towns, villages or counties across the country, said James E. Spiotto, a bankruptcy specialist based in Chicago at the law firm of Chapman and Cutler. Of those, 29 cases were dismissed for reasons that included ineligibility, he said.

Bruce Babiarz, a spokesman for Detroit’s fire and police retirement system, which supports 8,500 retirees, said lawyers for the group would argue that Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican, did not have the authority to approve Detroit’s bankruptcy filing last month because the decision infringed on Michigan’s constitutional protections for pensions.

Kevyn D. Orr, the emergency manager Mr. Snyder appointed to oversee the city’s finances in March, has said he intends to use the bankruptcy filing to seek reductions to pensions.

With as much as $3.5 billion in unfunded pensions at stake, that constitutional dispute is expected to be critical in the eligibility trial. The issue has already set up a confrontation between Mr. Snyder and the attorney general of Michigan, Bill Schuette, who announced last month that he would defend retirees in the proceedings despite the governor’s support for bankruptcy.

Joy Yearout, a spokeswoman for the attorney general, would not comment on whether Mr. Schuette intends to protest Detroit’s eligibility.

But there are other widely voiced legal objections, including accusations that the city is not as insolvent as it claims and that officials did not adequately try to bargain with creditors before filing for bankruptcy. Mr. Orr set the groundwork for a filing in May, detailing the city’s finances in a report that painted a grim picture of a cash-hemorrhaging city. In June, he proposed a plan that offered 10 cents on the dollar on the city’s debt obligations like unsecured bonds and a portion of unfunded pension liabilities. Critics have described subsequent meetings with Mr. Orr’s team as more presentational than open to substantial negotiations, saying discussions had barely started when Detroit suddenly filed for Chapter 9 last month.

In court documents, Mr. Orr said that unions declined to bargain on behalf of the 21,000 municipal retirees and that multiple lawsuits filed against him and the governor proved resistance from some creditors.

“Negotiations go both ways,” said Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Mr. Orr. “When one party is suing another party, I think it’s safe to assume the negotiations have ended.”

Detroit still is pursuing an aggressive timeline to present a restructuring plan in bankruptcy court by the end of the year, months before the court-set deadline of March 1.

And last week, Judge Rhodes appointed a mediator, Judge Gerald E. Rosen of Federal District Court, to begin overseeing discussions about creditors’ claims and collective bargaining agreements with the city on Sept. 17.

Bankruptcy experts, and even some creditors, said Detroit’s odds of winning the eligibility trial in October are strong, possibly benefiting from rulings in recent municipal bankruptcy hearings, like one in Stockton, Calif., where a judge ruled against objectors. They also said some parties might decide to focus on mediation talks rather than squabble about eligibility, saving the legal costs and arguments for later.

“If you’re not an eligible debtor, the case is dismissed, and that leaves a very chaotic situation,” said Karol K. Denniston, a San Francisco-based bankruptcy lawyer with Schiff Hardin, which represents some Detroit creditors, although she declined to identify them.

“I think that a lot of people are beginning to realize, and I mean all creditors, with the exception of this constitutional issue, that fighting over eligibility in Detroit is the effectual equivalent of fiddling while Rome burns,” she said.
376 2013-08-19 His wit and technical mastery remained on prominent display, however, in “The Powers of Thirteen,” an extended sequence of 169 (13 times 13) unrhymed 13-line stanzas with 13 syllables in each line, and in “Reflections on Espionage: The Question of Cupcake” (1976), a commentary on contemporary poetry presented as the coded dispatches of a spy to his handler and other agents.

“In an age that came to prefer loose, garrulous poems filled with confessional sensationalism and political grievance, John Hollander was a glorious throwback,” the poet J. D. McClatchy wrote in an e-mail in 2010. “His materials — high intelligence, wit, philosophical depth, technical virtuosity — looked back to an older era of poetry’s high ambition. His work never pandered; it astonished.”

John Hollander was born on Oct. 28, 1929, in Manhattan. His father, Franklin, was a physiologist and his mother, the former Muriel Kornfeld, a high school teacher. The home atmosphere was relentlessly high-minded.

He attended the Bronx High School of Science, where he wrote a humor column for the newspaper, modeling himself on S. J. Perelman and James Thurber. Journalism was his enthusiasm, and in his freshman year at Columbia he was a prolific contributor to The Columbia Daily Spectator.

Poetry displaced journalism as his primary passion. Auden’s verse, in particular, alerted him to the possibility that play and humor could find expression in poetry. He was especially struck, he told The Paris Review, by Auden’s “improvisational relation to stances and forms and literary modes.”

He struck up a close friendship, and a student-mentor relationship, with the somewhat older Allen Ginsberg. In an interview with The Paris Review in 1985, Mr. Hollander said, “We talked about the minute particulars of form as if mythological weight depended upon them; and about the realms of the imagination.”

Their joint excursion to sell blood at St. Luke’s Hospital in Manhattan provided the subject for “Helicon,” one of the most engaging sequences in “Visions From the Ramble” (1965), a collection of interrelated poems filled with scenes from the author’s childhood and youth in New York. (The title refers to a wooded area of Central Park.)

Mr. Hollander graduated from Columbia with a B.A. in 1950 and, after traveling in Europe, received a master’s degree in 1952. At the same time, he taught himself to play the lute and performed in chamber ensembles.

He enrolled at Indiana University to pursue a doctorate but left in 1954 to join the Society of Fellows at Harvard. He later taught at Connecticut College and became an instructor at Yale in 1959, the year he completed his dissertation at Indiana.

His dissertation was the basis for “The Untuning of the Sky: Ideas of Music in English Poetry, 1500-1700” (1961), the first of many works of criticism that included “Vision and Resonance (1975), “The Gazer’s Spirit” (1995) and “The Work of Poetry” (1997).

Mr. Hollander, who lived in Woodbridge, Conn., joined the English faculty at Hunter College in Manhattan in 1966. But in 1977 he returned as a full professor to Yale, where he was named Sterling Professor of English in 1995 and retired in 2002.

In 1953 he married Anne Loesser, a fashion historian who, under her married name, wrote “Seeing Through Clothes.” The marriage ended in divorce. Besides his daughter Elizabeth, Mr. Hollander is survived by his wife, the sculptor Natalie Charkow Hollander; another daughter, Martha Hollander; a brother, Michael; and three grandchildren.

By the mid-1960s Mr. Hollander’s reputation as a poet was growing, although his highly wrought, intellectual verse made him an oddity in a climate dominated by the hotly confessional poetry of Robert Lowell, Sylvia Plath and Anne Sexton.

“In a general sense, I was writing in a line of wit, and of essayistic speculation, when I was young,” he told The Paris Review. “Still under Auden’s influence, I wanted to be read by philosophers and scientists and political theorists, not just by literary readers.”

In a well-known early poem, “The Great Bear,” a children’s outing to gaze at the night sky provokes an inquiry into meaning and chaos. Mr. Hollander incorporated quasi-reportorial material in “Movie-Going and Other Poems” (1962) and “Visions From the Ramble,” which included autobiographical glimpses of the fireworks at the 1939 World’s Fair and tributes to the old Broadway movie palaces that the author haunted in his youth.

In “Types of Shape” (1969) Mr. Hollander harked back to the emblem poetry of the 17th century, writing in forms that, when set on the page, looked like objects: a light bulb, say, or an Eskimo Pie.

Mr. Hollander later dismissed his earlier poetry as “verse essay” or “epigram literature.” With “The Night Mirror” and “Tales Told of the Fathers” (1975) he took the grand, sweeping turn that led to his mature style as a prophetic, mythmaking poet in the High Romantic tradition.

“I began to write less discursively, more puzzlingly, I suppose less wittily,” he told The Paris Review. “My voice is still the same, but it doesn’t expound in verse nowadays — it rather murmurs or chants or sometimes mutters, meditatively and privately.”

The private meditation sometimes bordered on the hermetic. The recondite allusiveness and seeming opacity of his newer work frustrated or even annoyed some critics. The poet Paul Zweig, dismissing Mr. Hollander as “a virtuoso without a subject matter” in a review of “The Night Mirror” for The New York Times Book Review, complained, “The language soars in complicated trills, but in the end it becomes clear that no secrets are being told.”

Such critics found relief in the unusually direct “In Time and Place” (1986), a mixture of quatrains and prose poems that begins with 34 verses written in the stanza form used by Tennyson in “In Memoriam,” whose themes of loss and change it shares.

Others regarded Mr. Hollander as one of the most powerful voices and daring imaginations in postwar American poetry. Richard Poirier, writing in The Washington Post in 1978, called him “the most intellectually daring, poignant, and thrilling poet writing in the Emersonian tradition of our poetry.”

Harold Bloom, an ardent champion of the later poetry, praised “Spectral Emanations” as “somber American Jewish mythmaking,” and, in an extended essay on the poem for The Kenyon Review in 1984, called it “one of the central achievements of his generation,” equal to the long poems of James Merrill, John Ashbery and A. R. Ammons.

Mr. Hollander’s later collections included “Harp Lake” (1988), “Tesserae” (1993) and “A Draft of Light” (2008). He also edited the two-volume collection “American Poetry: The Nineteenth Century” (1993) for the Library of America.

“His mind was singularly capacious, filled with baseball statistics, detective novels, mathematical formulas, vintage wines, German hymns, you name it,” Mr. McClatchy wrote. “It is said of a man like John Hollander that when he dies it is like the burning of the library at Alexandria.”
377 2013-08-19 Machines have been proving themselves to be our enemies for years, at least in the science-fiction world. The danged things keep becoming sentient and turning against us. They do it again in “Delete,” a television movie that has its debut on Reelz on Monday night.

In the film, an independent, thinking entity somehow coalesces out of the world’s computers, which of course are all linked thanks to the Web. And this creature is a twisted, havoc-wreaking being because its DNA is formed from the junk found on the Internet.

The movie is pure formula, but if it has been a while since you’ve seen one of these “It’s alive!” films, “Delete” is terrifying in that it underscores just how much the machines will control when fiction someday becomes reality. In addition to messing with missiles and the banking system, this thing is manipulating traffic lights. Crash the global economy if you want, but mucking with our morning commute? We can’t have that.

As is often the case in these movies, it somehow falls to some random kid (Keir Gilchrist) — a geeky one, of course — to stop the cyberinvader. He joins up with a newspaper reporter (Erin Karpluk) and an F.B.I. agent (Ryan Robbins).

While the American government flails away helplessly at the invisible enemy, the three of them go off the grid to try to stop it. Seth Green comes into the film late as a hacker eager to help, livening it up considerably.

The events imagined by the film will almost certainly happen in real life sometime soon. Maybe they already have. As you leave your computer-controlled home and drive to work in your computer-controlled car, late as always, don’t those bothersome traffic lights seem to be staying red a little longer than usual?
378 2013-08-19 Sprezzatura is not a term usually associated with Brahms. Coined in 16th-century Urbino by Baldassare Castiglione, the author of the Renaissance blockbuster guide to courtly manners, the Italian word denotes an elegant lightness of bearing that masks the effort behind the composure. The music of Brahms? The opposite, surely, with quill-chewing, meticulous labor audible in every earnestly created bar.

And yet sprezzatura was the word that came, vividly, to my mind listening to the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra’s performance of Brahms’s Symphony No. 2 on Friday evening at Avery Fisher Hall. The conductor, making his debut at that festival, was David Afkham, a 30-year-old German of Persian descent who is rapidly rising to prominence in Europe. In 2014, he will become the principal conductor of the Spanish National Orchestra.

Lithe and handsome, Mr. Afkham cuts a graceful figure on the podium. His expansive left-hand gestures and dancelike body movements are balanced by a right hand that delineates the beat with sober precision. And that beat was impeccably judged. In Symphony No. 2, Mr. Afkham’s swift tempos and supple phrasings emphasized the natural flow and self-evident beauty of Brahms’s score. Alert to the fleeting harmonic changes, Mr. Afkham never indulged in unnecessary drama but allowed each resolution enough space to unfold its sweetness.

The orchestra sounded great, lavishing equal attention to color on the most quiet passages in the second movement and the playful dances of the first. There was fine woodwind playing and a couple of beautiful horn solos; a rush of energy seemed to course through the orchestra during the triumphant ending.

A very different Brahms took the stage in the first half of the concert in a frustratingly uneven performance of Concerto for Violin and Cello in A minor with the violinist Vadim Repin and the cellist Truls Mork. Written in 1887, 10 years after the second symphony, the double concerto was intended as a gesture of reconciliation toward the violinist Joseph Joachim, who had been a generous champion of Brahms’s music until a falling-out over Joachim’s divorce.

With its awkwardly written solos and orchestral outbursts that have a way of belittling the soloists, it’s a piece I find difficult to love even in an ideal performance. On Friday evening, it was handicapped further by Mr. Repin’s erratic intonation. Under the stewardship of Mr. Afkham, the orchestra glowed in the stormy passages of the first movement and created some gossamer textures in quiet moments. Mr. Mork played with soulful intensity (and impeccable intonation), and the interplay between him and Mr. Repin, with nicely coordinated gestures and phrasings, was enjoyable to watch. But Mr. Repin’s technical struggles were all too evident — the very opposite of sprezzatura.
379 2013-08-19 ■ Space150, Minneapolis, reorganized its senior management. Billy Jurewicz, chief executive and chief creative officer, takes the titles of founder and chief executive, focused on expanding the agency’s offices in Los Angeles and New York. David Denham, chief strategy officer, will add the title of president, assuming day-to-day leadership of Space150; Marc Jensen, who had been president as well as chief technology officer, becomes managing partner and chief technology officer. And Brian Ritchie, group creative director, becomes executive creative director.

■ Ewan Paterson, who has served since 2010 as chief creative officer at the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, is leaving to return to Britain, where he worked for agencies that included CHI & Partners and DDB London. Mr. Paterson said he planned to open his own agency in London.

■ Michael Finn joined the New York office of Univision Communications as senior vice president for sales and marketing at the new El Rey Network cable channel, in which Univision has made an investment. Mr. Finn had been president at BrightLine Partners, New York. El Rey Network is a venture of the filmmaker Robert Rodriguez and FactoryMade Ventures.

■ Eamonn Store, president of global solutions for North America at MEC, New York, part of the GroupM division of WPP, was named president for agency development, a new post. He will be succeeded by Mark Jones, who joins MEC from Viacom, New York, where he was a senior vice president. Among other personnel changes at MEC, Rick Acampora, managing director, was promoted to president of client services for North America, a new post.

■ Jacqueline Hampton joined Springpad, Boston, as chief executive, succeeding Jeff Chow, who will continue to be responsible for product strategy, the company said. Ms. Hampton most recently was a vice president for corporate development at Time Inc., part of Time Warner.

■ Amy Jo Smith, executive director of the Digital Entertainment Group, Los Angeles, the home entertainment industry association, was promoted to president, assuming the post from Ron Sanders, who will now serve as chairman. Mr. Sanders is also president of Warner Brothers Worldwide Home Entertainment Distribution, part of the Warner Brothers unit of Time Warner.

■ DG, Dallas, agreed to sell its television advertising delivery business to a competitor, Extreme Reach, Needham, Mass., for $485 million. As part of the deal, DG said, it may make an equity investment in Extreme Reach of $40 million cash. Extreme Reach operates a video platform for television, online and mobile ads. DG plans to keep its online ad operations.

■ WPP Digital, part of WPP, London, bought an unspecified minority stake in Mutual Mobile, Austin, Tex., an agency with revenue last year of $25.7 million and clients that include Google and Xerox. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ Geico is introducing an online-only campaign, called the Geico Museum of Modern Insurance, aimed at consumers who watch television series on platforms like Hulu and Netflix; the video clips that compose the campaign will run before the shows in what is known as preroll. It is the second time Geico has sponsored online-only videos and the first since 2010. The agency creating the campaign is the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

■ GroupM, part of WPP, London, revised downward its predictions for growth in advertising spending for this year, partly because of economic conditions in Europe. The forecast for worldwide ad spending in 2013 now calls for a gain of 3.4 percent compared with last year; the previous forecast was for a gain of 4.5 percent. And the forecast for American ad spending this year now calls for an increase of 1.8 percent compared with last year; the previous forecast was for an increase of 2.7 percent. GroupM also issued its first prediction for worldwide ad spending in 2014, which calls for a gain of 5.1 percent compared with 2013.

■ Office Depot, Boca Raton, Fla., said that the Office Depot Foundation would hire Brooks Gibbs, a counselor who specializes in youth bullying issues, to appear at as many as 300 middle schools around the country during the 2013-14 school year. The appearances will be part of a partnership between the foundation and the boy band One Direction, which is centered on the sale in Office Depot stores of One Direction merchandise and a campaign called “1D + OD Together Against Bullying.” The campaign is to help raise $1 million for the foundation’s anti-bullying initiatives.
380 2013-08-19 Two years ago, Baidu reached a landmark agreement with major record companies to distribute licensed online music after it had been labeled a conduit for piracy by the Office of the United States Trade Representative. In addition, Baidu’s stock is listed on the Nasdaq, potentially exposing the company to litigation from software developers whose applications had been copied and offered through 91 Wireless, legal experts said.

“It’s unlikely that app stores would be protected by safe harbor,” a provision of Chinese law that gives Internet companies legal protection, in certain cases, if they act to take down pirated material, said You Yunting, an intellectual property lawyer at DeBund Law Offices in Shanghai.

“If I were Baidu, I would put aside 10 to 30 percent of the purchase price as a copyright infringement fund and pay it out a year or two later, conditional on 91 stopping piracy,” he said.

Analysts say 91 Wireless has already been more active in fighting piracy than some other app stores in China, taking down infringing applications when notified. But developers complain that they should not be responsible for patrolling the stores for violations; given the number of stores and the frequency of updates, the task is practically impossible.

Alternative app markets have thrived in China in the absence of Google Play, which caters to phones using the company’s Android operating system. More than three-quarters of smartphones in China use Android, but Google, which had a prominent dust-up with Beijing over accusations of censorship and network security, has not introduced a Chinese version of its app store.

Alternatives like Qihoo 360, Wandoujia, 91 Assistant and HiMarket have filled the gap. Many of the Android apps on these sites are legitimate; because there is no Chinese Google Play, the developers instead license their apps to the alternative markets.

But it is another matter for alternative apps compatible with Apple’s iOS operating system. Apple integrates its hardware and software, so iPhones are configured to download applications only from the company’s official app store.

Apple did not introduce a Chinese-language version of the online shop until 2010, and did not permit credit card transactions in the local currency until a year later. As a result, many Chinese iPhone owners decided to “jailbreak” their phones — hacking them to accept applications from outside sources. Most of the apps are unauthorized copies.

Alternative stores also cater to Chinese smartphone users’ preference for free apps. While paid-for apps are common in the United States and other Western countries, Chinese smartphone users are reluctant to pay upfront. Instead, the app developers make money from advertising and by selling premium features, like special powers in a video game. A percentage of the revenue is shared with the app store.

The fragmentation of the Chinese app market makes links among app stores, online services, smartphone makers and network operators more important.

Baidu, for example, has a partnership with Apple, under which Apple features the search engine in Chinese versions of its mobile operating system. Baidu, in turn, provides Apple with a share of search advertising revenue. Tencent has a hugely popular messaging service, WeChat. Alibaba recently bought a stake in the Chinese version of Twitter, Sina Weibo.

Because of the importance of the relationship with Apple, Baidu might decide it makes more sense to shut down 91’s alternative iOS market, which accounts for a small part of the company’s business.

Apple declined to comment. The company has not been immune from copyright complaints in China. Last year a court in Beijing fined the company 520,000 renminbi, or $84,360, finding that applications for sale in the Apple App Store contained information that had been copied from encyclopedias without authorization. Apple has appealed, saying it was not responsible for the content of the apps, which were created by outside developers.

There are signs that Chinese smartphone users are becoming more aware of copyright issues. A few years ago, more than half of iPhones in China were jailbroken, analysts say, but now the proportion has fallen to as little as a third. While jailbreaking is not illegal, Apple discourages it, warning users that doing so could subject their phones to malicious software and other unwanted downloads.

For Baidu and other operators of alternative app stores, a clear public stance against piracy could make sense from a marketing standpoint, analysts say.

“The market remains chaotic,” said Bryan Wang, an analyst at Forrester Research. “There are few trusted, neutral parties giving independent information to the consumer. That creates an opportunity for someone to grow their market share by differentiating themselves with a clean and legal offering.”
381 2013-08-19 Three major daily newspapers in New York City made it bluntly clear this weekend whom they did not want to see as the next comptroller: Eliot Spitzer.

With varying degrees of enthusiasm, The Daily News, The New York Post and the editorial board of The New York Times all threw their support instead to Mr. Spitzer’s opponent in the Sept. 10 Democratic primary: Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president.

The newspapers denounced Mr. Spitzer, a former governor, for being “a cheat and liar” (The News) about the prostitution scandal that led to his resignation; for turning in a “dismal performance” as governor (The Times’s editorial board); and for being interested only in “feeding his insatiable ego” (The Post). The News, on Sunday, and The Post, on Saturday, even devoted cover photos to illustrating their disdain.

The endorsements could be a boost to Mr. Stringer, who, despite wide labor and official support, trails Mr. Spitzer by as much as 19 points in recent polls.

In an editorial, The Post praised Mr. Stringer as a “sober, honest man.” The News called him a “steady, serious, well-prepared public official with an unblemished record of accomplishment.” And The Times’s editorial board lauded Mr. Stringer for doing an “outstanding job” as borough president, and for improving “the scope, effectiveness and reputation” of a “sometimes marginal office.”

But most of their focus was on criticizing Mr. Spitzer. The News, for instance, printed excerpts from a tense interview he had with its editorial board recently about his prostitution scandal. The Post said, “We would not trust Eliot Spitzer to manage our 401(k), much less take our teenage daughter to the movies, so why should the city trust him with its entire pension fund?”
382 2013-08-20 Citing evidence found on YouTube, Turkey’s Islamist prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, claimed on Tuesday that Israel was behind the military takeover in Egypt last month....
383 2013-08-20 Credit: Tara Todras-Whitehill for The New York Times
384 2013-08-20 A new video featuring Philadelphia sites and the personality Miss Richfield is designed to appeal to LGBT travelers....
385 2013-08-20 Google was awarded a patent last week that many think could connect Glass with advertising. But a patent is one thing; turning that into a feature could take a while....
386 2013-08-20 The bankruptcy clause of the Constitution should triumph over state laws as Detroit seeks to prove that it is eligible to file for Chapter 9, the author writes....
387 2013-08-20 The Latvian-born violinist is holding a concert in Berlin as “a kind of a personal statement against injustice” in Russia....
388 2013-08-20 The former senator said Republicans too afraid to shut down the government over health care reform should “be replaced.”...
389 2013-08-20 As environmentalists stress current events in calling for action on greenhouse gases, some scientists see a different path toward public engagement....
390 2013-08-20 WASHINGTON — There is a new resident at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, and a new playmate for Bo, the presidential pooch.

Her name is Sunny, a Portuguese water dog like Bo.

She was born in Michigan in June 2012 and arrived at the White House on Monday. She was named for her cheerful personality, the White House said on its Web site.

The Obamas got Bo shortly after moving into the White House. In October, Michelle Obama told reporters that Bo needed more interaction with other dogs. Now he has one to interact with.

Sunny is already the star of a YouTube video and, like Bo, may get an official portrait. She joins a long history of presidential pets, including President Lyndon B. Johnson’s beagles, President Ronald Reagan’s King Charles spaniel and President Jimmy Carter’s Siamese cat.

The Obamas made a donation to the Washington Humane Society in honor of Sunny’s arrival, the White House said.
391 2013-08-20 But their narratives leave a sense of overarching vision half expressed.

Under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Mr. Robins says, “our city’s become a trading post; when you talk of public housing, public hospitals, public parks — with elite exceptions — too many are subpar.”

“If the wealthy, the unions, the elite nonprofits, all feel entitled to more,” he continued, “we crowd out the common good.”

Mr. Robins would begin with law and order, which is to say wage theft and worker safety. To wander our neighborhoods is to see laborers, restaurant employees and food delivery workers without basic protections.

Much of this is illegal. Officials say state and federal government must help. Mr. Robins shakes his head. Treat it as you would crime. Wage theft alone runs close to $1 billion a year.

“We’ve gotten comfortable seeing low-wage workers as sharecroppers,” he says. “When was the last time the mayor blew a blood vessel about the systematic violation of wage protections?

New York cut tens of millions of dollars from the libraries in the past five years — and spent twice as much on the High Line, a park that ignited a luxury real estate price explosion in Chelsea.

New Yorkers do not lack for self-regard. Mr. Robins, born here and living still in Brooklyn, would play to this: “Why do Chicago and Boston keep libraries open 50 hours a week while New York doesn’t do five days a week?” Mr. Robins asks. “Let’s aspire to 60 hours.”

To pay for this, he would commence a slaughter of sacred cows. He would extend the business tax to insurance companies, currently exempt for no good reason. That would reap $300 million, the Independent Budget Office says. He would end the $17 million property tax abatement for Madison Square Garden and its wealthy teams. He would toll bridges to help mass transit. He would end property tax exemptions for elite nonprofit entities, like Columbia and New York Universities, and our big hospitals; they offer grand salaries and oversee vast real estate empires yet skip free of taxes.

“The Daily News wrote about Mount Sinai Hospital giving mortgage forgiveness to doctors,” he says. “We leave money on the table, and yet we are pushing an austerity agenda and putting our parks in the wood chipper.”

Tourism is at historic highs; travelers pile into hotels in far-flung neighborhoods. Would anyone notice another 1 percent on the rooms tax?

He turns his eyes to labor. Municipal contracts expired years ago. Ask candidates, desperate for labor’s hand, about their negotiating plans and their mumble sounds like this: Iwon’tnegotiateinpublic. Iwon’t. Iwon’t.

Mr. Robins rolls his eyes. “If we’re going to talk about retroactive pay, they have to talk about paying into health care,” he says. “Then talk about sick time.”

That advocates had to pummel Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and Democratic candidate for mayor, to obtain a bare handful of sick days for low-wage workers justifiably dogs her campaign to this day.

Municipal workers suffer no such problems. Most cash out when they retire, getting at least one day of pay for every three of unused sick days. So a progressive benefit turns into an expensive going-away present.

There’s more. Many teachers, firefighters and police officers get automatic raises; lower-paid workers, who labor for District Council 37, do not. In the hierarchy of need, Mr. Robins suggests starting there. “D.C. 37 workers are the McDonald’s workers of the labor force,” he says. “A mayor could say: ‘We have to start making distinctions within our aspirational framework.’ ”

Mr. Robins has more provocations than I have words in this column. “Candidates are too afraid to step beyond the water’s edge,” he says. “What’s exciting is when you really take risks.”
392 2013-08-20 The injury to Baas could cause the Giants to shake up the offensive line. The left guard, Kevin Boothe, has played center. If Boothe is moved there, the Giants could shift right tackle David Diehl, who struggled in pass protection against the Colts, to guard. But that might mean that the untested rookie Justin Pugh would have to take over the right tackle spot. That is less likely, given Pugh’s inexperience. Sunday was his N.F.L. debut.

There are other options, but the most simple solution would be allowing the backup Jim Cordle to take over for Baas, as he did for most of the game Sunday. Cordle has been a reserve for the Giants the last two seasons, playing in 25 games, mostly on special teams.

Coughlin was noncommittal about plans for replacing Baas, who had a series of injuries last season but started every game.

“I can’t give you any thoughts on that just yet,” he said.

Besides the injuries, Coughlin said, he was most disappointed by the offense, which has been ineffective near the goal line and in third-down situations.

“We haven’t scored any points; we haven’t scored any touchdowns,” he said. The Giants’ points Sunday came on four field goals.

REDSKINS TOP STEELERS Rex Grossman completed 10 of 16 passes for 133 yards with a touchdown and an interception in Washington’s 24-13 preseason win over visiting Pittsburgh. Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins, the backup to Robert Griffin III, who is recovering from knee surgery, left after spraining his right foot. (AP)

REVIS TAKES STEP FORWARD Buccaneers cornerback Darrelle Revis, acquired from the Jets and coming off knee surgery, began practicing with the first defensive unit.

Revis said he expected to be ready for Tampa Bay’s season opener against the Jets. (AP)

BILLS RELEASE KICKER Rian Lindell, the most accurate kicker in franchise history, was released after 10 years with Buffalo. Coach Doug Marrone said the rookie Dustin Hopkins, 22, a sixth-round pick, had won the team’s kicking competition. (AP)

JAGUARS NAME QUARTERBACK Jacksonville Coach Gus Bradley named Blaine Gabbert as his starting quarterback. Gabbert, a former Missouri standout, will miss the rest of the preseason, however, because of a broken thumb sustained in Saturday’s 37-13 loss to the Jets. (AP)

CHIEFS AND 49ERS DEAL AGAIN Kansas City sent wide receiver Jon Baldwin, the 26th overall choice in 2011, to San Francisco for wideout A. J. Jenkins, the 30th overall pick last year.

It’s the second big trade between the teams this year. Earlier, the Chiefs sent two draft picks to San Francisco to acquire quarterback Alex Smith. (AP)

TE’O SHEDS WALKING BOOT The rookie linebacker Manti Te’o, who sprained his right foot in the San Diego Chargers’ preseason opener, took a step forward in his recovery when he did side work with the team trainer without the cumbersome walking boot he had been wearing. Te’o, a second-round pick, has yet to return to practice. (AP)
393 2013-08-20 ﻿About 100 objections to Detroit’s eligibility for bankruptcy were filed in federal court before a midnight deadline on Monday. The challenges, most from individual city retirees or residents, contend that city officials did not prove insolvency or negotiate enough with creditors before seeking Chapter 9 protection last month. Unions also argued that the case should be dismissed because it will violate pension protections under the State Constitution. The state attorney general, Bill Schuette, who will defend pensioners in later bankruptcy proceedings, did not protest the city’s eligibility.
394 2013-08-20 Roger Federer is seeded No. 7 for the United States Open, his first slot outside the top three in singles at a Grand Slam tournament in a decade. Federer’s ranking dropped two slots to seventh Monday, and the United States Tennis Association’s seedings followed the ATP standings.

Federer’s record 17 Grand Slam singles titles include five at the United States Open. He is among five former champions in the men’s field, including No. 1-seeded Novak Djokovic, No. 2 Rafael Nadal and No. 3 Andy Murray, who won the 2012 title.

■ Caroline Wozniacki advanced to the second round of the New Haven Open when Peng Shuai of China was forced to retire while up a set on the four-time tournament champion. Peng was leading, 6-2, 1-3, when officials announced she could not continue because of dizziness. Sixth-seeded Sloane Stephens beat Anna Schmiedlova of Slovakia, 6-4, 6-4.
395 2013-08-20 Manchester City sent a strong message to its Premier League title rivals in a 4-0 rout at home over Newcastle. Yaya Toure’s goal, on a spectacular free kick in the 50th minute, punctuated the win. Manchester City also had first-half goals by David Silva and Sergio Agüero and a late strike by the substitute Samir Nasri.
396 2013-08-20 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — In his first televised policy speech to the country since assuming office in June, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on Monday hinted at his government’s inclination to hold talks with Taliban militants even while maintaining the option of military action against them.

“Like every Pakistani, I want an early end to this bloodshed, whether it is through the process of dialogue or heavy use of the state force,” Mr. Sharif said. “Being the prime minister, every Pakistani is my kith and kin. I cannot shoulder the funerals of my sons every day.”

Militant violence has continued at a high rate during Mr. Sharif’s first weeks back in office, with at least 70 attacks over the past two months, including a major prison break and an attack on a regional headquarters of the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, the main spy agency. The perception in Pakistan is that the pace of attacks has at least partly derailed Mr. Sharif’s desire to focus on the economic challenges facing Pakistan, and in particular the country’s crippling electricity crisis.

Mr. Sharif said he was willing to “hold dialogue with those who have unfortunately adopted extremism.” Still, he warned that “we have more than one option to deal with terrorists — but wisdom and mind-set demand such a way out as to avoid further loss of innocent lives.”

The speech at times felt like a lament over the lawlessness, institutional degradation and dysfunction in Pakistan. And he repeated his plans to fix the economy and utility shortages, including increasing trading and energy ties with China, which he called a “game-changer.”

Addressing the increased tensions with India over Kashmir in recent weeks, Mr. Sharif repeated his call for improved ties with India. Since January, border clashes have killed soldiers and civilians from both sides. “Wars in the past have pushed us back,” he said. “I have always given high priority to good relations with India for the sake of durable peace in the region, and the nation has endorsed this standpoint during the recent elections.”

Political analysts noted a strain of self-contradiction in his stance on dealing with the Taliban. Arif Rafiq, an adjunct scholar with the Middle East Institute, said: “It was a tale of two speeches. Sharif gave a coherent, honest diagnosis of the country’s energy and economic challenges and a relatively clear road map for resolving them. But on national security, he was quite confused. He said that terrorists are an existential threat to Pakistan, but then called for talks with them.”
397 2013-08-20 Mr. Sher said in an interview that he did not see the petition as anti-Met but rather as a chance to take a stand against Mr. Putin and the recent law. “I saw it as a chance for everyone who loves opera, and all of us who work in it, to stand up to a pig and a dictator, against a terrible position and a terrible man,” he said.

The Met’s general manager, , responded to the petition with a statement saying that the Met was proud of its history as a creative base for gay and lesbian singers, conductors, directors, designers and choreographers and adding that “we also stand behind all of our artists, regardless of whether or not they wish to publicly express their personal political opinions.”

“As an institution, the Met deplores the suppression of equal rights here or abroad,” the statement said. “But since our mission is artistic, it is not appropriate for our performances to be used by us for political purposes, no matter how noble or right the cause.”

Asked about the Met’s response, Mr. Sher said that he supported the Met “in every way, as well as Anna.”

Ms. Netrebko said in a statement on Facebook this month: “As an artist, it is my great joy to collaborate with all of my wonderful colleagues — regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, gender, or sexual orientation. I have never and will never discriminate against anyone.”

A spokesman for Ms. Netrebko, Sean Michael Gross, said that the singer would let the statement speak for itself. “I think it’s preposterous to presume that anyone who endorses a candidate for public office agrees — or disagrees — with their public policy positions 100 percent once they’re in office,” he said.

A representative of Mr. Gergiev — who was honored by Mr. Putin this spring with a revived Soviet-era title, Hero of Labor, around the time he opened a new $700 million theater, the Mariinsky II — did not return a call seeking comment.

In , Russia’s freedoms and human rights record will be the focus of a concert that , the Latvian-born violinist and the founder of the Kremerata Baltica chamber orchestra, plans to hold in on Oct. 7 — the anniversary of the death of Anna Politkovskaya, a Russian journalist and critic of the Kremlin who was killed in 2006.

Mr. Kremer said in an e-mail interview that his concert, which was in the works before the recent laws on homosexuality were passed, was intended as “a kind of a personal statement against injustice,” and took issue with descriptions of the concert as an “anti-Putin” event.

“I had my chance to spend my childhood in an authoritarian country,” Mr. Kremer said. “The trends Russia is heading in now make me worry and reminds me of those times.”

Asked about the situation at the Met, he said: “I myself am not denying the obvious high artistic qualities of Anna Netrebko or Valery Gergiev, but I do feel a certain discomfort observing them offstage. The identification with one’s own country is more than honorable and understandable. Never would I criticize a real patriot nor deny that patriotism is a very natural attitude. We all should be able to love our native country.”

“What makes me feel odd is the way these feelings are presented,” he said, “the way artists become spokesmen for politicians and those who are in power.”

Mr. Gelb said that he believed the focus on the Met was misplaced. “What seems to be somewhat unfair about this petition is not its support of L.G.B.T. rights in Russia, but that they would choose the Met as a vehicle or target of their displeasure,” he said in an interview. “The Met has been a champion of L.G.B.T. art, and it seems like they’re barking up the wrong tree.”
398 2013-08-20 While the institution declined to detail how it came to its decision about the items, it said in a statement that it had closely followed the 1990 federal law that governs such repatriations, known as the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.

“Determining classifications under Nagpra is a complex process,” the statement said, referring to the law, “and the museum made the judgment consistent with established criteria. Upon return, the Western Apache are free to use and classify the cultural objects fully in accordance with tribal custom and traditions as they determine.”

The museum said the items the Apaches seek were “lawfully obtained by a respected anthropologist approximately 100 years ago,” which the Apaches dispute.

That scholar, Pliny Earle Goddard, was employed by the museum in 1914 to live among the Apache and study their rituals, according to copies of letters written by Mr. Goddard at the time.

The Apaches, who number 55,000 across more than a dozen distinct groups in Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado, have been seeking the return of items scattered in museums around the country since the early 1990s.

Under the federal law, museums are asked to classify items they intend to repatriate. “Sacred objects” are defined as those needed by tribes and their spiritual leaders to practice religion, while “objects of cultural patrimony” are defined as items that have historical importance to the tribe as a whole, as opposed to merely personal and everyday items. The law, which requires museums to cover the cost of returning items, does not include a classification known as “cultural items,” but it also leaves to museums the final decision on just how to classify the objects they are returning.

Federal officials who oversee the Repatriation Act agree that the museum is abiding by the letter of the law, though they noted that, in practice, such institutions almost always identify the items by formal category.

David Tarler, a training and enforcement official for the repatriation program, said some Indian tribes feel the use of the term “cultural patrimony” in the documentation amounts to an acknowledgment that the objects should never have been removed from tribal hands without consent. Mr. Tarler, who has monitored the Apache case since it arose in 2005, said such an admission is “an important matter of healing” for those tribes. “They want affirmation that they have always owned the objects tribally,” he said.

The repatriation act is intended to help American Indians reclaim burial and religious items and other objects of enduring significance that were taken from reservations when the tribes were suffering under resettlement, poverty and military control. It was a time, Indians and historians say, when communal spiritual items were filched by unscrupulous visitors, confiscated by soldiers, or sold and bartered by hungry tribe members who lacked such authority.

“We were hunted down and overrun, and this is all part of our historical trauma that we still carry around,” said Ramon Riley, cultural resources director for the White Mountain Apache Tribe in eastern Arizona.

Mr. Riley, who is 73, and his fellow leaders from the San Carlos, Tonto and Yavapai tribes say they are morally bound to demand the designations they deem more respectful. “These are not playthings,” he said. “We use them in ceremonies to connect us with our creator.”

The Apaches say the Natural History Museum’s stance angers and perplexes them because the museum has used the desired designations on three earlier occasions, in 1998, 1999 and 2007, when repatriating Apache ceremonial caps, lightning sticks and similar articles. They also point out that the museum has used the more formal wording in the Federal Register in 19 of the 21 American Indian repatriations accords it has made since 1998.

Tribe members visited the museum in 2005 to identify the items, sent letters to the museum and federal officials explaining why the items are singular, and went before a review committee set up under the federal law, which agreed that the items were part of the tribe’s cultural heritage.

The Apaches renewed their talks with the museum in January, soon after the Field Museum in Chicago agreed to classify 146 tribal items as sacred objects of cultural patrimony based on “a greater understanding of Apache beliefs.” In doing so, the Field altered its 2006 decision to classify 56 of those objects as cultural items only, and submitted a revised notice to the Federal Register, where such returns must be announced.

Some two dozen museums have adopted the Apaches’ position in making their returns, including the Denver Museum of Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the state museums of Arizona and New Mexico.

The Apaches, though, also have a dispute with the Smithsonian Institution, which is not governed by the 1990 Repatriation Act, over its refusal to return six objects that the tribe deems both sacred and patrimonial.

Mr. Randall said the social ills plaguing his tribe compel the Apaches to remain at loggerheads with the natural history museum in New York.

“If we disrespect the holy people, we suffer terrible consequences,” he said.
399 2013-08-20 Eighty years ago, President Franklin D. Roosevelt taught us what to do when confronted by a surplus of something: Pay people not to make any more of it. And what we have a surplus of right now is good television.

This year is the 80th anniversary of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, a New Deal initiative intended to help farmers, who were producing far more wheat, cotton, corn, milk and other goods than the market wanted, and in that way sending prices for those commodities to absurdly low levels. There were complexities involving overseas markets, but think of the problem this way: We couldn’t eat — or, in the case of cotton, wear out our clothes and sheets — fast enough to consume everything our farmers were churning out.

That is exactly what is happening in television today. There have never been more good TV shows available — perfectly edible series, mini-series and one-shots, tasty and in many cases nutritious — but we can’t choke them down as fast as they’re being produced. We need a Television Adjustment Act of 2013.

Entire shows are going unseen by virtually everyone, though they’re worth watching and hang on for several seasons: “Fringe,” “The Big C,” “Happy Endings.” It would be hard to shower more acclaim on AMC’s “Breaking Bad,” but even its heavily promoted final-season premiere drew fewer than six million viewers. That means that roughly 310 million residents were not watching. We can pare the infants and toddlers from that group, since the show is about a meth manufacturer, but that still leaves a quarter-billion people who now have yet another series that they really, really plan to catch up on as soon as they have a spare 62 hours to binge-watch.

The DVR hasn’t been around that long, but whose isn’t already full of shows that someone in the household fully intends to watch but never does? (Better get to Season 2 of “Homeland” soon, because Season 3 is right around the corner.) Who hasn’t received, as a birthday or holiday gift, the boxed set of something or other, which is now sitting unopened next to “Firefly: The Complete Series,” “Longmire: The Complete First Season” and “Smallville: The Final Season,” all also unopened?
400 2013-08-20 In Egypt, where major corporations like Royal Dutch Shell have closed offices and cut off nearly all business travel, companies with travelers still in the country have mostly pulled back to secured areas, where conditions are being monitored hour by hour.

Business travelers in Egypt are mostly “people working on various kinds of contracts that they don’t want to depart. They’re mainly people who have an essential need to be there at this point,” said John Rendeiro, the vice president for security and intelligence at International SOS, a global security and medical emergency response company based near Philadelphia.

“Most of our clients had already drawn down the nonessential folks” since early summer, he said. Most who remain “are in corporate lodging, and they’re mainly essential people who have really good reason to be there and already have a pretty good security posture,” he said.

Now, travel risk experts say, the basic requirements are caution and good information. Emergency plans and communications systems should be carefully evaluated, they add. Few business travelers still in Egypt need to be reminded of the basic precautions issued in government travel alerts worldwide, like avoiding mobs. Most who are still in Egypt know the landscape by now.

And indications are that security conditions will worsen, at least in the short term, they agree. “We have our travel services on the ground, where we already had networks of security providers, medical providers who are constantly monitoring the situation. These are people who essentially know the neighborhood very well already,” Mr. Rendeiro said.

“What we’re telling people now is don’t send people there if they’re not there already,” Mr. McIndoe said. “So far, most of the transient people we have pulled out went out on commercial flights, but that is complicated by the curfew.”

At the busy Cairo International Airport, which handles 16 million passengers a year, flight delays were mounting over the weekend, in some cases stretching to 12 hours and more. But delays were minimal by Monday afternoon. One major factor in air travel was the curfew imposed last Wednesday in much of the country, causing logistical challenges for passengers, flight crews and airport employees. There were also some problems caused by limited access and checkpoints on airport approach roads.

“In the last couple of days we’ve been working through the curfew,” Mr. McIndoe said. In recent days, he added, the company has moved out more than two dozen clients who opted to leave simply because security measures on travel liability insurance policies had been activated by rapidly deteriorating conditions.

Airport officials are struggling to accommodate the growing numbers of travelers at the airport, including those backed up at visa and immigration and ticket counters where staffing was a problem as some employees found it difficult to get to work. But the curfew remains the biggest challenge, and Mr. McIndoe said that his company had been transporting clients to the airport in security vehicles. “Basically, we’re working with the airlines to make sure we secure seats,” he said. “And we’re also transporting people in convoys, with a lead vehicle probing for roadblocks or other issues.”

Partly on assumptions that the Egyptian military will be able to control unrest on the streets, and given the solid communications and transportation in place in Egypt, there is no obvious sense of panic among the foreign business travelers who remain. Nevertheless, Mr. Rendeiro said, “We have arranged for planes on standby, in case they’re needed.”
401 2013-08-20 The result is a much more rounded image of Orwell and his circle than that provided by the four-volume set, for which his widow, Sonia Brownell Orwell, was a co-editor. Among the chief delights in the new volume is a much sharper image of Orwell’s first wife, Eileen O’Shaughnessy, who died at 39 during surgery, just before the 1945 publication of “Animal Farm,” whose success would give Orwell his first taste of financial stability. She emerges here as a woman of sparkling wit and intelligence, remarking on her husband’s “extraordinary political simplicity” and mordantly noting that “the English left is always Spartan; they’re fighting Franco to the last Spaniard.”

The letters show that Orwell was shattered by her death, but that he also embarked on an excruciatingly awkward campaign to woo a successor. “There isn’t really anything left in my life except my work and seeing that Richard gets a good start,” he writes to one prospect a year after his wife’s death, referring to the son the couple adopted shortly before she died. “It is only that I feel so desperately alone sometimes. I have hundreds of friends, but no woman who takes an interest in me and can encourage me.”

The final sections of “A Life in Letters” abound with other such moments of pathos. The reader knows that Orwell will die of tuberculosis, at the age of 46, in January 1950, and though he, too, suspects that that will be his fate, he often pleads for more time.

“I do want to stay alive at least 10 years, I’ve got such a lot of work to do, besides Richard to look after,” he writes six months before his death. “Of course I’ve had it coming to me all my life,” he also says in the same letter, acknowledging the price he is paying for having subjected himself to privations for so many years.

There are hints here, too, tantalizing but frustrating, of books Orwell had in mind but never got to write. In 1940, he mentions that “I am sort of incubating an enormous novel, the family saga sort of thing,” and, nine years later, talks of “a novel dealing with 1945 in my head now, but even if I survive to write it, I shouldn’t touch it before 1950.”

To his publisher Fredric Warburg, he confides in 1948 that “I have a stunning idea for a very short novel which has been in my head for years, but I can’t start anything until I am free from high temperatures, etc.”

Because Orwell was so closely identified with the great causes and conflicts of his day, his passion for literature is often overlooked. The letters help rectify that imbalance: he refers often to books he is either reviewing or simply reading for pleasure, and his literary judgments are as idiosyncratic as his politics.

He had little use, for example, for Henry James, who “bores me unbearably,” and thought F. Scott Fitzgerald was overrated: “The Great Gatsby” “seemed to me to lack point” and “Tender Is the Night” “even more so,” he wrote. He championed the neglected 19th-century writer George Gissing, talked up James Joyce’s “Ulysses,” embraced Norman Mailer’s “Naked and the Dead” the instant it was published, and greatly admired Joseph Conrad, who, as “a transplanted Pole,” he wrote, had a “grown-upness and political understanding which would have been almost impossible to a native English writer at that time.” Jean-Paul Sartre, on the other hand, “is a bag of wind, and I am going to give him a good boot.”

The literary friendships Orwell cultivated may also indicate something about his taste, which was catholic, and his nature, which was tolerant of opinions that diverged from his but not of cant. The aristocratic Anthony Powell, author of the novel cycle “A Dance to the Music of Time,” and Henry Miller, whose “Tropic of Cancer” was considered obscene when first published in the 1930s, inhabit very different literary universes, but Orwell corresponded enthusiastically with both.

Perhaps the most intriguing letter here is one written nearly a quarter-century after Orwell’s death by Jacintha Buddicom, a childhood playmate and love interest of the man she knew as Eric Blair. In it, she complains that his use of their romance in the novel “1984” “absolutely destroys me,” but also expresses regret for spurning Orwell.

“How I wish I had been ready for betrothal when Eric asked me to marry him on his return from Burma,” she writes, and adds, “It took me literally years to realize that we are all imperfect creatures, but that Eric was less imperfect than anyone else I ever met.”
402 2013-08-20 Within the last year, business demand for cabanas as well as other “sun and fun” spaces grew considerably, she said.

Cabanas, patios and even spas are increasingly the new boardrooms.

“Recently, there are customers that are looking for out-of-the-box ways to conduct their business,” said Robert Pfeffer, director of sales and marketing for the Marco Island Marriott Beach Resort in Florida, where meeting planners started asking to book its 20 thatch-roofed beachfront huts almost as soon as they were built a year ago.

Last year, the Loews Miami Beach Hotel added eight new cabanas to appeal to business users, said its general manager, Alex Tonarelli. The two-story, air-conditioned cabanas are at the outer perimeter of the pool deck, buffered by an area with day beds and chaise lounges to cut down on noise or other disruption from the pool.

Mr. Jenkins said on a recent business trip to Las Vegas, meeting with his contact in a rooftop cabana “created a nice vibe, a very casual vibe,” but he warned that balancing casual with professional took some finesse.

For instance, booking a cabana to meet someone for the first time could result in an awkward “blind date” feeling — an insight Mr. Jenkins came to after a female client booked a small cabana just for the two of them to meet. “You could tell that she’d set up something that made her uncomfortable,” he said.

Another source of discomfort can be the dress code — or lack thereof.

“I love getting people out of their makeup and out of their natural state,” said Anese Cavanaugh, an executive leadership coach who likes nontraditional settings like spas and pool decks because “people tend to open up a lot more.”

Ms. Cavanaugh acknowledged, though, that her clients might not always share her enthusiasm. “I would imagine there’s a little bit of discomfort” with the prospect of talking business barefaced or in a bathrobe, she said.

More typically, spa or cabana meetings are conducted in an extra-relaxed version of business casual attire.

“You can wear just a pair of khakis and a summery shirt,” Mr. Jenkins said. “But you don’t want to come in beachwear.” He added that it was important to be clear about atmosphere so the other party didn’t show up overdressed or underdressed.

“I was that guy,” said Maneesh K. Goyal, president of event marketing agency MKG. When his New York-based company expanded and opened a second office in Los Angeles two years ago, Mr. Goyal discovered that cabana meetings come with their own dress code.

After “sweating profusely” through initial meetings, Mr. Goyal said he switched to shorts, casual shirts and low-top Converse sneakers for poolside appointments. “I’m not showing up in long sleeves and dark denim,” he said. “Not anymore.”

In cooler cities like Chicago and Philadelphia, outdoor terraces have become popular meeting places in warmer months, and lounges and spas are in use for meetings year-round.

Companies like the Campbell Soup Company and Destination Maternity have used the rooftop lounge at the Hotel Monaco Philadelphia for meetings of up to 15 people.

Amanda Schmiege, spa director at the Trump SoHo New York, said the hotel’s spa played host to around one business meeting a week in its relaxation lounge or on the terrace. “The meeting planners generally love it because whoever they’re having the meetings with actually wants to come,” she said.

“I’ve really adopted it because I think the casual nature of it really sets the tone,” Mr. Goyal said of meeting poolside.

Hotel and meeting professionals say that one driver of the trend is simply a continuing quest for the new and the novel, the same impetus that prompted many hotels to tweak their lobby layouts to cater to small business gatherings.

Mr. Tonarelli said another reason cabanas had become popular with business travelers was the preference for smaller meetings and more collaborative work environments.

“Your mind can kind of run free when you’re not in a white office building that has the same table in it as the office next door,” Mr. Stevenson said.

“Some of it, I think, is driven generationally,” Ms. Wilson said. “The younger generation wants a different experience,” she said.

“We’re trying to shift to get more value from the fun stuff we do,” said John Kane, director of sales development and marketing for Cutco, a cutlery company.

Mr. Kane, who has used the Hotel Monaco Philadelphia’s lounge for meetings, said setting a meeting in a relaxed place primed younger employees to talk about it on sites like Facebook and Twitter. “That’s a shift in the way we’re thinking.”
403 2013-08-20 The contract was signed Aug. 12 after much wrangling over the details. A few hours later, Mr. Stavridis, a 65-year-old Swiss-trained engineer, joined the oil magnate on his plane, which dropped Mr. Stavridis on Cephalonia, an island in the Ionian Sea where he spends his summer vacations. “Melissanidis, who was traveling to France, offered to take me with him to accommodate me,” Mr. Stavridis was quoted as telling the Proto Thema newspaper, which published a photograph of him, smiling, sitting next to a flight attendant.

Speaking to the Greek private television channel Skai after his firing on Monday, Mr. Stavridis defended his decision to fly on Mr. Melissanidis’s jet, noting that the trip had come long after the OPAP deal was completed. He referred to “hypocrisy” in Greek society which, he said, was interested in “the facade rather than the essence.”

“I am not a monk and I won’t hide,” said Mr. Stavridis, who founded Piscines Ideales, one of Europe’s largest manufacturers of swimming pools in 1991. More recently, he was head of the Athens water board, Eydap, which is also in the country’s privatizations portfolio.

Less than six months ago, Mr. Stavridis’s predecessor, Takis Athanasopoulos, was accused of a breach of faith during a previous stint at the head of the state electricity board. Prosecutors accused him of commissioning a power station in central Greece even though he knew it could not operate profitably.

The main left-wing opposition party, Syriza, which has vowed to reverse all privatizations if it comes to power, said Taiped was “a tool of the troika” whose goal was “the biggest sell-off of state wealth that Europe has seen since the era of East Germany.” In a statement on Monday, Syriza described the Stavridis affair as “the first clear admission of the dirty relationship between the government of the memorandum and business interests,” referring to the Greek deals for foreign loans.

The troika has urged Athens to speed up state sell-offs and to step up tax collection to raise much-needed money. But revenue targets have been revised downward several times. The original target of 50 billion euros by 2016 was later changed to 19 billion euros, then to 15 billion euros. Since last year, the troika has focused on annual targets. But Taiped is expected to fall 1 billion euros short of its 2.5 billion euro target for 2013.

Representatives of the troika, which have granted Greece two rescue programs totaling 240 billion euros over the last three years, are due in Athens at the end of next month for a new inspection that is expected to focus on a revenue shortfall compounded by a lagging privatizations program and lax tax collection efforts.

Apart from OPAP, Greece sold the state gas network operator, Desfa, to an Azerbaijan company for 450 million euros earlier this year. But the planned privatization of the state gas company, Depa, fell through in June when the Russian giant Gazprom failed to make the only expected bid, despite a series of meetings between its chief executive and the Greek prime minister, Antonis Samaras. The deal, which had been expected to net some 900 million euros, foundered after Gazprom cited concerns over Depa’s finances. But European Union competition concerns were also believed to have influenced Gazprom’s decision to walk away.

Mr. Samaras has been lobbying hard for privatizations and investments, which he has said are crucial to spurring growth and creating jobs in Greece. Unemployment exceeds 27 percent over all and is at a staggering level — 65 percent — for people younger than 25. But political and financial instability remains a concern among foreign investors despite Greece’s progress in cutting its debt.

Greece posted a primary surplus — a budget surplus not counting debt financing — for the first six months of this year. But its debt burden remains unsustainable, the troika of creditors agree. Other euro zone nations, chiefly Germany, remain reluctant, however, to approve a second debt revamping following the debt restructuring with private sector bondholders last year.

The tone of talks next month with troika inspectors could be set by the outcome of German parliamentary elections set for Sept. 22. The issue of Greek debt, and how it should be handled, has featured prominently in the German election campaign, which is being closely watched by Greek government officials.

But other pressing concerns face Mr. Samaras and his ministers in the coming weeks. Priorities include completing a list of 12,500 civil servants who must, by September, join a so-called mobility scheme, under which staff members would receive reduced wages for eight months ahead of their transfer or dismissal. Thousands of teachers are on the list and are expected to stage vehement protests, possibly occupying schools. The program aims to add another 12,500 civil servants by the end of the year.

Mr. Samaras got a taste of the difficulties of slashing the public payroll in June when his unilateral decision to shut the state broadcaster, ERT, prompted the third political party in the coalition to quit, leaving his government with a fragile majority in Parliament. Fired ERT staff members continue to occupy the broadcaster’s old offices, broadcasting pirate programming via satellite, even as the government last week announced the first 577 hirings for an interim service that is to replace ERT until a new permanent broadcaster is set up.

Another controversial measure is the government’s plan to lift a moratorium on home foreclosures at the end of this year. The authorities have pledged to exempt Greeks with low incomes and the unemployed, but the initiative has rankled the opposition and several coalition lawmakers, who have also vowed to oppose it.
404 2013-08-20 The stock market dropped on Monday for a fourth consecutive trading session as investors continued to worry about the recent rise in interest rates in anticipation that the Federal Reserve would soon begin to wind down its huge economic stimulus.

The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 70.73 points, or 0.47 percent, to 15,010.74. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 9.77 points, or 0.59 percent, to 1,646.06. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13.69 points, or 0.38 percent, to 3,589.09.

Investors had little data to digest on Monday, so the focus for many remained the continuing climb in bond yields. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.88 percent, from 2.83 percent Friday, as the note’s price declined 15/32, to 96 23/32.

The 10-year Treasury yield has risen sharply from a low of 1.63 percent reached in early May as the economy has improved and as investors begin expecting the Fed to start tapering its $85 billion-a-month bond-buying program as early as next month.

“We’ve been in this artificially low interest rate environment for so long, it’s hard to figure out what normal is,” said Jim Dunigan, chief investment officer with PNC Wealth Management.
405 2013-08-20 MADRID — The European Commission on Monday stepped into a dispute between Britain and Spain over Gibraltar, the British territory at the tip of the Iberian Peninsula, saying that it would soon send inspectors there and warning Madrid not to raise tensions further by charging people for crossing into the territory.

The intervention came as a British warship docked in Gibraltar on Monday morning, part of what the British authorities described as a long-planned military training operation, rather than a show of force aimed at Spain.

Still, the warship, the Westminster, which was escorted by two smaller ships from the Royal Navy, arrived a day after Spanish fishermen confronted British police vessels to protest Gibraltar’s construction of an artificial reef that is limiting their access to the waters off the territory.

Although Spain has regularly challenged Britain’s 300-year-old control of Gibraltar, the territory’s decision to build the reef has heightened tensions considerably. Gibraltar created the reef this month by dumping 70 concrete blocks into the sea in an attempt to prevent overfishing. Spain retaliated by tightening controls at the border, forcing cars to wait for hours to enter or leave the territory. Spain has also said that it may charge 50 euros, or about $67, to cross the border, saying that the additional revenue could help compensate Spanish fishermen for their losses.

On Monday, the European Commission, the executive agency of the European Union, warned Spain that such a border toll would violate European law. But it agreed to send a team of inspectors to Gibraltar, after Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain called José Manuel Barroso, the president of the commission, asking it to check Spanish claims that the territory had turned into a hub of money laundering and tobacco trafficking.
406 2013-08-20 But just as the claims made for 3-D printing technology sometimes exceed the reality, the field of bioprinting has seen its share of hype. News releases, TED talks and news reports often imply that the age of print-on-demand organs is just around the corner. (Accompanying illustrations can be fanciful as well — one shows a complete heart, seemingly filled with blood, as the end product in a printer).

The reality is that, although bioprinting researchers have made great strides, there are many formidable obstacles to overcome.

“Nobody who has any credibility claims they can print organs, or believes in their heart of hearts that that will happen in the next 20 years,” said Brian Derby, a researcher at the University of Manchester in Britain who reviewed the field last year in an article in the journal Science.

For now, researchers have set their sights lower. Organovo, for instance, a San Diego company that has developed a bioprinter, is making strips of liver tissue, about 20 cells thick, that it says could be used to test drugs under development.

A lab at the Hannover Medical School in Germany is one of several experimenting with 3-D printing of skin cells; another German lab has printed sheets of heart cells that might some day be used as patches to help repair damage from heart attacks. A researcher at the University of Texas at El Paso, Thomas Boland, has developed a method to print fat tissue that may someday be used to create small implants for women who have had breast lumpectomies. Dr. Boland has also done much of the basic research on bioprinting technologies. “I think it is the future for regenerative medicine,” he said.

Dr. D’Lima acknowledges that his dream of a cartilage printer — perhaps a printhead attached to a robotic arm for precise positioning — is years away. But he thinks the project has more chance of becoming reality than some others.

“Printing a whole heart or a whole bladder is glamorous and exciting,” he said. “But cartilage might be the low-hanging fruit to get 3-D printing into the clinic.”

One reason, he said, is that cartilage is in some ways simpler than other tissues. Cells called chondrocytes sit in a matrix of fibrous collagens and other compounds secreted by the cells. As cells go, chondrocytes are relatively low maintenance — they do not need much nourishment, which simplifies the printing process.

Keeping printed tissue nourished, and thus alive, is one of the most difficult challenges facing researchers. Most cells need to be within a short distance — usually a couple of cell widths — of a source of nutrients. Nature accomplishes this through a network of microscopic blood vessels, or capillaries.

But trying to emulate capillaries in bioprinted tissue is difficult. With his fat tissue, Dr. Boland’s approach is to build channels into the degradable gel containing the fat cells, and line the channels with the kind of cells found in blood vessels. When the printed fat is implanted, the tubes “start to behave as micro blood vessels,” he said.

The body naturally produces chemical signals that would cause it to start growing small blood vessels into the implant, Dr. Boland said, but the process is slow. With his approach, he said, “we expect this will be sped up, and hopefully keep the cells alive.”

With cartilage, Dr. D’Lima does not need to worry about blood vessels — the chondrocytes get the little nourishment they need through diffusion of nutrients from the joint lining and bone, which is aided by compression of the cartilage as the joints move. Nor does he need to be concerned with nerves, as cartilage lacks them.

But there is still plenty to worry about. Although it is less than a quarter of an inch thick, cartilage of the type found in the knee or hip has a complex structure, with several layers in which collagen and other fibrous materials are oriented differently.

“The printing demands change with every layer,” Dr. D’Lima said. “Most 3-D printers just change the shape. We are changing the shape, the composition, the type of cells, even the orientation of the cells.”

Dr. D’Lima has been involved in orthopedic research for years; one of his earlier projects, a sensor-laden knee-replacement prosthesis called the electronic knee, has provided invaluable data about the forces that act on the joint. So he was aware of other efforts to make and repair cartilage. “But we didn’t want to grow tissue in the lab and then figure how to transplant it into the body,” he said. “We wanted to print it directly in the body itself.”

He and his colleagues began thinking about using a thermal inkjet printer, in which tiny channels containing the ink are heated, producing a vapor bubble that forces out a drop. The technology is very reliable and is used in most consumer printers, but the researchers were wary because of the heat produced. “We thought it would kill the cells,” Dr. D’Lima said.

But Dr. Boland, then at Clemson University, and others had already done the basic research that showed that the heat pulse was so rapid that most cells survived the process.

Dr. D’Lima’s group soon discovered another problem: the newest thermal inkjets were too sophisticated for their work. “They print at such high resolution that the print nozzles are too fine for cells to squeeze through,” he said.

They found a 1990s-era Hewlett-Packard printer, a Deskjet 500, with bigger nozzles. But that printer was so old that it was difficult finding ink cartridges; the researchers finally located a supplier in China who had some.

Their idea was to replace the ink in the cartridges with their cartilage-making mixture, which consisted of a liquid called PEG-DMA and the chondrocytes. But even that created a problem — the cells would settle out of the liquid and clog the printhead. So the researchers had to devise a way to keep the mixture stirred up.

The mixture also has to be liquid to be printed, but once printed it must become a gel — otherwise the end product would just be a watery mess. PEG-DMA becomes a gel under ultraviolet light, so the solution was to keep the print area constantly exposed to UV light to harden each drop as it was printed. “So now you’re printing tissue,” Dr. D’Lima said.

But Dr. D’Lima and his group are investigating other materials for their gel. While PEG-DMA is biocompatible (and approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration), it would remain in the body and might eventually cause inflammation. So they are looking for substances that could degrade over time, to be replaced by the matrix produced by the chondrocytes. The printed material could be formulated to degrade at the same rate as the natural matrix is produced.

There are plenty of other challenges as well, Dr. D’Lima said, including a basic one — how to get the right kinds of cells, and enough of them, for the printer. It would not make much sense to use a patient’s own limited number of cartilage cells from elsewhere in the body. So his lab is investigating the use of stem cells, precursor cells that can become chondrocytes. “The advantage of stem cells is that it would mean a virtually unlimited supply,” Dr. D’Lima said.

Dr. D’Lima’s team is investigating other technologies that might be used in combination with bioprinting, including electrospinning, a method of creating the fibers in the matrix, and nanomagnetism, a way to orient the fibers. His lab takes a multidisciplinary approach — he even attends Siggraph, the large annual computer graphics convention, to get ideas. “They’re like 10 years ahead of medical technology,” he said.

Meanwhile, the lab has upgraded its printing technology. The Deskjet is still around, but it has not been used in more than a year. It has been supplanted by a much more sophisticated device from Hewlett-Packard — essentially a programmable printhead that allows the researchers to adjust drop size and other characteristics to optimize the printing process.

Dr. D’Lima said the biggest remaining hurdles were probably regulatory ones — including proving to the F.D.A. that printed cartilage can be safe — and that most of the scientific challenges had been met. “I think in terms of getting it to work, we are cautiously optimistic,” he said.
407 2013-08-21 LANDAU--Noemi, 91 years old, of Jackson Heights, NY, passed away August 11, 2013. Services were held on August 20. Donations in her memory may be made to Selfhelp Community Services at: www.selfhelp.net....
408 2013-08-21 Scores of Syrians were killed outside Damascus on Wednesday in an attack marked by the telltale signs of chemical weapons....
409 2013-08-21 Journalists for the French newspaper Le Monde reported in May that they had witnessed repeated chemical attacks on Syrian rebel forces in the Damascus suburbs....
410 2013-08-21 After accepting an invitation to appear on a television channel owned by the Russian government, the columnist James Kirchick surprised producers on Wednesday by decrying Russia’s anti-gay legislation....
411 2013-08-21 The sportswear brand introduces a new performance fleece in the five-piece Nike Tech Fleece Collection, out next week....
412 2013-08-21 Syrian rebels claimed that victims of an attack, shown in dozens of video clips, were killed by chemical weapons on Wednesday east of Damascus, just days after United Nations inspectors arrived in the country to investigate previous attacks said t...
413 2013-08-21 Anthony D. Weiner’s latest advertisement says he would bring down crime but “stop these stops and frisks that look an awful lot like racial profiling.”...
414 2013-08-21 An outside review of Bloomberg L.P.’s practices found that a controversial report that compared the damage in an Italian town after a bad deal with JPMorgan to the fallout from the Nazis’ occupation in World War II went “too far.”...
415 2013-08-21 History Hero, a new app for Apple devices, offers kids gaming rewards as they visit well-known museums....
416 2013-08-21 A significant increase in onion prices in India has ignited political wars and led to a highway robbery....
417 2013-08-21 What questions would you want the current owner to answer?...
418 2013-08-21 Nevertheless, it was encouraging work from Wheeler, who has gone 5-1 with a 3.08 earned run average over nine starts since July 1.

“It’s learning the game more, getting used to being up here, facing these kinds of hitters, attacking guys and really just trusting your stuff,” said Wheeler, who has beaten the Braves three times.

Marlon Byrd hit a sixth-inning, two-run homer to left field, highlighting the club’s solid offensive effort against Brandon Beachy, who gave up four runs in six innings. It was Byrd’s 21st home run this season, a career high.

Left fielder Eric Young Jr. scored the Mets’ first run in the sixth when he went to third on a double steal and scampered home after Brian McCann’s throw to second rolled into center field. In the top of that inning, Young made one of the more spectacular defensive plays by a Met this season, sprinting to his right and splaying horizontally to rob McMann of an extra-base hit.

Young’s busy day had started in the first, when he reached on an error, stole second and scored when Ike Davis singled. In the eighth, Davis crushed a monstrous home run to the right field upper deck. It was Davis’s first homer at Citi Field since April 25.

The win capped a busy day for the Mets, who had a bit of housekeeping to do after a long trip. But it all unfolded serenely.

Collins informed catcher John Buck that his role would be diminished as the Mets continue to take an extended look at the prospect Travis d’Arnaud. Buck, who has batted .219 and hit 15 home runs as the club’s everyday catcher, said he knew what was coming and understood the situation. D’Arnaud doubled in the eighth to get his first hit after 16 plate appearances.

“This is not my first year around, so I figured that,” Buck said, smiling. “It’s kind of the nature of the beast.”

Collins announced that the right-handers Jenrry Mejia and Jeremy Hefner would require elbow surgery. Mejia, who has bone spurs, will have his operation within 10 days. Tommy John surgery was recommended for Hefner for his elbow ligament tear.. The procedure might require him to miss much of the 2014 season. Hefner will seek a second opinion before deciding whether to have the operation, Collins said.

The news from third baseman David Wright, who spoke to reporters shortly before the game, was more optimistic. Wright, who strained his right hamstring Aug. 2, said he was working on strength and flexibility exercises while playing catch and swinging off a tee.

Asked whether he thought he would play again this season, Wright said; “Yeah, I do. I don’t think, in my mind, there’s any question.”

Wright, though, said it was frustrating that his progress had been so incremental. Boredom over the last two weeks has been a serious problem, he added — only highlighting the contrast between the city’s two third baseman and their clubs.

The Mets announced Tuesday that they signed the right-handers Mitch Talbot, 29, and Daryl Thompson, 28, to minor league contracts and assigned them to their Class AAA team in Las Vegas.
419 2013-08-21 Gaza’s Hamas government is sticking to plans to carry out more executions and to do so in public for the first time, despite protests by human rights groups on Tuesday. The international group Human Rights Watch urged a halt to all planned executions, saying Gaza’s justice system is badly tainted, including by forced confessions. A Gaza rights group, the Palestinian Center for Human Rights, said inviting spectators to executions adds cruelty to an already inhumane punishment. Sixteen prisoners await execution, including Hani Abu Aliyan, 28, who was convicted of two killings, including sexually assaulting and bludgeoning to death a boy when Mr. Abu Aliyan was 14. His lawyer said that Mr. Abu Aliyan confessed to that killing under torture. Human Rights Watch said executing a child offender was “especially atrocious.” A government spokesman denied allegations of torture and said those sentenced to death had been given due process.
420 2013-08-21 “We heard buzz in the industry that some livery owners were thinking about painting their cars ‘big apple green’ without getting the street-hail license, or perhaps had even done so already,” David S. Yassky, the city’s taxi commissioner, said. “Just to make sure it doesn’t happen, we’re going to make a rule against it.”

Green cabs without external markings and other required features have been spotted patrolling — and, occasionally, executing pickups — in Brooklyn and the Bronx, Washington Heights and East Harlem.

In some cases, it is likely that drivers have simply not yet completed their vehicle overhauls as mandated under the street-hail program, painting the car before installing the other requisite additions. (These cars would still be barred from accepting street hails until they received approval from the taxi commission.)

But livery operators said that other drivers seemed to have painted their cabs with little intention of converting them fully — at a cost of $3,000 on average, according to the taxi commission — or applying for a permit.

“We’re talking about people who don’t want to play by the rules,” said Cira Angeles, a spokeswoman for Livery Base Owners, a coalition of livery companies. “They just want to be noticed as a legal car and confuse the passengers.”

It is also unlikely that the green cabs sighted have been green for long. For-hire operators said they could not recall seeing green livery cars before the city’s plan was adopted.

“It’s an ugly color,” said Avik Kabessa, the chief executive of Carmel Car and Limousine Service.

The commission said it had issued more than 1,800 permits for green taxis; two dozen are currently on the road.

The city plans to issue up to 6,000 permits in the first year, and up to 12,000 more in the next two years. The cabs are prohibited from accepting street hails south of East 96th Street and West 110th Street in Manhattan, as well as at the city’s airports. Meters, outfitted with GPS devices, do not operate if a driver tries to begin a trip within the so-called “yellow zone.”

Mr. Yassky has said he expects to reach “critical mass,” with more readily available green cabs, by the early fall.

But already, drivers said, the roads appear to be greener. Rogelio Alvarez, 49, who has been a livery driver for 17 years, said that he made a point of securing one of the first permits for a green cab.

Some colleagues have not yet followed suit, he said, painting their cabs green but performing pickups without the remaining adornments.

“It isn’t fair,” he said, “but that’s the way it is.”
421 2013-08-21 The problem for Mr. LePage, as even some of his allies acknowledge, is that whether or not he made this particular comment, he has made so many other startlingly blunt assertions that while one more may not matter, the accumulation of such comments could. Taken together, they could add up to a major vulnerability for him as he faces re-election next year.

Even before he was elected governor in 2010, Mr. LePage all but promised on the campaign trail to use his penchant for straight talk as his sword in the political wars.

“As your governor,” he declared, “you’re going to be seeing a lot of me on the front page saying ‘Governor LePage tells Obama to go to hell.’ ”

When members of the N.A.A.C.P. and others complained shortly after he took office that his decision not to attend a ceremony honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was part of a negative pattern, he told reporters, “Tell them to kiss my butt.”

Last year, he compared the Internal Revenue Service to the Gestapo. “The Holocaust was a horrific crime against humanity and, frankly, I would never want to see that repeated. Maybe the I.R.S. is not quite so bad — yet.” He later apologized.

He does not mince words about Maine’s public schools. “If you want a good education, go to private schools. If you can’t afford it, tough luck. You can go to the public school.”

He has called legislators “idiots,” berated one for having a wealthy background, and said of another that he said he has “no brains” and “a black heart.”

And earlier this month, the governor was participating in a fighter jet simulation at Pratt & Whitney and was asked what he would like to do. “I want to find The Portland Press Herald building and blow it up,” he said. He later said he was joking, though the news media is a frequent target of his barbs.

After the paper reported the comment about President Obama, the state’s Republican establishment declined to comment.

Dean Scontras, a Republican who ran unsuccessfully for Congress in Maine in 2010 and now lives in Virginia, was one of the few Republicans who did respond, saying the remark was a “train wreck.” He even called for Mr. LePage to resign. “I think it’ll be tough to raise money, and I think it’ll be tougher to get the turnout he needs,” he said. “I think he just made the path to victory a lot harder than it needed to be.”

But some allies of the governor say his tendency for inflammatory remarks is part of who he is.

“I think people have come to understand that the governor is a straight talker who’s prone to occasionally misstep in the way he speaks publicly,” said Dan Demeritt, Mr. LePage’s former spokesman and now a political consultant.

But, he said, “Governor LePage enjoys very strong support among many voters who will see this as more straight talk from the governor.”

The question next year will be whether voters have had their fill. Mr. LePage is being challenged by a Democratic congressman, Michael H. Michaud, who, when he announced his candidacy last week, made the governor’s style the central issue.

“Our state has become a punch line on late-night TV,” Mr. Michaud said, adding later: “The tone in Augusta has turned into endless strings of angry rants and partisan, personal attacks. That’s not the way we do things in Maine.”

But the Democrats have another worry aside from Mr. LePage, and that is Eliot Cutler, who ran as an independent candidate for governor in 2010. He came close to winning, getting 36.5 percent of the vote to Mr. LePage’s 38 percent; the Democrat lagged with 19 percent.

Mr. Cutler intends to run again this year, setting up a three-way race that does not make Democrats happy. They see him as the spoiler in 2010 who allowed Mr. LePage to squeak through, though Mr. Cutler said Tuesday that the Democrats, who barely mustered 12 percent of the vote in the Senate race last year, are the spoilers.

Either way, Mr. Cutler and Mr. Michaud could siphon votes from each other and allow Mr. LePage, despite his vulnerabilities, to emerge again as the winner.

Then again, voters could be so fed up with Mr. LePage that they disregard any party label or issue differences between Mr. Cutler and Mr. Michaud and swing behind whichever candidate they consider most likely to beat Mr. LePage.

Even Ben Grant, chairman of the state Democratic Party, acknowledged that could happen.

“There’s a lot of strategic voters out there, who are asking not about issues but asking us about who can beat Paul LePage,” he said.
422 2013-08-21 “I’m ready to play any position; it doesn’t matter to me,” said Pugh, who played exclusively at left tackle Sunday and during his final years at Syracuse.

Coach Tom Coughlin said the Giants had confidence in Pugh; otherwise, they would not have used their first draft pick in April to select him.

“He’s got plenty to work on, but Chris will be there to help him,” Coughlin said, referring to the Pro Bowler Chris Snee, the right guard. “Chris can teach the young guy a lot.”

The other surprise Tuesday at Giants camp was that Diehl appeared before practice with a cast on his right thumb and wrist.

“I’ll be fine,” said Diehl, who sustained the injury during Sunday’s game. “I’ve played with everything else.”

Diehl said his thumb was not broken. Coughlin did not specify what the injury was but acted as if it did not have any influence on the shake-up of the offensive line.

It is more likely that the Giants wanted Boothe to play center and that they also saw an opportunity over the next two weeks to evaluate Pugh at right tackle with the starting unit. The Giants already know what Diehl, entering his 11th season, can do at the position.

Whenever Baas returns, the team will be in a better position to make a decision on the most deserving starter at right tackle. If Pugh struggles in the coming weeks, the Giants could always move up the reserve center Jim Cordle and return Boothe to guard and Diehl to tackle.

“It’s the best way for us to play right now,” Coughlin said of the current line arrangement after practice. “We’re trying to get the group together that can help us win the first regular-season game.”

Speaking to reporters before practice, Boothe was accepting of the move, which had yet to be revealed on the field.

“I’m up for anything,” he said. “We’ve all played together for a long time. We’re used to different combinations.”

Earlier, Diehl talked about his play on Sunday, when a defender he was blocking charged past him for a sack. Another time, his man put pressure on the quarterback.

“I’m sure I’m going to hear that I got beat because I’m old,” said Diehl, 32, who is coming off a subpar season. “I’ll hear that I lost a step and all those things, but everything I saw on film was something correctable. It was technique. I’ll go work on that in practice. I’ll do 100 reps if I have to.”

BOOT FOR CRUZ Victor Cruz was wearing a protective boot on his left foot and using crutches before Tuesday’s practice. Cruz was hurt when an Indianapolis defensive back fell on his heel, bruising it.

“It went kind of numb,” Cruz said. “But there’s no tear and no break. It’s just a matter of getting the swelling down at this point. It’s a short setback. You never want to have one, but if there’s a time to have one, this is the window.”

Cruz said he envisioned being on the practice field the week before the Giants’ season opener.

GETTING BETTER Safety Antrel Rolle, who sprained his ankle last week, jogged along the sideline Tuesday. Justin Tuck, who strained his hamstring Sunday, returned to practice.
423 2013-08-21 In 2013, the case is still rattling through the federal courts. A judge ruled against the city and appointed a monitor; the city appealed and won back a bit of ground. But most of the findings remained intact.

So the lawyers for the people who sued are going to court to have their legal fees paid, to which they are entitled if the judge agrees that they are the “prevailing” party.

“We asked for $8 million in fees, and $500,000 in expenses,” said Darius Charney, a staff attorney with the Center for Constitutional Rights, which provided some of the lawyers for the winning side.

The city will haggle over how much is owed, whether the hourly rate should be $525 an hour or $450, and so forth. So the city’s bill will not necessarily be all $8 million claimed.

But wait: what about the losers — the city Law Department?

The city lawyers still get paid, of course; they worked hard, they had desks and computers, pensions and health care plans, vacations and bosses and secretaries and paralegals, heat in the winter and air-conditioning in the summer.

So whatever amount the winning side gets — let’s say it ends up at $5 million — you can roughly guess that the losing side will have already paid that much, too, for its own costs. There’s your $10 million to play with. Or more than 30 miles of new pavement and 400 seats in Head Start.

Why wasn’t this case settled? The mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, has said the city was fair in its testing.

“We tried to do a conciliation, but the city refused to participate,” Mr. Charney said.

Under Mr. Bloomberg and Michael A. Cardozo, the corporation counsel, the city has generally refused to enter into consent decrees — lawsuit settlements overseen by the courts. These, it was argued, unwisely limited the authority of managers. They stifled innovation. Experts would be second-guessed. And the city was not discriminating — or so it argued over and over.

Given an opportunity to avoid the litigation that went on for years over the police stop-and-frisk practices and which recently concluded with a stunning loss, the city chose to fight, at enormous cost. Here’s the missed chance: The city agreed in 2003 to settle a racial-profiling lawsuit that had been filed in 1999, under the previous administration.

When the terms of that settlement were expiring in 2007, the stop-and-frisk numbers were just becoming public. The city declined to continue the oversight terms of the previous settlement. “The city bought themselves a new lawsuit,” said Chris Dunn, a lawyer with the New York Civil Liberties Union. “They could have extended the terms for a couple of years, which would have been a low-cost, no-cost proposition.”

Since Mr. Bloomberg took office, the budget for the city’s Law Department has increased by more than 56 percent — almost double the rate of inflation, and much faster than nearly all city agencies except for the Education Department.

The stop-and-frisk litigation costs will certainly run into multimillion-dollar sums. Asked how much the case has cost the city so far, a spokeswoman for Mr. Cardozo said the number was not at hand.

Miles and miles of street paving, to be sure.
424 2013-08-21 Kodak has sold assets, including its consumer operations, and will now focus mainly on commercial products like high-speed digital printing technology and flexible packaging for consumer goods.

In bankruptcy, Kodak failed to obtain significant value for its portfolio of patents. Experts said that was a crucial reason it had to sell core businesses and reinvent itself. But the bankruptcy resolved a major dispute with retirees over pensions, and it has forged a restructuring plan that, while wiping out shareholders, should pay secured creditors and second-lien noteholders in full.

General unsecured creditors are likely to receive a marginal payout in the neighborhood of 4 to 5 cents on the dollar.

“This comes on a day when many are losing retirement benefits and many are finding that their recovery as a creditor is just a minute fraction of what their debt is,” Judge Gropper said. “But I cannot decree a larger payment for creditors or any payment for shareholders if the value is not there.”

Kodak plans to emerge from bankruptcy as early as Sept. 3, its lawyer, Andrew Dietderich, said at a hearing in bankruptcy court.

Kodak’s bankruptcy capped a protracted plunge for the company, which was founded in 1880 by George Eastman, the inventor of the hand-held camera and rolled photographic film. Kodak’s market value topped $31 billion in the mid-1990s.

When it filed for bankruptcy, it hoped to fetch more than $2 billion for about 1,100 patents related to digital imaging. But partly as a result of losses in patent litigation with Apple, the company was able to sell the portfolio for only about $525 million to an alliance led by Intellectual Ventures and the RPX Corporation.

The company sought other ways to save money. In April, it resolved a crucial dispute with its British pension, which dropped a $2.8 billion claim against Kodak while buying the company’s personalized imaging and document imaging businesses for $650 million.

The company reached an $895 million financing deal in June with JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Barclays. It is also planning a $406 million rights offering, selling 34 million shares, or 85 percent of the equity in the reorganized company, with proceeds going to creditors.
425 2013-08-21 Serena Williams will be seeded No. 1 at the United States Open as she tries to do something she has never done: win a second consecutive title at Flushing Meadows.

Williams is a four-time champion at the Open, including in 2012. Only Chris Evert (six) and Steffi Graf (five) have won the tournament more times in the Open era, which began in 1968.

The United States Tennis Association stuck to the W.T.A. rankings Tuesday in announcing the 32 seeded women, including Victoria Azarenka at No. 2 and Maria Sharapova at No. 3. Williams is one of three seeded Americans; No. 16 Sloane Stephens and No. 24 Jamie Hampton are the others.

Venus Williams, who won the United States Open in 2000 and 2001, is the only unseeded past champion.

■ Petra Kvitova, the defending champion seeded third, held on for a 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 win over Annika Beck in the first round of the New Haven Open. Second-seeded Angelique Kerber was upset, losing a second-round match, 6-2, 6-4, to Elena Vesnina of Russia.
426 2013-08-21 Mathias Frank of Switzerland rode to a three-second win in the second stage of the USA Pro Challenge in Colorado, while Lachlan Morton of Australia finished second to assume the overall lead. Frank completed the 126.1-mile ride from Aspen to Breckenridge in 5 hours 5 minutes 19 seconds.
427 2013-08-21 In a Democratic mayoral field crowded with critics of the Police Department’s stop-and-frisk tactics, William C. Thompson Jr. sought on Tuesday to be first out of the gate with specific changes he would make, if elected.

Under Mr. Thompson’s plan, police officers would provide slips of paper explaining to people why they were stopped. More experienced officers would patrol the city’s highest crime neighborhoods. Stops would be evaluated for their effectiveness in turning up violations or crimes.

The proposals, outlined during a morning news conference steps from Police Headquarters, were similar to many of the actions ordered by Judge Shira A. Scheindlin in her decision in the federal stop-and-frisk lawsuit last week. Those included revising training materials, ending the use of stops as a de facto measure of officers’ performance and giving a form or card after a stop with information on why the stop was made and how to file a complaint.

Mr. Thompson said he and the judge viewed the problem similarly. “The judge, in her comments, indicated the way that stop-and-frisk is being used is unconstitutional, but did not say eliminate stop-and-frisk,” he said. “I think our positions are very much alike.”

The issue of police stops has at times brought forth passionate statements from Mr. Thompson, who last month drew a connection between racially motivated stops in New York and the killing in Florida of the unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin. On Monday he invoked the memory of the March on Washington half a century ago. “We know that every time we stop a black or Latino child because of the color of his skin, we’re prejudging the content of his character,” he said.

Mr. Thompson said he did not believe that requiring officers to fill out slips would be a burden, or that judging stops based on the number that end in findings of criminal behavior would have a chilling effect on policing in high-crime neighborhoods. By emphasizing community contacts, he said, police officers could reduce the number of stops and increase the frequency with which they lead to arrests or summonses. “Officers know,” he said. “When you’re on the ground working in a neighborhood, you know the individuals to stop, you know who not to stop, you know that.”
428 2013-08-21 You can’t honor Italian culture without considering la cucina. That’s why the Italian Cultural Foundation has added a culinary program at its headquarters in Casa Belvedere, a historic mansion on Staten Island. There are cooking courses for children and adults, as well as wine tastings and dinners. One class in September will cover regional pastas and risottos. All take place in Cucina Colavita, a new state-of-the-art kitchen sponsored by the olive oil company: Casa Belvedere, 79 Howard Avenue, Grymes Hill, Staten Island, casa-belvedere.org.

Straight-up agave nectar has been gaining in popularity as a sweetener, but in drinks, its viscosity can sometimes make it difficult to combine with other ingredients. Enter this cocktail-ready version: agave diluted with filtered water so it stirs more easily into cocktails, iced tea and lemonade: Tres Agaves Organic Agave Nectar is $8 for 375 milliliters, $11 for 750 milliliters from tresagaves.com.

To Decide: Ordering Cappuccino Comes With Questions

Regular or decaf? Skim or whole? Wet or dry? The last question from my barista at the Bouchon Bakery in Rockefeller Center threw me when I ordered a cappuccino. Wet means only a little foam; dry equals a lot. Thomas Keller, the owner, said his baristas usually ask how the customer wants the foam. In New Zealand, he said, the latest is to request a “flat white,” meaning no foam. I can’t wait.

Hannah Parker and Erin Alston, Brooklynites via North Carolina, grew up loving pimento cheese, a staple in many Southern homes. They shared their version with friends here, who lapped it up, and before they knew it they were in business, selling it at Smorgasburg. Now they are offering it to a wider audience online. In addition to the basic formula of grated Cheddar, pimentos, mayonnaise and seasonings, they also have a version spiked with chopped jalapeños, and another made with white Cheddar and dill. All of them are chunky, so bring the cheese to room temperature before you try to spread it. Use it on a sandwich to grill or a burger, or in mac and cheese. Add more mayo, some sour cream or Greek yogurt, and you have a party dip: Hannah’s Homemade Pimento Cheese is $9 for an 8-ounce container, $17 for 16 ounces from hannahshomemade.wordpress.com.

To Transport: Keeping It Cool on the 5:47

Commuters hopping a train out of Grand Central Terminal who want to enjoy a cold one can dress up their pint with a snappy black jacket from Beer Table, the Brooklyn company that has a store in the terminal. You can get pint jars, which can be filled with any of the beers on tap, and a lid and the insulated wrap: Pint to Go from Beer Table Pantry, Graybar Passage near Lexington Avenue, $2 for the jar, 50 cents for the lid, $1 for the “koozie” jacket, or $3 for all three, plus beer, $4 to $7.

To Eat: Just Consider It Your Own Private Idaho

You have to love potatoes to visit Potatopia, a new place named after the only food it sells. The menu lists potatoes au gratin, sweet potato crinkles, smashed potatoes and even potato pie. Some of the dishes can be had with a long list of toppings and sauces, mostly aiolis. But don’t look for anything without spuds here. Allen Dikker, an owner, road-tested the concept for a couple of years in Menlo Park, N.J., before bringing it to Manhattan, in a bright, airy, wood-paneled shop with a counter and a few tables: Potatopia, 378 Avenue of the Americas (Waverly Place), (212) 260-4100, potatopia.com.

To Sail: Setting a Course for Uptown Adventure

A cruise up the Hudson River on Monday evening will take passengers from Battery Park City to 125th Street in Harlem, where they can then dine at any of 10 restaurants offering special set menus included in the ticket. The cruises are organized by the West Harlem Food and Beverage Association to bring attention to restaurants like Patisserie des Ambassades and Jin Ramen: $45 for adults, and less for children and those not dining at the restaurants, letscruise.ticketleap.com.
429 2013-08-21 The owners of the Fat Radish are going from one of the grittier locations in Chinatown to Upper East Side luxury, in a pair of elegant, greenery-bedecked brownstones. They are moving the Fat Radish chef, Nicholas Wilber, uptown, and have teamed up with Anthony Martignetti and his brother, Tom Martignetti, of Brinkley’s. Mr. Wilber, a native of Colorado who worked with Bradford Thompson, will produce a menu that’s less rustic but focused on vegetables almost as much as what he served at the Fat Radish. “We’re not doing fine dining because there are no tablecloths, but we have taken the opportunity to elevate the experience, reaching a little farther,” he said. There is an heirloom tomato plate with avocado and squash, and a main dish of roasted carrots, as well as a fennel and fish pie, chicken Kiev and pork osso buco. The restaurant is on two floors, done in black and white, and offers garden seating under an arbor. (Opens Monday): 133 East 65th Street, (212) 249-2222, theeastpolenyc.com.

ENDURO Alan Rosen, an owner of the Junior’s restaurants, is opening this tribute to his grandfather and great-uncle, Harry and Mike Rosen, who owned Enduro restaurants in Manhattan and Brooklyn, one of which became the original Junior’s, the cheesecake mecca. Nathan Huntington, who was at L2O in Chicago, will offer a seasonal menu, with a rotisserie in the open kitchen. (Monday): 919 Third Avenue (56th Street), (212) 935-6800, endurony.com.

MAISON O Tadashi Ono, who was chef and an owner of the Japanese restaurant Matsuri after years at La Caravelle, has taken over the spacious former Kenmare location. He serves izakaya food on the main floor, and will offer karaoke downstairs: 98 Kenmare Street (Cleveland Place), (212) 274-9898, maisononyc.com.

MALT N MASH This gastro pub will be joined in November by the main event, 44 Acres, a more formal restaurant next door. There are some uncommon offerings like foie gras roulade with chipotle peanut butter, and octopus with black garlic and cacao. (Thursday): 53-61 Gansevoort Street (Washington Street), no phone.

MAYHEM & STOUT This sandwich company, specializing in succulent meat-filled combinations and homemade condiments, has shown up at all sorts of outdoor markets. Now it has a home with a few tables: 711 Second Avenue (38th Street), (212) 986-1600, mayhemandstout.yolasite.com.

MILK RIVER La-Niece Lyew, a chef who worked at Mercer Kitchen and Kuma Inn, has taken on two floors of restaurant and lounge, with 150 seats in the dining room. Her food carries a Jamaican touch, with plenty of chile- and spice-fueled rubs and marinades, and sometimes, a nod to her Chinese roots. (Wednesday): 960 Atlantic Avenue (Grand Avenue), Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 636-8600.

WHISKEY SODA LOUNGE NY The bar from Andy Ricker planned as a waiting room for his Pok Pok Ny down the block, serves food, including spicy fish-head soup: 115 Columbia Street (Kane Street), Columbia Street Waterfront District, (718) 797-4120, whiskeysodalounge-ny.com.

MESA GRILL After more than 20 years, the last day for the Southwestern restaurant owned by Bobby Flay and Laurence Kretchmer will be Aug. 31.
430 2013-08-21 LOS ANGELES — Netflix and the Weinstein Company have reached an agreement under which Netflix will become the exclusive subscription television outlet for Weinstein movies starting in 2016.

Netflix already shows foreign films and some others from Weinstein under an earlier deal between the companies.

Weinstein, an independent studio, is known for a broad mix of movies that often includes contenders in the annual film awards. Its current films include “Lee Daniels’ The Butler” and “Fruitvale Station,” though the Netflix deal would include only releases beginning in 2016, the companies said.

Under the agreement, announced on Tuesday, the films are expected to become available after their theater runs and after their releases via other home entertainment media, like DVDs.

Other Netflix deals have included films from DreamWorks Animation, Relativity Media, Open Road Films and FilmDistrict.
431 2013-08-21 LONDON — Shares around the world, particularly those in emerging economies, fell Tuesday as investors braced for the phasing out of an American central bank stimulus program that has shored up markets for the past few years.

Stock benchmarks and currencies in developing countries like India and Indonesia have been hammered as funds flowed out of their markets in anticipation of a reduction in stimulus from the Federal Reserve.

Indonesia’s benchmark index, which dived 5 percent on Monday, suffered another 3.2 percent drop Tuesday. India’s Sensex was down 0.3 percent after sliding 5.6 percent in the previous two sessions. India’s currency, the rupee, fell to a record low of 64.11 rupees to the dollar.

Emerging markets have been hit by expectations that the Fed would reduce the amount of financial assets it buys in the markets — currently $85 billion a month — amid signs of improvement in the American economy. The stimulus was intended to spur borrowing and investment through easy access to liquidity. Many investors used the cheap money to buy stocks, particularly in fast-growing developing economies.

“The shift in sentiment and capital flows back towards developed markets is being keenly felt, leading to a major pickup in volatility,” said Michael Every, an analyst at Rabobank International.

Financial assets in emerging economies weren’t the only ones taking a hit on the expectation that the Fed would begin tapering its stimulus next month. Stocks on Wall Street have recorded a four-day losing streak for the first time in 2013 as borrowing rates in the markets have edged up to their highest levels since 2011.
432 2013-08-21 The plans for better coordination also highlight Beijing’s acute awareness of the need to contain the risks that have built up within the country’s financial system amid a lending splurge that followed the global financial crisis in 2008.

At the time, the authorities in Beijing announced a stimulus package worth 4 trillion renminbi, or $654 billion at current exchange rates, and instructed banks to lend freely. Those efforts helped the Chinese economy bounce back quickly from the global downturn.

But the availability of cheap cash also led to a sharp increase in debt and in credit-financed projects undertaken with little regard to their ability to pay off the loans.

More recently, a sharp increase in so-called shadow banking — activities outside the formal banking sector that often entail riskier, less regulated lending — has further fanned concerns about credit quality.

The government leadership that took the helm in March has been fairly outspoken about potential financial risks and has sought to rein in shadow banking activities. A cash squeeze engineered by the central bank in June, for example, was widely seen as an effort to prompt banks to adopt a more prudent approach to lending.

But that episode also caused a period of market nervousness and fueled concerns about the effect that more restrictive lending would have on economic activity. A report from a major government research body warning of risks to the financial system from poor coordination appeared to show that the government was eager to minimize disruption and exert more control over the shadow banking system.

“During the course of withdrawing stimulus policies, the major tightening of monetary policy and regulatory policies has lacked effective coordination,” said the report from the State Council Development Research Center, which advises the central government. It was published in the China Economic Times on Tuesday.

“This has had a massive impact on the entire financial system, especially the banking system,” the report said.

The center’s researchers said the financial tightening policies had successfully prevented excessively fast growth and a rebound in inflation. But it had also created risks of their own by encouraging financing activities outside the regulated system and by encouraging banks to rapidly expand new products off their usual balance sheets.

“Lack of unity in regulatory policies and the lagging of development of the related legal framework has increased the difficulty of defusing risks from the shadow banking sector,” the researchers said.

Those failings have allowed banks to get around regulators by, for example, using investment funds and other entities, the report said.

“The even deeper reason why regulatory policies have been so disparate and lacked unity is that reform of our country’s current financial legal system lags so badly behind,” it added. “This is also, at present, the biggest difficulty we face in establishing effective mechanisms to isolate risks and defuse the risks in shadow banking.”
433 2013-08-21 Jason and Justin Sablich will provide fantasy football advice throughout the 2013 season on The Times’s N.F.L. page. Follow them on Twitter at @5thDownFantasy. To view updated position rankings, click here.

= Favorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 20 or more fantasy points per game to the position in 2012. = Unfavorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 15 points per game or less in 2012. 

 ARD = Average round drafted.
434 2013-08-21 Jason and Justin Sablich will provide fantasy football advice throughout the 2013 season on The Times’s N.F.L. page. Follow them on Twitter at @5thDownFantasy. To view updated position rankings, click here.

= Favorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 20 or more fantasy points per game to the position in 2012. = Unfavorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 15 points per game or less in 2012. 

 ARD = Average round drafted.

= Favorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 20 or more fantasy points to the position in 2012. = Unfavorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 15 points or less in 2012. 

 ARD = Average round drafted.
435 2013-08-21 Jason and Justin Sablich will provide fantasy football advice throughout the 2013 season on The Times’s N.F.L. page. Follow them on Twitter at @5thDownFantasy. To view updated position rankings, click here.

= Favorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 20 or more fantasy points per game to the position in 2012. = Unfavorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 15 points per game or less in 2012. 

 ARD = Average round drafted.
436 2013-08-21 Jason and Justin Sablich will provide fantasy football advice throughout the 2013 season on The Times’s N.F.L. page. Follow them on Twitter at @5thDownFantasy. To view updated position rankings, click here.

= Favorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 20 or more fantasy points per game to the position in 2012. = Unfavorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 15 points per game or less in 2012. 

 ARD = Average round drafted.
437 2013-08-21 Jason and Justin Sablich will provide fantasy football advice throughout the 2013 season on The Times’s N.F.L. page. Follow them on Twitter at @5thDownFantasy. To view updated position rankings, click here.

= Favorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 20 or more fantasy points per game to the position in 2012. = Unfavorable matchup. Opposing teams that allowed 15 points per game or less in 2012. 

 ARD = Average round drafted.
438 2013-08-22 MEYERS--Gloria "Goldie" Mallow Passed away peacefully in her sleep in Hackensack, NJ on August, 21, 2013. Gloria was 82 years old and lived a long and loving life, touching all of those around her with her incredibly warm, loving and compassionate...
439 2013-08-22 McCULLOUGH--James J.,Jr. Coney Island Pioneering Family. Jim, 84, of Massapequa, NY, passed away August 19, peacefully at home. Loving husband to the late Lois, son of the late James & Helen. Cherished by daughters Carol, Mary & Anthony Meluso, Lo...
440 2013-08-22 Today’s automated stock exchanges are fast and efficient, so long as the computers are working. When things go awry, chaos can emerge quickly....
441 2013-08-22 If it follows through, Moody’s Investors Service could reduce the ratings of Wall Street giants like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase as much as two grades....
442 2013-08-22 A new Tumblr blog from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence promises a more transparent look at surveillance practices....
443 2013-08-22 Despite the hullabaloo over the Nasdaq stock market’s failure on Thursday afternoon, traders remained fixated squarely on Apple’s then-frozen stock price. Why? Because Carl C. Icahn had taken to Twitter again....
444 2013-08-22 Wednesday’s highlights from around the Web include the announcement that Steven Sinofsky, the former head of Microsoft’s Windows division, has become a board partner of Andreessen Horowitz, a venture capital firm. Plus, a satire on the Silicon...
445 2013-08-22 A Human Rights Watch video report documents “simultaneous” attacks on churches across Egypt on the same day security forces violently dispersed two Islamist sit-ins in Cairo....
446 2013-08-22 Nasdaq’s problems over the years have included power failures and technical errors....
447 2013-08-22 Shares in Regado Biopharmaceuticals, a drug maker and the only company to stage its market debut on Thursday, had risen more than 20 percent before Nasdaq halted trading in all its listed stocks....
448 2013-08-22 The Williamsburg club will be partners with the concert giants MSG Entertainment and AEG....
449 2013-08-22 When a technical problem caused the Nasdaq to halt trading in Nasdaq-listed stocks, Wall Street watchers once again turned to social media sites to share their insight....
450 2013-08-22 The United States stock market showed again on Thursday that it remained vulnerable to technological breakdowns....
451 2013-08-22 The Federal Reserve is appealing a decision involving debit card transactions fees. | Bloomberg L.P. said it was making changes to its journalism operation. | The bailout of Cyprus has given Russians control of a bank there. | To build under his h...
452 2013-08-22 A United Nations human rights envoy visiting Myanmar said Wednesday that a confrontation he had with an angry mob made him empathize with victims of the country’s deadly sectarian violence. The envoy, Tomás Ojea Quintana, said 200 angry Buddhists mobbed his car after he landed this week in the central town of Meiktila to study reconciliation efforts between Buddhists and Muslims. He said it was a terrifying experience that hammered home the level of tension in the region. He felt “totally unprotected,” he said at a news conference wrapping up his 10-day visit to the country. “It gave me an insight into the fear residents would have felt” when they were chased, beaten and killed by Buddhist mobs in the town in March, he said. About 40 people were killed then. The unrest began last year in the western state of Rakhine, where Buddhists accuse Rohingya Muslims of illegally entering the country to steal their land. The violence spread earlier this year to other parts of Myanmar. Nationwide, more than 250 people have been killed and 140,000 forced to flee their homes. Most of the victims have been Muslims. Myanmar is overwhelmingly Buddhist.
453 2013-08-22 The Yemeni government issued a public apology on Wednesday to southern separatists and northern Shiite Muslim rebels for wars waged against them under the former president, Ali Abdullah Saleh. The apology, made in a cabinet statement read on state television, comes amid national reconciliation talks begun in March to address grievances by large segments of the population. Delegates are aiming to chart major constitutional and administrative reforms ahead of national elections next year. “The government apologizes for the war of the summer of 1994 and what the previous government did against the southerners, considering that a historic mistake that cannot be repeated,” the statement said. It also apologized to residents of northern Saada Province over repeated military campaigns that Mr. Saleh’s administration launched against rebels there between 2004 and 2010. The statement said the apology was required under a deal brokered by gulf states that paved the way for Mr. Saleh to step down in 2011 after months of unrest.
454 2013-08-22 In a terse decision last week, the state court denied a request on behalf of Mr. Hanna and Mr. Hudson to rule on the issue, a calculated maneuver the couple hoped would have allowed them to sidestep the lower courts and force a quicker resolution of the matter.

On Wednesday, the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Center for Lesbian Rights, two of the groups leading the push for the legalization of same-sex marriage across the country, increased the pressure. They filed an emergency request before the state’s Second Judicial District Court, asking to permit a woman with terminal cancer, Jen Roper, to marry her longtime partner, Angelique Neuman, immediately so that Ms. Neuman and their three adopted children would be legally protected once Ms. Roper died.

“Because of my illness, we do not have the luxury of waiting years for the courts to decide whether loving, committed same-sex couples can marry in New Mexico,” Ms. Roper said in a statement. “For us, the time is now.”

There are also signs that the political tide may be shifting. Despite her long-professed opposition to same-sex marriage, Governor Martinez has softened her stance, saying voters should be the ones to decide whether to legalize it in New Mexico — “not a court, not politicians in Santa Fe, and not one random county clerk,” as her spokesman, Enrique Knell, put it in a statement on Wednesday.

Polls have indicated that the electorate is divided, though, with much of the resistance grounded in the strong Roman Catholic vein that runs through the state.

At the Doña Ana County clerk’s office on Wednesday, staff members were issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples at a rate of four an hour, a record for an office that generally grants five marriage licenses a day. The deputy clerk, Mario O. Jimenez, said the phone had been “ringing nonstop,” as couples from as far away as Lubbock, Tex., 350 miles to the east, called to tell they were on their way.

Carrie Hamblen, 45, and her partner of seven years, Char Ullman, 51, arrived early, fearing that protesters or perhaps a court injunction might frustrate their marriage plans. Instead, said Ms. Hamblen, the chairwoman of the board of directors for Southern New Mexico Pride, they were greeted by cheers from county employees.

Sarah Finke, 48, heard about the marriage licenses from a colleague at the elementary school where she works. During a fire drill, she called her partner of 10 years, Heather Oesterreich, also 48.why

The women had decided long ago not to travel to another state to get married. Their pastor, Linda Mervine of the First Christian Church, married them under a palm tree in front of the county building here. Micah, their 6-year-old son, looked on approvingly.

“This is our state,” said Ms. Oesterreich. “We have wonderful family and friends, and a God and our church that we wanted to witness this.”

Doña Ana County became the first county in New Mexico to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples since 2004, when a clerk in Sandoval County issued 64 licenses, but stopped it after the state’s attorney general at the time, Patricia A. Madrid, issued an opinion saying the licenses were “invalid under state law.”
455 2013-08-22 The New York Police Department will take responsibility for answering calls about animal abuse from the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which has responded to such complaints since its founding 147 years ago, the association announced on Wednesday.

Matthew Bershadker, the president and chief executive of the organization, said the police were “equipped to do what the A.S.P.C.A. simply cannot accomplish alone: incorporate enforcement of animal cruelty laws into routine, everyday law enforcement work.” He said in a telephone interview that the police would “bring much deeper and broader resources to bear” and would reduce response times on cruelty complaints.

“We were not getting to cases for days or weeks,” Mr. Bershadker said. “The N.Y.P.D.’s policy, their practice, is to clear all complaints within eight hours.”

A police spokesman said that the department already investigated animal abuse cases received through 911. The new arrangement would ensure “complete investigation” of all such cases by the department.

Mr. Bershadker said that the department’s “enthusiastic embrace” of the responsibilities reflected the place that animal cruelty “is coming to occupy in our society.” He said the A.S.P.C.A. would assist the police by providing treatment for animals that are victims of cruelty, by conducting forensic evaluations and by offering backup legal services.
456 2013-08-22 The New York state ethics commission voted behind closed doors last June to exempt a leading abortion-rights group, Naral Pro-Choice New York, from a new ethics law requiring tax-exempt organizations to disclose their major donors as they lobby in public forums. The action is causing understandable controversy and cries of liberal bias. It should be reconsidered — out in the open and in the spirit of the law’s goal to shed more sunshine, not less, on the entwined workings of government and political lobbying.

Predictably, groups from across the political spectrum are now seeking the same accommodation under the law’s exemption for organizations whose donors of more than $5,000 might be endangered if their names were made public. Naral is hardly alone as a busy player in what is a booming, jostling world of political lobbying by nonprofit organizations from right to left claiming “social welfare” exemption under the federal tax code.

The Cuomo administration’s two-year-old disclosure law — so far observed by about 80 organizations — allows exemptions for groups whose donors might face “harm, threats, harassment or reprisals.” But its principal goal is to shed badly needed sunlight on a shadowy crossroads of state lobbying and politicking.

Drawing the line between the heated in-your-face conflict of modern political debate and real threats of danger is no easy matter, particularly in abortion-rights endeavors where there is a history of violence, including the murder of a doctor 15 years ago in suburban Buffalo. A conservative pressure group, New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms, which is opposed to same-sex marriage, said it was seeking an exemption by citing attacks on similarly minded supporters in California.

These fears may indeed be real. But the ethics commission should hardly be expected to play the protective role of a police agency; nor should it end up granting blanket exemptions for groups mainly worried about protecting donors’ wish for privacy. The commission has a responsibility to the public under the law to show that exemptions will be rare and backed by undeniable evidence of actual threats. Otherwise, big-money partisan lobbying via hidden backers will only proliferate as the public heads deeper into the dark, and the ethics law itself will begin to unravel, thread by thread.

In the face of a member’s complaint, the commission has been postponing consideration of other lobbying groups’ applications for exemptions. It is reported to be considering whether its procedures can be made less opaque — surely an absolute requirement if a good law is not to be riddled from the outset with loopholes.
457 2013-08-22 Indeed, anyone who filled in “some other race” that year was allocated to one or more of the five main groupings. Many absurdities have resulted.

America has about 1.5 million immigrants from sub-Saharan — some 3 percent of the nation’s black population. Like ’s father, who was Kenyan, their experience differs vastly from that of African-Americans whose ancestors were enslaved, yet they are subsumed into the same category — one that, until this very year, continued to include the outdated term “Negro.”

The census considers Arabs white, along with non-Arabs like Turks and Kurds because they have origins in the or North Africa. Migrants from the former Soviet nations in Central Asia are lumped in as white along with descendants of pilgrims.

An indigenous person from , or is Hispanic, but if she “maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment,” she might also be counted as part of a racial group that includes the Inupiat and Yupik peoples of Alaska.

Are Australian immigrants whites or Pacific Islanders? (The Census Bureau’s own documents are unclear on this.)

The census has no second-generation question, leaving Congress to debate immigration reform with inadequate statistics about which new Americans are learning English, finishing school, living in segregated neighborhoods or staying out of jail. Social scientists closely track intermarriage as an indicator of assimilation, but the census reports intermarriage only among whites, blacks, Hispanics and others — overlooking unions between, say, Japanese and Chinese, Cubans and Mexicans, Nigerians and native-born blacks. These marriages may have as much to tell us about where the nation is headed as the rate at which whites intermarry.

Much attention has been paid to the news that non-Hispanic whites now account for less than half of births in the United States and that deaths now exceed births among non-Hispanic whites. These projections are oversimplified and misleading because they rely on the outdated “five races” concept. The far more significant turning point is the shift from a nation of a few large racial blocs into a hybrid America of numerous nationalities, ethnicities and cultures, unprecedented in human history. It is this hybrid, multivalent, dynamic America that is not reflected in the census. We cannot, however, fix this at the expense of abandoning racial categories, which are still needed for legitimate policy purposes.

The Census Bureau has begun to consider what changes it will recommend for the 2020 census. It will focus, appropriately, on operational improvements, like increasing response rates. But there are also political decisions to be made.

I URGE three actions. First, drop the current race questions, which misleadingly conflate race and nationality, and ask two new questions: one based on a streamlined version of today’s ethnic and racial categories, and a separate, comprehensive nationality question. (The 2010 census asked Hispanics, Asians and Pacific Islanders to specify a national origin and allowed American Indians and Alaska Natives to put down their tribe.)

These two questions would allow for much-needed flexibility. Broad racial groupings are significant for protecting voting rights, but information on national origin is more useful for understanding health disparities in a metropolis, or for diversifying a university’s student body. Indeed, the failure to appreciate rising inequality within the country’s white majority and to distinguish, say, inner-city blacks from African asylum-seekers, or Southeast Asian refugees from well-educated East Asians, have contributed to the criticisms of affirmative action as too blunt a tool of social policy.

Second, add parental place of birth to the census. One-fourth of Americans under the age of 18 are children of immigrants — a proportion that will increase sharply over the next quarter-century.

Third, slowly phase in the use of the data to make policy. There is a precedent: in 2000, there was strong opposition to the new option of selecting more than one race. It was feared that this would reduce the size of various racial minorities. The government responded by counting those who are white and of one minority race as minorities for the purposes of civil-rights monitoring and enforcement. The new comprehensive statistics on national origin would be put to use judiciously. The five races would not disappear from the statistical system, but neither would they be the only policy tool available.

Americans may hope for a colorblind future, but we know that the legacy of discrimination continues to haunt us; that some new immigrants are assimilated even as others are left behind; that new versions of racism crop up, within as well as among the five “races.”

Faced with these empirical realities, statistical ignorance is a moral failure. It is also a political failure to ignore the arrival of a hybrid America. Even the questions on race we use in 2020 will be wrong for 2100. It will take decades of gradual re-engineering to match census statistics to demographic realities. The Census Bureau is prepared; what’s missing is public awareness and political leadership.
458 2013-08-22 Sharapova, 26, was first affected by right shoulder problems five years ago and had surgery to repair two tears in her rotator cuff in October 2008. When she returned to the tour 10 months later, she struggled with inconsistent serving.

But Sharapova, the 2006 United States Open champion, steadily returned to previous form, returning to the No. 1 ranking and completing the career Grand Slam by winning the French Open last year. She made the French Open final again this year, but lost to Serena Williams.

After that loss, Sharapova’s season turned inside out. At a news conference for Wimbledon, the normally composed Sharapova lashed out at Williams for comments she had made in an article in Rolling Stone and directed attention toward the marital status of Williams’s coach and boyfriend, Patrick Mouratoglou.

With Sharapova dating the Bulgarian player Grigor Dimitrov, who had been previously coached by Mouratoglou as well as romantically linked with Williams, the episode became a spectacle and an uncharacteristic distraction for Sharapova.

Perhaps to the dismay of the British tabloids, Sharapova lost in Wimbledon’s second round to the 131st-ranked qualifier, Michelle Larcher de Brito. After Wimbledon, Sharapova announced that she was parting with her coach of two and a half years, Thomas Hogstedt. She then announced the splashy hire of the eight-time Grand Slam winner Jimmy Connors, who had little association with the modern women’s game.

Sharapova was forced to withdraw from her next two tournaments, however, in Stanford, Calif., and Toronto, because of a hip injury she sustained during her loss at Wimbledon.

Their first match together resulted in a loss to 17th-ranked Sloane Stephens in the first round of the Western & Southern Open last week in Mason, Ohio, leading Sharapova to end her partnership with Connors.

“It’s not the right fit at this time in her career,” Max Eisenbud, Sharapova’s agent, said in a statement.

Though she seemed to have found a sturdy interim replacement coach in her previous coach, her father, Yuri Sharapov, the distractions continued. As she arrived in New York to prepare for the year’s final Grand Slam event, The Times of London reported on Tuesday that Sharapova was planning to change her surname for the tournament to Sugarpova, to promote her boutique line of candies. Eisenbud dismissed the report Tuesday.

Despite the off-court circus, Sharapova continued preparing for the tournament, practicing as recently as Wednesday afternoon in Louis Armstrong Stadium with her father looking on.

But about seven hours later, Sharapova’s withdrawal was announced, and her unpredictable tournament lead-up had turned sour.
459 2013-08-22 But the Communist Party’s decision to rely on evidence linked to the businessman could also be risky, analysts say, because Mr. Bo was by no means Mr. Xu’s only political patron.

Although the trial itself was closed to the public and its proceedings expected to be released only selectively by the state news media, judicial scrutiny of how broad political connections can greatly enrich an otherwise obscure businessman could prove delicate to more than one member of the Chinese leadership — and raise questions about whether Mr. Xu’s ties to other leaders should receive legal scrutiny.

There have been no publicly announced charges against Mr. Xu, and there is no evidence that his links to other prominent political clans included the kind of direct payments he was alleged to have made to Mr. Bo. But according to public records obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Xu had close business and personal ties to family members of several senior Chinese officials, including the former prime minister, Wen Jiabao, who was one of Mr. Bo’s chief political rivals.

Mr. Xu had unusual access to the homes of Beijing leaders, offered to care for some of their parents and even traveled with some of them on official visits abroad, according to longtime business partners of Mr. Xu’s and government travel records.

In 2002, for instance, he accompanied Wu Yi, then state councilor, on a trip to the Middle East. Back home, visitors to his company, Dalian Shide, included the then-Politburo members Huang Ju and Li Changchun.

And beginning in the late 1990s, Mr. Xu co-invested in a series of private companies with the relatives of Mr. Wen, who retired last March. Mr. Xu for a time even dated Mr. Wen’s only daughter, Wen Ruchun, according to close associates.

“He was a public relations genius,” said Larry Cheng, one of Mr. Xu’s longtime business partners. “He was helping everyone in the leadership. He knew just who to get close to and how to do it.”

Mr. Xu and members of the Wen family could not be reached for comment. But Mr. Xu’s ability to curry favor with China’s ruling elite shines a light on how some business gets done in this country’s tightly regulated economy.

To get access to land, licenses and capital, Chinese entrepreneurs say they are expected to cater to the needs of Communist Party officials and their families. That can mean paying school tuition, entertaining spouses and giving corporate shares to the relatives of public officials.

But it also makes them vulnerable when an official they are close to gets forced out in a power struggle and is accused of corruption.

“To be a successful businessman in China you need to play the game, and even corrupt an official, which makes you very vulnerable,” said Chen Zhiwu, a professor of finance at Yale University. “If you don’t cooperate with them, you won’t succeed. Those are the choices you have in a system where government power is unchecked.”

Mr. Xu, a paunchy, soft-spoken billionaire, was detained last spring, shortly after the authorities removed Bo Xilai from his post as party chief in the central Chinese city of Chongqing.

“He was a very nice guy when I met him in 2000,” said Hu Kun, a former insurance executive. “He was just about 30 years old, but he was clearly in charge. And when approval was needed for a license, he just picked up the phone and called the Shanghai party secretary’s office. Then he said, ‘It’s done!’ And we ate dinner.”

Xu Ming grew up in a village in Liaoning Province in northeast China and studied at a small aerospace college before finding work near Dalian, for a company that exported shrimp to Japan, according to China’s state-run media.

Soon after, in the early 1990s, he formed Dalian Shide and won local government contracts to beautify the city under Mr. Bo, who served as mayor between 1992 and 2000.

By the age of 28, Mr. Xu was a multimillionaire and controlled a company that was expanding into plastics, chemicals, home appliances and real estate.

In Dalian, his connection to Mr. Bo was unmistakable. One of his top executives at Dalian Shide had worked as a close aide to Mr. Bo when he later served as Liaoning’s governor. Mr. Xu also had indirect business ties to the family after he formed a consulting firm with Mr. Cheng, the businessman. At the same time, Mr. Cheng was serving as a business partner to Mr. Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, a lawyer.

And when Ms. Gu and her young son, Bo Guagua, traveled to Britain to search for a school for the son to attend, Mr. Xu covered all the expenses, according to one of Mr. Xu’s former business partners.

Later, as his ambition grew, Mr. Xu began networking with other powerful political figures in Beijing, according to people who worked with him. None of those relationships has come under legal scrutiny, at least publicly. Associates of Mr. Xu, however, say he generally sought to develop deep personal and financial ties with close relatives of senior leaders, the way he did with Mr. Bo.

In the late 1990s, for instance, he grew friendly with Zhang Beili, a diamond expert and the wife of Wen Jiabao, who was then vice premier. They worked on the same floor in Beijing’s Ping An Insurance building, according to corporate records and interviews with his former business partners.

“Half the office in that Ping An building was Xu Ming, and half was used by Zhang Beili,” one of his former business partners said.

While Mr. Xu was dating Wen Ruchun, Mr. Wen’s daughter, he treated Mr. Wen’s only son, Wen Yunsong, like a close friend, his former business associates said.

His relations with the Wen family also extended into business.

In about 1999, Mr. Xu’s company began making deals with Sino-diamond, a Chinese diamond company that was partly controlled by Mr. Wen’s relatives. Around the same time, Mr. Xu invested in a Dalian diamond mine and in Jiaxing Carbon Fiber, another company partly controlled by Mr. Wen’s relatives, according to shareholder records. (Mr. Xu also served on the Jiaxing’s board of directors with Wen Yunsong.)

Mr. Xu also moved into finance. In 2000, he helped found Sino-Life Insurance with a group of companies partly owned by Mr. Wen’s brother-in-law and his mother. Sino-Life later hired Wen Yunsong’s company as its information technology supplier, according to interviews with people familiar with the deal.

Insurance investments, including a large stake he acquired in China Pacific Insurance, became the cornerstone of Mr. Xu’s fortune. Forbes estimated that he was China’s eighth wealthiest businessman in 2005.

Early on, however, he came under pressure to explain his ties to the Wen family. In 2002, the Far Eastern Economic Review published an article saying that Mr. Xu was the son-in-law of Wen Jiabao.

He responded with a terse letter to the editor of the publication, saying: “I am not Vice Premier Wen’s son-in-law. I have no personal relationship with Wen or his family.”

The letter was not accurate, but it reflected the delicacy of political and business relationships even in the early days of China’s economic boom.

Mr. Xu and Ms. Wen eventually broke off their relationship, people familiar with the couple say. And by most accounts, Mr. Xu began drifting closer to Bo Xilai, his longtime patron from Dalian, who had moved to Beijing as commerce minister, before being named party boss of Chongqing in 2007.

When Mr. Bo was detained in March of last year, it was only a matter of time before Xu Ming was also facing detention, given his extensive ties. “Xu Ming’s case made some people nervous,” said Professor Chen at Yale. “But it wasn’t a watershed. Xu Ming was too tied to Bo Xilai, and many businessmen didn’t like Bo Xilai.”
460 2013-08-22 The problem, it appears, is with his visa. In general, retaining the services of a resident of Iran is prohibited in the United States, unless authorization can be obtained.

“The U.S. Open would be authorized, for instance, to import the services of an Iranian referee” under certain visa categories, a Treasury Department spokesman wrote in an e-mail. Such categories would include “aliens with extraordinary ability” and “athletics, artists and entertainers.”

Borghei has a more basic visitor’s visa, which would not fall under the category of general authorization. Gaining authorization would require another application, or an appeal, or more red tape, according to two people familiar with the sanctions against Iran.

Farhad Alavi, a partner at Akrivis Law Group in Washington and an expert in United States sanctions, said the approach taken by Open officials was based on a strict interpretation of the applicable laws. He said it highlighted how those laws have created unintended consequences for people like Borghei who are far from the political realm.

“This case does show the personal impact this is having on a lot of individuals,” Alavi said in a telephone interview. “Politics are crossing into everything, even something as universal as sports. We sometimes forget these things do impact people.”

Alavi said Borghei could appeal directly to the Office of Foreign Assets Control and that the process could be expedited in time for the Open, where the main draw begins Monday and will continue for two weeks.

Borghei, 32, was a tennis player before he became an umpire. He said he was certified in Iran in 2000 and then began to work his way up. From January until now, he refereed all over the world, in Australia, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Poland, British Columbia and then in Montreal for the Rogers Cup, a Masters Series event.

That was where he received the letter saying he could not work the Open. He contacted an Olympic committee in Iran. He tried to reach lawyers. He attempted to get more details from United States Open officials, but said he received only vague answers in response.

Borghei is staying with a friend in Florida. He said he spent $2,000 to $3,000 to cover expenses after the tournament assignment was denied. But that, he said, is beside the point. He wants to work. He will wait until he can no longer appeal, until his options have run out.

“If all I cared about was the money, I wouldn’t come here. I wouldn’t be here now,” Borghei said. “I want to be in this tournament. I want to live the dream. This isn’t about money, or politics. It’s about tennis.”
461 2013-08-22 The Islamist takeover of the north was the product of an unusual confluence of events — the fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya, the sudden influx of militants and weapons from his arsenals into Mali, the coup and an alphabet soup of Islamist groups and alliances — that seems unlikely to be duplicated soon.

But a more redoubtable enemy lingers. “Unfortunately, corruption and sloppy management have nearly destroyed every advance we have made since independence,” said Mali’s former top anticorruption official, Sidi Soso Diarra. “As long as we haven’t settled this problem of corruption, we can’t have a realistic plan to lead the country out of this mess.”

Soumana Sako, another former prime minister who ran in the recent election, agreed. “Corruption was the determining factor in the crisis,” he said, adding that “the corruption of the elites caused the people to lose confidence.”

The question is all the more urgent because Malian officials have tentatively been promised about $4 billion in aid and loans by outside donors — money that could easily go the way of past aid efforts when the country was a “donor favorite,” as the United States Agency for International Development put it in a 2010 report. Despite that aid, Mali is still five from the bottom on the United Nations’ human development index.

“Unless Mali and her partners take very concrete measures — a zero-tolerance policy on graft, acting on audits and strengthening the judiciary — the present window of opportunity to stabilize Mali and the region will be squandered,” said Corinne Dufka, a senior researcher for Human Rights Watch.

Four to 5 percent of the national budget, or $75 million in one of the world’s poorest countries, was lost annually to mismanagement and fraud in the form of “unrecovered taxes, money embezzled, kickbacks and the like,” according to the aid agency’s report, citing Mr. Diarra’s work as Mali’s auditor general.

In his last report, several years before the country’s collapse, Mr. Diarra unearthed numerous examples of missing and misspent money across a broad swath of vital government agencies, from those dealing with food and fuel to Mali’s diplomatic corps. Some of those officials were paid thousands of dollars in cash over the legal limits, and thousands more went to their spouses, even after they had returned to Mali from abroad.

The agency that buys, imports and stocks foodstuffs — grains and cereals — faced “catastrophic” mismanagement, Mr. Diarra recalled, with potentially disastrous consequences in a country where famine is always a possibility. An agency charged with gathering taxes and duties on fuel imports collected little, Mr. Diarra said, because “there was a deal between the businessmen and the tax collectors.”

“Here you have a handful of people who have obtained a level of wealth that is unthinkable in a country like this,” Mr. Diarra said. “As long as impunity is the rule, we’ll never get out of it.”

Corruption contributed to the nation’s defeats at the hands of the Islamists in the north by turning the army into a “cinema stage set,” he said, with money for matériel stolen and the upper ranks filled with nepotistic hires. Graft also meant that the north was stuck as Mali’s most undeveloped region. In the north, “a development agency existed for 15 years — where has all that money gone?” Mr. Diarra said. “It was distributed to the northern elite.”

But the corruption in the north most likely went beyond the stealing of aid money. A 2012 Carnegie Foundation report spoke of “Malian officials’ complicity with A.Q.I.M. and drug traffickers,” referring to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, the terrorist organization’s arm in North Africa. The report said there was “widespread evidence of collusion” between the government and “A.Q.I.M. and organized crime,” and suggested that a portion of hostage ransoms for kidnapping victims was “possibly, a source of financial gain for senior officials.”

These connections explain the impunity the Qaeda affiliate enjoyed for years in the desert, courtesy of Malian officials, and had the effect of undermining “all credibility” of the government in the north, the Carnegie report said.

The president during these nebulous arrangements, Amadou Toumani Touré, is long gone, ousted in former Captain Sanogo’s military coup. The new president, Mr. Keita, known by his initials, I.B.K., asserted in the interview this month that “the axes have been brought out” to fight corruption in his country.

But a detailed Finance Ministry report prepared after Mr. Keita left office as prime minister in 2000 raised questions about apparently lavish spending on trips during his seven-year tenure. The report said Mr. Keita would need to justify a $22,000 advance and about $24,000 in “sovereign expenditures” for a 1999 trip to Germany. On a visit to Washington that year, the report said, “there is no documentary evidence” for an advance of $25,000 made to the prime minister’s office.

A spokesman for Mr. Keita did not respond to requests for comment, and in the interview Mr. Keita dismissed a local newspaper that included some of the report’s findings. “If that report was true,” he said, “it would have taken me to a place where there isn’t much liberty,” meaning prison.

Yet former officials like Mr. Diarra and Mr. Sako suggested that impunity for misspending was near-total in Mali.

“I hear I.B.K. saying he’s going to give Mali back its dignity,” Mr. Sako said. “But this can’t happen without the elimination of corruption. When we see the political forces that are aligned, there are reasons to be uneasy.”
462 2013-08-22 A Queens judge, the son of a former district attorney, has been censured for doing outside work handling the financial affairs of incapacitated people while he was a full-time judge.

The judge, Terrence C. O’Connor, was elected in 2008 to the civil court in Queens, where he has recently handled commercial landlord-tenant disputes. Before that, his legal practice included seeking court appointments to handle the affairs of incapacitated people.

Judge O’Connor should have given up those appointments, or sought court approval to continue, but he did neither and instead essentially moonlighted from his judgeship as a lawyer, the state Commission on Judicial Conduct found.

On Wednesday, the commission announced that Judge O’Connor, 64, had been censured for his work on behalf of three estates, which he billed for thousands of dollars after becoming a judge.

“It is unusual for a full-time judge to continue to serve as a fiduciary because most judges are aware of the prohibition and abide by it,” said Robert H. Tembeckjian, the commission’s administrator.
463 2013-08-22 About 43,000 people applied for asylum in Germany in the first half of 2013, almost double the number from a year earlier. Still, that inflow is far slower than the country experienced in the 1990s, when hundreds of thousands of people from the former Yugoslavia sought shelter in Germany, straining the system and stoking tensions that led to deadly neo-Nazi attacks on asylum seekers.

That climate also gave rise to a neo-Nazi cell that killed nine minority businessmen and a German policewoman between 2000 and 2007. Beate Zschäpe, the sole survivor of the cell, has been on trial in Munich since May.

On Thursday, a parliamentary committee is expected to release the findings of its inquiry into the authorities’ failure to uncover the cell until 2011. The country’s police and intelligence agencies have already intensified their efforts to crack down on far-right groups, but the report is expected to call for further measures.

Ms. Merkel is campaigning for a third term in office, and with less than five weeks until national elections, she remains the country’s most popular politician. But in the numbers game that is German party politics, her center-right Christian Democratic Union may struggle to find a partner to build a government. The latest poll, by the Allensbach Institute, showed the pro-business Free Democratic Party winning just enough seats to carry the current coalition government into another term; other polls indicate that many voters remain undecided.

Still, Ms. Merkel drew criticism when she squeezed the visit to the camp between a campaign rally and a speech in a beer tent. The opposition Greens called her visit “tasteless” and inappropriate, while the Badisches Tagblatt newspaper wrote that “the visit to the concentration camp seems calculated and thereby loses its impact.”

“Ms. Merkel is smart enough to say the right things in the right places,” said Abba Naor, 85, who spent three years at one of Dachau’s satellite work camps. Mr. Naor, who lost most of his family in the Holocaust, traveled from Israel to take part in the ceremony with Ms. Merkel, the first sitting chancellor to visit the camp.

“It’s about time for a German chancellor,” he said. “Nobody visited here before.”

The Nazis established a prison camp in Dachau in 1933, and later developed it into a concentration camp that served as a model for others. Political prisoners and criminals were among the camp’s first inmates. About 10,000 Jewish prisoners, along with Sinti and Roma, homosexuals and others were among the more than 200,000 people held in Dachau during its 12 years of existence.

At least 41,500 people were either killed or died of starvation or disease before American soldiers liberated the camp in 1945.

Max Mannheimer, 93, a survivor of the camp and a member of the International Dachau Committee, personally invited the chancellor to visit when he learned that she would be giving a campaign speech at the city’s annual beer festival.

“For us, the few remaining survivors, it would be a great honor,” Mr. Mannheimer wrote in the invitation. “Given the rise of far-right extremism in our society, your visit would be a strong political signal that this development, especially given Germany’s past, cannot be accepted.”

Mr. Mannheimer said he did not share the concerns over whether Ms. Merkel’s visit was appropriate. He pointed out that former Chancellor Helmut Kohl visited the city of Dachau twice during his 16 years in office without coming to the camp.

“I think it is positive,” Mr. Mannheimer said after accompanying the chancellor on a brief tour of the camp’s museum. “She came here first, and then she went to the beer tent.”
464 2013-08-22 FASHION MAY BE OBSESSED with youth, but young designers are obsessed with older models.

The designers who emerged over the last decade have shown a great affinity for models from the age of supers, those dinosaurs who have now reached their 30s and — gasp — even their 40s. You can see it in the mixed casting of an Alexander Wang fashion show, or the latest advertisements of Jason Wu that feature Christy Turlington (and before her, Stephanie Seymour). Joseph Altuzarra has just unveiled his first ads

And this week, Prabal Gurung is releasing an online marketing campaign starring Bridget Hall, now a 35-year-old brunette.

“I still remember her from the ’90s,” said Mr. Gurung, who was looking for a model who would represent the customer he had in mind for his fall collection, which was about empowerment.

“We’ve grown up with this fantasy about supermodels,” he said. “I felt personally it was the right moment to celebrate women of that age.”
465 2013-08-22 H&M may be a dyed-in-the-wool fast fashion retailer, but the Swedish megabrand is getting very good at the game of hurry up and wait: Thursday to Saturday it will have a Meatpacking District pop-up where you try on pieces from the H&M Paris Show Collection, shown fully seven months ago during Paris Fashion Week, and not available in H&M stores until Sept. 5. Should you want a sequin dress ($69.95) or short embellished jacket ($99), iPad stations are available to place orders. At Gansevoort Plaza on Gansevoort Street, between Hudson and Ninth Avenue.

Less-ephemeral stores opening this week include Vince in SoHo and Wolverine Company Store in NoLIta. Thursday, the 3,000-square-foot Vince space, with 22-foot ceilings and a large skylight, will become the brand’s fourth location in New York City and serve as its flagship. It’s stocked with plenty of the clean-lined looks for which the luxe basics line is known — an asymmetric mock neck jacket ($875), silk back V-neck shell ($495) and satin jogger pants ($295), say — as well as men’s wear on the mezzanine. Sunday, following on the success of its pop-up last fall, Wolverine, which has been in the business of making dependably rugged boots since 1883, will open a permanent Manhattan store. There you’ll find both classic and more fashion-forward styles, like a Wolverine 1000 Mile by Samantha Pleet stacked heel bootee ($300), as well as a curated selection of items from like-minded heritage brands such as a Filson Mackinaw wool blanket ($270) or a Tellason selvage jean ($220). Vince is at 89 Mercer Street; the Wolverine Company Store is at 254 Elizabeth Street.

You know it must almost be the end of summer when the Barneys Warehouse Sale hits. Beginning Thursday and running through Sept. 2, guys can stock up on cool weather classics like a Kiton rust suede jacket ($2,799) or Armani gray cashmere V-neck pullover ($219) for up to 75 percent off. At the Metropolitan Pavilion, 125 West 18th Street.

The following day, the Bird Warehouse Sale starts in Park Slope. Contemporary pieces like an Isabel Marant chambray tunic ($89) or Rag & Bone slim fit twill pant ($49) will be up to 75 percent off. At 316 Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn.

Also this week Assembly New York is offering 50 percent off select spring styles that would do just fine for fall, such as a denim collarless blazer ($277) and Assembly New York x Strathcona Stockings printed leg wear ($22). At 170 Ludlow Street.
466 2013-08-22 “Whoever controls the Bank of Cyprus controls the island,” said Andreas Marangos, a Limassol lawyer whose clients include many Russians.

The biggest single chunk of shares — around 18 percent — is supposed to go to depositors who lost money in Cyprus’s now-defunct Laiki Bank, but this stake is likely to be controlled by Cyprus’s central bank. As a result of a forced conversion of Bank of Cyprus deposits into shares, however, a diverse and so far unorganized group of depositors, most of them Russians, will end up with a controlling stake.

Whether they want such a bank is another matter. Owning the Bank of Cyprus, which has been saddled with $11.7 billion in liabilities racked up by Laiki Bank, “is like owning cancer,” said Irakli Bukhashvili, the head of a financial services company serving Russians here in Limassol, the business capital of Cyprus.

Despite its wobbly condition, the Bank of Cyprus still holds a uniquely influential position in the economic and political affairs of a sun-swept nation that sits on potentially large reserves of natural gas and straddles strategic fault lines between East and West.

President Anastasiades, in a June letter to the European Central Bank that pleaded for help to keep the Bank of Cyprus afloat, described it as a “mega-systemic bank” that, if it failed, could bring down the entire Cypriot economy. With 5,700 employees and around half of all the island’s deposits, it dwarfs its rivals and reaches into every corner of the country through a vast network of branches, which now also includes the former offices of Laiki Bank.

Moscow, though furious over the billions lost by Russians in Cypriot banks, still sees Cyprus as a prize worth courting. The Russian government has pushed for access for its military aircraft to an air base in Paphos and for its warships to Cypriot ports.

When Cyprus first appealed for help from the so-called troika of international creditors — the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank — the main problem was Laiki, the country’s second-biggest bank and one that was already effectively insolvent. Instead of just throwing Cyprus a financial lifeline, as it had done with Ireland after a banking crisis that led the government to guarantee all the banks, the troika demanded that Laiki and the Bank of Cyprus share the burden of any rescue deal.

Depositors with large accounts in Laiki Bank were initially left with just 100,000 euros each, about $130,000, and the rest of their money was confiscated as the bank shut down. Those with more than 100,000 euros in the Bank of Cyprus lost access to 90 percent of their cash, although they have since been promised future access to some of their frozen funds. But, under final terms announced on July 30 by the Central Bank of Cyprus, large depositors in the Bank of Cyprus will have 47.5 percent of their money forcibly converted into shares, up from 37.5 percent in an original plan.

Hardly anyone has yet received their share certificates. But, according to the nation’s finance minister, Harris Georgiades, foreign depositors, mainly Russians, will ultimately hold a majority of the Bank of Cyprus’s new voting shares. Lawyers representing clients with blocked money estimate that Russians as a group will end up with roughly 60 percent of the bank’s new shares. Cypriot media reports estimate that 53 percent of the shares will be held by foreigners, primarily Russians, either directly or through law firms representing their interests.

Such an outcome, said Demetris Syllouris, a member of the Cypriot Parliament and president of the European Party, a once enthusiastic pro-Europe political group, is “exactly the opposite” of what European leaders, particularly Angela Merkel of Germany, wanted when they set out to cleanse Cyprus’s banking system in March.

At that time, bailout-weary Northern European countries wanted not so much to rescue the banking sector here as to significantly shrink it, and end what they viewed as its reliance on suspect money from the former Soviet Union. A confidential report by the German foreign intelligence agency, known by its German initials as the B.N.D., painted the island as a haven for money-laundering. It is a picture that the government here has dismissed as grossly inaccurate, but one that has nonetheless helped shape perceptions of Cyprus’s banking ills and also its cure.

These decisions initially caused outrage in Moscow, prompting angry protests from the Kremlin on behalf of Russians who lost money. But as the Russians’ ownership shares have swelled, the Kremlin, which in March denounced the troika’s approach as “unfair, unprofessional and dangerous,” has stopped complaining, at least in public.

A spokesman for the monetary and economic affairs section of the European Commission, the union’s Brussels-based executive arm, declined to comment on the prospect of Russians gaining control of Cyprus’s principal bank.

The Central Bank of Cyprus, which is overseeing efforts to salvage the Bank of Cyprus and to work out its new ownership, said it could not “speculate” about whether Russians will control the bank in future. The new shareholders, it added, will meet to appoint a new board on Sept. 9.

The bank’s former shareholders, meanwhile, have been mostly wiped out. The biggest was a Russian tycoon, Dmitry Rybolovlev, who at one point owned a nearly 10 percent stake and, if he had substantial deposits in the bank, would be among the new shareholders. A spokesman for Mr. Rybolovlev declined to comment on his current position.

But most of the now largely worthless old shares are in the hands of Cypriots who bought them as a safe, blue-chip investment. Andreas Pittas, chairman of the drug manufacturer Medochemie, one of Cyprus’s most successful companies, said he had over the years invested more than $9 million in what he considered “rock solid” Bank of Cyprus shares.

“This is all lost,” he said, adding that he does not really care who now owns the bank so long as they can keep it afloat and avoid another crippling blow to Cyprus’s already battered economy.

For months, however, the Bank of Cyprus has been caught in suspended animation. Theoretically, the bank is the property of its new, predominantly Russian shareholders. But in reality, it is still under the control of the Central Bank of Cyprus, whose governor, Panicos O. Demetriades, was appointed under the country’s former Communist president and has often been at odds with its current leader, Mr. Anastasiades.

The central bank has named a new interim board for the Bank of Cyprus and also a new managing director. New shareholders were not consulted.

But there is some question as to whether the Russians have been stuck with a lemon. Though protected by restrictions that limit withdrawals to 300 euros a day, the bank is steadily leaking money as depositors, their confidence shattered, slowly drain their accounts.

The Bank of Cyprus is a “zombie bank,” said Theodore Panayotou, director of the Cyprus International Institute of Management.

The central bank disputes this, asserting in a July statement that the Bank of Cyprus had been “fully recapitalized” thanks to the forced deposits-for-shares conversion and will now be able to “support the Cyprus economy.”

Vangelis Georgiou, a Nicosia businessman whose company had millions deposited in the Bank of Cyprus, said depositors, having waited five months for clarity on the bank’s exact ownership and future, have now mostly given up hope. Russian depositors, he said, now want to focus on building their own businesses, “not on saving the Bank of Cyprus.” He added, “The game is lost.”

All the same, Cypriot lawyers and accountants representing Russians with blocked money have scrambled to try to form a united front to the central bank, which they feel has paid little heed to their clients’ concerns. “They want us to deliver the bank to them so they can assert their rights,” said Michalis Moushouttas, one of several lawyers working to coordinate diverse Russian shareholders.

The Russians’ main interest, he said, is to eventually get their blocked deposits back. But this means that they also have an interest in keeping their money in the Bank of Cyprus: yanking out what they can would only destroy a bank they now own, further hurting their chances of getting their money back. “They have no choice but to stay,” Mr. Moushouttas said.

Michael Olympios, head of the Cyprus Investors Association, a lobbying group, said he did not see any serious risk in having Russians in control of the country’s biggest, albeit gravely ill, bank. “We are not in the cold war anymore,” he said.

“It is ironic,” Mr. Olympios added. “The Germans tried to get rid of Russian money and they ended up with a shareholder structure stacked with Russian oligarchs.”
467 2013-08-22 Charcoal, long used as a purifier in air filters and fish tanks, is cropping up in beauty products. Proponents say it helps to naturally draw impurities and excess oil out of the skin, and works as a detoxifier. Many of the products use activated charcoal, which has been treated with oxygen to increase the pores on its surface area, which supposedly improves filtration.

Kuro Shampoo by Sort of Coal is a black shampoo that has activated charcoal derived from pine needles. It may appeal to outdoorsmen who don’t want anything feminine in their shower. It promises to be suitable for normal to oily hair. ($35, sortofcoal.com)

While charcoal is the featured ingredient in Boscia Revitalizing Black Hydration Gel, this cooling moisturizer also contains artichoke leaf extract, pomegranate enzyme and Vitamin C. It claims to minimize pores and improve skin texture. ($38, bosciaskincare.com)

Used once a week, the charcoal in Origins Clear Improvement Active Charcoal Mask. a dark gray mask, is meant (perhaps counterintuitively) to draw dirt out of pores. Leavening the ingredients list are white China clay and yellow sweet clover. ($23, origins.com)
468 2013-08-22 “I think I was fortunate because it would have maybe been a different story if there were more issues with how I was feeling up here,” Happ said Tuesday, pointing to his head. “I had fluid under my ear and my ear was bleeding, and I was just hoping it was blood and not another kind of brain fluid or something.”

It was not brain fluid. Happ needed eight stitches in his ear, but said he did not sustain a concussion from the blow. He did not experience vertigo, like Tampa Bay pitcher Alex Cobb, who was hit by a liner on the same mound on June 15 in a game against the Kansas City Royals. Cobb missed two months.

After a rough start in his first game back, Happ has allowed three earned runs in 121/3 innings in his last two starts. He returned to Tropicana Field last Saturday and beat the Rays for his first victory since the accident.

“I definitely took a little time to try to appreciate it,” Happ said. “That’s a place where I haven’t necessarily been at my best, and getting hit by the ball there was a little bit eerie. But, to be honest, I was just anticipating so much coming back and getting back on the mound. Leading up to it I definitely thought about it, but once I got out there I was just trying to pitch.”

John Gibbons, the Blue Jays’ manager and a former catcher, said he had never seen a pitcher hit directly in the head before Happ. The closest, he said, was when a pitcher took a liner off the back of his neck and stayed in the game.

“You never really know for sure how somebody’s going to react,” Gibbons said. “He got hit and he went down. You always figure, in the back of your mind, some guys may not be able to get through that. But we haven’t noticed anything. He’s picked up right where he left off.”

Buehrle has never been hit in the head. If it ever happened, he said, he imagined that the fear of another liner would always linger. But he has seen no evidence of tentativeness from Happ.

The episodes of ball meeting head are so violent and startling that they tend to stand out. Brandon McCarthy, then with Oakland, was struck last September, and Detroit’s Doug Fister was hit in the World Series, but considering the many thousands of pitches thrown every season, the number of batted balls that strike a pitcher’s head are statistically minimal.

Happ said he would try a protective cap or helmet, but he has never seen a viable prototype. Major League Baseball has worked with companies to develop one, without success. Given where Jennings’s ball struck Happ, only a helmet with a left earflap would have protected him, anyway.

Happ was hit in the shin once, he said, but never in the head before May. To keep going, he said, he does not need to remind himself of the low odds against a repeat. Living with the risk is simply part of his job, he said, and there was no way to minimize it.

“I think it’s just knowing that hesitation is going to cripple your ability to perform,” he said. “If you pitch a little scared, you’re not going to be finishing pitches. You’re going to be reacting before you let the ball go to try to be in position to field the ball. It definitely would negatively affect the way I pitch if I was constantly concerned about it.

“Once you throw the ball, it’s your job to become a fielder, as we always say. But in certain instances, it’s just going to hit you or it’s not. If you go out there with a little fear, you’re not going to have the success that you want.”

The Blue Jays are stuck in last place, and Happ’s season statistics — a 3-2 record, with a 4.93 earned run average — are ordinary. But he has already succeeded by returning to the mound. He is on the job again, accepting the workplace hazards.

“It seemed like forever getting back, but we’ve still got a lot of season left,” Happ said. “Still got a good opportunity.”
469 2013-08-22 Households headed by people ages 65 to 74 were the only group in the study that experienced a statistically significant increase in post-recession income, helped perhaps by the decision of some older workers to remain in the work force or re-enter it.

The figures, adjusted for changes in the cost of living over time, include income before taxes and exclude capital gains. The number of households with income above the median is the same as the number below it.

The data offers a potential preview of the official Census Bureau statistics on income and poverty for 2012, scheduled to be released next month. The Sentier data is based on the Current Population Survey, a monthly government survey of about 50,000 households. The researchers used the same definition of income as the Census Bureau uses in its annual report on income and poverty. The two sets of estimates have shown broadly similar trends in recent years.

Because recessions rarely match up with calendar years, the annual census data often does not allow for precise comparisons with the start and end of downturns. The most recent downturn ended in June 2009, according to a panel of academic economists widely considered to the arbiter of the business cycle.

The economy has been growing since 2009, but more slowly and inconsistently than many Americans would like and many economists and policy makers had predicted. President Obama has made the economy’s condition his main focus this summer, promising new efforts to encourage economic growth, including a series of proposals on higher education that he is expected to announce Thursday. While taking credit for some improvement in the economy, he has acknowledged that many Americans have yet to see the benefits.

“We’ve got more work to do,” Mr. Obama said last month at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill. “Even though our businesses are creating new jobs and have broken record profits, nearly all the income gains of the past 10 years have continued to flow to the top 1 percent. The average C.E.O. has gotten a raise of nearly 40 percent since 2009. The average American earns less than he or she did in 1999.”

In the recession and its aftermath, many people went back to school, earning associate or bachelor’s degrees. Such credentials have helped, the new data shows, but they have been no guarantee against loss of income.

Households headed by people with only a high school diploma have seen their post-recession income decline by 9.3 percent, to $39,300 in June of this year, the report said. For households headed by people with an associate degree, median income declined by 8.6 percent in those four years, to $56,400. And among households headed by people with a bachelor’s degree or more, median income declined by 6.5 percent, to $84,700.

Since the end of the recession, the report said, income has declined by 3.6 percent for non-Hispanic white households, to $58,000, and by 4.5 percent for Hispanic households, to $41,000. Those changes were smaller than the 10.9 percent decline, to $33,500, for non-Hispanic black households, whose economic problems are likely to be a focus when Mr. Obama speaks next week on the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington.

Median income for households headed by people ages 65 to 74 increased by 5.1 percent, to $43,000, even though in many cases the head of the household was retired. By comparison, median income for households headed by people under age 25 fell 9.6 percent, to $31,300.

Median income declined by 4.5 percent for households headed by a person 25 to 34 years old, by 5.7 percent for those 35 to 44, by 2.5 percent for those 45 to 54, and by 7 percent for those 55 to 64. The report found no significant change for households headed by a person 75 or older.

Median income declined for households in three of four geographic regions, with the South showing the largest decline and the Midwest reporting no statistically significant change.

From June 2009 to June of this year, household income declined by 6.2 percent in the South, to $47,900; by 5.2 percent in the West, to $56,400; and by 3.9 percent in the Northeast, to $56,800.

By contrast, household income in the Midwest, $52,600, was not significantly different from what it was four years ago. Some parts of the Midwest have been helped by the natural-gas boom, while others have benefited from a modest manufacturing rebound in the last few years.
470 2013-08-22 Stocks wavered and closed lower today as investors weighed the minutes from the Federal Reserve’s July policy-setting meeting.

By the end of trading, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, which fell following the 2 p.m. release, closed 0.6 percent lower, the Dow Jones industrial average was 0.7 percent lower and the Nasdaq composite lost 0.4 percent.

The minutes showed that Federal Reserve policy makers were considering tapering off their huge economic stimulus efforts, according to the official summary, but they did not yet have a clear consensus about the timing of their actions.

The S.& P. 500 rose on Tuesday to end a four-day losing streak, but remained under technical pressure as it closed below its 50-day moving average for a third consecutive session.

Investors have been grappling over the last several weeks with uncertainty over when the Fed will begin to wind down its $85 billion-a-month stimulus program.
471 2013-08-22 This latest attack, by far the largest chemical strike yet alleged, could tip that balance — as many foes of Mr. Assad hope it will.

But like so much in Syria, where the government bars most reporters from working and the opposition heavily filters the information it lets out, the truth remains elusive.

The attack was especially conspicuous given the presence in Damascus of a team sent by the United Nations to investigate chemical strikes reportedly waged earlier in the war. The United States, the European Union and other world powers called for the investigators to visit the site of Wednesday’s attack.

The Security Council, meeting in emergency session, issued a statement calling for a prompt investigation of the allegations and a cease-fire in the conflict, but took no further action.

“I can say that there is a strong concern among Council members about the allegations and a general sense that there must be clarity on what happened, and that the situation has to be followed carefully,” said María Cristina Perceval of Argentina, the president of the Council, after the meeting. “All Council members agreed that any use of chemical weapons, by any side under any circumstances, is a violation of international law.”

The ranking diplomat from Britain, Philip Parham, told reporters later outside the Security Council chambers that representatives of at least 35 countries had signed a letter to Secretary General Ban Ki-moon requesting that Syrian authorities grant the United Nations investigative panel in Syria “urgent access” to the attack site.

But Mr. Parham declined to specify the signatories or to divulge whether any of the 15 Security Council members had proposed any stronger measures during their closed-door consultations.

In the opposition’s account of the deadly events, Mr. Assad’s forces deployed poison gas on a number of rebel-held suburbs east of Damascus, the capital. They described medics finding people dead in their homes.

Videos posted online showed mostly men and children, but the opposition activists said that many women were killed too, but that out of respect they were not photographed.

The actual death toll remained unclear. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said late Wednesday that more than 130 people had been confirmed dead in attacks around Damascus, though it could not confirm the use of gas. Other opposition estimates put the death toll at more than 1,000.

“I saw many children lying on beds as if they were sleeping, but unfortunately they were dead,” said an activist reached via Skype in the suburb of Erbin, who gave his name as Abu Yassin.

“We thought this regime would not use chemical weapons, at least these days with the presence of the U.N. inspectors,” he said. “It is reckless. The regime is saying, ‘I don’t care.’ ”

Others said that field hospitals were overwhelmed with the number of patients and that many ran out of medication. An activist who gave only his first name, Mohammed, said the dead in one suburb, Zamalka, were laid out in front of a mosque, where a voice over loudspeakers called on residents to identify their relatives.

The video record posted online did not provide enough detail to draw a complete picture of what happened. Unlike the videos often uploaded by the opposition, the images on Wednesday did not show the immediate aftermath of the attacks in the communities.

The videos, experts said, also did not prove the use of chemical weapons, which interfere with the nervous system and can cause defecation, vomiting, intense salivation and tremors. Only some of those symptoms were visible in some patients.

Gwyn Winfield, editor of CBRNe World, a journal that covers unconventional weapons, said that the medics would most likely have been sickened by exposure to so many people dosed with chemical weapons — a phenomenon not seen in the videos. He said that the victims could have been killed by tear gas used in a confined space, or by a diluted form of a more powerful chemical agent. Others suggested that toxic industrial chemicals might have been used.

Some witness testimony suggested that residents, used to seeking cover from government shelling and airstrikes by running into underground shelters, had made the situation worse. In one video, a young medic said that residents had hidden in their basements, where the gas collected and suffocated them.

“The descent of the citizens into the basements increased the number of wounded and the number of martyrs,” the medic said, before breaking into tears and adding that many from the medical corps also succumbed to the gases.

It was not clear whether the team sent to Syria by the United Nations would be able to investigate the new reported attacks. The team arrived Sunday after months of negotiations with the Syrian government and is authorized to visit only three predetermined sites.

The White House said that Syria should provide access to the United Nations, and that those found to have used chemical weapons should be held accountable. Other countries, including Britain and France, offered similar expressions of concern.

Russia wrote off the attack as a “preplanned provocation” orchestrated by the rebels and said they had launched the gas with a homemade rocket from an area they controlled.

“All of this looks like an attempt at all costs to create a pretext for demanding that the U.N. Security Council side with opponents of the regime and undermine the chances of convening the Geneva conference,” said the statement, issued by Aleksandr Lukashevich, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry. He also called for a “professional and fair investigation.”

At least one photograph posted on Facebook by an activist showed what looked like a makeshift rocket. But loyalist militias and Hezbollah have both fired makeshift rockets at rebel positions in this war, and could presumably be suspects for any attacks with improvised rockets on rebel-controlled neighborhoods.

The Syrian Army, in a statement read on state television, denied having used chemical weapons, calling the accusations part of a “filthy media war” in favor of the rebels. The claims “are nothing but a desperate effort to cover their defeat on the ground, and reflect the state of hysteria, confusion and collapse of these gangs and those who support them,” the statement said.

Louay Mekdad, a media coordinator for the military wing of the opposition Syrian National Council, said the attack showed that Mr. Assad “doesn’t care any longer about red lines since he has already exceeded too many of them while the world has showed no reaction.”

Mr. Mekdad called on the Security Council and international powers to “live up to their moral and historic responsibility” to protect civilians in Syria. “If the international community doesn’t move now, when is it going to move?” he asked.
472 2013-08-22 Not that she’s scornful of expanding her company, which is based in Greenpoint. “Our ideal is to be placed next to La Mer or a Kiehl’s, and for people to look at our product and realize it’s less expensive and better for them,” she said.

Other proprietors have simpler ambitions: Tara Pelletier, 30, who runs Bushwick-based Meow Meow Tweet with her partner Jeff Kurosaki, 32, said their interest in natural beauty began with the concept of urban homesteading. “We got really interested in how we could live simply but in a metropolitan place, probably about the same time the rest of Brooklyn got into it,” she said.

They had admired handmade soap from a family friend’s goat farm. “We had never tried anything but commercial soap,” Ms. Pelletier said. “ We were converts. We didn’t think twice about trying to make something ourselves. We thought, what if the soap could support our lifestyle?”

So she said she turned to recipes that would have been around in Colonial times. Her dabbling led to the creation of products like fennel orange soap and cedar sage body oil.

“We try to keep things simple but also have ‘utilitarian luxury,’ as we call it,” Ms. Pelletier said. “We want them to smell lovely and natural because they smell like themselves.”

Meow Meow Tweet, Soapwalla and Scout Soap, in Carroll Gardens, all make a point of being not just natural but vegan. “They are palm-oil-free, and use strictly all natural, vegetable ingredients,” said Scout Soap’s owner, Colleen Keane, 32. “I even source some of my essential oils from Anwaar, located on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn.” (“Sourcing” is common shorthand among this crowd for “shopping ethically and locally.”)

Some go further, taking courses in herbalism, like Emma Graves, 34, an aesthetician who is certified by the green medicine program at the New York Open Center. She started making products for her own clients because “I didn’t like anything else that was out there,” said Ms. Graves, who lives in Carroll Gardens. “My philosophies were so dramatically different from what I could find.”

With Molly Watman, 32, Ms. Graves makes products under the name Between You and the Moon. These include Mineral Mist, for sensitive skin, from rose and orange blossoms. The line is sold at their newly opened Columbia Street boutique, Brooklyn Herborium. “They are about using sources from nature that are going to benefit you and support the skin healing itself rather than a product trying to convince your skin to do something,” Ms. Graves said.

“A lot of people are taking more notice into what’s in their skin care, not just the Whole Foods crowd,” said Megan Brame-Finkelstein, 29, who started Metropolis Soap Company in Greenpoint. The company won a best new product award at the Summer 2012 New York International Gift Fair for its vegan lip creams, which include ingredients like sunflower and anise oils.

“I think it’s become a turn in the industry,” said Theo Kogan, 43, who owns Armour Beauty, in Park Slope. “If you walk the aisles of Sephora, there’s Josie Maran and Tarte,” she said, referring to two popular cosmetics brands that emphasize their natural ingredients.

In a city where even local bodegas carry organic almond milk, it’s no surprise that larger retailers are dabbling in natural cosmetics. Limegreen, a Bedford-Stuyvesant maker of natural products owned by Talima Davis, was recently featured at the local Walgreen’s. The clothing chain Anthropologie sells MCMC Fragrances, which is based in Greenpoint.

“We have found our comfort zone in clothing stores,” said MCMC’s owner, Anne Serrano-McClain. Her line, which includes perfume oils with names like Hunter (a blend of tobacco absolute, organic Bourbon vanilla and balsam fir, “best worn with a flannel shirt”), is also sold at Bird in Brooklyn, as well as at Liberty, in London.

Soapwalla is now carried at the chic department store Colette, in Paris. When she visited last year for an event, Ms. Winard said, “All anyone wanted to talk about was Brooklyn. Like it’s a mythical place where unicorns fly. It’s a global interest.”
473 2013-08-23 The blasts killed at least 27 and wounded over 350, wreaking major destruction in the country’s second largest city...
474 2013-08-23 The reputation of the market operator has suffered from recent technical problems and poor communication with other members of the industry....
475 2013-08-23 A group of hedge funds secured a victory in a federal appeals court in a case that could affect international bond markets, parts of the banking system and the nation of Argentina....
476 2013-08-23 Under Steven A. Ballmer’s leadership for the last 13 years, Microsoft has struggled to transition from a PC-driven company, to a mobile-centric one. Apple, once its biggest competitor, has done the complete opposite....
477 2013-08-23 This issue celebrates the strength, beauty and entrepreneurial spirit of women....
478 2013-08-23 Microsoft With Ballmer at the Helm

Steven A. Ballmer took over as Microsoft’s chief executive in January 2000, days after the company’s stock price hit its record high and the Y2K scare proved unfounded. In the more than 13 years since he’s been in charge, the company’s stock price has fluctuated. It has offered widely successful products, like the Xbox 360, and some decidedly less so, like the Zune music player. Below are important milestones of Mr. Ballmer’s tenure.
479 2013-08-23 Whoever becomes the next chief executive of Microsoft should narrow the company’s focus....
480 2013-08-23 Great tennis writing from the magazine’s archive....
481 2013-08-23 Stock markets in emerging markets have fallen sharply this year, while most developed markets are up significantly. The relative outperformance of the developed markets has been greater than at any time since the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s.
482 2013-08-23 Among the players to watch at this year’s United States Open are John Isner, Jelena Jankovic, Juan Martin del Potro, Dominika Cibulkova, Grigor Dimitrov and Sloane Stephens.
483 2013-08-23 Steven Ballmer, as the chief of Microsoft, led one of the most prolific deal-making streaks in technology over the past two decades. But his record is as notable for its misses as its hits....
484 2013-08-23 “Noni Is Nervous,” by Heather Hartt-Sussman, and more....
485 2013-08-23 As the Nasdaq opened without a hitch on Friday, Robert Greifeld said that the market operator needed to work on its “defensive driving” to deal better with mistakes by others....
486 2013-08-23 A technological problem shut down trading on the Nasdaq market for more than three hours. | David M. Bernick is leaving Boies Schiller & Flexner after just a year. | Moody’s Investors Service threatened to downgrade the credit ratings of several...
487 2013-08-23 LaShawn Merritt of the United States won the 400 meters at the DN Galan Diamond League meet in Stockholm in his first major race since regaining his world title last week in Moscow. Merritt won in 44.69 seconds, more than a half-second ahead of Luguelin Santos of the Dominican Republic, the bronze medalist in Moscow.

The Ethiopian women’s 5,000-meter world and Olympic champion, Meseret Defar, won the 3,000 meters in 8 minutes 30.29 seconds, the world’s fastest time this year.
488 2013-08-23 Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic, the defending champion, advanced to the semifinals of the New Haven Open, beating Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia, 2-6, 6-2, 7-5. Simona Halep of Romania also advanced, topping Ekaterina Makarova of Russia, 6-1, 7-6 (6). Rain delayed the start of play in both matches by more than 90 minutes, and each included hourlong rain delays. (AP)

■ Alexandr Dolgopolov of Ukraine overcame a knuckle injury on his left hand to beat Lu Yen-hsun of Taiwan, 7-6 (7) 6-3, in the quarterfinals of the Winston-Salem Open in North Carolina. Dolgopolov will play Gaël Monfils of France, who advanced by beating Fernando Verdasco of Spain, 6-7 (10) 6-4 6-4.
489 2013-08-23 Lydia Ko is back on top of the Canadian Women’s Open leader board. Ko, 16, the winner last year at Vancouver Golf Club at an L.P.G.A. Tour-record age of 15 years 4 months, shot a five-under 65 at Royal Mayfair in Edmonton, Alberta, for a share of the first-round lead. Angela Stanford and Christel Boeljon also opened with a 65. Charley Hull, a 17-year-old English player coming off a strong performance last week in Europe’s Solheim Cup victory, had a 69 playing alongside Ko.
490 2013-08-23 George Atallah, a spokesman for the union, responded on Twitter, noting that while the union’s chief, DeMaurice Smith, had signed a letter authorizing the population study to begin, Commissioner Roger Goodell had not.

“The only case of buyer’s remorse is the attached letter that the N.F.L. agreed to weeks ago,” Atallah said, adding, “Your refusal to sign it confirms that the only thing you care about is power.”

Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, told The Associated Press on Thursday that the union was “holding H.G.H. testing hostage” and warned that Congress could get involved.

The league and the union agreed that they would introduce testing for H.G.H. in 2011 when they signed the latest collective bargaining agreement. It has taken more than two years, and pressure from Congress, for the sides to agree on procedures for the testing.

The union recently sent its members a memo outlining the proposed protocols for the H.G.H. study. In it, the union said that only an independent scientist would have access to the test results. The union said it was likely to agree that each week during the season, five players from eight teams would be randomly chosen for additional blood tests.

The league and the union have also sparred over whether retired players should be included in the population study.

MISTAKE-PRONE RAVENS FALL Ted Ginn Jr. returned a punt 74 yards for a touchdown, and Carolina’s defense scored three times in a 34-27 preseason victory at Baltimore.

Carolina had only 67 yards in offense at halftime yet reeled off 24 straight points after Baltimore scored on its first possession.

Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco played into the third quarter and went 18 for 24 for 169 yards and a touchdown. In three preseason games, he has two touchdown passes and three interceptions. (AP)

PATRIOTS STRUGGLE ON OFFENSE Reggie Bush ran for 1 yard on six carries, but he had five catches for 103 yards to help Detroit rout visiting New England, 40-9.

The Patriots’ first-team offense, precise and efficient in the first two games of the preseason, was anything but. Tight end Zach Sudfeld and running backs Brandon Bolden and Shane Vereen lost fumbles, and Tom Brady threw an interception in four of New England’s first five possessions. The other possession was a three-and-out. (AP)

JETS ADD MASSAQUOI The Jets signed the veteran wide receiver Mohamed Massaquoi, who was cut by Jacksonville on Monday after signing a two-year deal in April. He had two catches for 15 yards in the Jaguars’ preseason loss to the Jets on Saturday night.

“A tough guy who has been in this system just a little bit,” the Jets’ offensive coordinator, Marty Mornhinweg, said. “I think he’s quite familiar with at least some of our terminology, so that will be a good thing for him.” (AP)

DOLPHIN MAY MISS OPENER After sitting out most of practice for a second consecutive week, Dion Jordan, Miami’s first-round pick, said he might not be ready for the start of the regular season.

Jordan, who had surgery for a torn labrum in his right shoulder Feb. 28 and began training camp on the nonfootball injury list, has not taken part in a full practice since Miami’s 27-3 preseason victory at Jacksonville on Aug. 9. Jordan did noncontact work early in practice Thursday before doing side work with a trainer. (AP)

STEELERS ROOKIE ON THE MEND Steelers running back Le’Veon Bell will sit out Pittsburgh’s exhibition against Kansas City on Saturday night with a sprained right foot, but Bell, a second-round draft pick, said he was not worried the injury would extend well into the regular season.

“I’ve already been healing real quick,” Bell said. “As long as the process keeps going the way it is, I should be back pretty quick.”

Coach Mike Tomlin declined to put an exact timetable on Bell’s return but said it was encouraging that surgery would not be required. Less than 72 hours after he went down in the first quarter of a loss to Washington, Bell could already put weight on the foot, although he wore a walking boot into the locker room as a precaution. (AP)

BUCCANEERS HAVE INFECTIONS Tampa Bay guard Carl Nicks and kicker Lawrence Tynes are being treated for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections.

General Manager Mark Dominik confirmed that Nicks had an infected blister on the side of his left foot and that Tynes had an infected toe on his right foot. MRSA is a staph infection that is resistant to some antibiotics.

The infections were diagnosed last week. The Buccaneers hired a company to sanitize One Buccaneer Place, the team’s training complex, last week. A second cleaning has been scheduled as a precaution.

The Buccaneers said they did not know where Nicks and Tynes were exposed to MRSA. Both players are responding to treatment, and the club said no other MRSA infections had been discovered among its players. (AP)

RAIDER HITTING THE FIELD D. J. Hayden, drafted 12th over all in April, will make his exhibition debut for Oakland on Friday night against Chicago, his first game action of any kind since a near-fatal practice collision ended his college career in November.

Hayden, who had abdominal surgery in May to heal scarring from the original injury, has been limited for most of training camp. He was not cleared for any contact until last Friday and has had just one padded practice.

Hayden will wear an extra flap over his chest for added protection despite his complaints that it makes him look as if he has a beer belly. (AP)

BRONCO MAKING WAY BACK Denver defensive lineman Derek Wolfe put in a full upper-body workout in the weight room and then thanked his teammates and fans for their prayers and well wishes after he was taken by ambulance from CenturyLink Field in Seattle last weekend.

Wolfe said he hoped to be back in the lineup by Denver’s Sept. 5 opener against Baltimore, which will be less than three weeks after he was feared to have sustained a cervical spine injury.

“It’s amazing how much you don’t like to practice until you can’t do it anymore,” Wolfe said. “And it’s real humbling whenever you can’t really feel your extremities for a while. I get a little emotional about it because this is what I love to do and I couldn’t imagine myself doing anything but this game.” (AP)

AROUND THE LEAGUE San Francisco added another quarterback to the competition to be Colin Kaepernick’s backup, signing the veteran Seneca Wallace to a one-year contract. ... Injuries will keep Indianapolis’s top two tight ends, Coby Fleener (knee) and Dwayne Allen (foot), out of Saturday’s game against Cleveland, but safety LaRon Landry is expected to make his preseason debut. ... Seattle Coach Pete Carroll said defensive tackle Jordan Hill strained his biceps during practice Tuesday; Hill will not play against Green Bay on Friday night. ... Running back Ryan Williams and tight end Jeff King, each of whom had been out since the early days of training camp with knee problems, returned to practice in the final workout of camp for Arizona. ... The N.F.L. fined Washington quarterback Robert Griffin III $10,000 for wearing unauthorized apparel Monday night, a T-shirt with “Operation Patience” on it. (AP)
491 2013-08-23 He is confident he will be able to meet those demands as well as he has since he joined the Giants. “I thrive on contact,” he said. “That’s why I play the game. That’s why I’m a fullback. That’s just in my nature. That’s what I love to do.”

Although he was initially regarded as one of the top fullbacks available for the draft, he went unselected after sustaining a hamstring injury at the league’s scouting combine in 2011. The Giants, one of the few teams that still emphasize the position, did well in signing him.

“In our running game, he’s a lead blocker. In pass protection, he does a good job of picking up linebackers and blitzers,” Manning said. “He does a good job of getting into his routes as well and catching the ball on the flat and giving us some plays. He just has a good feel for when to do the little things.”

Hynoski’s blocking did not go unnoticed by the Giants when they won the Super Bowl two years ago. Coach Tom Coughlin continues to view him as an integral part of the offense.

Asked about Hynoski’s importance, Coughlin replied: “Very. There aren’t many around. Even today, when you look around the league, there are not many guys that are 265 and have the skill set that Henry has.”

A passion for the game that is infectious to teammates accompanies those skills. That is why it was so disheartening for the Giants when the popular Hynoski injured the medial collateral ligament and sustained a chip fracture to the lateral plateau in his left knee on May 22, jeopardizing his ability to start the season.

Hynoski was limited to individual drills in his first day back at practice. He does not expect to participate in the remaining two preseason games. But the pace of his comeback is swift enough to make the opener a realistic target.

“The whole time I was told I was always ahead of schedule with just how regimented I was with my rehab and doing all the right things,” he said.

TERRELL THOMAS, a sixth-year cornerback, is set to play Saturday night against the Jets, his first game action in two years. He twice injured the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee, necessitating major surgery each time. Thomas intends to play without trepidation. “You can’t worry about getting injured — that’s how you get injured,” he said. ... The Giants will use the second half of the Jets game to take a good look at CURTIS PAINTER, who is vying with DAVID CARR to be ELI MANNING’S backup. RYAN NASSIB, a rookie taken in the fourth round from Syracuse, is expected to remain as the third quarterback. ... The Giants bolstered their depleted line by signing AUSTIN HOLTZ, an undrafted rookie offensive tackle waived by the Detroit Lions.
492 2013-08-23 Area 51, Where Conspiracy Theories Never Get Old
493 2013-08-23 And they would be taking over property encumbered by $100 million to $200 million in debt. However, it is unclear whether they would be required to assume that debt, which is in the form of bonds payable by the state.

“That’s a significant detail,” Mr. Ruggiero said of the state debt. “It would have to be resolved in the context of a much larger proposal to transfer real estate and refinance the debt.”

SUNY has been trying to pull out of Long Island College Hospital and close it, citing huge operating losses that it says are draining its other Brooklyn hospital campuses and its medical school. But it has been stopped by lawsuits from the Concerned Physicians and hospital employees, and Bill de Blasio, the public advocate running for mayor, has made keeping the hospital open an issue in the campaign.

The doctors had proposed to take over the hospital five years ago, before SUNY Downstate acquired it, but did not succeed.

They revived the idea on Thursday in a conference before the judge, Carolyn E. Demarest of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, who earlier this week revoked SUNY’s ownership of the hospital’s real estate and other assets. She had signed off on the transfer in 2011, as required under the state charities law, but said she was revoking it because SUNY had betrayed its commitment to keep the hospital running for the benefit of the community.

“This was a gift,” Dr. John Romanelli, a Long Island College Hospital doctor, said on Thursday of the judge’s order, because, he said, it gave the doctors an opening.

Dr. Toomas Sorra, president of the Concerned Physicians, said many of his colleagues who had gone to other hospitals had told him they would “be back in a heartbeat” if the hospital were revived.

At Thursday’s conference, Justice Demarest postponed the effective date of her order until Sept. 3, according to the participants, in part because state lawyers said that without physical control of the property SUNY would no longer be qualified to operate the hospital. Her stay, they said, allowed SUNY to continue running it while the parties try to find a long-term solution.

Other options that have been discussed, besides turning over the hospital to the doctors, included reopening it as an emergency room with an intensive care unit; as a free-standing emergency department, where patients who needed to be admitted would have to be transferred to another hospital; or as an urgent care center, the participants said.

About four patients remain in the hospital, state health officials said on Thursday. But SUNY continues to pay the salaries of more than 550 nurses, technicians and other nonphysician employees, who have nothing to do and have been told to stay home, according to court documents, because of an order by another Brooklyn judge, Johnny Lee Baynes of the State Supreme Court, to keep the hospital open.

With virtually no money coming in, the hospital’s losses have risen to $15 million in August from $4 million a month, and are projected to reach $19 million, SUNY officials said on Thursday.
494 2013-08-23 JERSEY CITY — Try telling the players with early tee times Thursday at the Barclays that the summer solstice was two months ago. For Tiger Woods, ranked No. 1, and the other golfers in the morning wave, the first round felt like the longest day of the year.

Woods said he woke up at 4 a.m. for his 8:16 tee time. After he made a par on his first hole, the 10th, a storm suspended play for two and a half hours. He completed six holes after play resumed before thunder and lightning in the area around Liberty National Golf Club prompted a second delay, of three and a half hours.

By the time he signed for his four-under 67, Woods had put in an 11-hour workday. He was three strokes behind Kevin Stadler, who did not make a bogey in his round of 64. Henrik Stenson, who has three seconds and two thirds in his last five starts, was in a three-way tie for second at 65 with Ryan Palmer and Camilo Villegas. Villegas was eight under through 13 holes but lost his momentum with back-to-back bogeys.

“I was able to stay patient,” Villegas said. “I knew it was going to be just a grind in terms of just all this stuff that was going on, and was happy to play well, happy to finish the round.”

The 63 players who did not finish — a group that included second-ranked Phil Mickelson — will be working overtime Friday to complete their first round and play their second.

“I’m only three back,” Woods said. “I mean, we have a long way to go.”

He added, “You know, the full field is going to have at least one long day in there somewhere, so it’s balanced.”
495 2013-08-23 A wildfire outside Yosemite National Park more than tripled in size Thursday, shutting down businesses nearby and leading tourists to leave the area during peak season. Gov. Jerry Brown declared a state of emergency. Fire officials said the blaze near Yosemite, which threatens several thousand homes, hotels and camp buildings, had grown to more than 84 square miles and was only 2 percent contained Thursday, down from 5 percent a day earlier. Two homes and seven outbuildings have been destroyed. While the park remains open, a four-mile stretch of State Route 120, one of three entrances into Yosemite on the west side was closed, hurting businesses that depend on park traffic.
496 2013-08-23 “She’s extremely well connected, in a quiet way,” Mr. Biden said in a telephone interview. Ms. Russell is empowered, he said, by “two important things: John Kerry and me.” He quickly added, “And the president.”

Still, Ms. Russell’s White House connections will be tested in a field where success is hard to define and the goals are often amorphous. In a speech in April, Mrs. Clinton said in a typical formulation that she had created the job to weave the perspective of women’s issues “into the fabric of American foreign policy.”

Mrs. Clinton chose as the first women’s ambassador her close friend Melanne Verveer, who was her chief of staff as first lady. In Ms. Verveer’s subsequent travels to more than 60 countries — where she often said that “no country can get ahead if it leaves half its population behind” — leaders always knew she was channeling one of the world’s most famous women.

Ms. Russell does not have that advantage, but said she was determined to carry on Mrs. Clinton’s work. Her mission, she said, is to build on the efforts of the Office of Global Women’s Issues — with its staff of 24 and budget last year of $3.4 million — to “put in place the structure and the mechanisms to keep moving this effort forward long after all of us are gone.”

Officials in the office cite as accomplishments their push to ensure that 300 women took part in nationwide peace talks in Afghanistan in 2010 and their insistence that women’s advancement be codified in the strategic partnership agreement that set forth the relationship between the United States and Afghanistan after 2014.

The office also counts as success stories a $17 million effort in 2009 to crack down on sexual violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo — including training for police officers and judges, and health care and jobs courses for survivors — and an extensive public-private partnership in the Americas that provides female entrepreneurs better access to markets and credit.

“Investing in women, advancing and protecting their rights, is not just the right thing to do morally,” Ms. Russell said during her confirmation hearing in July. “It is the smart thing to do economically and strategically.”

But in the interview, her first since her confirmation as ambassador, Ms. Russell seemed less at ease discussing her new global terrain and more comfortable talking, at length, about the federal bureaucracy she lives and breathes in Washington. She joked that she would have advised Mrs. Biden against giving that kind of long-winded answers. At 52 and the mother of two teenagers, she said she had recovered fully from a minor stroke she suffered last December.

Ms. Russell has not always made women’s issues a professional focus. But they have “been the center of her life and her interests,” Mrs. Biden said in an interview.

In Reading, Pa., Ms. Russell’s parents raised five children — she was the oldest — and ran a small plastics business. She studied philosophy at Boston College before earning a law degree at George Washington University. Ms. Russell first met Mr. Donilon when they worked on Walter F. Mondale’s presidential campaign in 1984. They married in 1991.

By then, Ms. Russell was senior counsel to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, who testified at her confirmation hearing and is now chairman of the Senate subcommittee in charge of the State Department’s purse. She was also an associate deputy attorney general in the Clinton administration in the mid-1990s.

But most of her experience in Washington comes with the Bidens. In 1994, Ms. Russell helped shepherd the Violence Against Women Act through Congress when Mr. Biden was the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Later, when Mr. Biden led the Foreign Relations Committee, she drafted an international version of the bill as his top adviser on women’s issues. Last year Ms. Russell oversaw an effort by multiple departments to develop an ambitious plan for combating violence against women worldwide.

“I feel like I have a pretty good sense of how the government works,” Ms. Russell said, “and how to move things through the government.”

But she knows she faces hurdles. Jennifer Klein, Ms. Verveer’s former deputy who continues to advise Mrs. Clinton on women’s issues, said, “We obviously dealt with a lot of people at the State Department who were very interested in this, and then we dealt with a lot of people who thought that has nothing to do with their work.”

Others see women’s issues as a marginal focus when there are so many violent conflicts around the world.

“Certainly the problems specifically affecting women in Syria are not unimportant,” said Kenneth M. Pollack, a former staff member of the National Security Council who is now a scholar at the Brookings Institution. But in such a humanitarian catastrophe, he said, “until you have an answer to the military problem in Syria, you can’t solve any other problem.”

Ms. Russell’s first trip abroad as ambassador — to Bali for a forum on women held at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting, a gathering of business and political leaders from the region — reflects another effort of her office: inserting discussions about women into diplomatic talks.

Mr. Kerry, for his part, held a meeting with businesswomen during his first visit to Afghanistan, and in an opinion article that ran on March 8, International Women’s Day, wrote, “The world’s most pressing economic, social and political problems simply cannot be solved without the full participation of women.”

Such attention to women is a sharp shift from the 1970s and 1980s, when the State Department was embroiled in court battles with female officers who said they had been passed over for policy-making jobs.

As the first man to serve as secretary of state since 2005, Mr. Kerry “will be so effectively powerful as a male secretary to raise these issues with male counterparts,” Ms. Verveer said. “I think it is so counterintuitive, so unexpected.”

These days a course on women’s issues will soon be mandatory for new foreign service officers. In May, a three-day elective version of the course met for the second time in Arlington, Va., at the Foreign Service Institute. But of the 24 students, a mix of seasoned officers and newer recruits, women outnumbered men by a 2-to-1 ratio.

Still, Ms. Russell knows she has the support of one male-dominated organization: the White House. Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, called her this summer to congratulate her on her confirmation. She told him, she said, that “the bad thing is now I’m going to start bugging you about how the president can help us.”
497 2013-08-23 It isn’t easy to drum up sympathy for the two 30-ish buddies of “Scenic Route,” childhood friends who reunite for a road trip to hell. Through their own shortsightedness, they find themselves stranded in Death Valley on a nearly deserted road with only jelly beans to eat, a few swigs of water and no cellphone service.

Mitchell (Josh Duhamel), the saner of the two, is a musician who has given up any rock ’n’ roll dreams to be a discontented corporate drone with a wife and a young son. His best friend, Carter (a miscast Dan Fogler), who envisioned the trip as a chance to reconnect, is an unemployed writer reduced to living in his pickup truck. Frustrated by Mitchell’s initial reticence, Carter fakes an automotive mishap in the desert so that Mitchell will have no choice but to let his hair down. After a stormy catching-up session, Carter restarts his vehicle, which promptly breaks down for real.

“Scenic Route,” directed by the brothers Kevin and Michael Goetz from a screenplay by Kyle Killen, is an awkward, long-winded mash-up of therapy session, horror movie and survival tale with pretensions of psychological depth. Once the two friends find themselves helpless and desperate, the movie plays familiar teasing tricks, signaling imminent rescue, then pulling the rug out at the last second.

In the cleverest twist, Mitchell confesses that he has always wanted a mohawk, which Carter insists on giving him. But Mitchell’s Travis Bickle look scares away the one driver who might have stopped to help. Any hopes of hiking to the nearest town are stymied by Mitchell’s inability to walk without crutches because of an unexplained injury.

The screenplay gives Mr. Duhamel the chance to speechify and emote more than usual, but his character — a shallow, faithless smoothie chafing at his grown-up responsibilities and sexual boredom with his new wife — is a cliché. Mr. Fogler’s self-righteous, pseudo-bohemian jerk is, in a word, toxic. No sooner has this chubby, shaggy-haired know-it-all begun ranting at Mitchell about his poor choice of a partner than you wish that something, anything, would shut him up. Carter goads Mitchell into a furious counterattack that leads to a potentially lethal — and preposterous — fight, from which both emerge seriously weakened.

You wonder how these supposed friends could expend so much energy without water and still be able to talk, much less fight. The most obvious answer is that the filmmakers had to keep them functional long enough to flesh out the movie’s grueling 85 minutes.
498 2013-08-23 On Thursday, Li Wangzhi, the elder son of the purged Chinese official Bo Xilai, attended the opening session of Mr. Bo’s trial on charges of corruption, bribe-taking and abuse of power. It was the first time Mr. Li, a son to Mr. Bo from his first marriage, had seen his father in several years. Mr. Li released the following statement after the proceedings.

I thank the party central authorities and the court for giving the defendant greater rights to a defense and freedom than he had expected, allowing my father to speak his true mind. At the same time, I also thank those people who withstood the pressure to bear false witness. As his son, I have been subjected to pain and sadness for him, and at the same time I am proud of his strength.

After undergoing a worldwide investigation involving in excess of 300 people and 500 days, he has endured a tremendous test, and nonetheless has stood by his ideas. I would like to say: first, true gold does not fear fire, facts can endure the test of history; and second, I am proud of my father. I hope that my father will continue to respect the law, and that the law may also respect the facts, and leave the people an explanation, leave history an explanation, and leave his son an explanation too.
499 2013-08-23 The most significant news of the draw ceremony for the 2013 United States Open was made with the first chip, when the defending champion, Andy Murray, the No. 3 seed, was pulled first, putting him in the top half of the draw with top-seeded Novak Djokovic.

Murray defeated Djokovic in last year’s final to win his first Grand Slam title, then defeated Djokovic this year in the Wimbledon final. Between those triumphs, Djokovic defeated Murray in the Australian Open final in January. But if the two were to meet in New York, for the fourth time in the last five Grand Slam events, it would be in the semifinals.

David Ferrer, the fourth seed but considered far less of a contender to win a major title than perhaps anyone else in the top seven, was drawn into the bottom half of the draw with No. 2 Rafael Nadal, who passed Murray in the rankings this week, on the strength of consecutive titles in Masters Series events.

Nadal avoided Murray, but he could face Roger Federer in the quarterfinals.

Federer, who has slipped to No. 7, has a 10-21 record against Nadal, but gave him one of their most competitive recent matches last week at the Western & Southern Open in suburban Cincinnati, falling in three tough sets.

Nadal could also have a rematch in the fourth round of his Western & Southern Open final against John Isner, the highest-seeded American man.

In the other projected quarterfinals, Djokovic drew No. 6 Juan Martín del Potro (a possible rematch of their electrifying meeting at that stage a year ago); Murray drew No. 5 Tomas Berdych; and Ferrer drew No. 8 Richard Gasquet.
500 2013-08-23 At this point, fears of a continent-wide crisis, like in 1997, have been minimized. But economists are still cautious. “Between the two countries, Indonesia has a far better balance of economic growth and a greater chance of revival,” HSBC, referring to India and Indonesia, said on Wednesday in a research report that cautioned investors against buying Indian government bonds.

Largely unaffected on Thursday and in recent weeks have been the currencies of Asia’s two largest economies, China and Japan. The Japanese yen has been little changed over the last month, despite weakening marginally this week, and the value of the Chinese renminbi, heavily managed by China’s central bank, has stayed flat as well. Both countries have begun economic stimulus programs in recent months, although they have done so with very different styles.

China’s stock market has even posted a small rally this month on signs that an economic slowdown may be less severe than expected this autumn, although worries persist about next year.

The preliminary purchasing managers’ index in China, compiled by the research firm Markit and released by the British bank HSBC on Thursday, showed a swing to expansion from contraction in August. The increase, to a four-month high, easily beat analysts’ expectations.

HSBC’s preliminary survey offers one of the earliest indications each month of how the Chinese economy is doing, and Thursday’s reading is likely to solidify expectations that a stabilization that began to show in July has continued into August.

The reading “adds to the number of green shoots indicating a stabilizing economy since July,” Li Wei and Stephen Green, economists at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note, adding that government-led measures aimed at shoring up economic growth, like tax breaks for small businesses and efforts to speed up railway construction, appeared to have begun to take effect.

After years of double-digit expansion rates, the economy has now settled into a slower pace of growth of around 7.5 percent this year. And despite Thursday’s unexpectedly strong survey results, some analysts said the picture could well cloud again next year.

Indonesia and other countries in Southeast Asia have been hurt by their dependence on slower-growing China. They have also been hit by China’s gradual shift away from industries dependent on commodity imports from Asian neighbors, like steel production, and toward service industries.

With chronic trade deficits and a dependence on foreign investment, Indonesia and particularly India have faced the biggest problems in the region. The government of India has resorted to increasingly desperate measures in the last two weeks, like steeply raising taxes on imports of silver and gold, but it has been unable to halt the decline of the rupee, which is down more than 7 percent in August and more than 20 percent since the start of May.

Daily steep declines in the rupee are making it much harder for Indian companies to repay their foreign loans, many of them denominated in dollars. The rupee’s decline has also made real estate and other projects in India less attractive for foreign investors who count their profits and losses in dollars, prompting many of them to pull out as well.

As the Federal Reserve mulls tightening monetary policy in the United States in response to early signs of economic recovery there, rising interest rates on Treasury securities and other American financial instruments are drawing money away from emerging markets around the world.

Indonesia has tried to undertake some difficult overhauls this summer, most notably raising retail gasoline prices in June to limit government subsidies for the country’s millions of drivers. Economists say they expect Indonesia’s trade deficit to start shrinking in the coming months and its government finances to improve as families avoid unnecessary trips and buy less fuel as a result.
501 2013-08-23 Dressed in a white shirt and black pants with his hair neatly trimmed, Mr. Bo displayed some of the showmanship he deployed in climbing to the party chief post in Chongqing municipality and the elite Politburo, before he was felled last year by a scandal involving the death of a British businessman, a case in which his wife, Gu Kailai, was convicted of murder. Mr. Bo is also charged with abuse of power over allegations he obstructed an investigation into the death, and with embezzlement.

There were limits to the transparency. One person briefed on the proceedings said that some court testimony did not appear in the released transcripts. And by evening, censors had sanitized the comments section of the court microblog, removing many remarks skeptical of the justice process.

Analysts said that publicizing the hearing was the party’s attempt to lend legitimacy to a trial in which a guilty verdict and long prison sentence were almost certainly preordained. The hearing was not as public as the televised trial in 1980 of the Gang of Four blamed for the havoc of the Cultural Revolution. But officials issued about 60 real-time updates over the court microblog.

“This is the most open trial of its kind, certainly the most open among the ones we have seen recently,” He Weifang, a law professor at Peking University, said in a telephone interview. “He seems to be speaking his mind, judging from his speech and the words he used.”

But over all, he added, “the whole court is controlled by Beijing.”

The party’s efforts at forging an aura of legitimacy could backfire. If evidence released during the trial proves flimsy, the public could side with Mr. Bo, whose Maoist slogans and new brand of socialism bolstered his popularity in Chongqing.

Mr. Bo insisted that he knew nothing of a villa on the French Riviera that prosecutors said Ms. Gu bought in 2000 with $3.2 million from Xu Ming, a young tycoon, or about a hot-air balloon venture between the two. He denied knowledge of a $16,000 trip to Africa made by his youngest son, Bo Guagua, and his friends; an $18,000 Segway-like vehicle that Mr. Xu bought for the son; and $50,000 of debt on the son’s credit card that Mr. Xu paid.

He said he did not know much about his wife and son’s expenses, because Ms. Gu was “a person of culture and taste, a modern intellectual woman,” so they did not discuss money.

Mr. He, a critic of Mr. Bo’s past policies, said the prosecutor “appeared to be ill-prepared,” echoing a sentiment widely seen online. “In comparison,” he said, “Bo appears to be more authentic.”

Since Mr. Bo was dismissed from his party chief post in March 2012 and placed under house arrest, party leaders have been concerned about his popular support. Some of the ardor among ordinary Chinese was in evidence on Thursday morning, as Bo supporters, some carrying Mao Zedong posters, showed up in Jinan at courthouse barricades guarded by the police.

“I’m willing to do anything for him,” said a farmer, He Demin, 51, who had flown from Chongqing. “With him gone from Chongqing, security and morale have plummeted. We so need a person like him.”

Mr. Bo started becoming combative midway through the morning session. Prosecutors charged that he had taken about $180,000 in cash bribes from a state company manager and longtime associate, Tang Xiaolin, in exchange for land and auto transactions that Mr. Bo granted as a top official in the northeast province of Liaoning. After watching video testimony from Mr. Tang, Mr. Bo said: “I really saw the ugliness of a person who sold his soul,” and, “He’s biting wildly like a mad dog.”

Prosecutors also read related testimony from Ms. Gu about the anonymous deposits in a shared safe. “I think Gu Kailai’s testimony is very amusing and very laughable,” Mr. Bo said.

In the late afternoon, Mr. Bo and his lawyer parried the testimony of Mr. Xu, the young tycoon, who appeared in court and is accused of giving Mr. Bo’s family $3.4 million in bribes, mostly for the French villa.

Some analysts say Mr. Bo might have agreed to accept the inevitable prison sentence in exchange for a chance to speak his mind, to a degree. All the information, including the official microblog posts, were still controlled by officials who generally knew what to expect, the analysts noted.

On Thursday night, Li Wangzhi, the son of Mr. Bo from his first marriage, who was in the courtroom, released a statement that said, “I thank the party central authorities and the court for giving the defendant greater rights to a defense and freedom than he had expected, allowing my father to speak his true mind.”

Mr. Li added that his father had “stood by his own ideas” through an investigation that lasted 500 days and involved more than 300 people.
502 2013-08-24 The stone rolls down again and again....
503 2013-08-24 A government program, hidden in plain sight....
504 2013-08-24 Network externalities, then and now....
505 2013-08-24 From the point of view of a tech critic, Steven A. Ballmer’s 13-year reign as head of Microsoft is baffling....
506 2013-08-24 The defending champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic beat her countrywoman Klara Zakopalova, 6-0, 6-1, on Friday to reach the final of the New Haven Open. Kvitova will face Simona Halep, who beat Caroline Wozniacki, 6-2, 7-5.

■ Gaël Monfils beat Alexandr Dolgopolov, 7-6 (11), 6-3, in the semifinals of the Winston-Salem Open in North Carolina. Monfils will face Jürgen Melzer, who beat Sam Querrey, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3.
507 2013-08-24 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
508 2013-08-24 Pictures From the Week in Business
509 2013-08-24 Santonio Holmes was removed from the physically unable to perform list and added to the active roster Friday, a sign that he could be available for the Sept. 8 season opener. If Holmes is able to return then — or soon after — he will provide a lift to an unproven receiving corps, as well as to the quarterback, whoever wins that job.

Holmes, recovering from two operations after sustaining a serious foot injury Sept. 30, has been coy, if not evasive, all training camp when discussing his status. When told on Wednesday that he looked sharp while running routes before last Saturday’s preseason game against Jacksonville, he said, “Looks can be deceiving.”

He added, “I’m not able to be at Santonio Holmes’s level of competition.”

It will take some time for Holmes to get into playing shape, but it is possible that he will reach that level in time to appear in the Jets’ first game, against Tampa Bay.

PITTSBURGH TRADES FOR RUNNING BACK The Pittsburgh Steelers bolstered their injury-plagued backfield, acquiring running back Felix Jones from the Philadelphia Eagles for linebacker Adrian Robinson. Jones was chosen by the Dallas Cowboys as the 22nd overall pick in the 2008 draft. Robinson made the Steelers as an undrafted rookie free agent last season. (AP)

SUSPENSION UPHELD Houston Coach Gary Kubiak said the N.F.L. had upheld Texans defensive end Antonio Smith’s three-game suspension. Smith was suspended Wednesday for the last two preseason games and Houston’s season opener for hitting Miami Dolphins guard Richie Incognito with Incognito’s helmet in a preseason game. (AP) SEAHAWKS WIN The rookie Christine Michael ran for 97 yards in the visiting Seattle Seahawks’ 17-10 preseason victory over the Green Bay Packers. (AP)
510 2013-08-24 Industry insiders almost immediately began to place bets on which executives inside and outside Microsoft — and even outside the technology industry — could be tapped. The decision will go a long way to determining whether Microsoft will successfully transition to tech’s future of mobile computing and computing in a virtual cloud of data-storage devices.

But at the moment, at least, the betting cards are virtually empty.

Even though Mr. Ballmer had indicated he was going to retire when the youngest of his children went to college, which was in about two more years, “I think people thought Ballmer would maybe die with his boots on in that role,” Mr. Cusumano added.

Developing a succession plan is one of a board’s chief responsibilities, but only half of companies actively groom executives, according to a 2010 study by Stanford University’s Rock Center for Corporate Governance and Heidrick & Struggles, the executive search firm that is leading Microsoft’s search. Boards spend only an average two hours a year on succession planning, the study found.

“When you have such strong personalities as Gates and Ballmer, is the board really proactive with them, or is it more of a caretaker board?” said David Larcker, director of corporate governance research at Stanford University’s business school, who worked on the study.

Though it might not be obvious outside the boardroom, Microsoft’s directors have been planning the transition, according to a person briefed on the board’s meetings who was not authorized to speak about them publicly.

Discussions have been happening for a decade, the person said, and intensified in 2010. Several months ago, Mr. Ballmer suggested to the board that it was time to begin a formal succession process, the person said, and told directors on Wednesday that he would announce his retirement.

Mr. Ballmer and the board have discussed the attributes they want in the next chief executive and have been appraising internal and external executives who might be candidates. Over the last 18 to 24 months, Mr. Ballmer has personally met with several outside executives, including people outside the tech industry with experience transforming very large companies, according to the person knowledgeable about the board’s work.

“This is not a company which is in a panic because there’s not a succession plan, looking for a Lou Gerstner type to come parachuting in when I.B.M. was at death’s door,” said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, president of the Chief Executive Leadership Institute at the Yale School of Management. “He’s had a great tour of duty and financial performance.”

Even so, Microsoft analysts said one weakness of Mr. Ballmer’s hard-charging personality and leadership style had been to drive away deputies who might one day succeed him.

“Ballmer is larger than life, and I think it’s been difficult for other people to really rise up and have a noticeable public role,” Mr. Cusumano said.

For instance, Steven Sinofsky, who ran the Windows division, left last year after growing friction with Mr. Ballmer and others, and this week announced that he had joined the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. People who know him said his contentious departure from Microsoft made it very unlikely he would return.

Other former Microsoft executives could return, analysts said, including Paul Maritz, chief executive of VMware until last year; Stephen Elop, chief of Nokia; Kevin Johnson, chief of Juniper Networks, who has announced plans to step down; Jeff Raikes, chief executive of the Gates Foundation; and Chris Liddell, former chief financial officer of Microsoft and G.M.

Current Microsoft executives who could be contenders include Tony Bates, former director of Skype and now executive vice president of business development and strategy, and Satya Nadella, executive vice president of cloud and enterprise.

Speculation by analysts and executives about external candidates included Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook; Reed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix and a former director at Microsoft; Scott Forstall, who ran iOS at Apple until last year and John Legere, chief executive of T-Mobile.

The new chief executive, analysts said, must be someone who lives and breathes new consumer technologies like mobile, can speak technical language to Microsoft’s engineers and has a track record transforming a large company.

“Steve likely recognizes it’s really time to bring someone in whose heart and soul is really devoted to the different world we have around us, not the world of PCs and laptops, which is Microsoft’s world,” Mr. Cusumano said.
511 2013-08-24 Meminger, the Knicks’ first-round pick in the 1971 N.B.A. draft, joined a brilliant backcourt led by Walt Frazier, Dick Barnett and Earl Monroe. At 6 feet 1 inch and 175 pounds, he may have seemed overmatched, and he was often a backup. But he was a whirlwind dribbling upcourt, a superb defensive player and a clever ball handler with fine court sense.

His most memorable moments came in Game 7 of the 1973 Eastern Conference finals, when he replaced Monroe in the second quarter, frustrated the hot-shooting Boston Celtics guard Jo Jo White and scored 13 points. After knocking the Celtics out of the playoffs, the Knicks beat the Los Angeles Lakers for the title.

“Dean went out and shut Jo Jo down, and we won that game,” said Phil Jackson, the former Knicks forward and Bulls and Lakers coach. “It was a signature performance in our history.”

Meminger joined other members of the 1973 Knicks team for a ceremony at the Garden on April 5. “There was no one prouder than Dean to be back on the court with his teammates,” Glen Grunwald, the Knicks’ general manager, said in a statement.

A native of Walterboro, S.C., Meminger came to Harlem with his family as a seventh-grader, then starred at Rice and became a dazzling figure at West 135th Street playground games.

“By the time I was 18, I was considered a ballplayer by the other dudes in the park,” he once said. “They were 23, 27, 35 years old, but I could participate. It’s very rugged out here. It’s more physical than the N.B.A.”

Meminger became an all-American guard at Marquette, averaging 18.8 points for three seasons, and was named the most valuable player of the 1970 N.I.T. After three seasons with the Knicks, he played for two with the Atlanta Hawks, then returned to the Knicks in the 1976-77 season. He had a career average of 6.1 points a game.

Meminger coached the New York Stars to the Women’s Professional Basketball League championship in 1980. Two years later he was named coach of the Albany Patroons of the Continental Basketball Association, but Jackson replaced him in midseason.

He was long plagued by drugs. In an interview with The New York Times in 2003, when he was coaching at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., Meminger said his cocaine use had escalated after he left the N.B.A. He said he had received treatment for addiction but had several relapses, even while working as a drug counselor. But he said he had been drug free since June 2001.

“Once I left basketball I used to medicate that pain, ache, emptiness — at least that was my perception,” he said. “I isolated my family, alienated my kids.”

He told of fathering children with his high school and college sweethearts and said he had not helped raise his son, Dean Jr., a reporter for the cable television station NY1, or his daughter, Maisha Meminger, who received a graduate degree in social work.

“If I wanted to say somebody was my son, Dean is my son,” he said. “Understands what values are, a loyal, family guy. I don’t know where he learned it from.”
512 2013-08-24 “We are going to act very deliberately so that we’re making decisions consistent with our national interest as well as our assessment of what can advance our objectives in Syria,” the official said.

Kosovo is an obvious precedent for Mr. Obama because, as in Syria, civilians were killed and Russia had longstanding ties to the government authorities accused of the abuses. In 1999, President Bill Clinton used the endorsement of NATO and the rationale of protecting a vulnerable population to justify 78 days of airstrikes.

A senior administration official said the Kosovo precedent was one of many subjects discussed in continuing White House meetings on the crisis in Syria. Officials are also debating whether a military strike would have unintended consequences, destabilize neighbors like Lebanon, or lead to even greater flows of refugees into Jordan, Turkey and Egypt.

“It’s a step too far to say we’re drawing up legal justifications for an action, given that the president hasn’t made a decision,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the deliberations. “But Kosovo, of course, is a precedent of something that is perhaps similar.”

In the Mediterranean, the Navy’s regional commander postponed a scheduled port call in Naples, Italy, for a destroyer so that the ship would remain with a second destroyer in striking distance of Syria during the crisis. Pentagon officials said the decision did not reflect any specific orders from Washington, but both destroyers had on board Tomahawk cruise missiles, long-range weapons that probably would be among the first launched against targets in Syria should the president decide to take military action.

On Friday, the Russian government called on President Bashar al-Assad of Syria to allow United Nations investigators into the areas east of Damascus where the attack occurred. But American and foreign diplomats said Russia’s move did not reflect any shift in its backing of Mr. Assad or its resistance to punitive measures in the Security Council.

In a statement, Russia’s foreign ministry put the onus on Syria’s opposition forces to provide secure access to the site of the “reported incident.” A second statement suggested that the Russians believed the attack was actually a provocation by the rebels. It cited reports criticizing government troops that were posted on the Internet hours before the attack.

“More and more evidence emerges indicating that this criminal act had an openly provocative character,” Aleksandr K. Lukashevich, a spokesman for Russia’s foreign ministry, said in the statement. “The talk here is about a previously planned action.”

However, Mr. Lukashevich may have been confused by YouTube’s practice of time-stamping uploaded videos based on the time in its California headquarters, no matter the originating time zone. The attacks occurred early Wednesday in Syria, when it would still have been Tuesday in California for about eight more hours.

Mr. Lukashevich praised the Assad government for welcoming Carla del Ponte, a member of a United Nations commission on Syria who suggested in May that the rebels had used chemical weapons, and he accused the Syrian opposition of not cooperating with the investigation by United Nations experts.

The Syrian government did not comment on Friday.

On Friday CBS News, citing administration officials, reported that American intelligence agencies detected activity at locations known to be chemical weapons sites before Wednesday’s attack. The activity, these officials believe, may have been preparations for the assault.

Other Western officials have been less cautious than Mr. Obama. “I know that some people in the world would like to say that this is some kind of conspiracy brought about by the opposition in Syria,” said William Hague, Britain’s foreign secretary, in an interview with Sky News. “I think the chances of that are vanishingly small, and so we do believe that this is a chemical attack by the Assad regime.”

Mr. Hague did not speak of using force, as France has, if the government was found to have been behind the attack. But he said it was “not something that a humane or civilized world can ignore.”

Such statements carry echoes of Kosovo, where the Yugoslav government of Slobodan Milosevic brutally cracked down on ethnic Albanians in 1998 and 1999, prompting the Clinton administration to decide to act militarily in concert with NATO allies.

Mr. Clinton knew there was no prospect of securing a resolution from the Security Council authorizing the use of force. Russia was a longtime supporter of the Milosevic government and was certain to wield its vote in the Security Council to block action.

So the Clinton administration justified its actions, in part, as an intervention to protect a vulnerable and embattled population. NATO carried out airstrikes before Mr. Milosevic agreed to NATO demands, which required the withdrawal of Yugoslav forces.

“The argument in 1999 in the case of Kosovo was that there was a grave humanitarian emergency and the international community had the responsibility to act and, if necessary, to do so with force,” said Ivo H. Daalder, a former United States ambassador to NATO who is now the president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.

In the case of Syria, Mr. Daalder said, the administration could argue that the use of chemical weapons had created a grave humanitarian emergency and that without a forceful response there would be a danger that the Assad government might use it on a large scale once again. Another basis for intervening in Syria, Mr. Daalder said, might be violation of the 1925 Geneva Protocol, which outlaws the use in war of poison gas. Dennis B. Ross, a former adviser to Mr. Obama on the Middle East, said that if the president wanted to develop a legal justification for acting, “there are lots of ways to do it outside the U.N. context.”
513 2013-08-24 But I was unprepared for the vitriolic response she inspired. Thousands of people have “liked” the Facebook page “I Hate Skyler White.” Tens of thousands have “liked” a similar Facebook page with a name that cannot be printed here. When people started telling me about the “hate boards” for Skyler on the Web site for , the network that broadcasts the show, I knew it was probably best not to look, but I wanted to understand what was happening.

A typical online post complained that Skyler was a “shrieking, hypocritical harpy” and didn’t “deserve the great life she has.”

“I have never hated a TV-show character as much as I hate her,” one poster wrote. The consensus among the haters was clear: Skyler was a ball-and-chain, a drag, a shrew, an “annoying bitch wife.”

I enjoy taking on complex, difficult characters and have always striven to capture the truth of those people, whether or not it’s popular. Vince Gilligan, the creator of “Breaking Bad,” wanted Skyler to be a woman with a backbone of steel who would stand up to whatever came her way, who wouldn’t just collapse in the corner or wring her hands in despair. He and the show’s writers made Skyler multilayered and, in her own way, morally compromised. But at the end of the day, she hasn’t been judged by the same set of standards as Walter.

As an actress, I realize that viewers are entitled to have whatever feelings they want about the characters they watch. But as a human being, I’m concerned that so many people react to Skyler with such venom. Could it be that they can’t stand a woman who won’t suffer silently or “stand by her man”? That they despise her because she won’t back down or give up? Or because she is, in fact, Walter’s equal?

It’s notable that viewers have expressed similar feelings about other complex TV wives — Carmela Soprano of “The Sopranos,” Betty Draper of “Mad Men.” Male characters don’t seem to inspire this kind of public venting and vitriol.

At some point on the message boards, the character of Skyler seemed to drop out of the conversation, and people transferred their negative feelings directly to me. The already harsh online comments became outright personal attacks. One such post read: “Could somebody tell me where I can find Anna Gunn so I can kill her?” Besides being frightened (and taking steps to ensure my safety), I was also astonished: how had disliking a character spiraled into homicidal rage at the actress playing her?

But I finally realized that most people’s hatred of Skyler had little to do with me and a lot to do with their own perception of women and wives. Because Skyler didn’t conform to a comfortable ideal of the archetypical female, she had become a kind of Rorschach test for society, a measure of our attitudes toward gender.

I can’t say that I have enjoyed being the center of the storm of Skyler hate. But in the end, I’m glad that this discussion has happened, that it has taken place in public and that it has illuminated some of the dark and murky corners that we often ignore or pretend aren’t still there in our everyday lives.
514 2013-08-24 Gay conversion therapy is a blatant form of child abuse. I would like to thank Stephen M. Sweeney, the president of the New Jersey State Senate, and Gov. Chris Christie for working to end this practice in New Jersey (“Christie Signs Gay ‘Conversion Therapy’ Ban,” front page, Aug. 20).

Yet even though Mr. Christie says there is nothing wrong with being gay, he refuses to support gay marriage. Those two positions just don’t jive. For him to sign one measure and not the other smacks of political calculation. Presidential aspirations should not stand in the way of full equal rights for gay couples in New Jersey.
515 2013-08-24 Microsoft, Then and Now

Microsoft’s profit is more than twice what it was in 2000, the year Steven A. Ballmer took over as C.E.O. But in that time, the company’s stock price has fallen, along with its market value.
516 2013-08-24 FOR more than a decade, investors loved emerging markets. Now many seem to fear them.

There have been sharp falls this month in several markets, from India to Turkey, reflecting concerns about weakening currencies. But even before those declines, emerging markets were underperforming relative to developed markets to an extent not seen since the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s.

As can be seen in the accompanying charts, the MSCI Emerging Market Index is down more than 10 percent this year, while the world index, covering all developed markets, is up an equivalent amount.

That disparity is not caused by one or two exceptional performers. The charts list the 10 largest emerging markets, as measured by the market capitalization of their stocks. Each has lost money this year. Among the 10 largest developed countries, all but two markets are up for the year, measured in United States dollars to adjust for currency fluctuations. The exceptions are Australia and Canada, which came through the financial crisis relatively well and until recently had been prospering from exports of raw materials to emerging markets, particularly China. And both of them are up when measured in local currencies.

The use of dollar figures hurts the reported performance of some emerging markets. The South African and Malaysian markets are up a little for the year, measured in local currencies, but down when measured in dollars. In India and Brazil, the local-currency market declines are less than half as large as the dollar-based figures shown.

The Asian financial crisis, in which developing countries that had maintained fixed exchange rates were forced to abruptly devalue their currencies, turned out to have a lasting effect. Countries decided that it was critical to run balance of payments surpluses and to build up foreign currency reserves. The willingness of the United States and Europe to run large deficits helped.

That stood the developing countries in good stead when the credit crisis erupted in 2008, but afterward, it became harder for the developing countries. Srinivas Thiruvadanthai, the director of research at the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center, notes that some of them, including India, Brazil and South Africa, are now running substantial deficits.
517 2013-08-24 But while it shut down after 15 months, Simon Sez still looms large for its former landlord, an Upper West Side property owner named George H. Beane, who said he remained aggrieved at the actions of Mr. Stringer and his partners.

“There were lots and lots of broken promises,” Mr. Beane said in an interview.

Located on a lively stretch of Amsterdam Avenue, Simon Sez was an attempt by Mr. Stringer to turn around the fortunes of a cramped tavern previously called the Shark Bar, owned by an acquaintance of his brother’s.

Mr. Stringer arranged to take over the operation, signing up investors from his circle of friends, including Charlie King, who later rose to prominence as an ally of the Cuomo family and, until last year, served as executive director of the New York State Democratic Party.

The bar was a more basic affair than Uptown Local, which had a full menu and a dining room. Simon Sez, patrons recall, featured a jukebox and, possibly, a television. (Recollections differ.)

Mr. Stringer said he could not recall how the partners settled on the name, but a local artist created a logo that featured “Simon,” a nerdy, bespectacled cartoon character whose likeness was printed on sweatshirts.

In 1990, a recession was in full swing, and business did not pick up. Soon, Mr. Beane, the landlord, was complaining about loud music and sanitary conditions that left something to be desired.

Citing unpaid bills, Mr. Beane eventually pursued eviction. In an interview, he said that Mr. Stringer and his partners fell behind on their rent and recalled Mr. Stringer offering a variety of excuses.

“He was mugged once, that’s why we didn’t get the check,” Mr. Beane said. “His checkbook was stolen once, that’s why we didn’t get the check.”

Mr. Stringer vehemently disputed that account, saying those exchanges did not take place. “Twenty-five years ago, like many small business owners, I had the curse of a bad landlord,” he said in a statement, adding, “Simply put, he was a jerk.”

Mr. Stringer said that Mr. Beane took an early dislike to him and his partners and went out of his way to keep them from obtaining a new liquor license.

Mr. Beane did write to the state liquor authority about the license, though he said it was because the bar was a poor tenant.

Mr. Beane said he was owed tens of thousands of dollars in unpaid rent; Mr. Stringer says that he left no outstanding debt.

Both sides agree that Mr. Beane did not sue or pursue the matter further after Simon Sez vacated the site. “I knew it would be fruitless and I didn’t want to waste the time,” Mr. Beane said.

By then, Mr. Stringer had shifted focus to Uptown Local, which opened in the winter of 1991, while he was still overseeing operations at Simon Sez. The two establishments overlapped for about six months.

Mr. King, Mr. Stringer’s partner on the project, said he had fond memories of their days at Simon Sez — and he retained a sense of humor about the bar’s demise.

“Ninety-nine percent of these kinds of concerns close within the first year to three years,” Mr. King said. “In politics, it’s good to be part of the 99 percent, but in business, it actually isn’t.”
518 2013-08-24 A big jump in Microsoft helped lift the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday.

Microsoft had its biggest gain in four years after its chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, said he would retire. The surge for the company, part of the 30-member Dow, contributed more than a third of the index’s advance.

The Dow closed up 46.77 points, or 0.3 percent, at 15,010.51.

The stock market stumbled at midmorning after the government reported a plunge in new-home sales, then drifted steadily higher in the afternoon. Trading volume was very light.

The Commerce Department released data on July purchases of new homes, which showed that Americans had cut back sharply, a sign that higher mortgage rates may slow the housing recovery.

Sales of newly built homes dropped 13.4 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 394,000, the lowest in nine months. And sales fell from a rate of 455,000 in June, which was revised down from a previously reported 497,000.

The housing rebound that began last year has helped drive economic growth and create more construction jobs. But mortgage rates have climbed a percentage point since May. The increase has begun to steal some momentum from the market.
519 2013-08-24 Nonetheless, it has given itself a year to choose a successor, and Mr. Ballmer, 57, will stay on until then. The company declined requests for an interview with him.

Some analysts have suggested that Microsoft could use a seasoned turnaround artist in the mold of Lou Gerstner, who rescued I.B.M. from irrelevance in the 1990s. Current and former Microsoft executives said the company would more likely turn to someone with a technology pedigree. Some pundits have called for Bill Gates, Microsoft’s co-founder and chairman, to return to the company, in a nod to how Steven P. Jobs revitalized Apple.

But people who know him said Mr. Gates has no intention of doing that because of his full-time focus on philanthropy.

Others believe Microsoft is not governable in its current form. Ben Slivka, a 14-year employee of Microsoft who left in 1999, said the company should split up into five independent companies he calls “Baby Bills” devoted to Windows client software, Office applications, servers, Xbox and the Web.

“Give each of them (say) $5B for a rainy day, but not much more,” Mr. Slivka wrote in a post on Facebook after the news of Mr. Ballmer’s retirement. “You want them to be hungry. Return most of the cash hoard to shareholders.”

That Mr. Ballmer announced his plans without a successor in place is puzzling and led to speculation among current and former Microsoft executives that Mr. Gates might have been losing patience with his longtime friend, whom he first met when they were students at Harvard University in the 1970s. A spokesman for Mr. Gates said he was not available for interviews.

While the board, Mr. Ballmer and Microsoft gave no public indication that he was pushed out, the disappointing stock price may have been a factor in his departure. Over Mr. Ballmer’s 13-year tenure at Microsoft, the stock has lost 36 percent of its value, if the dividends that Microsoft pays out are excluded. Apple, meanwhile, was up nearly 2,000 percent over the same period. With the announcement of Mr. Ballmer’s departure on Friday, Microsoft’s stock rose more than 7 percent, closing at $34.75.

“Microsoft will have to go through a very hard and painful transition,” said Joachim Kempin, a former senior Microsoft executive, who has written a book critical of the company under Mr. Ballmer. “I’m not very confident the next guy will be able to immediately turn the ship around.”

This year, ValueAct, a hedge fund known for behind-the-scenes shareholder activism, began acquiring a small stake in Microsoft. Some analysts say they believe other shareholders might have been willing to join with the fund in efforts to lobby for management changes at the company. Two years ago, the investor David Einhorn said Mr. Ballmer was “stuck in the past” and called for him to go.

Mr. Ballmer provided plenty of fodder for such critics over the years with his dismissals of technologies that turned out to be game-changers. At a forum in Seattle in 2007, shortly after Mr. Jobs introduced the iPhone, Mr. Ballmer said there was “no chance that the iPhone is going to get any significant market share.”

Apple now has 13 percent of the global smartphone market, and the company made over $18 billion in revenue from iPhone during the last quarter — four times Microsoft’s Windows sales during that period. Microsoft’s mobile phone software runs on less than 4 percent of devices shipped.

Microsoft’s financial performance in the coming quarters could also have amplified calls for a leadership change. The company posted disappointing results in its most recent quarter as its venerable Windows business showed signs of succumbing to a broader slump in personal computer sales. Microsoft also disclosed a $900 million charge to cover its unsold inventory of Surface tablets, the company’s answer to the iPad.

Mr. Ballmer’s departure comes after the company’s recent announcement of a major restructuring intended to improve its nimbleness and reduce infighting between its powerful divisions. That shake-up will now be overseen by a lame duck chief executive with declining influence over the company’s work force of nearly 100,000 people, said Robert Bontempo, a professor at Columbia University’s business school.

“To me it’s a recipe for disaster,” he said. “They’re not getting rid of the old guard quickly enough. I predict we’re going to have 12 months of stagnation from Microsoft.” (Mr. Ballmer has in the past said he intended to remain at the helm of the company until his youngest son left high school; he is now a freshman.)

In a statement on Friday, Mr. Ballmer said he believed the company needed an executive who planned to remain well beyond its restructuring.

“My original thoughts on timing would have had my retirement happen in the middle of our company’s transformation to a devices and services company,” said Mr. Ballmer, whose stock holdings in Microsoft are worth more than $11 billion. “We need a C.E.O. who will be here longer term for this new direction.”

The selection of the new chief will be overseen by a special committee of the board that includes John W. Thompson, the board’s lead independent director, and Mr. Gates.

Mr. Ballmer will be remembered by his fans for his exuberant personality and relentless salesmanship on the company’s behalf. While his failure to seize new opportunities like mobile phones, tablets and search hurt his standing with investors, he was praised for continuing to squeeze dollars out of its existing businesses. Annual revenue at Microsoft more than tripled under his watch.

Mr. Colony of Forrester said Mr. Ballmer was most successful when he had a technology visionary, Mr. Gates, by his side.

“It was when those two separated that the trouble began,” he said.
520 2013-08-24 United Nations inspectors are already in Damascus, just a short drive away from the attack, after arriving Sunday to investigate previous claims about chemical weapons. Heavy fighting in the eastern suburbs has made it impossible for them to examine the new allegations, even as the passage of time renders the forensic evidence less valuable.

The British foreign secretary, William Hague, said Friday that the Syrian government was almost surely behind the suspected chemical weapons attack. “I know that some people in the world would like to say that this is some kind of conspiracy brought about by the opposition in Syria,” he said. “I think the chances of that are vanishingly small and so we do believe that this is a chemical attack by the Assad regime.”

Mr. Hague also said time was of the essence in getting United Nations weapons inspectors to the site. “It seems the Assad regime has something to hide,” he said. “Why else have they not allowed the U.N. team to go there?”

Mr. Hague did not speak of using force, as the French have done, if the government was found to have been behind the attack. But he said it was “not something that a humane or civilized world can ignore.” He said Britain would hold urgent talks on Friday with Mr. Ban, Secretary of State John Kerry; whom he had spoken to Thursday night, and the Qatari foreign minister, Khaled al-Attiyah.

Russia released a second statement Friday, once again suggesting that the opposition was responsible for the attack.

“More and more evidence emerges indicating that this criminal act had an openly provocative character,” Aleksandr Lukashevich, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said in the statement. He said there were reports circulating on the Internet, with accusations against government troops, that were posted on YouTube several hours before the attack. “So the talk here is about a previously planned action,” he said.

However, he may have been confused by YouTube’s practice of time-stamping videos based on the time in its California headquarters that a user uploads material, no matter the originating time zone. The attacks occurred early Wednesday, when it was still Tuesday in California for about eight more hours.

In his statement, Mr. Lukashevich praised the Syrian government for welcoming Carla del Ponte, a member of a United Nations commission on Syria who suggested in May that the rebels had used chemical weapons, and he also accused the Syrian opposition of not cooperating with the investigation by United Nations experts. The unwillingness of rebels to provide security for the experts, he said, “directly hinders the objective investigation of statements on possible use of chemical weapons in Syria.”

The Syrian government did not comment on Friday.

China, like Russia a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, issued a statement on Friday saying it believed that the inspection team “can fully consult with the Syrian government to ensure the smooth progress of the investigation work,” and said, “All sides should avoid prejudging the outcome.”

If a chemical weapons attack by government forces is proved, it would indicate a step beyond President Obama’s “red line” on Syria, possibly prompting United States intervention. To that end, senior officials met on Thursday at the White House to consider the American response.

In an interview with CNN broadcast Friday morning, Mr. Obama said the United States was “gathering information,” but he suggested that it was already clear that the attack would demand “America’s attention.”

“What we’ve seen indicates that this is clearly a big event of grave concern,” Mr. Obama said.

Mr. Obama said his administration did not expect cooperation from the Syrian leadership in determining what happened outside Damascus on Wednesday. When chemical weapons are used, he said, “that starts getting to some core national interests that the United States has.”

The humanitarian toll in the Syrian conflict keeps growing as world powers search for a solution, according to a report Friday from Unicef. The agency reported that at least one million children have fled the country, mostly to Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. According to Unicef, more than 768,000 of the child refugees are younger than 11.
521 2013-08-25 The greatest botanical artist of this century quietly works by hand at her home in the south of France....
522 2013-08-25 McCULLOUGH--James J.,Jr. Coney Island Pioneering Family. Jim, 84, of Massapequa, NY, passed away August 19, peacefully at home. Loving husband to the late Lois, son of the late James & Helen. Cherished by daughters Carol, Mary & Anthony Meluso, Lo...
523 2013-08-25 Daniela Hantuchova, who turned pro in 1999, remains on tour at age 30 and is intent on returning to the top 10 in the rankings....
524 2013-08-25 The early matches to watch at the United States Open are outside of Arthur Ashe Stadium....
525 2013-08-25 Fans visiting Flushing Meadows for the United States Open over the next two weeks will notice a few changes on the grounds....
526 2013-08-25 Jessica Mareda Rambo and Ibert Garfield Schultz were married Saturday evening by the Rev. Dr. Cari Jackson, a United Church of Christ minister, at Studio 450, an event site in Manhattan.

Mrs. Schultz, 31, is the director of programs and partnerships at the Urban Assembly School of Design and Construction, a public high school focusing on architecture and engineering in Manhattan. She oversees fund-raising, internships and internal programs She graduated from Spelman College. She received a master’s in teaching from Pace, and a Master of Fine Arts in film from Columbia.

She is the daughter of Dorothy Craig Rambo and Harold E. Rambo of Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

Mr. Schultz, also 31, is an associate in the Manhattan office of the law firm Hughes, Hubbard & Reed. He graduated cum laude from Morehouse College, and received a law degree from the University of Michigan. From 2005 to 2007, he was a Peace Corps volunteer and community health educator in Nicaragua.

He is a son of Denise M. White of Newark.
527 2013-08-25 Gov. Jerry Brown of California declared a state of emergency for the city and county of San Francisco over the weekend, as a large wildfire near Yosemite National Park threatened water and electricity going to the area.

The fire could cause “temporary interruption” of water and electricity, Mr. Brown said on Friday, as reservoirs and hydroelectric plants were at risk.

The fire is approaching the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir, which delivers water to about 2.6 million customers in San Francisco and the surrounding region.

By early afternoon on Saturday, the fires had not yet had any effect on the region’s water supply, the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission said in a statement. Crews continued to inspect power lines in affected areas, but no damage had been reported, the statement said.

The so-called Rim Fire is northwest of the national park and began several days ago. It now covers 125,000 acres and is only 5 percent contained, said Daniel Berlant, a spokesman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, said Saturday. About 4,500 homes are threatened in Tuolumne City and Ponderosa Hills, he said, and the fire continues “to burn very actively.”

The fire would continue to move toward the homes through Sunday, Mr. Berlant said, pushed by strong winds out of the south.
528 2013-08-25 Stacy Lewis withdrew from the Canadian Women’s Open after shooting a 74 in the opening round. She did not play in Friday’s second round, citing an illness.

Lewis said after Thursday’s round that she needed to “get away from it,” after a round in which she had five bogeys in her first seven holes. She gained only one stroke back by the end of the day. Lewis is ranked second in the world, and until the Canadian Open she had made the cut in all 18 L.P.G.A. events and had won three tournaments.
529 2013-08-25 “I think before the first match — and probably anything before the first match — there will be nerves there,” he said. “I expect to be pretty nervous because it’s a new experience and it’s different. But I think once the tournament gets going, I don’t think it changes. I don’t think it changes too much. There was a lot of pressure on me for a lot of years to win a Grand Slam, and then same sort of thing at Wimbledon. I wouldn’t imagine it would be the same here.”

Murray has not played particularly well since winning at Wimbledon, with losses in the third round at Montreal and the quarterfinals of the Cincinnati event, but he said his first practice at Arthur Ashe Stadium last week put him in a positive frame of mind.

“I don’t know; there was so much relief last year that I wasn’t necessarily enjoying it as much as I should have,” Murray said, “so when I came back and practiced on the Arthur Ashe court, you know, the memories came back, and that was nice.”

Asked whether one memory stood out from last year’s tournament, Murray said: “Well, winning the tournament. That was probably the strongest one.”

Murray did not, however, agree with a suggestion that his goal should be to claim the No. 1 ranking for the first time.

“No, look, everyone has different goals in their career,” he said. “Everyone is motivated by different things. You know, my whole career for four, five, six years back, it was about winning Grand Slams. That was what gave me the motivation to train.

“When I did lose in a Grand Slam, you know, that was what was most disappointing for me. I could win a Masters Series event, and the first question I would get asked when I came in here was, ‘When are you going to win a Grand Slam?’ It wasn’t, ‘When are you going to get to No. 1?’ or whatever. That became my motivation, to try to win Grand Slams. So that, I would imagine, would be the case for the rest of my career.”

In her news conference, Serena Williams, the defending women’s champion and a 16-time Grand Slam singles champion, said that she, too, did not feel overwhelming pressure to win again.

“That’s the beauty of my career: I don’t need to do anything at all,” she said. “Everything I do from this day forward is a bonus. Actually, from yesterday. It doesn’t matter. Everything for me is just extra.”
530 2013-08-25 Emirates Team New Zealand is one win from advancing to the America’s Cup finals against the defending champion, Oracle Team USA.

The Kiwis reached a top speed of 54 miles per hour on San Francisco Bay to coast past Italy’s Luna Rossa in the Louis Vuitton Cup, taking a 6-1 lead in the best-of-13 challenger series.
531 2013-08-25 The government installed by Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi has renewed the Mubarak-era state of emergency removing all rights to due process or protections against police abuse. And police officials have pronounced themselves “vindicated.” They say the new government’s claim that it is battling Islamist violence corroborates what they have been saying all along: that it was Islamists, not the police, who killed protesters before Mr. Mubarak’s ouster.

“What is different is that the police feel for the first time in two and a half years, for the first time since January 2011, that they have the upper hand, and they do not need to fear public accountability or questioning,” said Heba Morayef, a researcher for Human Rights Watch.

In the more than seven weeks since Mr. Morsi’s ouster, security forces have carried out at least three mass shootings at pro-Morsi street protests, killed more than a thousand Morsi supporters and arrested at least as many, actions Ms. Morayef characterized as “massive police abuse on an unprecedented scale.” But even beyond the Islamists, she said, “anyone who questions the police right now is a traitor, and that is a protection that they did not have even in 2010,” when public criticism was tolerated and at least a few complaints were investigated.

Prosecutors had already begun investigating Mohamed ElBaradei, the liberal former United Nations diplomat, for “betraying the public trust.”

President Obama has said the new government is on a “dangerous path” marked by “arbitrary arrests, a broad crackdown on Mr. Morsi’s associations and supporters” and “violence that’s taken the lives of hundreds of people and wounded thousands more.”

Warning that “our traditional cooperation cannot continue as usual when civilians are being killed in the streets and rights are being rolled back,” the president canceled a planned joint military exercise. He pledged a review of the $1.3 billion a year in military aid to Egypt, and the State Department took steps to hold back some of the roughly $200 million in nonmilitary aid. But mindful of Egypt’s importance in the region, he stopped short of declaring the takeover an illegal “coup” or cutting off the aid, instead urging an early return to democracy.

Officials of the new government insist they are committed to establishing the rule of law, as soon as they overcome what they describe as the mortal threat to Egypt of violence by the Brotherhood and other Islamist supporters of Mr. Morsi.

The police appear to be rounding up Brotherhood members on the basis of their affiliation, without other publicly known evidence of crimes. Mr. Morsi is being held incommunicado at an undisclosed location. But government spokesmen insist that every individual, including Mr. Morsi, will be tried by a court and released if acquitted.

“It is up to the courts,” Nabil Fahmy, the interim foreign minister, said in a recent interview. All will be handled “in accordance with the rule of law,” he said.

But some of the recent charges, like those against the two Canadians, strain credibility. Tarek Loubani, a Canadian physician with Palestinian roots and a history as a liberal and pro-Palestinian activist, was in Egypt on his way to the Gaza Strip to provide training to Palestinian doctors. John Greyson, a liberal Toronto filmmaker whose work often focuses on cosmopolitan sexual themes, was with him, documenting the trip for a possible movie. A lawyer for the two said they were stopped at a checkpoint near a street battle, trying to walk back to their hotel after the 7 p.m. curfew.

“They were just in the wrong place at very much the wrong time,” the lawyer, Khaled El-Shalakany, said Saturday.

The exact circumstances of their arrest were unclear. In a public statement, Egyptian prosecutors accused them of “participating with members of the Muslim Brotherhood” in an armed assault on a police station and “taking part in bloody crimes of violence.” Prosecutors told reporters at the time that the police had detained 240 Brotherhood “members,” including two Canadians. (Mr. Shalakany said they remained in jail as “overwhelmed” prosecutors tried to deal with a backlog of hundreds of arrests in the crackdown.)

At the Suez steel plant, workers started a sit-in several weeks ago over compensation, health care and the firing of about a dozen employees. On Aug. 12, state news media reported that the Egyptian military had tried to force an end to the strike, arresting two of its leaders. “They picked the ones with beards!” a bystander shouts in a video of the arrests.

An army statement at the time used unmistakable coded language to blame the Islamists, charging that “infiltrating elements” who were “exploiters of religion” were trying to poison the workers’ meetings “in the name of religion.”

A state-run newspaper quoted the interim labor minister, Kamal Abu Eita, saying that security forces had found Brotherhood members from another factory involved in the strike. A privately owned newspaper supporting the military takeover, Youm El Saba, quoted Mr. Eita blaming the Brotherhood for inciting strikes in several cities.

Among some supporters of the new government, “Islamist” has become a popular indictment. After Mr. Obama criticized Egypt’s crackdown on the Islamists, Tahani el-Gebali, a former judge close to the military, publicly accused him of having ties to the Brotherhood, claiming his Kenyan half brother directed investments for the group.

The activists with the April 6 group being investigated for spying, Asmaa Mahfouz and Esraa Abdel Fattah, were associated with the group when it was working in opposition to Mr. Mubarak. State news media reports on Saturday indicated the charges were a revival of old allegations that the group had worked on behalf of Western powers to stir unrest in Egypt. The notion was first floated by Mubarak intelligence agencies and the generals who succeeded him, no evidence has emerged to support the claims, and the group has denied the charges.

The journalist who spoke out about his colleague’s killing had been driving with the colleague, Tamer Abdel Raouf, the head of the local office of the official newspaper, Al Ahram, in the delta province of Beheira. When their car was at a checkpoint, soldiers enforcing the 7 p.m. curfew shot and killed Mr. Abdel Raouf.

The authorities have granted journalists a curfew exemption, and Mr. Abdel Raouf was driving a car bearing an official press badge from a meeting with the governor. A military spokesman offered no apology, only condolences, and warned others not to try to speed through checkpoints.

The next day, the journalist who had been in the passenger seat, Hamed al-Barbari, began giving television interviews contradicting the spokesman. Rather than speeding, Mr. Barbari said, his colleague was shot in the head while slowly turning his car in response to a soldier’s instructions. “A foolish act” by one soldier, said Mr. Barbari, who was injured when the car crashed.

About two hours after he spoke, a prosecutor arrested Mr. Barbari in the hospital and placed him in custody for four days, for allegedly possessing an illegal shotgun in the car at the time of the episode.

Prosecutors set a court date to begin investigating a citizen complaint against Mr. ElBaradei after he quit as vice president to protest the police violence against the Islamists. (A conviction could carry only a fine, and he had already left the country.)

Last week, a prosecutor even opened an investigation into some of the young organizers behind the protests calling for the military to remove Mr. Morsi. The prosecutor was weighing a complaint of “disturbing the public order” because they criticized the release from prison of Mr. Mubarak.

Such a case would be an attack on the new government’s first supporters. Prosecutors have not yet begun a full investigation of the complaint and could still set it aside.

“It is ridiculous,” said Mai Wahba, a leader of the group.
532 2013-08-25 Mr. Ballmer was Mr. Gates’s old friend and chosen successor, but there is no obvious successor to Mr. Ballmer. One thing is clear: “Being the next chief executive of Microsoft isn’t going to be an easy task for anyone,” Mr. Cusumano says.

Mr. Cusumano is the co-author of two books about the company, “Microsoft Secrets” and “Competing on Internet Time,” which chronicled Microsoft’s assault on the commercial pioneer in Internet browsers, Netscape.

Mr. Cusumano and his co-author on the Microsoft-Netscape book, David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School, are now writing a book that examines the strategy and leadership lessons to be learned from three technology executives, Mr. Gates, Mr. Jobs and Andrew S. Grove, former chief executive of Intel.

There are examples for Microsoft to follow: a onetime technology leader has experienced a revival each decade since the 1980s. Back then, Intel was staggering under the Japanese challenge in the memory chip market. I.B.M. stepped in to make a 20 percent investment because Intel was a valued supplier, and the help gave the chip maker some financial breathing room. Intel then made the leap into microprocessors, the brainy chips that power personal computers.

In the 1990s, I.B.M. almost went under as the profits from its mainframe business were gutted by competition from low-cost PC-style computing. But I.B.M. retooled its mainframe business and moved into higher-margin software and services businesses.

In the 2000s, it was Apple’s turn. Under Mr. Jobs, the company first stabilized its desktop computer business with some nifty designs. Then Apple went on to transform the digital music business and smartphones, with the iPod, the iTunes store and the iPhone. And the iPad created the modern tablet market.

Can Microsoft pull off a similar revival act in this decade?

Microsoft is different from the other three companies in one important respect. It is facing a crisis of technology leadership, but not a financial crisis. Microsoft’s Windows operating systems and Office productivity software remain immensely profitable. By contrast, Intel, I.B.M. and Apple were fighting for survival. In each case, it was clear that drastic action was needed — and it was taken, successfully.

Microsoft’s seeming strength, according to George F. Colony, the chief executive of Forrester Research, has proved a weakness.

“I would argue Microsoft does have a financial problem, and it’s been the fear of losing those massive profits from Windows and Office,” Mr. Colony says. “By doing everything it can to try to protect those profits, Microsoft has taken a defensive position for more than a decade. And in technology, if you play defense you’re going to lose.”

Still, thanks to the success of its mainstay businesses, Microsoft has been able to afford multibillion-dollar investments in newer fields like Internet search, digital media players, smartphone software and, recently, tablets.

The problem for Microsoft has been that it has often been forced to make those investments while playing catch-up. In the search and smartphone markets, all the snowballing effects of leadership, brand recognition and consumer habits that helped Microsoft in the PC market are working against it as it tries to catch Google and Apple.

Past success can obscure new opportunities when emerging markets or technologies don’t operate by the same rules as a company’s tried-and-true products. And Microsoft has suffered from that kind of corporate myopia. In an interview with me in 2007, Mr. Ballmer acknowledged the problem.

“One of the biggest mistakes I’ve made over time is not wanting to nurture innovations where I either didn’t get the business model or we didn’t have it,” he said.

In his memo to Microsoft employees on Friday, Mr. Ballmer pointed to the challenge ahead for the company. At 57, he has decided to make way for a successor who can guide “our transformation to a devices and services company.”

No mention of software as such. But a big part of the job for Mr. Ballmer’s successor will be re-engineering Windows and Office for delivery over the Internet onto all kinds of devices including smartphones and tablets, according to Mr. Yoffie of the Harvard Business School.

Even if that is successful, the profit margins of the PC days will probably never return, especially when competing against free and low-cost alternatives, like Google’s Android operating system and Google Docs.

“But unless Microsoft makes that transition with its core products,” Mr. Yoffie says, “the company is in danger of heading into the kind of crisis it is trying to avoid.”
533 2013-08-25 GAZA — Egypt reopened its borders with the Gaza Strip on Saturday five days after closing the crossing, which had prevented people from entering or leaving the Palestinian enclave and deepened its isolation from the rest of the world.

Egypt opened the Rafah crossing for four hours, allowing about 345 Palestinians to leave Gaza and 619 people to enter, many of whom had been stuck for days on the Egyptian side, said Maher Abu Sabha, director of crossings in the Hamas government.

Egypt’s military-led government had essentially sealed off the territory, shutting down not only the travel crossing but also hundreds of smuggling tunnels that Gaza relies on for building materials, cheaper fuel, weapons and other products restricted by Israel. Most of the tunnels remained closed.

Traffic through Rafah has been cut by 75 percent since the July 3 ouster of Egypt’s Islamist president, Mohamed Morsi, according to Gisha, an Israeli group that tracks the crossing as part of its advocacy for access to Gaza. Rafah is the main crossing point and gateway to the world for most Gaza residents, as Israel generally restricts travel through its Erez crossing at the northern border to medical patients, merchants and foreigners.

During Mr. Morsi’s rule, an average of 40,000 people crossed Rafah each month, Gisha records showed, up from about 28,000 per month and 15,000 per month in the two years prior. Over the past seven weeks, Israel has loosened its travel restrictions, but the increase in Erez traffic has made up for less than 10 percent of the drop in Rafah.
534 2013-08-25 Monopoly, the board game, started as a critique of capitalism....
535 2013-08-25 Not so long ago, college coaches would not have dreamed of putting long snappers on full scholarship. A lineman could moonlight at the position. Why waste a scholarship on a long snapper? Conventional wisdom was that coaches were better off recruiting an extra quarterback, or three.

The landscape has changed. Paul Johnson, the coach at Georgia Tech, cited the redshirt sophomore Sean Tobin as the first long snapper he had ever signed to a scholarship out of high school. Johnson knew he would eventually need a replacement for Tyler Morgan, and he could not afford to gamble.

“A bad snap can change the game faster than anything,” Johnson said in a recent interview.

Boston College Coach Steve Addazio said innovative punting schemes had also underscored the position’s importance. More teams have adopted spread formations that put a premium on having a long snapper who can sprint downfield and help cover the return.

“You need a guy who can snap well but is also an athlete,” Addazio said. “It’s a field-position game. The fewer return yards you give up, the better your starting position is. The better your starting position is, the better chance you have to score.”

Rubio, a former long snapper at U.C.L.A., began his business about 10 years ago with Chris Sailer, his best friend from college. Sailer was the team’s place-kicker, so the two have always been especially close. At last month’s camp, Sailer instructed his kickers and punters on one side of the field while Rubio used the other. Rubio was prone to describing Sailer’s students as morons, though it was a calculated move.

“Rubio does a good job of making long snappers feel important,” said Clayton Jackson, a Rubio acolyte from Cottonwood Falls, Kan. (population: 903), where he is a senior at Chase County High School. “Before I got involved, you just felt like you were on your own. You didn’t know there were other people who did it. You didn’t know there were people who were supportive.”

Rubio is known simply as Rubio. He does not respond to “Chris.” (Even his wife calls him Rubio.) His obsession with long snapping is such that he never watches games live on television, he said. Instead, he records them so he can scan them in three minutes. He skips ahead a lot.

“Fourth down, fourth down, fourth down,” he said.

The ideal long snapper, Rubio said, has long arms and a substantial backside.

“Look at that big old butt,” Rubio said of one camper. “All the power comes from the butt. Boom!”

With college scholarships suddenly available, the secret is out: being a good long snapper, or even an adequate one, can pay off. Enter Rubio, who is something of a power broker. Each camper receives a ranking, which Rubio posts on his Web site. Because long snapping is such an esoteric skill, many college coaches lean on Rubio’s rankings as a primer for recruiting.

This is not something Rubio attempts to shield from his campers, or from their parents. In fact, he broadcasts it. While his camps are primarily about instruction, he said, they also provide an opportunity to get noticed by someone who has connections. “Maximum exposure,” Rubio calls it. One parent asked Rubio if it was too late in the recruiting process for a college to offer a scholarship to his son, a senior.

“Absolutely not,” Rubio said. “You’re being seen by me now, and coaches are going off my lists.”

Bill Vaughn, whose 14-year-old son, Jake, was attending his second Rubio camp in two weeks, found that other parents were frosty toward him until they learned that Jake was only a high school sophomore. He was not vying for a scholarship, at least not yet.

“After that, they opened up to me a little bit more,” Bill Vaughn said.

Rubio said campers often asked how frequently they should see him. The short answer: there is no such thing as too much Rubio.

“Right after a lesson, I’ve got you all cleaned up,” he said. “You’re a big boat. I’m going to set you off to sea. The longer you wait to come back to me, the more barnacles and crap I need to clean off before I can add the flames and the new engines and stuff like that.”

There is an economic side to the equation, of course. Long snapping is Rubio’s livelihood, and he typically charges each of his campers about $300 to attend his camps. Many of the boys who traveled to Auburn came from out of state, and the entire enterprise can get expensive in a hurry. Rubio organizes roughly 35 camps over the course of the year. He also offers private lessons at his home in Lewiston, Idaho.

“When you go to a Rubio camp, you get Rubio,” Rubio said. “And that’s a big-time thing. If you’re paying top dollar, you better get Grade A meat.”

Rubio’s path to self-styled guru happened more or less by accident. As a teenager growing up outside Los Angeles, he was a quarterback until he reached high school. The problem, he said, was his size — specifically, the 270 pounds he was hauling around on his 6-foot-2 frame. His coach turned him into a lineman, but Rubio saw little action as a sophomore. He said he was not particularly enamored with his role or with his coach.

“He was a yeller,” Rubio said. “I’m not a yeller.”

The following summer, Rubio was throwing the football around when a friend decided to snap a few from 15 yards. Rubio tried it and liked it. He seemed to have a natural feel for the skill. He spent the next two seasons as his high school’s long snapper and drew mild interest from college coaches.

He enrolled at U.C.L.A., where he earned a spot on the team as a walk-on. Everything that Rubio understood about the position was self-taught, he said. He studied video and devised drills for himself in his dorm room. As a sophomore, Rubio began to wonder why Terry Donahue, the team’s head coach, had never said a word to him. Did Donahue even know his name? Rubio said he finally worked up the nerve to ask.

“Rubio,” Donahue told him, “if I never speak to you again, you’ve done a fine job.”

Donahue never spoke to him again, a fact Rubio regards as a point of pride.

These days, Rubio markets the entire Rubio experience as entree into the long-snapping fraternity. Each camper gets his e-mail address and cellphone number — “If I don’t respond right away, I’m either on a plane, sleeping or at a camp,” he said — along with an evaluation and that all-important ranking.

The country’s top-ranked senior, according to Rubio, is Tanner Carew, a 6-foot-2, 215-pound wizard from La Verne, Calif., who has orally committed to play at Oregon on a full scholarship. Carew said he had attended more Rubio camps than he could remember.

“Colleges look at his rankings,” Carew said in a telephone interview. “He knows people. I wouldn’t be in this position without him.”

Last month’s camp concluded with an accuracy contest. The finals pitted Jackson against Zach Hubbard, a 6-foot-5, 240-pound senior from Tampa, Fla., who had arrived that day hoping to improve his Rubio ranking. Hubbard said his goal was to use long snapping to enhance his college choices and then parlay it into a career.

“I want to make $800,000 doing nothing in the N.F.L.,” he said.

After ousting Jackson, Hubbard was happy to settle for a Camp Champion T-shirt. Rubio was off to his next stop in Chicago.
536 2013-08-25 Meminger’s struggles with drugs and related hardships began during a six-year career N.B.A. career that ended in 1977. A product of Rice High School in Harlem, he was only 6 feet tall, and his long arms and legs made his upper torso look too small for the rest of his body. There was also nothing very artistic about his jump shot, and he often dribbled the ball too high.

But Dean the Dream, as he was known, was a coach’s delight, a defense-minded hustler with impeccable timing and the uncanny ability to maneuver himself into space between much larger men in the paint.

Knicks Coach Red Holzman inserted him into Game 7 to harass the Celtics’ scoring guard, Jo Jo White. With John Havlicek playing with a dislocated right shoulder, Holzman figured that the Celtics would try to maximize White’s jump shooting with perimeter screens. Meminger, he knew, was better at moving laterally than Monroe.

But Meminger did more than limit White to 21 points (10-for-21 shooting from the floor). He was everywhere as the Knicks took control in the second and third quarters, finishing with 13 points, 6 rebounds and 3 assists.

“At that point, even I said, ‘What the heck is this?’ ” Meminger told me in an interview, referring to Holzman’s leaving him in.

Beyond friendship, Monroe’s comfort with Holzman’s decision spoke to a larger generational issue. These days, a superstar’s benching would be developing news as it was happening — with television close-ups, a buzz on Twitter and a multitude of commiserating or angry texts waiting for the player in the locker room on his smartphone.

Newspaper reports on the Knicks’ victory highlighted Meminger’s role but took no issue with Monroe’s sitting out the last three quarters.

In my interview with Meminger, he laughingly recalled that he and Monroe had “hung out all night before that game,” which was played on a Sunday afternoon. “But,” he added, “I won’t give you the gory details.”

Monroe acknowledged that he had done his share of partying with Meminger. “But then you grow up,” he said.

Meminger, sadly, could manage only spells of sobriety after his years as a player. Monroe remained loyal, however. He was godfather to Meminger’s daughter and attended her wedding in 2009. He and his wife, Marita, were never far away when Meminger reached out.

But Monroe has had his own mounting health problems in recent years. Forty years have passed since “Dean’s game.” Meminger and Monroe celebrated it with the others in April at the Garden, one last time.
537 2013-08-25 On Saturday, Angela Kane, the United Nations’ high representative for disarmament affairs, arrived in Damascus to urge the government to grant access to the team. She did not speak to reporters after her arrival.

Doctors Without Borders said it could not confirm what substances caused the symptoms it reported Saturday, or who was responsible for the attack, but its report appears to lend credibility to other accounts by witnesses and to the opposition’s estimates of the dead.

The aid group said the symptoms were reported by three medical facilities it supported in the area of the reported attack. The group’s statement said that in three hours on Wednesday morning, the three clinics received about 3,600 patients who had symptoms indicating exposure to a chemical nerve agent, including breathing problems, dilated pupils, convulsions, foaming at the mouth and blurred vision. Many of the medics in the three centers also experienced some symptoms, said Stephen Cornish, one of the group’s executive directors. One of the medics died.

“When you put these elements together, what it suggests to us is a neurotoxic agent,” he said.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Saturday that it had confirmed the deaths of 322 people in the attack, including 54 children, 82 women, 16 people who could not be identified and dozens of rebel fighters. The Britain-based group said its activists had visited the area, spoken to residents and collected medical reports and videos that indicated that most of the dead were killed by exposure to toxic gas.

Last year, Mr. Obama called the use of chemical arms in Syria a red line that could prompt a harsh American response, but recent statements by American officials saying that they believed that Mr. Assad’s forces had used chemical weapons “on a small scale” multiple times in the past year have not led to a significant public change in American involvement in the war.

Mr. Obama has supported an investigation into Wednesday’s attack, but has expressed hesitance about getting the United States involved militarily. After Mr. Obama met with his national security staff on Wednesday, the White House issued a statement, slightly less assertive than the British one, saying that American intelligence agencies were still trying to “gather facts to ascertain what occurred.”

The White House said Mr. Obama “received a detailed review of a range of potential options” at the meeting, but the statement did not specify what the options were.

Stepping up the pace of consultations, Secretary of State John Kerry made a series of calls on Saturday to his counterparts in Turkey, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Mr. Kerry also called Nabil Elaraby, the secretary general of the Arab League.

In those calls, Mr. Kerry underscored the “gravity of any chemical weapons use” and stressed the importance of quickly determining the facts, a senior State Department official said.

The State Department also disclosed that Mr. Kerry had made a stern call on Thursday to Syria’s foreign minister, Walid al-Moallem, in which he complained about the Assad government’s failure to allow United Nations inspectors to quickly visit the site of the suspected chemical weapons attack.

Mr. Kerry told Mr. Moallem that if the Assad government had, as it maintained, nothing to hide “it should have allowed immediate and unimpeded access to the site rather than continuing to attack the affected area to block access and destroy evidence,” the senior State Department official said.

Mr. Kerry also told Mr. Moallem that Syria rebel commanders had assured the United States that they would ensure the safety of any United Nations investigators that were allowed by the Assad government to go to the area.

The State Department did not say how Mr. Moallem had responded.

Turkey, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have supported the Syrian opposition against the Assad government. The American military has deployed air-defense missile batteries in Jordan along with F-16’s. Several hundred American military planners, including communications experts and logisticians, are also based there.

Pentagon officials said Saturday that Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, would leave for Jordan this weekend to attend a long-scheduled meeting of regional military chiefs at which the situation in Syria was certain to be discussed. Pentagon officials also said that the Navy had increased its presence in the eastern Mediterranean Sea to four destroyers, each carrying long-range Tomahawk cruise missiles similar to those launched in past American attacks on Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya.

The Navy historically has deployed two destroyers in the eastern Mediterranean, but had quietly added one more over recent months. The Navy’s commander in the region added a fourth, at least temporarily, by delaying a scheduled return to port for one warship and accelerating the arrival of its replacement.

While the Syrian government has not publicly responded to the demands to let inspectors visit the site, on Saturday it stepped up its efforts to blame rebels for the attack, first announcing on state-run television that its soldiers had found a tunnel filled with chemical compounds near the attack site and that some of the soldiers were choking and had to be evacuated.

Also, in an interview with Lebanon-based Al-Mayadeen TV, Syria’s information minister, Omran al-Zoubi, dismissed the possibility of an American attack, warning that such a move would risk triggering more violence in the region, reported The Associated Press. “The basic repercussion would be a ball of fire that would burn not only Syria but the whole Middle East,” Mr. Zoubi said. “An attack on Syria would be no easy trip.”
538 2013-08-25 James Pease, who worked in the trim department at a Ford plant in Dearborn, Mich., in 1967, recalls contractors cleaning paint booths during model changes. “I remember all the beautiful colors of the chunks, and such a wide variety,” he said.

Ms. Dempsey, 46, remembers seeing raw fordite in the mid-1970s. A family friend who worked for one of the Detroit automakers told her that her vividly painted Pet Rocks — a fad product in the 1970s — resembled pieces from the plant where he worked. He brought a chunk and showed it to her.

“It was probably a hundred layers thick,” Ms. Dempsey said. “He said, ‘We call it paint rock.’ ”

She used sandpaper to showcase the paint lump’s colors, then topped the finished stone with varnish. It became the prototype for her later creations.

Paint slag has been around in quantity since the 1920s, according to the Ford Motor Company. Why it’s called fordite is unknown, although it refers to a byproduct at all old auto plants, not just Ford’s. (The material is also called Detroit agate and motor agate.)

As with gemstones, there are many varieties. Unlike gemstones, the types tend to be classified — by those in the know — by the factories they came from.

The big auto companies stopped producing the raw material for fordite when the painting process was automated, starting in the late 1970s. Cars and trucks are now painted in an electrostatic process that essentially eliminates overspray.

Fordite’s hardness is the reason it can be cut and polished, said Kevin Gauthier, a stonecutter and jewelry designer who owns Korner Gem in Traverse City, Mich., and has worked with fordite more than 30 years. In the old paint process, the combined single application of paint, primer and hardener made slag “like a rock,” he said. Now, machines apply primer followed by color and several layers of clear coat.

Much of the old paint contains lead, jewelers acknowledge, but they say it isn’t harmful unless consumed. However, some states, including California, are restricting the sale of jewelry that contains dangerous lead levels. (For adults, the limit is 60,000 parts per million, according to the state’s Department of Toxic Substances Control.)

Mr. Gauthier says fordite jewelry is most popular with people over 40, particularly those with ties to Michigan. “Some people only collect certain colors because that’s their favorite car,” he said.

Miranda Leaver, an Internet entrepreneur and former Detroit area resident, recently bought two rings through etsy.com — one aqua and one orange, colors especially popular in the 1950s and ’60s. The orange one “screams muscle car,” she said, adding that her rings get a lot of attention in North Carolina, where she now lives.

“When I explain what they are, folks get very enthused,” she said.

In working with the raw material, Ms. Dempsey first slices it to check for patterns, then trims what she doesn’t need and shapes the rough piece with a grinder. Next, she polishes the surface and tests for jewelry-quality strength. She makes about 500 of the pieces a year and sells them for $70 to $300. Ms. Dempsey figures she’s one of about 10 fordite jewelers in the nation.

The material is a finite resource, but Ms. Dempsey has been hoarding it for years and has a few suppliers. “People call from all over to talk about where the plants were and where the landfills were and where all that waste material would have been,” she said with a chuckle. “They just lament the fact they can’t get in there.”
539 2013-08-25 NONI IS NERVOUS 

By Heather Hartt-Sussman.

Illustrated by Geneviève Côté.

24 pp. Tundra Books. $17.95. (Picture book; ages 2 to 5)

For a child who worries, the prospect of starting school can cause a lot of hair twirling and nail biting. So it goes with Noni. In Côté’s charmingly loose crayon-and-watercolor illustrations, Noni’s anxiety shows in her pink-cheeked face as she thinks about everything that could go wrong. But by the end of the second day, the troubles she anticipated haven’t occurred, and she teases her parents: “Sheesh! I really don’t know what you are all so nervous about!”

THE GIRL WHO WOULDN’T BRUSH HER HAIR 

By Kate Bernheimer.

Illustrated by Jake Parker. 

40 pp. Schwartz & Wade Books. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)

Trouble with tresses? In Bernheimer’s mellow fable about a hot topic, there was once a child — known only as the girl who wouldn’t brush her hair — who let things come to such a pretty pass that dozens of mice built a nest in her locks. With an admirable absence of squealing, jumping on chairs or parental ultimatums, the girl decides enough is enough, and the mice march away, singing a song about their work being done. Well done!

BUGS IN MY HAIR! 

Written and illustrated by David Shannon.

32 pp. The Blue Sky Press/Scholastic. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
540 2013-08-25 The movie “Mean Girls” is nearly a decade old, but the “burn book” at the center of Tina Fey’s screenplay remains an evergreen plot device. Mostly written by the popular girls, these burn books are public logs of carefully calculated insults lobbed at social rivals and undesirables. Like everything else in the past 10 years, the burn book has moved online, and Facebook and Tumblr are littered with hateful messages written by aggressive tweens.

In two new young adult books, Nora Raleigh Baskin’s “Runt” and Teddy Steinkellner’s “Trash Can Days: A Middle School Saga,” wealthy, entitled queen bees are dedicated to harassing their peers online. The difference is that “Runt” has a straightforward message to impart: Don’t sink to the level of the mean girl. “Trash Can Days” has a more nuanced, more entertaining take on the socially powerful — one that doesn’t fit into the tidy parameters of an “Afterschool Special”-style lesson.

The top girl in “Runt” is a sixth-grade sylph named Maggie Carey, who will not allow her minions to get lunch unless she’s first in line. The main object of her derision is the bright and friendless Elizabeth Moon, whose single mother runs a kennel out of their home. Besides being awkward and boastful about her own intelligence, Elizabeth’s major social crime is she smells like the dogs her mother takes in. Maggie starts a meanspirited fake page on a fictional version of Facebook called person2person in order to mock Elizabeth. Pretending to be Elizabeth, she uses the moniker “Smelly-Girl” and makes up other fake person2person profiles for Smelly-Girl to befriend.

Baskin uses the animals Elizabeth’s mother looks after to make a heavy-handed, book-long metaphor about alpha dogs (Maggie) and submissive dogs (Elizabeth and the other characters in the book). Elizabeth discovers that Maggie is the author of the Smelly-Girl page and vows to take revenge, to throw off the shackles of her submissive status. Though she has an opportunity to humiliate Maggie, Elizabeth ultimately takes the high road, and makes a pal in the process, the artistic and self-possessed Freida. Maggie never stops disparaging her. The message here — that virtue is its own reward, more valuable than popularity — is an admirable one, but it isn’t particularly satisfying in the dog-eat-dog world of middle-school mean girls.

The alpha of “Trash Can Days” is Hannah Schwartz, a charismatic and beautiful eighth grader who starts a blog called Dirty Little Secrets. Hannah is so powerful, and so aware of her own power, she doesn’t even bother to disguise her identity: she refers to herself as “Queen Hannah.” Her tabloid-style reporting is merciless. “Ashley Clarke was recently spotted at the movies canoodling with David Harmer, the youngest of the Harmer boys. That’s all three of them now, isn’t it, Ashley?” Hannah snickers.

Mean-girl high jinks provide the main action in “Runt,” but “Trash Can Days” is more complex (as it should be, since it’s geared toward a slightly older reader), and the Dirty Little Secrets blog is just an amusing diversion. While Maggie is always the top mean girl, Hannah’s status goes up and down, but her self-assuredness never falters. “Trash Can Days” has three narrators in addition to Hannah: her brother, the prepubertal seventh grader Jake Schwartz; Danny Uribe, Jake’s erstwhile best friend and the son of the fabulously wealthy Schwartzes’ live-in maid and gardener; and a delightful, Pokémon-loving weirdo named Dorothy Wu.

The book’s most gripping plotline concerns Danny’s growing alienation from Jake. Danny has a growth spurt over the summer before seventh grade, and Jake suddenly seems a little babyish. But Danny’s also beginning to notice the gaping class and ethnic differences between his Mexican-Salvadoran ­working-class family and the rich, Jewish Schwartz siblings, with their movie producer dad and stay-at-home mom. He’s started spending more time with his cousins and their crew, and he can’t find a way to tell them about how the Schwartzes paid for him to go to an expensive summer camp. “Not unless I want them to start calling me ‘Jew-lover,’ ” Danny laments, “or ‘gay’ or ‘gay Jew-lover.’ ”
541 2013-08-25 THE OPT-OUT GENERATION WANTS BACK IN

I remember when the first “midcareer opt-out” article was published: I had just had two kids and started a national nonprofit and The Times was glorifying women who chose to leave the work force. In the 10 years since, I’ve taken a lot of grief from my elders for pursuing my career — but everything has worked out. I’ve had hundreds of conversations with female professionals, lingering after conference calls have ended to discuss “the juggle.” I tell everyone what my husband says when he opens a cabinet and something falls on his head: “I didn’t marry her for her housekeeping.” DEB LEVINE, Oakland, Calif.

As a 22-year-old, I find this article disheartening. Call me naïve, but when it comes to work-life balance, I don’t think there is a right answer. I think there are many right answers. Women everywhere deserve that peace of mind. GRACE KAY MATELICH, Larchmont, N.Y.

These mothers have made parenting more stressful than it is. Chaperoning every field trip, serving on every parents’ association, fancy parties, etc. — this is too much, and I guarantee you the kids are going to forget half of it. Just put the kids in the backyard and let them play. It’s hard to feel sympathy for these mothers who choose to make it harder than it needs to be and then complain that they’re too tired. Men need to do their fair share, but some of these moms could take it down two notches. BRYAN T. CALVIN, Dallas, posted on nytimes.com

A recent study found that men who have stay-at-home wives also bring a different outlook to the office. Researchers found that compared to men in more equal arrangements, these husbands “are more likely to exhibit attitudes, beliefs and behaviors that are harmful to women in the workplace.” . . . They more frequently deny promotions to qualified women, view women in the workplace unfavorably. . . . We like to endlessly discuss the impact that women’s choices about how they solve the work/family equation has on children, the workplace and even the feminist movement. But rarely do we discuss the way choices at home also mold men. BRYCE COVERT, on thenation.com

Most striking about this follow-up to the “Opt-Out Generation” is the terrible husbands these women have chosen. @jamilsmith



I commend the efforts of the millionaires and billionaires in bringing aid to Africa, but Santa Clara and San Mateo counties, near where some of their companies are headquartered, have a combined homeless population of almost 10,000 people. Homeless encampments are being forcibly dismantled, some within miles of Facebook’s headquarters, and Palo Alto’s City Council recently passed an ordinance making it illegal to live in your car. Africans can certainly use the help, but $82,000 for a rental of a Boeing 737 surely could have been put to better use, perhaps to aid the homeless people in their own backyards. WILLIAM MORROW DICKSON, La Honda, Calif.

I was in Marlow, Okla., May 30, 2013, when the two tornadoes struck. Gary England and his excellent weather team helped save me, my fiancé and our family once again. He has been an important part of our lives. Why do we stay? It’s our home. But with Gary retiring this year from his position as chief meteorologist, we are looking to move. Although not to the coasts, with their hurricanes and tsunamis. We won’t live where the earth moves under your feet. Where will we go? We do not have the answer to that yet. SUSAN PARK, Marlow, Okla., posted on nytimes.com
542 2013-08-25 If everything goes well and it lives to a ripe old age, you may have to decide to end its suffering, and you will have to be strong enough to stay with it those last moments, stroking its silky ears.

Having come from a long line of dog people, I took these qualities and loyalties for granted in others until I met boyfriends who had not shared this experience and did not want to. What I also hadn’t realized was that I could be as inflexible and unromantic as that first, smoke-free boyfriend when it came to whom I could live with or marry.

By the time I became serious with a second boyfriend, I had acquired a cat (being an apartment dweller, I didn’t feel ready for a dog). When this boyfriend asked me to move in with him, he added that unfortunately he was allergic to pet fur.

I know there are many upstanding citizens who truly are allergic to pets, but I also know there is a second category of people who use this as an excuse to say: Bring yourself, your antique barrister bookcase, but not the cat.

Why did I suspect him? An anecdote: Between the outer entrance and the front door of this boyfriend’s house was a kind of Zen garden of sand, rocks and small shrubs. It was very lovely, spiritual and sophisticated, and it also resembled a kids’ sandbox — or a cat-litter box. Apparently the neighborhood cats agreed and used it regularly as a public latrine. This made my boyfriend irate (and anti-cat?).

Heavy hearted, I asked family and friends if anyone was interested in taking Kitty, but it felt like giving away a child. What kind of mother gives up her child for a man? In the end I didn’t. Our breakup may not have been just about the cat, but the cat issue did point to a deeper incompatibility.

Fast-forward to my first date with the man who became my husband. A mutual acquaintance warned me, “He’s grumpy and doesn’t like dogs.”

Apparently her dog had done a little submission tinkling on his shoes, and he had become irritated. I love dogs, but if one were to pee on my favorite shoes while I was wearing them, I’d be irritated, too.

I later found out that he did like dogs but that he didn’t particularly care for this mutual acquaintance. Thus, the grumpy, canine-unfriendly image.

After we married, we proceeded to get three more cats. And when we eventually bought our first house, we set about getting our first dog. He wasn’t just any dog, but a high-strung Gordon setter, a real handful. Keeping the peace between the dog and cats was as fraught and fragile as Middle East peace.

And then fate streaked by in the form of a reddish golden retriever running across the street in front of my car. I caught him, but he had no tags, so we posted signs. Days later a woman called and asked that we stop putting up signs: It was her dog, but she did not want him back.

“Should we keep him?” I asked my husband.

He said absolutely not, and we did have our hands full, so we began to search for a new home. During this time we boarded him with our vet, where we paid to have him examined, neutered and vaccinated to make him more marketable for adoption.

Long story short, a semi-neglected, middle-aged retriever is hard to place. One person after another fell through. The costs of boarding him were going through the roof, so I suggested we temporarily bring him home.

You can guess the rest. We were at the point of sending him to a breed rescue, but my husband said he couldn’t send him back out to take his chances at finding a home somewhere else. That’s when I really knew I had found the right one — man and dog.

Our living room became a dog romper room, our car was lined in fur, and I remember watching my husband chasing the dogs in the park when they refused to fetch the balls we threw. I wished that past acquaintance could see Mr. Grumpy now.

Our next dog was long planned for, but his arrival coincided with a rough patch in our marriage. I even considered not getting him but decided that a new dog might serve as a weight rather than a burden, tethering me to a daily routine.

I still remember standing in my pajamas in the yard at 2 a.m. to allow the puppy to empty his bladder. Although it was a miserable job, it was a job for one, yet my husband stood out there with me.

Talking about things was difficult during that time, but the housebreaking of a puppy in the coolness of the night air under the milky light of the full moon was easy. Somehow those nights started us back on the path we had lost sight of. How the dog worked this magic between hikes, table begging, sock stealing and keeping us up at night with his snoring is a mystery I still can’t explain.

The difficulty of having dogs is that you don’t have them forever, and you must make peace with that even though the eventual pain will not be one degree less with this knowledge.

Recently I met a woman walking her dog who said that it was her third. After the last one, she had gone to the doctor complaining of chest pains, and when questioned she mentioned losing her pet.

The doctor looked in his records and found the last time she mentioned chest pains was years before, at the death of another pet. This makes absolute sense to the romantic in me: heartbreak made literal.

And yet, there she was walking her third dog. This is what dogs teach us: to love and to risk losing and to love again. I’ve met people who never want another dog after losing their first one, and I’m sympathetic. But what if after our first heartbreak we gave up on love? What if after the first fight with a lover we shielded ourselves? We would be protected, yes, but we’d also be done living.

As I write this, I’m sleep-deprived from a 10-week-old puppy. Although I have a pile of work and deadlines, I’m not at my computer. At noon, I’m sitting on the lawn under the shade of a plum tree that until now I didn’t realize had ripe fruit.

There have been too many summers when I never made it out on the lawn, much less noticed the fruit trees, because there always seemed to be something more important that needed doing. Most years the birds have a feast on our neglect. But now my husband is coming down the driveway with a bag of sandwiches, a makeshift picnic. It has been years since we did something like this in the middle of the week. Necessity creates opportunity that can lead to bliss.

In my life, dogs have always been a part of that equation, a way to find the small, grounding moments in life — the grass, sunlight and sweet bite of plums — that we commonly call happiness. After 20 years of marriage, on our fourth dog, my husband and I are best friends, which must be at least as rare as soul mates.

We toast with plastic bottles of water, the puppy on his back in the grass between us. It tastes like the finest wine.
543 2013-08-25 Credit: Alain Decarie for The New York Times
544 2013-08-26 Lleyton Hewitt upsets Juan Martin del Potro and Serena Williams breezes through in the first week of the U.S. Open....
545 2013-08-26 A video posted on YouTube showed about 130 bodies, including those of 45 children, in a makeshift morgue in an unfinished building.

A video posted online showed the dead bodies of 26 children, 8 women and 15 men. Medics put blocks of ice on them to preserve the bodies.

According to the Syrian Support Group, an opposition group, some rockets were launched from a factory at the Qaboun neighborhood. Other rockets were fired about 8 miles north, from the highway to Homs.

The map shows strike locations according to the London-based Syrian Network for Human Rights. Although exact locations remain unclear, other activist groups have generally indicated the same areas.

Videos and photos posted online showed hundreds of bodies without visible wounds. Many victims showed symptoms like vomiting, intense salivation, suffocation and tremors. Opposition activists posted online videos and photographs of rockets, like the one pictured left, that they say were used in the attack.

According to rebels, the car of
546 2013-08-26 Daniel S. Loeb’s hedge fund, Third Point, is now one of Sotheby’s biggest shareholders, with a 5.7 percent stake, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission....
547 2013-08-26 Christine C. Quinn’s new advertisement highlights her editorial-page endorsements by The New York Times, The New York Post and The Daily News....
548 2013-08-26 Antigovernment activists posted video to YouTube that showed United Nations inspectors in blue helmets and body armor arriving at a cramped rebel clinic, where they interviewed witnesses and survivors of a suspected chemical attack....
549 2013-08-26 Residents of Berkeley, Calif., mourned the loss of the city-run Tuolumne Family Camp, which was destroyed by the fire that has been raging for 10 days near Yosemite National Park....
550 2013-08-26 The natural pull of the lobster roll....
551 2013-08-26 The team behind the downtown restaurant Fat Radish is bringing its British home cooking and London-inspired industrial décor uptown to their new two-story restaurant, the East Pole....
552 2013-08-26 The Quinn campaign released an ad touting three newspaper endorsements.
553 2013-08-26 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
554 2013-08-26 The United States attorney general is likely to pursue charges under a civil statute that has become the Justice Department’s favorite tool of late. It remains to be seen whether the public will be satisfied with such action....
555 2013-08-26 Anchoring is a well-known financial problem, and my gelato buying captures a simple version that doesn’t cost me much in the big scheme of things. But it can become a problem when making big financial decisions, like buying a house or a car and selling stocks.

In May, the Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization posed the question: What happens when someone selling a house sets a high asking price? The researchers determined that a higher asking price (10 to 20 percent over the actual value of the house) led to a higher selling price.

Buyers weren’t stopping to ask the obvious question, “What’s the actual value of a particular house?” Instead they were focused on the asking price, anchoring to the higher number, and bidding more than they needed to. The ultimate price made them feel as if they were getting a deal.

Next to buying a house, a car is usually one of the biggest financial decisions we make. It’s also heavily influenced by anchoring. For instance, when you go to the dealership, it’s not unusual for the discussion about price to become a discussion about the monthly payment you can afford. “Don’t worry about the sticker price,” the salesman says. “I can get you that monthly payment.”

By anchoring the big price of the car against the smaller monthly payment, we miss asking important questions like, “How much will I pay in interest?” If the monthly payments seem reasonable when compared with the price of the car, it can seem like we’ve made a good decision when in reality it may end up costing us more than we ever planned to spend.

I discussed this issue a few years ago, but it’s worth pointing out again that anchoring isn’t limited to buying stuff. We do it when we’re selling, too. The classic example is the stock you bought last year for $50 a share. Today, it’s worth $30 a share.

Instead of assessing whether it’s a stock you should own based on your goals, you’re looking at the number. You tell yourself you’ll sell when it gets back to $50. By anchoring to the bigger number, you’re ignoring the other reasons that it may be time to sell, including opportunities to make investments that better fit your goals. It’s a decision that may end up costing you more than $20 a share.

Knowing that we’re inclined to anchor, the smartest thing we can do is take the time to figure out our real numbers. If you’re going to anchor, anchor on a number that’s relevant to you and your decision. Don’t let someone else set the number that determines if you buy or sell.

By taking the time to know which numbers really matter, like the actual value of a house or how much interest you’re paying, you’ll avoid this classic behavioral mistake. And if you’re really lucky, you’ll have saved enough so you can try Talenti’s or Jeni’s for yourself. But be warned: It’s a hard habit to break.
556 2013-08-26 Why small-business owners have been slow to embrace technology. How business credit cards differ from personal cards. Business groups get optimistic about immigration legislation....
557 2013-08-26 This word has appeared in three New York Times articles in the past year....
558 2013-08-26 ■ Warner Brothers, Burbank, Calif., will spend more than $25 million on an advertising, marketing and promotional campaign for the coming 75th anniversary of “The Wizard of Oz,” which will be commemorated with the release of the 1939 movie in the Imax 3-D format along with four editions in Blu-ray and/or DVD. The campaign is to include toys with “Oz” themes in Happy Meals sold at McDonald’s, “Oz” balloons in the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and an “Oz”-themed show on QVC on Sept. 26. Among the other participants in the campaign are Amtrak, Dylan’s Candy Bar, Food Network, Langer Juice, Mattel, Simon Malls and Warner Brothers Consumer Products.

■ General Motors, Detroit, said it would return as a Super Bowl advertiser after a one-year hiatus. The company is buying commercial time for its Chevrolet division during Super Bowl XLVIII, to be broadcast by Fox on Feb. 2, 2014. G.M. sat out Super Bowl XLVII, which CBS broadcast on Feb. 3, 2013, after appearing during the games in 2011 and 2012. (The company skipped the Super Bowls in 2009 and 2010 because of financial problems.) Fox Broadcasting said last week that about 85 percent of the available commercial time during Super Bowl XLVIII had already been sold.

■ Rentrak Corporation, Portland, Ore., a research company that measures television audiences, acquired iTVX, New Rochelle, N.Y., a research firm that measures and analyzes the effectiveness of branded entertainment efforts like product placements. Financial terms were not disclosed. The deal will help Rentrak compete against its principal rival, Nielsen, which has long offered clients data about branded entertainment.

■ IPG Mediabrands, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, is forming the Magna Consortium as part of plans to automate at least 50 percent of its media buying operations by 2016. The consortium also includes A&E Networks, Clear Channel Media and Entertainment, AOL, Cablevision and the Tribune Company.

■ News Corp., New York, said it would start News Corp. Global Exchange, which will sell ad space on more than 50 company-owned Web sites like wsj.com and thetimes.co.uk in a so-called private or closed manner, fencing out third-party ad networks that usually sell ad space at lower rates than are charged by the sites’ owners.

■ Two agencies that specialize in direct response marketing are being combined. They are Russ Reid, part of the Omnicom Group, with offices in Pasadena, Calif., and Toronto, and SCA Direct, Fairfax, Va. Financial terms were not disclosed. The merged agency will operate under the Russ Reid name, and SCA becomes the Fairfax office of Russ Reid.

■ Russell Simmons was named the 2013 Adweek Brand Visionary as part of annual honors presented by Adweek, New York, owned by Guggenheim Digital Media. Ten Brand Genius Awards are also being presented, to: Activision Publishing, Beats by Dr. Dre, Chobani, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Dove, the National Football League, Samsung Communications America, Southern Comfort, Volkswagen USA and Warby Parker.

■ Benenson Strategy Group, New York, was acquired by the Kantar division of WPP. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ Upstate Outdoor Media, Greenville, S.C., was acquired by Out of Home America Wilkins Media, Hartford, Conn. Financial terms were not disclosed. It is the third acquisition by Out of Home America Wilkins in 10 months.
559 2013-08-26 As patrons of the Red Apple Cafe ignored the new 9 p.m. curfew, the presence of an American elicited bountiful conspiracy theories, all of them involving America’s plan to destroy Egypt through its paid Brotherhood confederates. Even innocuous questions about the curfew, which on Saturday was shortened two hours, became ideologically fraught. “What are you doing, why are you asking about curfew?” yelled one man. “It is something internal.” A group of other men surrounding an interpreter, their faces only inches from his, introduced themselves by saying, “We are not thugs,” before proceeding to threaten and berate their interlocutors.

Egyptians have always shrugged off curfews. Cairo’s night life continues pretty much as normal in places like Maadi and especially in poor and working-class areas, where street life provides some relief to people who live in hot apartments.

On Zaki Street, the cafes were full of smokers of shisha, the flavored tobacco burned in water pipes, and of backgammon players. Outside, the driver of a horse-drawn cart full of canisters of cooking gas clanged his cans to announce his presence, and Farouq, a middle-aged man making deliveries to supermarkets with a motorcycle-drawn cart, stopped to talk.

“Americans are with the Muslim Brotherhood,” Farouq stated in a tone suggesting that it was common knowledge. “O.K., you did something good when you killed Osama bin Laden, but now you are with Al Qaeda. You support the terrorists.”

A strong anti-American undercurrent has always existed in Egypt, but such views are more normally associated with radicals and Islamists, and in reaction to American support for Israel.

But now anti-American sentiment is being stoked by an outpouring of dubious pronouncements from both state and private news media. Anti-Americanism has even been given the ultimate imprimatur of state tolerance: billboards. One next door to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for instance, shows President Obama with a beard like those worn by the Brotherhood, alongside a more flattering picture of the clean-shaven military leader, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi.

Youm 7, which claims to be the Arab world’s biggest news Web site, recently invited reader reactions to a forum titled “America and Al Qaeda: One Hand Against Egypt.” Hundreds responded.

“Maybe it’s insane,” allowed Khaled Salah, Youm 7’s editor in chief, “but we are in a time when crazy things are happening.” Egypt’s leaders have carefully avoided anti-American rhetoric, Mr. Salah said. “After a time, rationality will return.”

The origin of the idea of a terrorist-friendly America is opaque. Many cite money given to the Brotherhood, but what they are referring to is the $1.5 billion in American aid to the government of Egypt, which flowed to Mr. Morsi’s government as it did to the government before it, and as it continues to do since the military takeover. Most of that, $1.2 billion, goes to the Egyptian military, and none of it goes to the Brotherhood.

In fact, Mr. Obama has taken a great deal of criticism for not cutting off aid to Egypt after the military crackdown killed more than 1,100 people, most of them Brotherhood protesters.

“We’ve been blamed by supporters of Morsi; we’ve been blamed by the other side as if we are supporters of Morsi,” Mr. Obama said on Aug. 15 when he announced the only real American sanction so far in response to the violence, the cancellation of a joint military exercise. “That kind of approach will do nothing to help Egyptians achieve the future that they deserve.”

Many Egyptians refer to YouTube clips played repeatedly by the pro-military news media, quoting Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, who recently equated giving $1.5 billion in aid to the Morsi government with support for terrorists.

Back in the Maadi neighborhood, supporters of the military offered similar theories. “The American and Muslim Brotherhood project is to separate Egypt into different parts,” shouted Yahyeh, a builder, his face contorted with hatred. Ahmed, an engineer who said he had worked 22 years for Xerox in Cairo, was only slightly less hostile. “Egyptians have always liked America, but now they don’t understand how it has changed,” he said.

But a few contrary voices could be heard on Saturday night.

“Show me any evidence that America supports the Brotherhood,” said Ahmed Abdullah Wahed, a driver, after listening to others in the crowd. “General Sisi was even trained in America. Where is the evidence?”

Another man had some advice for how his questioners should handle curfew checkpoints. “Whatever you do, don’t tell them you’re American journalists,” he said. “Just say you’re tourists.”
560 2013-08-26 Mr. Ballmer was closely identified with the personal computer revolution, and later with corporate software running on computer servers. Those innovations brought Microsoft the cash and talent to adapt to the early Internet with the Explorer browser, and diversify into online gaming.

What it could not buy Mr. Ballmer, the younger generation in tech says, was a clear vision of the future. Apple and Google have led development of smartphones and a long list of companies like Amazon.com have led the development of cloud computing. Microsoft, meanwhile, has often had to play catch-up.

“All technology aspires to be legacy,” said Scott Dietzen, chief executive of Pure Storage, a data storage start-up. “It’s that or obsolescence.”

“The most powerful factor,” he added, “is that the very best talent is drawn to doing something disruptive to the legacy, something new and fresh. And in this business the best are so much more productive than anyone else.”

During Mr. Ballmer’s tenure as chief executive at Microsoft, the company had considerable growth. Mr. Ballmer led the creation of the Windows Phone operating system, which received good reviews but has struggled to gain traction in the market, and Microsoft’s efforts in cloud computing. Also under his leadership, the company acquired Skype, an Internet communications service, for $8.5 billion, and paid $1.2 billion for Yammer, a social network for business.

But the breakthroughs, whether they were in Internet search, smartphones or Internet-based software, have usually happened somewhere other than Microsoft.

Mr. Levie, 28, grew up near Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, Wash. Several of his schoolmates’ parents worked for Microsoft. Few of his generation, he said, followed their parents there. Among those who did, he said, few stayed.

“I think about being 40 or 50 and being disrupted,” said Mr. Levie, whose company was founded in 2005. “You can be a visionary, and have a great business model, but no tech company can avoid it. There is no quick way to transition into the next thing.”

The closest to a safeguard, he said, is to be “like Amazon: race to the bottom on prices ahead of your competition, keep profit margins low and make things tough for them.”

Mr. Ballmer joined Microsoft in 1980, and its breakthrough software, Windows 3.0, was released in 1990. Its stock peaked in December 1999, shortly before Mr. Ballmer replaced Bill Gates, Microsoft’s co-founder and his close friend, as chief executive. Since then, Microsoft’s shares have fallen about 33 percent.

Microsoft is 38 years old, three years away from the age at which Digital Equipment and Wang disappeared. Novell, which was founded in 1979, was acquired in 2011 by the Attachmate Corporation, an investment group.

“He took a company with $20 billion in revenue and turned it into a $78 billion company,” Mr. Levie said. “But you can never count on more than a decade on top.”

That feeling that real success lasts a decade or so haunts even the most successful of the new breed of tech executives.

Aneel Bhusri, the co-chief executive of Workday, a cloud-based business management software company with a market capitalization of $13 billion, recalled sharing a beer a few years back with Marc Benioff, the founder and chief of Salesforce, a $25 billion company offering sales and marketing software via the cloud.

“It was early days, but we were confident about cloud computing,” Mr. Bhusri said. “Marc said we had about a dozen years, then something else would come along.”

Mr. Bhusri didn’t suggest what that something else could be. That is the problem: When you’re caught up in running your business, it’s difficult to foresee the shifts that could upend it, Mr. Bhusri said.

In an e-mail, Mr. Benioff recollected the conversation, and added this thought: “Technology is a continuum — it is constantly getting lower-cost and easier to use. The role of the C.E.O. is to ride that continuum.” The trick is to always respond to the better and cheaper thing that is coming along.

Some say that although Mr. Ballmer did try to alter Microsoft’s course and move beyond the personal computer, he failed to fully understand how broad and deep the changes to cloud and mobile would be.

“Microsoft had phones, Microsoft had tablets, but they tried to put Windows in them,” said Zach Nelson, chief executive of NetSuite, a maker of Web-based business software. “They couldn’t leave the PC world behind, even though they saw the change coming.”

Some Microsoft executives did see the change. Ray Ozzie, Mr. Gates’s successor as chief software architect at Microsoft from 2005 to 2010, said in his farewell memo to Microsoft employees that they had to imagine a post-PC world. What, he wrote, would such a world look like?

“How would customers accomplish the kind of things they do today?” he wrote. “In our industry, if you can imagine something, you can build it.” Mr. Ozzie, who was reportedly frustrated by the slow pace at which his innovations were turning into products at Microsoft, also urged the rank and file to act swiftly.

Late last year, Mr. Ozzie raised $4 million for Talko, a start-up that is said to be developing cloud-based mobile applications for social interaction.

Among Mr. Ballmer’s generation of tech executives, his post-2000 stock performance is hardly the worst. Shares of Cisco Systems, the biggest maker of computer networking equipment, have dropped 54 percent. Shares of Oracle, one of the biggest business software companies in the world, have fallen 30 percent.

Dell, which is now trying to go private as part of a turnaround, is off about 70 percent. Sun Microsystems, once one of the most influential tech companies, was purchased by Oracle in 2010 for $5.6 billion, 88 percent below its value in 2000.

Those kinds of numbers seem to convince the new generation that they are, indeed, beating the old incumbents. But the lingering question is, what next?

“You can imagine a world without Windows, but not without the network, so the cloud feels like it can’t go away,” said Mr. Nelson of NetSuite. “We’re in the middle of where the world is going.”

“I can’t say it’s the last computing architecture,” he said. “It’s my last. The PC was Ballmer’s last.”
561 2013-08-26 MLB Advanced Media, the digital media company of Major League Baseball, is branching out into the licensing business by acquiring the worldwide distribution rights for a coming concert in New York City’s Central Park.

The concert — called the Global Citizen Festival — has no connection to baseball, and that’s partly the point. MLB Advanced Media says it wants to distribute all sorts of live events in the future, some free to users and some on a subscription basis.

“We want to gain experience selling worldwide rights,” said Bob Bowman, the chief executive of the division, which is jointly owned by the league’s 30 clubs. The clubs all stand to profit as the division sells its live-streaming services to more and more purposes.

Already, MLB Advanced Media provides the back-end technology for Glenn Beck’s Internet television channel, ESPN3’s streams of sporting events and an in-flight TV service on Southwest Airlines, in addition to the hundreds of out-of-market baseball games that it makes available through MLB.tv.

Mr. Bowman said the league saw opportunities to own the distribution rights to programming, just like television networks historically have.

It is not the only digitally oriented company thinking along these lines: last week, according to the technology news Web site AllThingsD, Google’s chief executive, Larry Page, and the National Football League commissioner, Roger Goodell, met and discussed, among other things, the Sunday Ticket package of football games that DirecTV currently distributes. DirecTV’s rights to Sunday Ticket expire at the end of the 2014 football season, and Google could outbid the satellite company in the future.
562 2013-08-26 “This is very important to us,” the longtime Cuban baseball writer Sigfredo Barros said by telephone from Havana. “Our players are not like Dominicans, who leave and come back home. The temptation to leave is very, very big.”

Whether this strategy can be effective remains in question. The size of the contracts signed by Cuban defectors, who are free agents and can sidestep Major League Baseball’s draft, is staggering for those from a country where most live on about $20 per month.

Puig signed for seven years and $42 million. Cespedes has a contract for four years and $36 million. Cincinnati signed Aroldis Chapman for six years and $30.25 million, and Jorge Soler, a 21-year-old outfielder, is in the Chicago Cubs’ system with a deal worth $30 million over nine years. Once Abreu clears the requisite immigration hurdles, he could command more than $50 million on the open market. (Fernandez left Cuba when he was 15 and was thus subject to the draft.)

Other factors have led to the increase in defections, including continued economic hardship in Cuba and relaxed travel regulations. The visibility of the success of the Cubans in the major leagues has been helped by improved Internet access across Cuba. Cuban players know they can thrive in the majors. Chicago White Sox shortstop Alexei Ramirez, who left Cuba in 2007, said, “When I first started playing, I didn’t know about anything outside Cuba.”

Dayan Viciedo, an outfielder who signed with the White Sox after he defected in 2008, said that he was surprised when he learned of Despaigne’s opportunity and that he hoped it signaled a change in government policy.

“If guys can go play in Mexico or the Dominican or Venezuela and make some money, it could make a difference in the decision to come here,” he said through an interpreter.

Despaigne will keep 80 percent of his salary, with the rest going to Cuba’s National Institute of Sport. Arrangements like that, Viciedo worried, may undermine any progress. “If the players are getting their full value, then it is a better deal,” he said.

Ramirez said money was only part of the equation. “The best league and the best players are here, not in Mexico,” he said. “Good players will always want to play against the best.”

In Mexico this summer, Despaigne played 33 games for the Piratas de Campeche and hit well, posting a .338 average with eight home runs. He is not the first Cuban permitted to play professionally elsewhere since Castro took power, but in the past, the privilege has been a reward after a successful career with the national team, Peter Bjarkman, of the Web site BaseballdeCuba.com, said.

Pedro Lazo, the career leader in wins in the National Series, pitched for Campeche last season, and Orestes Kindelan, Antonio Pacheco and Omar Linares previously played in Japan. Despaigne was joined at Campeche by Michel Enriquez, a veteran infielder, and outfielder Yordanis Samon. Both were released soon after they arrived because of injuries and poor play.

When Despaigne left for Mexico, there was concern in Cuba that he might not return, said Barros, the Cuban baseball writer. The fears were unfounded, although Despaigne has said that he was approached about defecting. Still, as evidence that the new policy will surely not be a cure-all, two members of the national team — in addition to Abreu — defected this summer: pitchers Odrisamer Despaigne and Misael Siverio.

Barros would like to see more players return to Mexico next summer, and ultimately play freely in the United States, he said, because it would be a benefit for the players and the Cuban economy. For that to happen, Cuba would need to allow the players to travel, and the United States, in turn, would have to ease its embargo and the restrictions on taking money back to Cuba.

“That would be better than Mexico,” Barros said. “It would be the best if our players could play in the United States and bring the money home. It would help everyone so much.”
563 2013-08-26 LOS ANGELES — And they say there are no animals left in Hollywood’s corporate ranks.

A few weeks ago, about 15,000 plastic-wrapped copies of The Hollywood Reporter arrived on desks here. Inside these special copies of the publication, which has a subscriber base of about 70,000, was a “gluten free” nutrition bar — seemingly no big deal, just another of the magazine’s advertiser-related giveaways.

The president of one television studio chomped into it, as did one of his subordinates. A senior publicist at PMK-BNC tossed the bar into a drawer and started eating it a week later for a snack. This reporter did the same thing.

“Yes, we heard people ate the dog bar thinking it was for humans,” said a clucking Lynne Segall, The Reporter’s publisher. “On the plus side, it was gluten-free.”

The “stunt,” as Ms. Segall called the giveaway, was part of a $45,000 ad purchase by Dog for Dog, a pet food company backed by the comedian Chelsea Handler; the rapper Snoop Dogg, who now prefers to be known as Snoop Lion; and Ryan Kavanaugh, the chief of Relativity Media. For every item bought, Dog for Dog says it donates an item to a needy canine.

The TV executives and power publicist who privately acknowledged chowing down on the blueberry-flavored Dogsbars said they only glanced at the wrapper before taking a bite. (They refused to speak on the record, for the obvious reason.) Only when something didn’t taste quite right did they read the smaller print:

Ms. Segall sold the ad package as part of an issue dedicated mostly to pets (“Hollywood’s A-List Animal Actors: The Perks and Downfalls”). The cover of the issue, however, was given to a serious article titled “How Hollywood Helped Hitler.” Only readers who flipped inside would have noticed the focus on pets.

“People do sometimes eat the bars by mistake and then there’s a moment where they race to check the label,” said Rocky Keever, the founder of Dog for Dog. “But they’re all quality ingredients, like you’d find in your grandmother’s cabinets.”
564 2013-08-26 Maureen Dowd correctly notes that as a former president, Harry S. Truman stated that he would never involve himself in “any transaction, however respectable, that would commercialize on the prestige and dignity of the office of the presidency.” Citing an article by George Packer in The New Yorker, she also writes that in retirement, the Trumans “struggled” to get by on a $112.56 monthly Army pension. She is correct about the pension, but the Trumans were far from impoverished.

Family manuscripts made available to the Harry S. Truman Library and Museum after the death of the Trumans’ daughter, Margaret Truman Daniel, in 2008, reveal that the former president had planned carefully.

Truman put a considerable amount of his presidential salary into savings (perhaps as much as 20 or 25 percent of his $75,000 annual compensation from April 1945 to January 1949, and $100,000 thereafter), and he owned more than 400 acres of farmland near Kansas City, Mo.

In two handwritten documents prepared for his wife, Bess, an undated “in case disaster overtakes me” and “in case of my passing on Dec. 1953” (Truman was to undergo a gallbladder operation), he estimated his net worth to be $750,000.

Indeed, his prudent retirement planning and modest living habits provided for a more than adequate retirement.
565 2013-08-26 ATLANTA — After the pair events at the 3rd World Youth Open Championships came the junior (under 26) and youngsters (under 21) knockout teams. (There were too few entries for a separate women’s competition. They competed in the appropriate age brackets.)

Each flight played a Swiss of seven 10-board matches. Eight teams out of 15 qualified in the youngsters for three 32-board knockout rounds to determine the winner. Four junior teams out of 12 moved into 48-board semifinals and final.

Before getting to the finals, we must look at the diagramed deal, the last of the junior semifinal between Australia and Turkey. At this point, Turkey enjoyed a lead of 10 international match points. South was in six clubs at both tables. And each West led the diamond ace. Then the paths diverged.

The Australian West, Justin Howard, continued with the diamond king.

The declarer, Berk Gokce, ruffed and cashed his club ace to learn about the bad split. He took his top hearts and trumped a heart with dummy’s club queen. Then he played the club eight from the dummy. When East, Peter Hollands, covered with his nine, South won with his ten, played a spade to dummy’s king and ran the club seven, but now he was stranded in the dummy with only one trump in each hand while East still had his club jack. Declarer cashed the spade ace (East carefully discarding) but then had to concede down two.

Did you notice South’s error? When he cashed the club ace, he had to unblock dummy’s seven or eight. Then, after one trump finesse, when back in the dummy with the spade king, declarer could have led the club deuce to his six, cashed the king and claimed.

At the other table, the Turkish West, Sarper Uslupehlivan, found the stronger defense of shifting to a spade at Trick 2, cutting declarer’s side-suit communication with the dummy. Now it seemed as if the Australian declarer, Ellena Moskovsky, would go down by leading a club to her ace. But when she called for a trump, East, Muhammet Osgur, shocked everyone by playing his nine.
566 2013-08-26 Like a lunar event or a geyser, it came at the expected hour: 5:45 on a late-August Saturday afternoon at the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival in Marcus Garvey Park in Harlem. (My notes from last year mark it at 5:30.) It’s not planned, it just happens: the tempo shifts down and it becomes time for a few dozen audience members — mostly retirement age, probably sharper looking than you — to go down in front of the stage and dance together, full of grace. It’s something you ought to see.

The cue was Cécile McLorin Salvant’s singing the standard “You’re Getting to Be a Habit With Me,” and if the swing in it was amazing, easy and deep, this version was spacious, inviting bodies to occupy it. Ms. Salvant, who is 23 and whose career is just taking shape, put some kind of spin on every word, playing with sound and words.

She’d earned the audience’s trust, admiration and humor, as well as its silence. She connects with jazz’s past and prehistory while being entirely about risk and play in the present, making her voice go precise or foggy, deviating from pitch or hyper-elongating a syllable. It’s fantastic to see a young musician with this much intelligent control over her material and her audience.

Earlier the crowd had been talkative through a strong set by a quartet led by the saxophonist Jaleel Shaw, who’s doing new things with ballad standards, gospel and Coltrane influences, and another by the drummer Kim Thompson, whose busy, good-natured music recalls any past style of jazz that put the drums up in your face. Now it watched and listened for where Ms. Salvant would go next. Not just her, but her band, and especially its pianist, Aaron Diehl, who connected with the spirit of her phrasing to lead into solos or instrumental arrangements, improvising in quiet, articulated phrases or eccentric waves of chords accenting the weak beats.

So when the crowd spoke up, it did so more or less by invitation, as when she performed Bessie Smith’s dirty blues “You’ve Got to Give Me Some,” with double meanings about butchers and milkmen. Ms. Salvant was building pockets of outrage without overacting. (Out of the commotion in the audience, someone yelled, “Does your mama know you sing like that?”) And her final high note on “What a Little Moonlight Can Do” — a song she’d started with exaggerated slowness — was basically a mic-drop, an audience slayer.
567 2013-08-26 Rooney may or may not quit Old Trafford. Gareth Bale is in transit from Spurs to Real Madrid. Luis Suárez, apparently, is not only staying with Liverpool; he was about to agree a contract extension.

But Willian, in a way, epitomizes this market, driven by too much money (for some) chasing too few star attractions in the transfer window.

Willian Borges da Silva is impulsive by nature. You see that the moment you watch him on the field, darting here, feigning and moving there, drawing opponents to him and then as elusive as a butterfly when they get close.

He is the type of player, of entertainer, that loosens the purse strings of billionaires who these days own the biggest European teams.

Willian is guided, if that is the word, by Kia Joorabchian, an entrepreneurial figure who is not a licensed soccer agent but moves players across the global market more profitably, and more whimsically, than most.

It was Joorabchian, the son of an Iranian car dealer, who acted on behalf of a still unidentified group of investors, thought to be Russian, who took over Corinthians in Brazil a few years back, using the club almost like a pit stop for South American players to pass through en route to European destinations.

Carlos Tévez, who scored on his debut for Juventus in Italy on Saturday evening, is now in his fourth country in a career journey that has taken him from Boca Juniors in Argentina to Corinthians, then to West Ham United, Manchester United and Manchester City before landing in northern Italy.

Willian, just turned 25, started with Corinthians, spent a perhaps surprising six years with the Ukraine team Shakhtar Donetsk, and then was sold to Anzhi Makhachkala, the Dagestan club whose owner had ambitions to put his region on the map by conquering the Russian league.

But between Jan. 31, when Willian made that move, and now, Anzhi imploded.

Its owner, Suleiman Kerimov, was paying way above the market rate for players like Roberto Carlos, Samuel Eto’o, Lassana Diarra, Christopher Samba, a whole host of Russians from Moscow and St. Petersburg, and, of course, Willian — all managed by the veteran Dutch coach Guus Hiddink.

However, Hiddink departed abruptly in July, declaring his mission complete. Coincidentally, Kerimov’s Uralkali potash company, the largest producer on earth, recently lost billions when a deal in Belarus collapsed.

Weeks after that came the announcement that the soccer team’s annual budget was to be slashed from about $150 million down to a a half or possibly n a third of that.

“I have enormous affection and respect for Anzhi,” Willian stated at the start of the sudden fire sale that was aimed at the remaining portion of the transfer window. “But everybody knows that my dreams and desires haven’t changed. I have the goal of playing for a big club and being in the spotlight to rejoin the Brazil national team.”

Cue Mr. Joorabchian. Cue Liverpool, which already employs two Brazilians, Lucas Leiva and Philippe Coutinho. But Willian was thinking south of Liverpool — first Spurs, then the Blues of Chelsea.

Things moved swiftly last week. One minute Willian was having a physical at Tottenham, the next he was being driven across town to Chelsea, and then within a matter of hours Chelsea’s manager, José Mourinho, told journalists, “I think the player has already made his decision.” And this was Chelsea? Amid great laughter, Mourinho said wait for the medical, which in soccer is best done in secret.

The instant headline was that Mourinho had hijacked a player within the grasp of Spurs manager André Villas- Boas, who had once been an assistant, even a protégé, of Mourinho’s.

While the coaches would doubtless be that ruthless, one wonders whether Mourinho (who, remember, is holding out for Rooney) really is the plotter this time. Chelsea’s owner, Roman Abramovich, has other advisers around him, not least Marina Granovskaia, who had worked in his Sibneft oil business since she graduated from Moscow State University in 1997. Granovskaia has been around Chelsea for three years and joined the executive board this summer.

Direct contact, oligarch to oligarch, might have gotten this move going before Willian or Mourinho knew much about it. Chelsea’s ultimate ruler has hired, fired, and rehired his Portuguese coach in a 10-year tenure of ownership that has outlasted all expectations.

Anzhi, on the other hand, shows the dangers of rich men who buy on a whim, then sell on a drop in their business fortune. And soccer, per se, might rue the way it has sold its soul to the highest bidder.
568 2013-08-26 The president, who warned a year ago that the use of chemical weapons by Syrian government forces would be a “red line,” has faced criticism from Congressional Republicans and others for failing to respond more forcefully to evidence of earlier, smaller-scale chemical attacks. Mr. Obama, who inherited two costly wars — in Iraq and Afghanistan — has been extremely reluctant to commit American military forces, even in the form of missile strikes, to another tangled conflict in the Middle East.

But on Sunday, the White House seemed to take a harder line, dismissing the Syrian promise of possible access by United Nations inspectors.

Mr. Obama spoke on Sunday with the French president, François Hollande, and the White House said they had expressed “grave concern” about the reported Syrian chemical attack and “discussed possible responses by the international community.” Mr. Obama spoke on Saturday to the British prime minister, David Cameron.

Those discussions, officials said, were meant to gauge whether Britain and France are on the same page as the United States, given that they could be part of a coalition carrying out strikes against Syria.

While officials said the United States would still hold consultations at the United Nations, they made it clear that the United Nations was not the only avenue for taking action against Syria.

Early on Sunday, the White House said Syrian officials had refused to let the inspectors see the site of the attack. But Syrian television later reported an agreement to allow access beginning on Monday. The administration official who released the statement said the offer, even if sincere, might be meaningless because of the time that had already passed since the attack.

“The evidence available has been significantly corrupted as a result of the regime’s persistent shelling and other intentional actions over the last five days,” the official said.

The official, however, did not suggest that Mr. Obama had decided to take action. “We are continuing to assess the facts so the president can make an informed decision about how to respond to this indiscriminate use of chemical weapons,” the official said.

But by labeling as “indiscriminate” the attack on Wednesday in a Damascus suburb, which reportedly killed hundreds of civilians, the official suggested that the United States viewed the latest assault as different from the smaller suspected chemical attacks that had not provoked American military action.

The Syrian government has denied using chemical weapons as part of a civil war that has left more than 100,000 people dead. On Saturday it said its soldiers had found chemical supplies in areas seized from rebel forces. Russia, an ally of the Syrian government, accused the rebels of using the weapons, but few analysts believe they have the supplies or ability to do so.

A spokesman for Russia’s Foreign Ministry, Aleksandr K. Lukashevich, said that those who advocated an armed response to any chemical weapons attack — without citing the United States or other countries — were prejudging the results of the United Nations inspections.

“In these conditions, we again resolutely call on all those who are trying to impose the results of the U.N. investigations and who say that armed actions against Syria is possible to show common sense and avoid tragic mistakes,” Mr. Lukashevich said in a statement released Sunday evening on the ministry’s Web site.

But Secretary of State John Kerry called Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia on Sunday to outline the Obama administration’s stance on Syria.

Mr. Kerry told his Russian counterpart that there was little doubt that the Assad government had used chemical weapons against civilians last week and the decision to allow United Nations inspectors to visit the site of the attack had come too late.

Mr. Kerry told Mr. Lavrov “that if the Syrian regime wanted to prove to the world that it had not used chemical weapons in this incident, it would have stopped shelling the area and granted immediate access five days ago,” a senior State Department official said.

Syria warned that any American military action would “create a ball of fire that will inflame the Middle East,” according to The Associated Press. And Iranian state news media quoted the Tehran government as saying that any intervention by Washington would have severe consequences.

Complicating the task of the United Nations team is the fact that the attack on Wednesday took place in an area that remains behind rebel lines. While activists reached in the area said they would welcome the team, many are deeply skeptical that its work will result in action against Mr. Assad’s government. The team’s original mandate was limited to finding whether chemical weapons had been used, not to decide who has used them.

Israel sharpened its message on Sunday, suggesting that the use of such weapons in the region should not go without a response.

“This situation must not be allowed to continue,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said, referring to the Syrian civilians “who were so brutally attacked by weapons of mass destruction.”

“The most dangerous regimes in the world must not be allowed to possess the most dangerous weapons in the world,” he said.

Some Israelis have argued that international intervention in Syria would distract the world from the crucial effort to prevent a nuclear Iran. But there is a growing sense among Israelis that Syria is now a test of how the world might respond to Iran as it approaches the ability to make a nuclear weapon.

“Assad’s regime has become a full Iranian client, and Syria has become Iran’s testing ground,” Mr. Netanyahu added.

In Washington, several lawmakers said Sunday that they now expected limited military action to punish Syria or deter chemical attacks.

But lawmakers who appeared on Sunday talks show said it would be reckless to insert ground troops into a war in a region already in turmoil, and there was a general call for any action to be taken under the broadest possible international auspices.

“I hope the president, as soon as we get back to Washington, will ask for authorization from Congress to do something in a very surgical and proportional way,” Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said on “Fox News Sunday.”

But Representative Eliot Engel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the situation might be too urgent to wait for Congress, which does not return from its summer recess until Sept. 9.

On Saturday, Doctors Without Borders, an international aid group, said that on the morning of the reported attack, medical centers it supported near the site received about 3,600 patients showing symptoms consistent with exposure to toxic nerve agents. Of those, 355 died, the group said.
569 2013-08-26 Stacey Allaster, the current chairwoman and chief executive of the WTA, said, “If we had not had Billie, I’m not sure we’d be the success we are today.”

Of the achievements King refers to as “the 40-40-40” being recognized this summer, gaining equal prize money at the United States Open might be the most remarkable.

Consider that the Grand Slam events began awarding official prize money only in 1968. When King won Wimbledon that year, she received £750 while the men’s champion, Rod Laver, received £2,000.

The women’s rights movement in the United States gained significant victories in the early 1970s with the passage of Title IX and the Equal Rights Amendment by Congress, and the Supreme Court decision on Roe v. Wade. But, as King often notes in speeches, many women could not get credit cards in their own names. The earnings gap, which the Census Bureau began tracking in 1960, was the largest ever recorded in 1973. Women working full time made 56.6 percent of what men did. (In 2011, that figure had risen to 77 percent.)

King had been trying to close the gap in tennis as more players turned professional in the Open era beginning in 1968. Female players struggled to make a living from the few tournaments they could play, leading the so-called original nine to form the Virginia Slims Series in 1970.

By 1973, two women’s tours were competing, making it difficult to consolidate support for more tournaments and prize money. That May, Bobby Riggs routed Margaret Court in the first Battle of the Sexes, which many viewed as a setback for the women’s movement and women’s tennis.

But with the top women together at Wimbledon, more than 60 players met in the Gloucester Hotel in London, where they voted to form an association.

At Wimbledon that year, the women had a chance to show their worth to the sport because 81 top men’s players had boycotted over a Davis Cup dispute. “It was a great Wimbledon for women that year,” King said. “We got a lot of attention.”

King, stressed by her behind-the-scenes organizing, said the court was her sanctuary. She won the women’s singles, women’s doubles and mixed doubles titles at Wimbledon. For the triple crown, King earned £3,550. The men’s singles champion, Jan Kodes, took home £5,000.

When King met with Billy Talbert, the United States Open tournament director, in his office in Forest Hills, Queens, she took a survey the WTA had conducted that showed fans had a high degree of interest in women’s tennis. More important, she had lined up sponsors who had agreed to pay the difference to make the purses equal.

“It was the height of the women’s movement,” King said. “I think there was social pressure to start doing things different.”

On July 20, 1973, a headline in The New York Times said, “Tennis Decides All Women Are Created Equal, Too.” Ban deodorant, a subsidiary of Bristol-Myers, donated $55,000 to make the women’s purse equal to the men’s at the United States Open.

Joseph G. Keinberger, a Bristol-Myers vice president, was quoted as saying, “We feel that the women’s game is equally as exciting and entertaining as the men’s, and we hope that our direct involvement with the 1973 U.S. Open clearly indicates our positive position on behalf of women in sports.”

At the time, Talbert was asked if men’s players would have complaints.

“If there is,” he said, “I’ll just tell the men to go out and sell their product better.”

King had mastered selling her product. Still, she called the Open’s decision to award equal prize money a miracle.

“I really am thrilled, as a U.S. citizen, that we were the first,” she said.

In 1972, the total purse was $160,000. The men’s singles winner, Ilie Nastase, earned $25,000, and King, the women’s singles winner, earned $10,000. The disparity went down the scale: Round of 64 men’s losers received $400; the women’s losers got $100.

In 1973, the total purse rose to $227,200; the singles winners, John Newcombe and Court, each received $25,000, and all Round of 64 losers got $400. (This year’s Open winners will receive a Grand Slam-record $2.6 million each. First-round losers in the fields of 128 will earn $32,000.)

The other Grand Slam events were slow to close the prize gap. The Australian Open began giving equal money in 1984 but stopped in 1995, saying that men’s matches earned higher ratings. Equal purses were reinstated for the 2001 tournament. After a lobbying effort led by Venus Williams, the French Open agreed to equal pay in 2006. A year later, Wimbledon followed suit.

Despite agreement at the majors, and equal prize money at 10 other events that feature men and women, critics remain. In recent years, as the ATP Tour has pushed for all players to receive a greater share of Grand Slam revenue, some have questioned why women received the same money for playing best-of-three matches while the men play best-of-five.

“I understand why,” King said. “Right now men are in the golden moment. It’s really about the message. It’s about leadership. It’s about leading, not following. I want us to be out front on equality.”

The WTA, the world’s most successful women’s sports organization by far, conducts 54 events in 33 countries with total purses of $118 million, up from $1.9 million in 1973. (The L.P.G.A. Tour, by contrast, has 28 events in 14 countries with total purses of $48.9 million.)

Chris Evert was 18 when she reached the 1973 Open semifinals to earn $5,000, $3,000 more than a women’s semifinalist in 1972.

“I don’t think I fully understood the whole scene of women’s liberation, equality, what impact that really would have on women and on the future of women’s tennis,” said Evert, who in 1976 became the first woman to reach $1 million in career earnings. “At 18, I was a little too wrapped up in maybe what makeup I’m going to wear on the court and how my two-handed backhand was going to work that day.”

Evert said of King: “She had a vision. She could see 10 years down the road. At 18, I didn’t.”

But King took Evert under her wing and continues to share the association’s history. King meets with young players in what has come to be known as the Power Hour each year at the United States Open. In the WTA’s rookie program for players rising from juniors, the new British “Battle of the Sexes" documentary will be required viewing.

Allaster, the top WTA executive, said, “I’m very committed to educating this generation that we are living Billie’s dream, and we have responsibility to stand on their shoulders and take this organization to a higher level for the next generation.”

That was on display at Wimbledon in late June, when a WTA party featured a panel with 19 former No. 1 players, including Court, Evonne Goolagong, Martina Hingis and Monica Seles.

Serena Williams, the current No. 1, spoke of a girl who might just be taking up tennis in her hometown, Compton, Calif.

Andrew Georgiou, chief executive of World Sport Group, the company that helped win the WTA Championships for Singapore beginning in 2014, was impressed.

“Look at the women who went out of their way, and well after stopping to play tennis, to continue to promote the WTA,” Georgiou said.

According to Forbes, seven of the world’s 10 highest-paid female athletes are tennis players, led by Maria Sharapova, who earned $29 million in prize money, endorsements and appearance fees from June 2012 to June 2013. Notably, Sharapova ranked third among all tennis players in earnings in 2012, behind Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, and five women were among the top 10.

Evert said: “I think Serena passed the $50 million mark in prize money” — actually, more than $47 million. “Are you kidding me? I think I made $9 million in my 18-year career. Thank God for Billie Jean and that she was in our sport, not another sport, because it might have taken longer.”
570 2013-08-26 A laconic Argentine nicknamed the Tower of Tandil, del Potro has the most powerful ground game in men’s tennis. At 6 feet 6 inches, del Potro serves cannons, but his sweeping flat forehand is his favored weapon, and his two-handed backhand is rock-solid. In 2009, del Potro stunned the tennis world when he overpowered Roger Federer to win the United States Open. A series of injuries stymied his career, but he has steadily climbed the rankings and is once again viewed as a contender for major titles. His epic encounter with Novak Djokovic in the Wimbledon semifinals was the match of the tournament. Although Djokovic won, the sustained high level of play announced that del Potro, seeded sixth at the Open, was back at the top of his game. This summer, del Potro won the Citi Open in Washington, and he reached the semifinals of the Western & Southern Open near Cincinnati. Del Potro’s resurgence deepens the pool of possible winners at Flushing Meadows.

The 6-foot-10 Isner defeated three top 10 players — Richard Gasquet, Novak Djokovic and Juan Martín del Potro — en route to the final of the Western & Southern Open, where he lost in two tiebreakers to Rafael Nadal. Isner’s new coach, Mike Sell, has him playing with unbridled aggression, running around second-serve returns to wallop his big forehand. He is also using his high-bounding kick serve to pull opponents off court. His improved quickness and movement have been vital to his resurgence on the North American hardcourt circuit. A key for Isner, seeded 13th at the Open, will be recovering physically after his successful but grueling summer schedule. If he can survive the early rounds without being extended in lengthy matches, Isner is capable of beating any player in the draw.

The prodigiously talented Dimitrov, a 22-year-old from Bulgaria, has steadily climbed through the rankings, and he will be the No. 25 seed at the Open. In 2008, Dimitrov won the junior titles at Wimbledon and the United States Open, but his results were uneven until this year. He began working with the Swedish coach Mikael Tillstrom, who has emphasized fitness and more disciplined shot selection. The hard work on the practice court has transformed Dimitrov from a talented shotmaker to a dangerous opponent capable of beating anyone. He upset Novak Djokovic in three sets on red clay in Madrid, a result that signaled his rising level of play. His game is modeled on Roger Federer’s, with a flowing one-handed backhand, a rhythmic service motion and a dominating topspin forehand. Dimitrov, who extended Rafael Nadal to three sets at the Western & Southern Open, is a sublime talent and a joy to watch.

Stephens, a 20-year-old American, showed serious competitive mettle in her three-set upset of Maria Sharapova in the Western & Southern Open, using superb court coverage and ability to absorb pace to turn the match her way. Watching Stephens handle the escalating pressure of higher expectations with an ebullient grace has been a delight for fans. In addition to having a powerful all-court game, Stephens has learned how to grind out a tough win when she is not playing her best, a quality she displayed at Wimbledon this year on her march to the quarterfinals. She also reached the Australian Open semifinals. The 15th-seeded Stephens has the speed, the power and the mentality to go deep into the second week at Flushing Meadows, where she is a crowd favorite, and she loves the big stage.

A 24-year-old from Slovakia, Cibulkova is a fearless ball striker whose ability to generate astonishing pace belies her diminutive stature. At 5-fot-3, she is built like a gymnast, with a powerful lower body that helps her cover the court with one of the quickest first steps in tennis. Cibulkova, seeded 17th, uses her speed to go on the offensive at every opportunity, taking the ball early off both sides as she looks to take time away from her opponent and dictate play. She plays energetic, up-tempo tennis, and revels in ripping the cover off the ball with her blistering forehand. She trailed Agnieszka Radwanska, 3-6, 2-4, in the final of the Bank of the West Classic at Stanford, Calif., last month before putting on a stunning display of aggressive shotmaking to turn the match around and win in three sets.

She held the No. 1 ranking for a short period in 2008 and was a mainstay in the top 10 for five years. But Jankovic’s ranking fell in the last two years because her consistent, counterpunching style did not have the power to punch back against the game’s big hitters. Much like Caroline Wozniacki, another former No. 1 criticized for playing an outmoded defensive game, Jankovic has not had a big weapon to win a point. Seeded ninth at the Open, Jankovic, 28, has had a splendid summer, reaching the Western & Southern Open semifinals with wins over Sabine Lisicki, Ekaterina Makarova, Sloane Stephens and Roberta Vinci, all ranked in the top 25. A speedy Serb, Jankovic has beefed up her forehand and begun attacking the net on short balls. She has added a well-disguised drop shot. But she has not forsaken her strengths: she changes direction on ground strokes at surprising times and with accuracy, and she competes for every ball with unflagging tenacity.
571 2013-08-27 BRISKIN--Andrew. February 24, 1968- August 27, 2012 A very special son who departed too soon. You're in my heart and on my mind every minute of the day. Dad...
572 2013-08-27 Mr. de Blasio indicated that he would curtail the use of the program, saying, “We should not be giving tax breaks to build luxury condos, period.” He said that under Mayor Bloomberg, the city gave too many benefits to developers who did not need them. “We need to restrict tax incentives to projects that create housing that’s affordable to the average New Yorker,” he said, without specifying how he would go about doing that.
573 2013-08-27 Delays on the 7 train Tuesday morning led to scenes of sweaty tennis fans waiting on train platforms, frustrated Tweets and much watch-checking....
574 2013-08-27 Today’s U.S. Open food review: Hill Country BBQ’s pit-smoked turkey sandwich....
575 2013-08-27 Darryl Layne Woods, the former chairman of Mainstreet Bank in Missouri, used a good portion of the $1 million in bailout money that his bank received to buy himself a luxury vacation condo in Florida....
576 2013-08-27 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
577 2013-08-27 Your strongest debugging tool is the one between your ears. All the arcane debugging knowledge in the world is no substitute for understanding what you’re coding....
578 2013-08-27 Several of William A. Ackman’s rivals in the hedge fund world aren’t bailing out of the troubled retailer just yet....
579 2013-08-27 Capital goods orders are weak. Gas prices fall. And five billion additional mobile phone users are coming to Facebook....
580 2013-08-27 Henry M. Paulson Jr., formerly Treasury secretary, criticized outsize bank bonuses paid after the bailouts. | William A. Ackman has sold his entire stake in J.C. Penney. | Arbitration lawyers are profiting from geopolitical problems. | Wall Street...
581 2013-08-27 At just 22 and seeded No. 14 at the United States Open, Jerzy Janowicz may be the most exciting — and excitable — newcomer to men’s tennis. He’ll be in action on Tuesday....
582 2013-08-27 Credit: Ben Solomon for The New York Times
583 2013-08-27 How do you think the United States should respond if United Nations inspectors determine that the Syrian government used chemical weapons?...
584 2013-08-27 In “Petition Wants Met’s Gala Dedicated to Gay Rights” (Arts pages, Aug. 20), Peter Gelb, the Metropolitan Opera’s general manager, asserts that those who demand that the opening event for the Met’s season be dedicated to supporting gay rights in Russia are “barking up the wrong tree.”

Draconian antigay laws are being passed in Russia this summer. The Metropolitan Opera has a history of benefit performances for disaster victims and commemorating world events with powerful artistic gestures. What better way for the Met to make a statement about its support of gay human rights than at a night featuring the work of Tchaikovsky, whose life was destroyed out of shame and despair as a closeted gay man?

Would the Met’s statement of unequivocal support for human rights in Russia solve the problem of virulent antigay hatred? No, of course not, but the Met can make a uniquely glorious sound, adding to the growing chorus of those who stand firmly against such hatred.

As a lesbian, as the senior rabbi of New York City’s lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer synagogue, Beit Simchat Torah, and as a loyal subscriber to the Met, I cannot accept that silence is justified in the name of art remaining above politics.
585 2013-08-27 BELGRADE LAKES, Me. — THIRTY-SEVEN years ago this week my friend Pearce Bunting was at the wheel of my and I was in the passenger seat when he drove the car off a road in suburban . It bounced off a fire hydrant and then plunged into a small ravine. I remember thinking, as we flew through the air, that I was about to find out whether there was life after death. I heard the crash as if from a distant room. Then a vague blue blob spoke. “Are you all right?” it wanted to know, and then said, more reassuringly, “You’re going to be all right.”

It was the first day of my senior year in high school. That compassionate blue blob turned out to be a policeman in uniform, standing over me as I lay on my back in the middle of Darby Road, staring up at a light blue sky. My glasses had been thrown off in the wreck, which is why everything was so blurry.

The officer got me into an ambulance and on to Bryn Mawr Hospital, where emergency-room doctors sewed my left ear back on. The officer also managed to retrieve my school books from the totaled car. And so it was that later that night I was back in my bedroom, reading ’s in German from a textbook that had my own blood on the cover. It wasn’t the best way to begin my senior year.

My son Sean, along with four million or so other members of the class of 2014, is about to begin his senior year in high school. It’s impossible for me, and all those other parents, not to want to shield our young from the many accidents we know are waiting for them. Shielding, of course, being the problematic verb here, given that we spend the first decade or so of our children’s lives attempting to stand between them and the brutality of the world, and then, slowly, begin to do the opposite, first gently, and later not so gently, shoving them out into the land of competitive sports, college admissions and fire hydrants of all sorts.

When he was a sophomore, my son was accepted to an exchange program with a high school in . We congratulated him for his sense of adventure. A couple of months in, he called home, asking if it would be O.K. if he went bungee jumping from one of the highest bridges in the world. We said all right, as we did a few weeks later when he asked permission to go shark-cage diving. A month went by, and he called again. How about sky-diving? Please? We thought it over, consented, and then, the morning of the jump, sat bolt upright in our bed in . Sky-diving? Seriously?

I know that my own father felt that the world I was graduating into then had partially gone mad. Still, neither of my parents made much of an effort to shield me from it. They seemed confident that if they let me explore the world I would eventually sort things out. My father had been dead for 15 years when I finally came out as transgender, but my mother, conservative, religious Republican that she was, rolled with it. “Love will prevail,” she said, and that largely turned out to be true.
586 2013-08-27 “Civic, community and governmental leaders, as well as creditor interests, have come together to achieve a resolution that as recently as this year many thought not possible,” the document said.

It said the agreement was reached because all parties recognized the need to make sacrifices and to “not insist on receiving the full benefit of their legal or contractual rights.”

Mayor Thompson said the plan could become a template for other cities struggling to balance their budgets.

“If confirmed by the Commonwealth Court, we believe Harrisburg will become a model for other financially distressed municipalities in Pennsylvania and across the country,” she said in a statement.

As a result of the agreement, titled “Harrisburg Strong,” the city will be permanently absolved of its huge incinerator debt without an increase in real estate taxes. It can balance its budget through 2016, and it will gain $25 million over the next several years for infrastructure, economic development and debt payment.

The agreement was achieved in part through a “meaningful reduction” in public-sector labor costs after modifying labor contracts through 2016, and by a “reworking” of the city’s obligations to its general-obligation bondholders and other creditors.

It also pledged to return the financial management of the city to its elected officials “as soon as possible,” ending the role of the receiver.

Harrisburg’s heavy debt load made it vulnerable to the recent decline in the value of municipal bonds prompted by the Federal Reserve’s statements that it intended to phase out its monthly bond buying to stimulate the economy.

“The pricing of bonds being used to fund the two transactions has not yet occurred,” the document said. “Thus, the exact amount of funds from those transactions, which are necessary to the successful consummation of this plan, are not yet known, and are tied closely to the prevailing interest rates in the municipal bond market.”

Despite the reduction in available money brought about by the decline in bond prices, financing is still sufficient for the plan to work, the document said.

The latest plan goes further than one presented for court approval in March 2012, which failed because it failed to get the agreement of all Harrisburg’s warring parties, the receiver said. By contrast, “virtually all” of the affected parties have signed on to the new plan.
587 2013-08-27 And so after a spirited win Sunday against the Tampa Bay Rays, the Yankees were unable to construct a momentum-building winning streak, even against the last-place Blue Jays.

“Toronto’s got a good team,” Jeter said. “They’re not going to lay down and let us walk over them. They have a lot of pride over there and they have a great team.”

But entering Monday’s game, the Yankees had won 12 of the 13 games against the Blue Jays this season, including a four-game sweep at Yankee Stadium last week that had helped them pull three and a half games back of the second wild-card spot in the American League.

But R. A. Dickey, who pitched well last week at the Stadium only to lose on an eighth-inning home run by Alfonso Soriano, came back with another laudable effort Monday. He allowed two runs, only one earned, over six and a third innings.

Dickey gave up an opposite-field home run to Rodriguez on an 0-1 pitch in the fifth that evened the score, 2-2. It was Rodriguez’s 3rd home run of the season and the 650th of his career. With 10 more he will tie Willie Mays on the career list, and be in position to collect a $6 million bonus from the Yankees.

Hughes was doing fine until Reyes’s one-out double in the fifth. Then Ryan Goins singled to right, followed by Suzuki’s botched play, which at least would have been a sacrifice fly to drive in Reyes. Then Adam Lind doubled off Hughes to score Goins. Moises Sierra added a sacrifice fly to score Encarnacion, giving the Blue Jays a 5-2 lead.

Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said the error changed the complexion of the inning, noting that Hughes could have escaped having allowed only three runs in five innings. Girardi said, though, that he considered the outing a respectable one, even in an uphill climb in the race for a playoff spot with only 31 games to play.

Hughes, to his credit, did not accept Girardi’s bailout, and what else could he really say after falling to 4-13?

“It didn’t happen that way,” Hughes said. “You can think about hypotheticals, but errors are part of the game and I have to find a way to get out of the inning and battle right there and I didn’t do the job. What could have, should have happened is irrelevant.”

With four or five potential starts left for each starter, the Yankees may decide to remove Hughes from the rotation in favor of David Huff, who came on in relief and threw three and a third scoreless innings. Huff, who has allowed only one earned run in 122/3 innings, was also instrumental in last week’s sweep of the Blue Jays when he threw five scoreless innings in relief of a 4-2 win in the third game of the series.

Girardi said the Yankees had not discussed dropping Hughes from the rotation. But when he was asked if Huff’s relief performances had given him something to ponder, Girardi said he was impressed with the left-hander, who made 52 starts for the Cleveland Indians from 2009 to 2012.

“Obviously, you’re thinking all the time,” Girardi said.

Before the game there was excitement about the return of Jeter, making his third separate return from the disabled list, this time because of a strained right calf muscle. He went 0 for 3 with a walk and hit into a double play, but said he encountered no difficulties with his calf. “It was good,” he said. “We lost, but there were no problems.”

Before the game Jeter spoke in restrained tones about his latest comeback, saying he was “excited, looking forward to it, anxious, happy.”

Whether the 39-year-old Jeter can make it to the end of the season healthy is unknown. He said the recent muscle injuries were, he believes, an indirect result of the broken ankle he sustained last Oct. 13 in Game 1 of the A.L. Championship Series. His inability to do his usual off-season conditioning probably led to quadriceps and calf problems.

“I will try to do as much as I can to keep them strong this last month,” he said. “But all I can do is go out and play this last month and hope that everything is fine. I can’t change anything that’s happened. I wish I had more time to do things, but I didn’t and we are where we are. So let’s move forward and hopefully there’s no more issues.”
588 2013-08-27 And so on the evening of Aug. 15, at a meeting of the job club he himself started here two years ago, he told the others he was just like them. “I need a job,” he said. “I need to make money now.”

Most of the 15 men and women meeting at the library in this prosperous suburb were middle-aged or older, people who had worked all their lives, but lost jobs in the recession and its aftermath and have not been able to get back to where they were. Many of them worry that they never will, in part because of discrimination by employers against older workers.

On the statistical surface, boomers seem better off than other age groups. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the unemployment rate for workers 55 to 64 (the category that best matches boomers, who range from 48 to 67) was 5.4 percent in July, compared with 7.4 percent for the general population.

But almost every other number from the bureau makes it clear that while the economy may be improving, a substantial number of older workers who lost jobs — even those lucky enough to be re-employed — are still suffering. Two-thirds in that age group who found work again are making less than they did in their previous job; their median salary loss is 18 percent compared with a 6.7 percent drop for 20- to 24-year-olds.

The re-employment rate for 55- to 64-year-olds is 47 percent and 24 percent for those over 65, compared with 62 percent for 20- to 54-year-olds. And finding another job takes far longer: 46 weeks for boomers, compared with 20 weeks for 16- to 24-year-olds.

Nor are those who believe age discrimination was a factor likely to have much luck in court. In 2009, just as the economy was hitting rock-bottom, the Supreme Court issued a ruling that toughened the standard for proving bias.

“It’s easier for younger workers to bounce back,” says Mr. Seigel of the Labor Department. “They don’t have many financial obligations. Older workers are supporting families; they may be supporting parents. They can’t afford to spend two years going back for a degree to retrain.”

At the Aug. 15 meeting, Barbara Braun, who worked as a marketing director for a pharmaceutical company, said she wasn’t able to relocate to California when the company moved. “I have a mother with Alzheimer’s, I think it would have killed her,” she said. “Our lives are full of complications we didn’t have at 35.”

They have no doubt that their age is held against them, yet work to keep hopeful. When a woman suggested shaving a decade off her résumé and not posting a photo on networking and job search sites to hide her age, Mr. Fugazzie advised against it. “When you go to the interview, you’re going to look like who you are,” he said. “To waste time hiding it when you’re only going to lose at the other end makes no sense. If they don’t want someone your age, you don’t want them.”

What he does recommend is lowering expectations. “You’re not likely to be the department head,” he said, “so sell yourself as a team player who will work with younger people and help train them.”

Since the Supreme Court ruling, most lawyers won’t even take age discrimination cases. In an effort to change that, a bill has been filed in the Senate each of the past several years, aimed at making it easier to bring a discrimination lawsuit.

The latest legislation has rare bipartisan support; Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, are co-sponsors. “Older Americans have immense value to our society and our economy,” Mr. Grassley said in a recent news release. “They deserve the protections Congress originally intended.”

In the last Congress, along with the Democratic majority in the Senate, six Republicans backed the legislation, although two, both moderates, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts, are no longer in the Senate. Cristina Martin-Firvida, a legislative specialist at AARP, says the bill has the votes to pass the Senate, but to have a chance at becoming law, more Republican senators would need to get behind it, which might then persuade the Republicans who control the House to take up the measure.

At the Ridgewood meeting, people discussed job-hunting strategies. Karen Clements, a paralegal, said she had four résumés ready to go, each emphasizing a different skill: bookkeeping, S.E.C. compliance, fraud investigation and intellectual property rights.

She described a friend who is dressed in business attire by 4 a.m. Mondays, so she’ll be ready the moment an opportunity is posted online. If the firm wants to do a Skype interview, said Ms. Clements, her friend is dressed for Skyping. “By Tuesday they’ll have 1,000 résumés and the window will be closed.”

“It’s like Wayne Gretzky says,” Ms. Braun told them: “You have to skate to where the puck will be.”

They discussed the importance of following up any contact with thank-you e-mails and handing out lots of business cards, though it’s tricky to identify yourself when you have no job. “Be careful of the title you give yourself — you don’t want to sound dated,” said Ms. Braun, whose business card reads, “Barbara J. Braun, principal, BarbaraJBraun LLC, Connect Goals to Extraordinary Outcomes.”

Several mentioned the importance of LinkedIn, the business networking site.

“You have to have at least 500 contacts,” said Lisa Sepetjian, who has been an accounts manager for banks and small-business lenders. “Any less shows you don’t care; you’re not in the game.”

Ms. Braun described how she was able to go from 50 LinkedIn contacts to 500 in just a week.

“I don’t want to know 500 people,” Ms. Sepetjian said. “But I want people to know I’m not some baby boomer sitting at home eating bonbons.”

At 8:50 p.m., when a librarian announced that it was closing time, many were still networking. Afterward, eight handed me their business cards and several sent follow-up e-mails thanking me for coming.

By 10:30 p.m., even before I got home, the first of 10 follow-up e-mails had arrived from Mr. Fugazzie. Attached were testimonials from five people; copies of four certificates of commendation for Neighbors-helping-Neighbors; and a letter of commendation to the group from the New Jersey governor, Chris Christie, that began “Dear Friends.”

Also attached was an invitation to a May 16, 2013, meeting at the White House to discuss long-term unemployment, which Mr. Fugazzie hadn’t been able to attend. “I really wanted to go,” he said. “I could have made some important contacts, but my youngest son, Tyler, was graduating from the College of New Jersey on the same day and how could I miss that?”
589 2013-08-27 A new report by Cvent, the big technology-based meetings-management company, underscores some of the changes occurring in the meetings business. Its annual list of the top destinations in the United States is still dominated by the big traditional convention towns like Orlando, Chicago and Las Vegas. But the list has also been churning, reflecting more aggressive marketing by other cities in the lower tiers. Among the cities new to the top 50 list this year are Coronado, Calif.; National Harbor, Md.; Tucson; and Naples, Fla., Cvent says.

“The biggest reason is because of the investment that a city itself makes, whether it’s the convention and visitors bureau, the hotels themselves, and even cities that are doing major improvements to their downtown areas like Tucson,” said Eric Eden, the vice president for marketing at Cvent. On a larger scale, he cited the $950 million CityCenterDC downtown project on the site of the former convention center in Washington.

As the meetings business expands beyond the traditional locations and mammoth convention halls, individual hotels making major capital improvements are gaining a bigger share of the business. Over the last decade, according to the International Congress and Convention Association, a global trade group, “the usage of meeting facilities in hotels has been gradually increasing at the expense” of big convention centers.

In the United states, with cities and hotels spending again on improvement projects, the game is changing quickly, Mr. Eden said. Meetings planners, who typically negotiated and selected locations by phone or on personal visits, can now employ sophisticated technology to make selections and negotiate terms, even as the hotel industry itself is recovering strongly and better able to seek higher rates.

Though hotels now have more negotiating traction, those meetings planners who use new technology are also on firmer ground, and not “going to hotels and negotiating one-by-one with a phone call or an e-mail,” Mr. Eden said.

The meetings industry is also growing globally.

A recent survey by the consulting firm Frost & Sullivan estimated that the meetings and events industry accounted for a total of $565 billion globally in 2012. Still, the report noted, the majority of the planning process for meetings is done “manually,” rather than with newly available technology.

Domestically, meetings and trade shows represent over 40 percent of the total $273 billion that will be spent on all business travel in the United States this year, according to the Global Business Travel Association. And as the meetings business expands internationally, and global cities compete for more share, the industry will undoubtedly become a bigger part of the overall global business travel market, which the Global Business Travel Association estimates will account for a total of $1.12 trillion this year.

Incidentally, total business-travel spending is growing especially strongly in the Asia-Pacific region, where the market doubled in size to $393 billion last year, the trade group says. By 2016, the trade group estimates, China alone will surpass the United States in overall spending on business travel, and a considerable chunk of that will be spent on meetings and trade shows.

“It’s a huge industry, and it has become very, very competitive,” Mr. Eden said.
590 2013-08-27 Last night, after speaking with foreign ministers from around the world about the gravity of this situation, I went back and I watched the videos -- the videos that anybody can watch in the social media, and I watched them one more gut-wrenching time. It is really hard to express in words the the human suffering that they lay out before us.

As a father, I can’t get the image out of my head of a man who held up his dead child, wailing while chaos swirled around him, the images of entire families dead in their beds without a drop of blood or even a visible wound, bodies contorting in spasms, human suffering that we can never ignore or forget. Anyone who could claim that an attack of this staggering scale could be contrived or fabricated needs to check their conscience and their own moral compass.

What is before us today is real, and it is compelling.

So I also want to underscore that while investigators are gathering additional evidence on the ground, our understanding of what has already happened in Syria is grounded in facts, informed by conscience and guided by common sense. The reported number of victims, the reported symptoms of those who were killed or injured, the firsthand accounts from humanitarian organizations on the ground, like Doctors Without Borders and the Syria Human Rights Commission -- these all strongly indicate that everything these images are already screaming at us is real, that chemical weapons were used in Syria.

Moreover, we know that the Syrian regime maintains custody of these chemical weapons. We know that the Syrian regime has the capacity to do this with rockets. We know that the regime has been determined to clear the opposition from those very places where the attacks took place. And with our own eyes, we have all of us become witnesses.

We have additional information about this attack, and that information is being compiled and reviewed together with our partners, and we will provide that information in the days ahead.

Our sense of basic humanity is offended not only by this cowardly crime but also by the cynical attempt to cover it up. At every turn, the Syrian regime has failed to cooperate with the U.N. investigation, using it only to stall and to stymie the important effort to bring to light what happened in Damascus in the dead of night. And as Ban Ki- moon said last week, the U.N. investigation will not determine who used these chemical weapons, only whether such weapons were used, a judgement that is already clear to the world.

I spoke on Thursday with Syrian Foreign Minister Muallem, and I made it very clear to him that if the regime, as he argued, had nothing to hide, then their response should be immediate: immediate transparency, immediate access, not shelling. Their response needed to be unrestricted and immediate access. Failure to permit that, I told him, would tell its own story.

Instead, for five days the Syrian regime refused to allow the U.N. investigators access to the site of the attack that would allegedly exonerate them. Instead, it attacked the area further, shelling it and systematically destroying evidence. That is not the behavior of a government that has nothing to hide. That is not the action of a regime eager to prove to the world that it had not used chemical weapons. In fact, the regime’s belated decision to allow access is too late and is too late to be credible.

Today’s reports of an attack on the U.N. investigators, together with the continued shelling of these very neighborhoods, only further weakens the regime’s credibility. At President Obama’s direction, I’ve spent many hours over the last few days on the phone with foreign ministers and other leaders. The administration is actively consulting with members of Congress, and we will continue to have these conversations in the days ahead. President Obama has also been in close touch with the leaders of our key allies, and the president will be making an informed decision about how to respond to this indiscriminate use of chemical weapons.

But make no mistake: President Obama believes there must be accountability for those who would use the world’s most heinous weapons against the world’s most vulnerable people. Nothing today is more serious, and nothing is receiving more serious scrutiny.
591 2013-08-27 Roasted pepper and a vinaigrette dressing infuse a chewy, savory mix of rice and farro....
592 2013-08-27 A handful of corporate deals helped give the market a lift early in the day.

Amgen, the biotech giant, surged $8.15, or 8 percent, to $113.75 following its announcement late Sunday that it plans to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals for $10.4 billion in cash, or $125 a share. The acquisition would give Amgen three approved cancer treatments and several other potential drugs. Onyx rose $6.53, or 6 percent, to $123.49.

Shares of TMS International jumped $1.91, or 12 percent, to $17.48 after members of the Pritzker family agreed to buy the industrial company for about $690 million in cash, or $17.50 a share. The Pritzker family, one of America’s wealthiest, operates a global industrial conglomerate and founded the Hyatt hotel chain.

In economic news, the government reported that orders for long-lasting manufactured goods plunged 7.3 percent last month, the steepest drop in nearly a year. Demand for commercial aircraft sank, and businesses spent less on computers and electrical equipment. Excluding the transportation category, however, the index fell only 0.6 percent.

Jack Ablin, the chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank in Chicago, said investors would probably look past the one bad economic report because so many major events were coming up.

The Federal Reserve will start a two-day meeting Sept. 17 at which its policy makers will discuss gradually phasing out their economic stimulus program. After that, Germany holds national elections that could change how the euro zone handles rescue loans for troubled countries. Congress returns from its summer break next week and will take up a new budget before the fiscal year starts on Oct. 1.

“These issues are big enough to transcend daily data,” Mr. Ablin said.

Among the stocks on the move on Monday, Anadarko Petroleum climbed $1.22, or 1 percent, to $91.02. The oil and gas producer said late Sunday that it was selling part of its stake in a natural-gas site off the shores of Mozambique for $2.64 billion.

Tesla, the electric-car maker, climbed $2.38, or 1 percent, to $164.22, following reports that its Model S outsold Cadillac, Porsche, Jaguar and other brands in June in California.

In the bond market, interest rates eased. The price of the Treasury’s 10-year note rose 9/32, to 97 17/32, while its yield fell to 2.79 percent, from 2.82 percent late Friday.
593 2013-08-27 Officials said it was conceivable that military action could still be averted by a dramatic turnabout on the part of the Assad government, or by the Russian government that has been supporting it. But they said there were few expectations that this would happen.

Although the United States was consulting with allies, administration officials said they had largely abandoned hopes of obtaining any authorization for action in the United Nations Security Council, given the all-but certain veto from Russia.

In a move that reflected its differences with the Kremlin over a possible American-led military operation against Syria, the Obama administration has decided to postpone a coming meeting with the Russians on the crisis. A Russian delegation had been scheduled to meet this week in The Hague with Wendy R. Sherman, the under secretary of state for political Affairs, and Robert S. Ford, the senior American envoy to the Syrian opposition, to discuss plans for a peace conference to end the fighting in Syria.

A senior State Department official said Monday night that the session would be postponed because of the administration’s  “ongoing consultations about the appropriate response to the chemical weapons attack in Syria.”

Other signs of Western momentum toward a military response also took shape on Monday. Britain’s prime minister, David Cameron, cut short a vacation to deal with Syria, and the foreign ministers of Britain and Turkey suggested that bypassing the United Nations Security Council was an option. France’s foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said inaction was unacceptable.

“The only option I do not envisage is to do nothing,” Mr. Fabius told Europe 1, a French radio station. France has been a close ally of the rebels seeking Mr. Assad’s ouster in the country’s civil war.

News media in Cyprus, where Britain maintains a military air base that is less than 100 miles from Syria’s coast, reported stepped-up flights there in recent days, although such activity may not have been unusual.

Mr. Kerry spoke hours after United Nations inspectors were finally allowed access to one of the attack sites, despite shooting from unidentified snipers that disabled their convoy’s lead vehicle. The inspectors still managed to visit two hospitals, interview witnesses and doctors and collect patient samples for the first time since the attack last week that claimed hundreds of lives.

Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said in a statement after the assault that he had told his top disarmament official, Angela Kane, who was visiting Damascus, to register a “strong complaint to the Syrian government and authorities of opposition forces” to ensure the inspectors’ safety. There was no indication that any inspection team member had been hurt.

Mr. Ban’s spokesman, Farhan Haq, told reporters at a regular daily briefing at United Nations headquarters in New York that the assailants, who had not been identified, fired on the first vehicle in the convoy, which was “hit in its tires and its front window.”

“Ultimately,” he said, “it was not able to travel farther.”

Antigovernment activists posted videos online of United Nations inspectors in blue helmets arriving in the Moadamiya area, southwest of the capital, where they were shown entering a clinic and interviewing patients.

The visit by the United Nations inspectors to the Damascus suburb, in a half-dozen vehicles escorted by Syrian security forces, came shortly after Mr. Assad denied that his forces had used poison gas.

In an interview with the Russian newspaper Izvestia, published on Monday, Mr. Assad said accusations that his forces had used chemical weapons were an “outrage against common sense” and warned the United States that military intervention in Syria would bring “failure just like in all the previous wars they waged, starting with Vietnam and up to the present day.”

Obama administration officials said that Mr. Kerry’s statement was calculated to rebut the claims made by Syria and its longtime patron, Russia, that the rebels were somehow responsible for the chemical weapons attack, or that Mr. Assad had made an important concession by giving the United Nations investigators access.

Mr. Kerry said that on Thursday he told Walid al-Moallem, the Syrian foreign minister, that if the Assad government had nothing to hide it should provide immediate access to the attack site.

“Instead, for five days, the Syrian regime refused to allow the U.N. investigators access to the site of the attack that would allegedly exonerate them,” Mr. Kerry said. “Instead, it attacked the area further, shelling it and systematically destroying evidence.”

For Mr. Kerry, the denunciation of Mr. Assad carries a personal edge. As a senator in 2009, he met with Mr. Assad in Damascus to explore the possibility of building a more constructive relationship with Syria after a long chill. On Monday he accused him of “the indiscriminate slaughter of civilians.”

On Capitol Hill, top House and Senate Republicans called on the administration to confer with lawmakers before any military strike and to make the case to a skeptical public. The White House on Monday reached out to Speaker John A. Boehner after Mr. Boehner’s office noted publicly that he had not heard from the president on Syria.

“The speaker made clear that before any action is taken there must be meaningful consultation with members of Congress, as well as clearly defined objectives and a broader strategy to achieve stability,” said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner.

Others welcomed the signals from the administration that it was preparing to take action. Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said Mr. Assad “has crossed more than a red line and the United States must act in the interest of our national and global security.”

In Israel, a senior government official made a similar argument and suggested that Iran would be monitoring how the United States and its allies responded.

Yuval Steinitz, Israel’s minister of international affairs, strategy and intelligence, told reporters at a briefing on Monday morning in Jerusalem that it was “crystal clear” that Mr. Assad’s forces used chemical weapons last week and called the United Nations investigation a “joke.”

Mr. Steinitz said Iran, which provided arms to the Assad government and sent members of its paramilitary Quds force to fight with the Syrian military, should also be held responsible.

In the latest round of American consultations on Syria, Mr. Obama spoke by telephone on Monday with Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd of Australia about possible responses to the attack, and Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, met with a delegation of senior Israeli officials for talks that covered Iran, Egypt, Syria and other security issues.

The Israeli delegation was led by Yaakov Amidror, the chairman of Israel’s National Security Council and the national security adviser to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

Even as the United States and its allies considered their next steps, the toll from the attack continued to mount.

Doctors Without Borders reported Saturday that 3,600 patients had been treated at three hospitals it supports for symptoms that appeared to stem from exposure to chemical weapons.

On Monday, the group said that 70 volunteers who had taken care of these patients in one of the hospitals had also become ill and that one had died.
594 2013-08-27 Dr. Snell-Rood proposes that the brains of all six species have gotten bigger because humans have radically changed Minnesota. Where there were once pristine forests and prairies, there are now cities and farms. In this disrupted environment, animals better at learning new things were more likely to survive and have offspring.

Studies by other scientists have linked better learning in animals with bigger brains. In January, for example, researchers at Uppsala University in Sweden described an experiment in which they bred guppies for larger brain sizes. The big-brained fish scored better on learning tests than their small-brained cousins.

Animals colonizing cities and towns have to learn how to find food in buildings and other places their ancestors hadn’t encountered.

“We’re changing rural populations, too,” Dr. Snell-Rood said. As forests get cut for timber or farming, for example, bats may have to travel farther to find food and still be able to navigate home to roost. Big brains may have benefited them as well.

Other scientists not involved in the research hailed it as the first report of significant changes in brain size in animals outside labs. “I think the results are exciting and deserving of much follow-up work,” said Jason Munshi-South, an evolutionary biologist at Fordham University.

Dr. Munshi-South and other researchers see a need to test Dr. Snell-Rood’s hypothesis in new ways, so as to rule out alternative explanations.

If she’s right, for example, then the same trend she observed in Minnesota should exist in museum collections of skulls from other heavily developed regions of the world.

It should also be possible to continue the research in labs, by breeding small-brained rural mammals with their big-brained cousins. By studying their offspring, scientists could study the genes involved in producing different brain sizes. They could even give the animals tests to see just how much life in a human-dominated world has changed how their brains work.

But the ultimate breeding experiment to test Dr. Snell-Rood’s hypothesis may not be possible outside the movie set for “Jurassic Park.” “What would be really cool would be to raise populations from 1900,” said Dr. Snell-Rood with a laugh, “but we can’t really do that.”
595 2013-08-28 BRISKIN--Andrew. February 24, 1968- August 27, 2012 A very special son who departed too soon. You're in my heart and on my mind every minute of the day. Dad...
596 2013-08-28 Paula Ormaechea of Argentina is one of the few players on tour who still string their own rackets.
597 2013-08-28 New York law caps individual contributions to mayoral candidates, but records for 2013 are notable for their paucity of donations from hedge fund managers....
598 2013-08-28 The American government has issued a warning about the potential security threat for Google’s Android, which is the mostly widely used mobile operating system in the world....
599 2013-08-28 Today’s U.S. Open food review: the vegetable quesadilla at the South Plaza Cafe, under the Court 7 stands....
600 2013-08-28 In the past three years, 54 abortion providers in 27 states have either shut down or ended their abortion services....
601 2013-08-28 The clock is ticking on the budget battles. Home prices are surging. How to maintain a brand....
602 2013-08-28 Andy Murray’s affection for the United States Open dates to his days in junior tennis, when the trip to Queens struck him as something special....
603 2013-08-28 But with James Blake’s retirement looming, his match against the big-serving Ivo Karlovic takes on special significance....
604 2013-08-28 “She said to me this morning,” Jean-Maurice Duval said, “ ‘Dad, we are going to make it. I’m going to play all my game tonight.’ ”

As Duval spoke after his daughter’s upset victory, fans migrated toward him to offer their congratulations.

“Kenbe l’ale!” a woman said to him, offering her hand.

“It means, Keep it going,” Duval said. The language was Haitian Creole.

On Jan. 12, 2010, Duval’s home in Port-au-Prince — the home where Victoria Duval and her two brothers grew up — was destroyed by a devastating earthquake, with Duval still inside. A steel beam fell on his back, and he was buried underneath rubble for 11 hours. His back and five ribs were broken, his lung was punctured, and his left arm was paralyzed.

Victoria and her mother and brothers were living in Atlanta at the time, helping her pursue her tennis career. Jean-Maurice Duval, who ran a gynecology and obstetrics practice, was miraculously saved by a neighbor, who performed emergency surgery in the backyard to save his lung. Duval was airlifted to Miami and spent 16 days in a hospital in Hollywood, Fla.

Duval has since moved to Montreal. The property in Haiti where his house once stood remains empty land. At one point, the Duvals had a court in their backyard. Of course, it was a hardcourt.

On the most famous hardcourts in the country, Victoria Duval stole the spotlight from Novak Djokovic, who won his first-round match over Ricardas Berankis, 6-1, 6-2, 6-2, and Victoria Azarenka, who swept her match, 6-0, 6-0.

With her pipsqueak voice, white-framed glasses and wide grin, Duval lives by the motto “have fun.” She recently went through two growth spurts. And she giddily announced to the assembled news media that the rap star Lil Wayne had mentioned her on Twitter.

“I don’t have Twitter,” Duval said. “But I’m going to have to look that up.”

But she did not appear overmatched by the 29-year-old Stosur. Her ground strokes were solid and a largely defensive game worked well against Stosur, whose errors killed any momentum she tried to build.

“Just let every single opportunity slip away,” Stosur said. “Made way too many errors. At the end of the day, it really cost me.”

Down by 3-2 in the second set, Duval failed to hold serve, losing the game after a drop shot fell short of the net. She threw her arms in the air, clearly upset for the missed opportunity.

It could have led to her undoing, but instead the volley miscue seemed to rally her. She wound up breaking Stosur’s serve in the next game and won the set.

“She held it together,” Stosur said. “She kept going for it. When she got the chance to step up and hit a winner, she did it.”

Duval twice had opportunities to win the match with her serve, but Stosur held her off, once with a screaming return. For a teenager under the Open lights, the pressure might have been getting to her. But after Stosur brought the game to deuce, Duval managed to close it out.

The first person she credited for supporting her was her father, standing there in the corner, raising both arms aloft.

“Every time she plays a big match, she says, ‘Dad, you should be there, or Dad I’m waiting for you,’ ” Jean-Maurice said. “She feels so comfortable to have everyone around when she’s playing a big match.”
605 2013-08-28 The severity of the decline often depended on whether the parents were married. Nine percent of married families were living below the poverty line and receiving food stamps. The proportion among single-mother households was four times greater.

In another shift that might be recession related, a higher percentage of adults ages 25 to 34 lived in their parents’ home in 2012 than in the early 2000s. The share among men increased to 16 percent from 13 percent; among women, it rose to 10 percent from 8 percent.

Among people 18 to 24, women were more likely to be living with a spouse or an unmarried partner. Eleven percent of women and 6 percent of men in that age group were married; another 12 percent of women and 8 percent of men were cohabiting.

Of the nation’s 115 million households, 56 million were married couples and 32 million were people living alone (12 million of whom were 65 or older). Married couples made up 48.6 percent of households, compared with barely short of 50 percent as recently as 2010.

The analysis, drawn from the American Community Survey and the Current Population Survey, found the proportion of women ages 65 to 74 living alone had halved, though only 45 percent of women in that age group lived with their spouse, compared with 72 percent of men.

Divorce rates may have been accountable for a sharp rise in the share of men ages 15 to 64 living alone, to 34 percent, from 23 percent in 1970.

The census found stark differences in family structure by race and ethnicity. Married couples made up 81 percent of Asian, 80 percent of non-Hispanic white, 62 percent of Hispanic and 44 percent of black family groups.

Twenty-eight percent of children over all live with one parent — 55 percent of black children, 31 percent of Hispanic, 21 percent of white and 13 percent of Asian. Still, 64 percent of all 74 million children lived with married parents — a decline from 69 percent just a decade ago.

“Over the last half-century, the trend in the U.S. has been toward smaller households, fewer family and married-couple households with children, and more people living alone,” said Jonathan Vespa, another co-author of the report. “Many of these trends reflect a rising age at first marriage and older adults who can live in their own home for longer.”

“A family postponed is not necessarily a family forgone,” he said.

Sixty-six percent of households in 2012 were family households — two or more people related by birth, marriage or adoption — compared with 81 percent in 1970. Among cohabiting couples with children, 51 percent lived only with the biological children of both partners.

The census survey found 605,000 same-sex couple households, married and unmarried, of whom 321,000 were female and 284,000 were male. Same-sex couples were more likely than opposite-sex married couples to both be college graduates (31 percent) and more likely to be of different races (12 percent).
606 2013-08-28 Yet in some ways, the episode may represent more of a continuity with the conduct of this war than a departure from it. During two and a half years of conflict, Mr. Assad has slowly increased the intensity of attacks on civilian neighborhoods where rebels have found support. Mr. Hokayem calls it a strategy of “gradual escalation and desensitization” of the public in Syria and abroad.

Government forces have used blunt and imprecise conventional weapons, firing Scud missiles and unleashing artillery bombardments and airstrikes on neighborhoods, in attacks that seem aimed more at sowing fear and punishing populations than at specific tactical gains. While last week’s killings appear to have been the largest mass slaughter of the war, conventional weapons have killed many times more people than chemicals.

Even after Western governments declared that Syrian government forces had used banned chemical weapons like the nerve agent sarin, crossing what President Obama had once called a “red line,” the attacks provoked little visible response.

And in recent weeks, with the United States and its allies increasingly queasy about Islamic extremists among Mr. Assad’s fractious opponents and the prospect that his fall would bring even greater chaos to the country and the region, Mr. Assad could watch Egypt’s generals preside over the killing of more than 1,000 Islamist protesters, also with few international repercussions.

Some analysts say that a growing sense of impunity may have led Mr. Assad to believe that he could get away with an attack much larger than past ones. Others say they suspect that he intended only an incremental increase in the use of chemicals and that a tactical error led to last week’s much higher death toll, and to the pictures of children’s bodies shrouded in white that provoked a new level of international outrage.

On the eve of last Wednesday’s attack, Mr. Assad’s forces had consolidated gains around the central city of Homs, aiming to secure the heavily populated corridor running from Damascus through the government’s coastal strongholds to the divided northern city of Aleppo. But the capital remained ringed by restive suburbs where by some estimates half the population stayed despite relentless shelling, and where the government has been unable to decisively dislodge rebels.

Yezid Sayigh, an analyst of Arab militaries at the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut, said government forces have used chemical weapons in small amounts several times to incapacitate fighters on front lines as it tries to take specific areas, and could have been trying to do so on a somewhat larger scale in last week’s attack.

The government, Mr. Sayigh said, may also have sought to use the psychological effect of chemical weapons to frighten away residents who had stayed until then, to deny rebels cover and support and to add new refugee flows to those already burdening Syria’s neighbors.

“They clearly felt a need to use chemical weapons quite a while ago and were able to get away with that, bluntly, as long as they kept it within certain limits,” he said. “Maybe they felt they needed to achieve significant progress in the Damascus area, and loosened the rules of engagement.”

Although it might seem strange to use chemical weapons during a visit by United Nations weapons inspectors, the deterrent effect of international observers has been overestimated in the past, said Mr. Hokayem of the strategic studies institute, noting that some of the first large-scale massacres in the conflict took place during a visit by United Nations observers.

Analysts said the possibility that the attack was by a rogue commander seemed remote, as did the idea that the attack was desperate and irrational.

The security forces have remained relatively cohesive and organized. The government has scaled back its military goals, recognizing that it cannot fight everywhere at once, but it displays a greater ability than the rebels to systematically make decisions about allocating resources and weapons to areas it considers important at a particular time.

Still, the government is not monolithic. There are different power centers within its security forces, and some analysts have speculated that Mr. Assad’s brother Maher, the leader of the feared Republican Guard, could have given the order, or that it was carried out by irregular forces. Evidence from videos and witnesses suggested that the toxic substances in last week’s attack were delivered by improvised tube-launched missiles that could be used by smaller, more mobile units than were thought to be needed for chemical weapons.

Syria’s allies Russia and Iran have said the attack was carried out by rebels, who produce many homemade weapons. But the government has also used seemingly improvised weapons in conjunction with standard ones, as when its forces dropped barrel bombs from helicopters.

Mr. Sayigh of the Carnegie Middle East Center noted that the Syrian government was accused of similar miscalculations in the past, like taking a tacit or active role in the assassination of Lebanon’s former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, in 2005 — an event that led to Syria’s withdrawal of its occupying forces from Lebanon under pressure.

“They are used to acting in blunt ways,” he said. “Now and then they miscalculate.”
607 2013-08-28 There are sympathizers within Ennahda for jihadist and other radical Islamist groups, and they deny that such organizations are involved in violence inside Tunisia. Many of the individuals from the various camps were imprisoned together under Mr. Ben Ali’s authoritarian rule.

Thousands of political and religious prisoners were released after the revolution under a general amnesty, among them Abu Iyadh, a Tunisian jihadist who fought alongside Osama bin Laden at Tora Bora in Afghanistan. He escaped Afghanistan in 2001 and after two years on the run was detained in Turkey in 2003 and deported to Tunisia, where he was jailed.

He gave frequent interviews to journalists after his release in 2011 and claimed his group, Ansar al-Shariah, was focusing on peaceful preaching.

Yet a string of attacks in the past year have forced the government to investigate his movement.

The attack on the American Embassy, in which 100 vehicles were burned and the American school adjacent to the embassy compound was looted, put the government on alert, coming two days after the assault on the American mission in Libya that killed the ambassador and three other Americans.

American intercepts later revealed that Abu Iyadh was in touch with Al Qaeda in organizing the attack, according to government officials here. The attack was followed by the assassination of two secular politicians, Chokri Belaid in February and Mr. Brahmi in July.

The government began to move against Ansar al-Shariah, banning its annual congress in May and battling its supporters in the streets of a Tunis suburb. In the months since, hundreds of members of the movement have been detained.

At the same time, militants began insurgent activities on Tunisia’s western border with Algeria, laying mines and ambushing soldiers. Ten soldiers have been killed since April, eight of them in an ambush in July that shocked the nation.

The government now says that the movement as a whole is involved in a campaign of violence.

“Ansar al-Shariah is involved in assassinations, and responsible for collecting of weapons, for planning other assassinations and attempting to attack security offices,” the prime minister said at a news briefing. He said the government had evidence and confessions from suspects.

“The structure of this organization is based on a military structure, and we took the decision to classify it as a terrorist organization.”

Branding Ansar al-Shariah a terrorist group could force it and its thousands of young followers underground, warned Fabio Merone, a researcher from Dublin City University who has studied it.

“It is a big group and rooted in society,” he said. The movement does not openly espouse a terrorist agenda, and while some elements within it may be involved in terrorism, many are not, he said. “We were expecting the government to distinguish between the two,” he added.
608 2013-08-28 King went up to his room and spent the night writing the speech in longhand. Andrew Young stopped by and saw that King had crossed out words three and four times, trying to find the right rhythm, as if he were writing poetry. King finished at about 4 in the morning and handed the manuscript to his aides so it could be typed up and distributed to the press. The speech did not include the words “I have a dream.”

King awoke the next morning to the disappointing news that the crowds at the March were smaller than expected. “About 25,000,” the television reporters were saying, as King left the hotel. Bayard Rustin, the march’s chief organizer, was standing at the Washington Monument, where reporters pressed him about why so few people had shown up. Rustin looked intently at a yellow legal pad in his hand. “Gentlemen,” he said, “everything is going exactly according to plan.” One of Rustin’s aides looked over his shoulder and saw that the pad Rustin was looking at was blank.

But at Union Station, buses and trains were coming in regularly, swelling crowds that some onlookers compared to those that had gathered at the end of World War II. Train No. 42 of the Southern Railroad, which had carried Medgar Evers’s body to Washington two months earlier, arrived full of marchers. A “Freedom Special,” chartered from Florida, pulled in and discharged nearly 800 young people singing a massed chorus of “We Shall Overcome.”

By late morning, the lawns around the Washington Monument were packed with people, many of whom opened up the box lunches they had prepared (no mayonnaise, the march organizers had warned — it might spoil) and started to picnic. Then, around 11 a.m., some people began walking to the Lincoln Memorial, more followed, and soon most of the crowd was on its way. This surprised Rustin, who had planned for the leaders of the major civil rights groups to lead the way to the Memorial. “My God, they’re going!” he shouted. “We’re supposed to be leading them!” He hustled the leaders together, and they joined hands at a break in the middle of the crowd, with most of the marchers already far ahead.

There was a long afternoon program of songs and speeches at the Lincoln Memorial. King had the last speaking slot — not just because he was a hard act to follow, but because some other speakers thought they might get better coverage if they spoke earlier in the day. (By late afternoon, some leaders believed, the TV crews would leave to process their film for the evening news.) As the program went on, people packed up and started to walk away. Many had spent several days and nights on buses and trains to Washington, and they were tired and ready to head home.

Then A. Philip Randolph, the 74-year-old initiator of the march, who had secured an executive order on nondiscrimination in defense-industry employment and contracts by pressuring President Franklin D. Roosevelt with a threat of a march on Washington in 1941, introduced the gospel singer Mahalia Jackson. She sang two spirituals, “I Been ’Buked and I Been Scorned” and “How I Got Over.” King was seated nearby, clapping his hands on his knees and calling out to her as she sang. Roger Mudd, covering the event for CBS News, said after the first song: “Mahalia Jackson. And all the speeches in the world couldn’t have brought the response that just came from the hymns she sang. Miss Mahalia Jackson.” Then, after a speech by Rabbi Joachim Prinz, from the American Jewish Congress, it was King’s turn to speak.

King read from his prepared text for most of his speech, which relied on the Bible, the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence — just as President John F. Kennedy had a few months earlier, when he called for civil rights legislation in a nationally televised address: “We are confronted primarily with a moral issue. It is as old as the Scriptures and is as clear as the American Constitution.”

As King neared the end, he came to a sentence that wasn’t quite right. He had planned to introduce his conclusion with a call to “go back to our communities as members of the international association for the advancement of creative dissatisfaction.” He skipped that, read a few more lines, and then improvised: “Go back to Mississippi; go back to Alabama; go back to South Carolina; go back to Georgia; go back to Louisiana; go back to the slums and ghettos of our Northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed.”

Nearby, off to one side, Mahalia Jackson shouted: “Tell them about the dream, Martin!” King looked out over the crowd. As he later explained in an interview, “all of a sudden this thing came to me that I have used — I’d used many times before, that thing about ‘I have a dream’ — and I just felt that I wanted to use it here.” He said, “I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream.” And he was off, delivering some of the most beloved lines in American history, a speech that he never intended to give and that some of the other civil rights leaders believed no one but the marchers would ever remember.
609 2013-08-28 On the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, the country can take pride in progress made toward the guarantee of equal rights for all. Yet it is disheartening to watch the continuing battles over the right to vote, a core goal of the civil rights movement and the foundation of any functioning democracy.

The latest fights, over harsh new voting restrictions in and , have only made the need for comprehensive and lasting protection of voting rights that much clearer. In June, the hobbled the , one of the most effective civil rights laws in American history. A central element of that law required certain states and jurisdictions with a history of discrimination to obtain federal permission before making changes to their election laws. Finding that “things have changed dramatically,” the court struck down that part of the act.

Within hours, it became clear that things had not changed as much as the court seemed to think. Texas, one of the states covered by the act, was first out of the gate, announcing it would immediately begin enforcing a photo-identification requirement for voters that a federal court had blocked last year. Defenders of that state law — which accepts a concealed-handgun license for identification but not a student ID card — said it was necessary to prevent in-person voter fraud, even though state officials have identified only a handful of such cases. The new North Carolina voter ID law, enacted earlier this month, is similarly disconnected from reality.

These laws, supported by Republican lawmakers trying to suppress Democratic votes, may not be uniquely targeted at racial minorities — they also burden the poor, the elderly, students and others — but that does not change their racial effect. Either way, what reason is there to keep eligible citizens from voting unless you are afraid of the outcome?

Last week, the Justice Department sued Texas over the voter ID law, arguing that it discriminated against minority voters. In a separate case last month, the department joined a lawsuit seeking to place Texas back under federal oversight, because of its discriminatory state-redistricting maps. Both actions relied on surviving sections of the Voting Rights Act, and Attorney General Jr. promised that the administration would “take action against jurisdictions that attempt to hinder access to the ballot box, no matter where it occurs.” Given a Supreme Court that appears increasingly antagonistic to claims of voting discrimination, maintaining rights in practice will require more than just aggressive and persistent lawsuits by the Justice Department or aggrieved voters.

A more robust and lasting solution would include Congress requiring states to improve the accuracy of voter registration databases. Federal laws began this process in the 1990s and early 2000s, but many states’ voting rolls remain woefully unreliable. Making registration easier — for example, by obligating states to identify and register eligible voters or by allowing voters to update their registrations online — would also make a real difference.
610 2013-08-28 The number of police stops in New York City over recent months plummeted to levels not seen in nearly a decade, back when the Bloomberg administration was just beginning to turn to stop-and-frisk tactics, according to new data.

From April through June, police officers conducted 58,088 involuntary stops. That was a steep decline from the 99,788 stops performed during the first quarter of 2013. And it was well below the 203,500 stops the police conducted in the first quarter of 2012, a high-water mark for the number of stops since Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took office in 2002.

City lawyers cited the new stop numbers in a letter they sent on Tuesday to a federal judge who ruled earlier this month that the Police Department had over the last decade expanded its use of stop-and-frisk tactics in ways that the Constitution did not permit. They requested that the judge, Shira A. Scheindlin, delay ordering any changes until the city’s appeal was heard.

The rapid decline in stops suggests that the Police Department is de-emphasizing the confrontational policing tactics that Mr. Bloomberg continues to defend as necessary to maintain the impressive drop in violent crime that occurred during his tenure. This year is expected to be the safest year on record in recent history, in terms of the number of murders.

Police officers in New York City are required to record each instance in which they stop and question an individual on suspicion of a crime but lack probable cause to make an arrest. Stops are a basic police crime-fighting tool that the Supreme Court has recognized for decades.
611 2013-08-28 Saying she wished to “intrude as little as possible” on Apple’s business, a federal judge said on Tuesday that she wanted to narrowly focus the company’s proposed punishment for illegal price fixing of e-books.

In a hearing in United States District Court in Manhattan, Judge Denise L. Cote rejected an argument by the Justice Department that the government should have broad oversight over Apple products like movies, music, television and apps.

“I want this injunction to rest as lightly as possible on the way Apple runs its business,” said Judge Cote, who added that it was her goal to complete a ruling next week.

The federal government sued Apple and five major publishers in April 2012, saying they worked together to raise the price of e-books as Apple prepared to open its iBookstore in 2010.

The ensuing trial included testimony from the chief executives of publishing houses, who recounted phone calls, private dinners and e-mails with Apple executives, which the government said were part of a conspiracy. Apple was found guilty in July. The company has said it will appeal.
612 2013-08-28 Mr. Caro Quintero’s release with 12 years left on his 40-year sentence “drove a spike in the heart of Mexican-American bilateral drug enforcement efforts,” the nine previous D.E.A. administrators wrote in a letter last week.

“This incident — the early release of the drug cartel leader responsible for the kidnapping, torture and murder of a federal D.E.A. agent — was particularly outrageous,” it continued, “because it represented a repudiation of the sacrifices that agents on both sides of the border have made for the last four decades.”

They have also begun talking to members of Congress about possible hearings and other steps to keep up pressure on the case, which at the time of Mr. Camarena’s killing sent United States-Mexico relations into a nosedive that it took years to recover from.

Aside from the death of Mr. Camarena, Mr. Caro Quintero was convicted of killing a Mexican pilot who worked with the agent and two other Americans a few months before Mr. Camarena was abducted on Feb. 7, 1985 — John Walker and Albert Radelat, whom he falsely accused of being drug agents after they stumbled into a cantina where he was holding a party. Mr. Caro Quintero was also implicated, but not charged, in the killings of four other Americans.

Two other members of the cartel, Ernesto Fonseca Carrillo and Miguel Angel Félix Gallardo, who led what was a forerunner of modern drug trafficking organizations, remain imprisoned for the murder and other charges. But Mr. Fonseca’s lawyer has said that he will seek his client’s release on the same grounds as Mr. Caro Quintero.

The investigators say Mr. Caro Quintero was on a rampage against the D.E.A. and anybody he thought was associated with it, because Mr. Camarena had helped uncover an enormous marijuana plantation in 1984, which resulted in a $2 billion loss to his business.

While at one point the United States virtually shut border crossings in the manhunt for Mr. Camarena after he disappeared — his mangled body was found on a remote ranch a few days later — the sense of outrage has been more muted this time, say the D.E.A. agents, who have little patience for diplomatic promises of cooperation from a Mexican government that has been wary of deep American involvement in drug enforcement on its soil.

A senior Obama administration official acknowledged last week that the United States learned of Mr. Caro Quintero’s release only after he was already free, a lapse the official attributed to confusion even within the Mexican government over the judges’ order, which the government has called an error that it will appeal.

“We made clear our deep concern with the way this happened,” he said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

The administration has received assurances that Mexico is closely tracking and doing all it can to ensure the other men remain behind bars, the official said. In the meantime, he said, the two countries are working closely together to find Mr. Caro Quintero, now that the United States has issued an arrest warrant and asked that he be detained.

Such assurances hardly mollify the team that investigated the case, a rare attack on a drug agent on foreign soil that exposed the deep level of corruption and collusion among Mexican officials in the drug world.

Top police officials were implicated in the crime and American investigators have long suspected that Mr. Caro Quintero’s ties reached the upper echelons of the Mexican government.

Some suspect that is why Mexico at the time resisted extraditing him, for fear he would divulge secrets to the Americans “that would embarrass the Mexican government,” said John Lawn, a top D.E.A. official during the case.

But there were other complications. He could have faced the death penalty, which Mexican law prohibited and would give its government reason to reject an extradition request, said Robert Bonner, then the top Los Angeles federal prosecutor who oversaw the criminal case.

And Mexico, eager to get the case out of international headlines, made a key promise.

“One reason the U.S. government did not press as hard as it could have was assurances by Mexico he would serve his full 40-year imprisonment,” Mr. Bonner said. “It would be an understatement to say we are disappointed he didn’t.”

Even behind bars, with alcohol-soaked parties and access to phones, he was able to maintain his criminal empire, and his disappearance after walking out of jail is surely a sign that he still holds sway in the underworld and possibly among law enforcement, Mr. Lawn argued.

A panel of three judges ruled on an appeal that claimed Mr. Caro Quintero was improperly tried in federal court for what were state crimes. In their ruling, they agreed with Mr. Caro Quintero’s lawyers that although Mr. Camarena worked at the American consulate in Guadalajara, Mexico, he was not an accredited diplomat and therefore his murder was a state crime. He was ordered freed because of the amount of jail time he had already served.

To the investigators, it was just another escape on his part, recalling the frantic near-capture of Mr. Caro Quintero decades ago.

A tip led a team of agents to the airport in Guadalajara, where a standoff with heavily armed, plainclothes police officers ensued, as the agents tried to determine if Mr. Caro Quintero was hiding among them.

Edward Heath, then a supervisor, recalled barking into a radio to his fellow agents not to let the plane take off. But at the airport, the man they later confirmed was Mr. Caro Quintero, wearing designer jeans, a gold chain necklace, a diamond bracelet and a semiautomatic pistol in his waistband, huddled with a senior police commander, who then told the agents that the plane was cleared to leave. It later emerged that he had been paid off.

Looking back, Mr. Heath said, he wished he had been there, even if it meant “there would have been one hell of a shootout.”

Mr. Caro Quintero went to Costa Rica, where American agents tracked him. He was detained and returned to Mexico, where he was tried and convicted in 1989.

It did not end the swirl of questions around him. How deep did the corruption go? How extensive were his operations? What of the letter the D.E.A. received years later purporting to be from Mr. Caro Quintero, offering information?

“Even with the arrest warrant, what is Mexico going to do?” Mr. Villarruel said of the case now. “He is gone. The point is he was released, something went wrong and we want to know why.”
613 2013-08-28 WASHINGTON — A pair of reports issued Tuesday offered bright news on the state of the economy, with home prices increasing and consumer confidence rising.

Home prices rose 12.1 percent in June compared with a year earlier, nearly matching a seven-year high. However, month-over-month price gains slowed in most markets, a sign that higher mortgage rates may cool the housing recovery.

The Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller 20-city home price index slowed only marginally from May’s year-over-year gain of 12.2 percent, the fastest since March 2006. And all 20 cities posted gains from the previous month and compared with a year ago, according to the report.

In addition, Americans’ confidence in the economy inched closer to a five-and-a-half-year high on growing optimism that hiring and wages could pick up in coming months.

The Conference Board, a private research group based in New York, said Tuesday that its consumer confidence index rose to 81.5 in August. That is up from a revised reading of 81 in July and just below the 82.1 reading in June, which was the highest since January 2008.
614 2013-08-28 A warehouse in Secaucus, N.J., yields crucial clues in the search for Benjamin Britten’s lost score for the ballet “Les Sylphides.”...
615 2013-08-28 Experts say two large, complex instruments lie at the heart of advanced chemical detection: the gas chromatograph and the mass spectrometer. The chromatograph breaks up chemicals into their components, and the spectrometer identifies them by comparing them to libraries of known substances.

With readings from both instruments, scientists in highly specialized laboratories can usually detect the presence of a chemical agent or its breakdown products in a field sample.

“They’re very good,” said David H. Moore, a toxicologist at Battelle Memorial Institute, a nonprofit research group in Columbus, Ohio, and a former official at the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland. “If adequate samples are collected, there’s a high probability that they will find conclusive evidence of exposure to chemical warfare agents.”

A global treaty known as the Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993 bars the development, production, stockpiling and use of chemical arms. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, based in The Hague, polices the treaty and relies on a global network of more than a dozen top laboratories to analyze field samples.

Dr. Moore said he had visited many of the laboratories, including one at the Aberdeen Proving Ground, and judged their work to be excellent.

With Syria, he added, the best evidence for chemical forensics would be blood and tissue samples from victims and survivors that display acute symptoms. Careful analysis of such samples, he said, can reveal “telltale markers.”

Dr. Moore said his own judgment of the Syrian situation, based on viewing pictures of the victims, was that the crippling and killing “clearly looks like the work of a nerve agent.”

But he also said the United Nations inspectors could be confounded if, a week after the attack, the “worried well” presented vague symptoms but no solid evidence of chemical exposure.

“The further you are from an incident,” Dr. Moore noted, “the more difficult the investigation will become.”

Another hurdle, experts note, is that Syria has been shelling the area of the massacre in what Secretary of State John Kerry on Monday described as an attempt at “systematically destroying evidence.”

The clock may be ticking not only on environmental clues in Syria, but biological ones as well. Ron G. Manley, a former British military specialist and director of verification for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said studies had shown that the human body eventually metabolizes traces of nerve agents, erasing the chemical evidence.

Even so, Dr. Manley said in an interview, British scientists had managed to find unambiguous signs “in blood and urine samples for up to two weeks” after a chemical attack.

The United Nations helped pioneer the investigation of chemical attacks after there were bold claims of mass slaughter with unconventional arms and many looked to the world body for adjudication.

In 1988, for instance, Iran charged that Iraq had used chemical weapons against a number of Iranian villages. In response, the United Nations sent an investigative team that reported clear evidence of chemical warfare.

In 1992, a forensic team assembled by Physicians for Human Rights, based in Boston, and Middle East Watch, a human rights group based in New York, conducted an unusual experiment to see if clear evidence could be uncovered long after a chemical attack. Its scientists went to the Kurdish village in northern Iraq that had been bombed by Iraqi warplanes four years earlier, and they sent field samples to the Chemical and Biological Defense Establishment of the British Ministry of Defense. It found trace evidence of sarin as well as mustard gas, another chemical agent.

Graham Pearson, the establishment’s director general at the time, said the detection showed that “samples collected from appropriate locations can provide evidence of the presence of chemical warfare agents over four years after the attack.”

Before the Syrian investigation, the United Nations inspectors had most recently looked into charges of chemical weapons use in a conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The team found no such evidence.

Weapons experts note that investigations into charges of chemical warfare can at times prove difficult because nerve agents can resemble other chemicals, notably insecticides. Tabun and sarin, both potent nerve agents, were developed in Germany in 1936 and 1938 as insecticides and only later stockpiled for war.

In an interview, Raymond A. Zilinskas, a senior scientist at the Monterey Institute of International Studies and a former United Nations weapons inspector, said one question in Syria was whether the toxic clouds at the site of the massacre came from an industrial accident instead of a chemical weapons attack.

But Dr. Zilinskas said the inspection teams, after decades of experience and access to the latest equipment, most likely had the means to tell the difference between a chemical attack and an accident.

“There’s a fairly good probability that they’ll be able to differentiate between the two,” he said. “A well-equipped unit of inspectors can do a lot.”
616 2013-08-28 John Avila, a pitmaster who worked at the Franklin Barbecue in Austin, will be slow-smoking Texas barbecue for the owners Joel Bolden of Brooklyn and Chris Morgan of Houston. Brisket, turkey, sausage, chicken and pork will be served. “We’re doing classic, dry-rub meats,” Mr. Bolden said. They’ll have baked stuffed potatoes and, for dessert, cobblers. The industrial storefront in Brooklyn combines raw wood and metal in a beamed ceiling space with lots of counter seating. (Opens Sept. 5): 267 Flatbush Avenue (St. Marks Avenue), Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 622-2224, morgansbrooklynbarbecue.com.

RED FARM STEAK This 28-day pop-up branch of Red Farm, the Chinese restaurant upstairs owned by Ed Schoenfeld and Joe Ng, serves Asian appetizers, like bacon egg roll and vegetable tempura, plus steaks, lamb and seafood. It will be open while Red Farm is renovated (Wednesday): 529 1/2 Hudson Street (Charles Street), (212) 792-9700, redfarmnyc.com.

GRACE A team of female mixologists consulted on the cocktail program for this Irish pub named for Grace O’Malley, a 16th-century female pirate. Ryan Schmidtberger, who worked at Lure Fishbar and the River Café, is preparing a menu featuring seafood. (Friday): 365 Third Avenue (27th Street), (646) 918-6553, gracebarnyc.com.

HIROHISA Add “kappo” to your directory of Japanese dining styles. It refers to traditional menus that present techniques of cutting, poaching, stewing and frying. This simple restaurant from Hirohisa Hayashi serves kappo dishes and tasting menus done with contemporary wiggle room: 73 Thompson Street (Broome Street), (212) 925-1613, hirohisa-nyc.com.

IL GATTOPARDO After 13 years, Gianfranco and Paula Bolla Sorrentino are moving their restaurant down the block to the Rockefeller town house, which was home to Aquavit and La Petite Maison. The new dining room is understated and elegant, like the previous one, but fresher and sleeker. In November, they will turn the old location into Mozzarella Lab, a cafe for Southern Italian food. (Monday): 13-15 West 54th Street, (212) 246-0412, ilgattopardonyc.com.

TABATA 2 Maung Linn has opened a nearly identical branch of his busy Hell’s Kitchen ramen place: 557 Eighth Avenue (37th Street), (212) 465-2418, tabataramen.com.

CANVAS Masaharu Morimoto has closed his short-lived Tribeca Canvas and in about a month will open the space with a new menu, new name and new partners: 313 Church Street (Walker Street), (917) 720-2845.
617 2013-08-28 Lu Pin, of the Beijing-based Media Monitor for Women Network, agreed. “Why should a woman be called a man just because she’s clever?” she said, sounding bemused at the very thought. “Why does she have to be a man to be respected?”

I met Ms. Liu for lunch to ask how things were going as a new mom — and a man.

Looking fresh, if a little rounder than I remembered from our last, prebaby meeting, her reaction wasn’t indignation at this transformation of her gender, but surprise that she should be called “xiansheng” while only in her 30s.

“I think it’s funny, and quite sad, because mostly only old women are called that,” she said, looking slightly uncomfortable with the question. Answering it required acknowledging that she is held in high esteem, and that is embarrassing in a culture that places importance on appearing modest.

“I think when you are called ‘xiansheng’ it’s about how people see you,” she said. “They think I’m an intellectual, I’m respected, and I suppose they like me.”

Feminist linguistics, which examines how women are described in language and highlights the gender biases embedded in it, has not been deeply explored in China, meaning that awareness may be low, said David Moser, a Chinese-language specialist and a director of a Chinese studies program at Capital Normal University in Beijing.

“I think it’s a little bit off the radar,” he said.

In other words, even feminists aren’t watching out for this stuff, though women are represented in a colorful and wide range of derogatory ways in Chinese. “Xiansheng” undoubtedly isn’t the worst.

The very character for woman, “nu,” is an ideogram that suggests submission: a kneeling person with her hands clasped before her, according to Li Leyi, a scholar, in his “Tracing the Roots of Chinese Characters: 500 Cases.” Some think her hands may be bound, though Mr. Li doesn’t confirm that.

In contrast, the character for man, “nan,” shows a field and a plow. (The latter became the standalone word for “power.”) Then there is “yao,” meaning goblin or devil, which contains the character for “woman.” So does “traitor,” while a sinister smile and plot — yes, they have a woman in them, too. The long list includes many hoary proverbs and sayings: “Brothers are your hands and feet, a woman your clothes,” meaning that she is inessential and can be changed. “A woman is a mule who can be ridden and beaten,” is another.

There are other female “misters,” like Yang Jiang, 102, a writer along with her husband, Qian Zhongshu,  and Zhang Yihe Xiansheng, the author of “The Past Is Not Like Smoke,” a powerful memoir of her democratic father and his colleagues who were destroyed by the Communist Party after it seized power in 1949. She has more than 370,000 followers on Sina Weibo.

Then there are famous, deceased female “misters”: Bing Xin, a celebrated children’s author, and  Wang Guangmei, a politician and the wife of Liu Shaoqi, a president of China.

Bing Xin’s daughter, Wu Qing, a former deputy to a local Beijing congress, is sometimes addressed as “xiansheng,” even though, she said in a telephone interview, she doesn’t deserve it.

For Ms. Wu, the word’s ancient meaning of “teacher” is more relevant than its contemporary meaning of man; it can be understood as a gender-neutral accolade. “I think it can be a good thing,” she said. Young people may not understand that it once was a traditional form of respect for all, she suggested.

Ms. Lu, the feminist, pooh-poohed that. After all, in olden times all teachers were men, and either way, today, she said, xiansheng “has become a male thing. Totally.”

A quick, unscientific poll of friends and colleagues drew a uniform reaction: it signifies “man.”

For Mr. Moser, these deep language structures operate on conscious and subconscious levels, showing enduring, patriarchal attitudes.

Chinese linguistic insults to women are legion, but the subconscious ones interest him the most because they are the most insidious, he said.

For example, a person with a doctorate — a “boshi” — is a man, unless you specify she’s a woman, in which case she’s a “nu boshi,” he said, noting that Chinese is not the only language that exhibits this bias and that it extends to a range of professions.

“The male is always the generic and the female is the special case,” he said.

“In English we have made some strides” toward eradicating bias, but things are backsliding, he said. “The use of ‘Ms.’ is kind of dying out or going back a bit,” he said, pointing also to the fact that many women in the West still change their surname to their husband’s.

“It’s so common to say, ‘you guys’ when it’s males and females,” he said.

Sometimes, a woman just has to be one of the guys — like Mr. Liu Yu, Mr. Zhang Yihe and Mr. Wu Qing.
618 2013-08-28 HONG KONG — The police in Shanghai announced the arrest of an American woman and her British husband on charges of illegally gathering personal information as part of their work advising foreign companies on investment risks and fraud in China.

The police announcement, issued through Xinhua, the state-run news agency, late on Monday, was the first official Chinese confirmation that the woman, Yu Yingzeng, and the man, Peter Humphrey, were arrested in connection with their work at ChinaWhys, an investigation and advisory company that they founded in Shanghai in 2003. Last week, the British Embassy in Beijing said Mr. Humphrey, formerly a reporter for Reuters, had been arrested.

A Chinese state television news program showed what it said was video of Mr. Humphrey confessing, and the Web site of the newspaper Legal Daily said Ms. Yu had admitted to breaking the law. But the couple have been held in secrecy, making it impossible to say whether they spoke under duress.

The allegations against the couple will probably send a chill through the fraud and commercial investigation firms in China that help foreign investors navigate the country’s business landscape. Some multinationals in China have also come under pressure recently as a result of government investigations and allegations of price fixing and using bribery to facilitate business. The Xinhua report said that “the work concerning the case is still developing.”

According to the Xinhua report, police investigators in Shanghai found that, over the course of a decade, Mr. Humphrey and Ms. Yu had “used compilation, purchasing and other methods to illegally acquire and sell a large amount of citizens’ personal information, seeking to make illegal gains.” The information includes details about home addresses, family members, overseas travel and property, the Xinhua report said. It called ChinaWhys an “illegal investigation company.”
619 2013-08-28 This lemony salad is enriched with a small amount of barley and toasted hazelnuts....
620 2013-08-29 Jack Sock moved through to the third round of the United States Open for the second successive year with a 7-6 (3), 1-6, 7-5, 6-2 victory over Maximo Gonzalez and will now face No. 18 seed Janko Tipsarevic....
621 2013-08-29 Harbinger Capital Partners has filed to take one of its insurance businesses public shortly after the hedge fund agreed to a tougher compromise with the government over accusations of market manipulation....
622 2013-08-29 Time-lapse video and interactive online maps are helping people monitor the wildfire burning near Yosemite National Park, which has become the sixth largest wildfire in California’s recorded history....
623 2013-08-29 Switzerland and the United States reached a watershed deal to punish Swiss banks that helped wealthy Americans stash money in hidden offshore accounts, ending years of bank secrecy and tax evasion....
624 2013-08-29 Today’s U.S. Open food review: the pulled chicken torta at Fresca Mexicana in the main food court....
625 2013-08-29 The Nasdaq OMX Group attributed last week’s three-hour trading halt to a surge of data that overwhelmed its server....
626 2013-08-29 Much of the commercial Web relies on advertising, but increasing use of ad-blocking software is just one of the problems that advertisers face....
627 2013-08-29 New Yorkers are weighing in on the mayoral race — whom have they chosen so far?...
628 2013-08-29 Two online publications are taking different approaches to long-form journalism. One gives it away as long blog posts, the other charges a nominal $3 per month....
629 2013-08-29 The growing intensity of Western fires is the result of many factors, with a drying, heating climate high on the list....
630 2013-08-29 Home sales fall. Mortgage applications fall. How to make employees work harder....
631 2013-08-29 Mr. McCartney released “New,” the first single from an album of the same title that will be his first collection of original solo material since 2007....
632 2013-08-29 Learn more about the Great Depression by playing our crossword, either online or in print....
633 2013-08-29 One of my clients started planning the sale of his business six months before he wanted to sell. Another client started planning 10 years before he wanted to sell. Guess which one did better....
634 2013-08-29 Already engaged in testing, Nissan said this week that it planned to introduce a market-ready autonomous vehicle by the end of the decade....
635 2013-08-29 Daniel Evans, a qualifier, will have his hands full against Bernard Tomic. This is a mismatch on paper, but if Evans plays the way he did Monday, this could be a fun one....
636 2013-08-29 Vodafone of Britain could sell its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless to Verizon in a deal that analysts say could fetch as much as $125 billion....
637 2013-08-29 Mr. Ansari said he was amused when a fan asked him on Twitter: “When are you going to put out another stand-up special on Netflix? I need more free stand-up.” Netflix, of course, costs $8 a month. “It’s so convenient, you don’t even think about the fact that you’re paying for it,” Mr. Ansari said.

Netflix’s forays into licensing the first-run rights to television shows, much as a TV network does, are predicated on the belief that people are more likely to keep paying if the service has exclusive programming. In June, the service presented a comedy special by John Hodgman, and last week it presented the premiere of one by Mike Birbiglia, who wrote positively on Twitter of Netflix’s international reach: “I signed a crazy contract that I think included other planets.”

Netflix has comedy specials by Marc Maron and Kathleen Madigan in the works. Mr. Ansari’s show is unlike those before it, a Netflix spokeswoman said, because the company intends to put a significant promotional campaign behind “Buried Alive,” billing it as original programming on par with “Arrested Development” or “Orange Is the New Black.”

“We’ve been working to make Netflix a great home for comedians to do their best work and to support their live performance careers, and having Aziz debut his new show with us is a validation of that strategy,” Ted Sarandos, the chief content officer for Netflix, said in an e-mail.

Mr. Ansari’s special was taped in Philadelphia in April. He said the material was “a lot more mature” than that in his previous specials, focusing on the differences between the friends his age who are getting married and having children, and himself, a commitment-phobic comedian. “All that stuff seems very far away for me,” he said. His first book, announced last week by the Penguin Press,  will tackle similar themes about single life, but with new material.

Mr. Ansari plans to release “Buried Alive” as a $5 download, but only after the Netflix premiere. The straight-to-fans strategy, pioneered by Louis C. K. in 2011, was successful for Mr. Ansari last year, he said, but its downside was obvious: “You’re kind of preaching to the choir.”

He added, as modestly as possible, “I have a pretty big choir.” But with the new special, he said, “my goal is to get people that don’t know my stuff already, and maybe expand my audience.”

That’s where Netflix comes in. The service has more than 30 million subscribers in the United States, and its algorithms for recommending shows keep improving. Mr. Ansari said that when he was at home using Netflix, his own shows are recommended to him all the time.

Unlike, say, passive viewers of Comedy Central, though, Netflix watchers requires at least a bit of action, which is a potential drawback for some. On Sunday Mr. Birbiglia told his Twitter followers that “apparently the only way to find” his Netflix special “is if you type in my last name.”

Mr. Ansari’s “Buried Alive” was filmed and edited before Netflix entered the picture. He said he bumped into Mr. Sarandos at an event in New York, and he commented on the popularity of Mr. Ansari’s past specials. That conversation led to the distribution deal. (Neither side would comment on the financial terms.)

“It’s an interesting time for someone to be releasing content,” Mr. Ansari said. “No one’s quite figured out things. You can do all types of things. At this moment, it really seems like Netflix is the way to go.”
638 2013-08-29 The discussion of the stop-and-frisk program — and the lack of pointed criticism from either leading Republican — offered a stark contrast with the Democratic candidates, and suggested the general election could offer voters two sharply different views about the future of city policing.

With less than two weeks until the Sept. 10 primary, the debate, on WCBS-TV, offered more of a window into differences of style than policy substance between the two leading Republicans. Mr. Catsimatidis, a Greek immigrant, highlighted his desire to give back to a city in which he made his fortune, while Mr. Lhota, a seasoned government steward, sought to convey his command of how the city government ticks.

A third candidate, George T. McDonald, an advocate for the homeless who has struggled to generate interest in his candidacy, seemed just to want viewers to remember he was in the debate hall. He stressed his central campaign theme, providing employment to all New Yorkers.

In another clear contrast with the Democrats, none of the Republicans hesitated when asked if they would name something in the city after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. (All of them were open to the idea.) But Mr. Lhota and Mr. Catsimatidis both disagreed with his proposal to ban the sale of large sugary drinks, with both men saying that the city should instead focus on teaching about nutrition.

“Government shouldn’t tell us what to do,” Mr. Lhota said. “Government should educate us, and then we make up our own mind.”

The debate offered a reminder about the gulf between the Republican candidates for mayor and many Republicans across the country. Mr. Lhota and Mr. Catsimatidis both said they would be willing to officiate same-sex marriages as mayor.

In recent days, Mr. Catsimatidis and Mr. Lhota have begun to show negative television commercials about each other, and although the debate offered hints of the increasing tension between them, the back and forth did not turn into all-out conflict.

The most pointed dispute was over mathematics. After Mr. Catsimatidis proposed putting dedicated police officers at public housing buildings, Mr. Lhota said, “I want to know how we’re going to pay for 3,000 additional officers.”

After Mr. Catsimatidis disputed his calculation, Mr. Lhota, who seemed eager to show his fluency with city policy, said, “I was the budget director of the City of New York. I used to do this day in and day out. Don’t make up numbers. You want numbers, come to me.”

“I know what I’m talking about, O.K.?” Mr. Catsimatidis responded.

“Why are you so angry?” Mr. Lhota asked.

In another memorable exchange, the three candidates were asked to say something nice about one another. Mr. Lhota went first, saying his two opponents both had “wonderful families.”

Then it was time for Mr. Catsimatidis.

“Joe knows I like him a great deal,” he said.

Mr. Lhota rolled his eyes and shook his head. But Mr. Catsimatidis was adamant. “I really like you a great deal,” he said. “We might have disagreements, but that’s politics.”
639 2013-08-29 The semiautonomous Somali state of Jubaland agreed Wednesday to ally itself with the national government, in a deal welcomed by Somalia’s internationally backed authorities, who have struggled to extend their reach far beyond the capital, Mogadishu, and are also fighting the Shabab militia. Jubaland, in southern Somalia and bordering Kenya, was one of several breakaway regions of the fractured nation. The agreement was signed after a week of negotiations in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, between Somalia’s state minister, Farah Sheikh Abdulkadir, and the self-appointed leader of Jubaland, Ahmed Madobe. Mr. Madobe will remain in charge of Jubaland for a two-year transitional period, but he did agree to hand over control of the port and airport in the coastal city of Kismayo.
640 2013-08-29 He could have mentioned it. But he didn’t.

Instead, moments before beginning his speech on Wednesday, President Obama flashed a big grin that seemed to acknowledge the weird aptness of the moment. He is a twice-elected president of the United States, and that is something that even the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. might not have dreamed possible when he gave his historic “I Have a Dream” speech 50 years ago.

And that was it. Mr. Obama talked about Dr. King’s legacy and the civil rights movement, but he didn’t feel the need to tell his life story; he barely used the word “I.” Instead, he tucked his presidency into a litany of generic firsts, as obliquely as possible. Mr. Obama said that thanks to the efforts of civil rights marchers, “city councils changed and state legislatures changed and Congress changed and, yes, eventually the White House changed.”

Partly Mr. Obama’s reticence is reflexive, a lifelong reluctance to focus on the color of his skin. It’s also a recognition that the day was about Dr. King and the civil rights movement, not him. (Oprah Winfrey, on the other hand, was less inhibited. She told the crowd triumphantly, “It took me 50 years, but I am here today.”)

The soft-pedaling was also a measure of how accustomed the nation has become to an African-American president. On a day of almost constant television coverage of civil rights, Mr. Obama wasn’t the star. The networks interrupted regular programming to cover Mr. Obama’s speech live, but that is standard practice when any president speaks on an important occasion.

Mostly, though, the day showed how deeply the power of television has been absorbed into the national consciousness. Rhetoric soars, but everyone knows a visual image can convey more than even the most dramatic or inspiring language. Dr. King’s words still captivate, but nowadays, the camera trumps sound. Many people spoke on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, and plenty more spouted reminiscences, commentary and remonstrations on cable news shows.

Former President George W. Bush did not attend the ceremony, and no other prominent Republican leaders stepped in to help fill the frame. Whether they were not invited or chose not to attend didn’t matter. In a day set aside for reflection, conciliation and bell ringing, that very visible gap was perhaps as illustrative as anything of the remaining political discord that so many speakers bemoaned.
641 2013-08-29 “Because they didn’t do something then, doesn’t mean they can’t now,” Judge Jury said in the Riverside, Calif., courtroom. “The city desires and needs to formulate a plan; it is their only hope.”

All of the 10,000 creditors are better served by allowing the bankruptcy to go forward, Judge Jury added.

“I can’t see anything other than dissolving the city if they can’t reorganize under Chapter 9,” the judge said. “They can’t make cash where it isn’t. If they got all the money they want — who isn’t going to get paid? All the employees? I don’t know, how does that help Calpers if the employees aren’t paid?”

“The citizens of this city deserve a chance,” she said.

A similar court battle is brewing in Detroit, which in July became the largest city in the country’s history to file for bankruptcy.

City officials there have said that they will need to cut current and future pension benefits in bankruptcy. But public unions say that pension benefits are protected by Michigan’s Constitution. A federal bankruptcy judge is to hear initial oral arguments in the Detroit case on Sept. 18.

While the rulings in the San Bernardino case do not necessarily set a precedent for Detroit, the cases center on the same federal laws. Municipal finance experts say the issue of how public pension funds are handled after cities declare bankruptcy could find its way to the Supreme Court.

Last year, San Bernardino stopped making biweekly payments to Calpers, making it the first California city to do so. At roughly $260 billion, Calpers is the biggest pension fund in the country and is San Bernardino’s largest creditor.

Stockton, a Northern California city that declared bankruptcy in 2012, has continued to pay all money owed to the pension system, but the judge in that case has said the pension fund is likely to become a key issue for the city in its restructuring plan.

Many employees in San Bernardino left just before the city declared bankruptcy last year and received payments from the city, which Calpers argued gave preferential treatment to some employees and was a sign that the city was not acting in good faith. Judge Jury said that while the decision might not have been financially wise, it did not impede the city’s ability to declare bankruptcy.

“The employees of the city weren’t stupid,” she said. “Anybody that had any other options was going to leave.”

In a statement, Calpers said that it would participate in the bankruptcy proceedings and at the same time “aggressively pursue all past due contributions” and would consider appealing.

“These payments are statutorily required and necessary to deliver on the pension benefits promised to San Bernardino employees as a form of deferred compensation,” the statement said. “They have worked for and earned these benefits.”
642 2013-08-29 Texas A&M submitted, and the N.C.A.A. accepted, conditions for Manziel’s reinstatement to the team, including the suspension for half of Saturday’s game. Manziel must also address the team about the situation, and the university must revise how it educates its athletes about signing autographs for individuals who present them with multiple items, according to the statement.

“Student-athletes are often asked for autographs from fans, but unfortunately, some individuals’ sole motivation in seeking an autograph is for resale,” Kevin Lennon, an N.C.A.A. executive, said in the statement. “It is important that schools are cognizant and educate student-athletes about situations in which there is a strong likelihood that the autograph seeker plans to resell the items.”

John Sharp, the chancellor for the Texas A&M University system, said of Manziel: “We all take the Aggie code of honor very seriously, and there is no evidence that either the university or Johnny violated that code.”

The situation involving Manziel, a 20-year-old who was the first freshman to win the Heisman, became part of a wider debate about whether college athletes should be allowed to be compensated for actions like signing autographs. The N.C.A.A. bars such payments.

To some observers, the relatively quick resolution to the Manziel case, and the comparatively light penalty, could add to criticism of the N.C.A.A.’s enforcement process, which has been chided for being unequal in levying sanctions.

Karen Weaver, an associate professor of sport management at Drexel, said it appeared that the N.C.A.A. handled Manziel’s case with “kid gloves.”

Weaver added: “I’m not sure another, lower-profile athlete would have received the same consideration. The fact that they have given this much deferential treatment is highly unusual, maybe different than any other athlete has received.”

Manziel and Texas A&M have said little about the investigation, but fans, journalists and sports talk show hosts have been busy in recent weeks making calculations about Manziel’s fate — and what it could mean for the Aggies and the college football season, particularly with Texas A&M awaiting a showdown against Alabama on Sept. 14. Texas A&M handed Alabama its lone loss last season, but the Crimson Tide went on to win the national title.

Manziel has become a larger-than-life figure on campus in College Station, Tex., and in the college football world. Last year, with his passing and running, he led the Aggies to an 11-2 record, including a blowout victory over Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl. One of his highlights in the win over Alabama — in which he bobbled the ball before throwing a touchdown pass — was repeatedly shown at the end of last season as he came into focus as a front-runner for the Heisman.
643 2013-08-29 Similar research conducted by the Center for New York City Affairs at the New School in 2008 found that 90,000 elementary school children were missing more than a month of school each year, while a high percentage missed even more. That study led the Bloomberg administration to set up an interagency task force on truancy, chronic absenteeism and school engagement in 2010.

The task force introduced its own public service ad campaign — created by Publicis Kaplan Thaler, part of the Publicis Groupe — with the Ad Council in May of 2012. Aimed at parents, its message was that students who miss 20 days or more in a single year are more likely to drop out. That message was adapted for the campaign by the Ad Council and the Army.

The new campaign focuses on chronic absenteeism because “we know without a doubt” that it is a “proven early indicator of the potential of dropping out,” said Priscilla Natkins, an executive vice president of the Ad Council. “We believe that by communicating with parents a very pointed message about absenteeism, we can actually change behavior and have a real impact on graduation rates.”

She said parents’ misconceptions about the importance of attendance include the belief that attendance matters only in high school, that excused absences will not hurt a child’s academic performance and that an occasional absence will not make a difference.

To combat these misconceptions, a 30-second radio spot features a speaker who says, “Students, when I call the reason or reasons for your absences throughout the years, please exit the auditorium without your high school diploma.” The speaker then enumerates the reasons, which include, “too tired, family trip, sick day, starting the holidays early.”

At the end of the spot, the announcer says, “Starting in the sixth grade, students who miss 18 days or more of school in a year for any reason will fall behind and risk not graduating high school. How many days of school has your child missed this year? Absences add up.”

Similar TV ads feature a teacher calling out the name of a student, Michael Adams, who responds that he is “here” from different locations outside of school, like an amusement park.

Print advertising carries messages like, “Too many absences equal no graduation. Absences add up. BoostAttendance.org.”

All advertising has been created in both English and Spanish; special ads distributed only in New York City will point parents toward a Web site where they can find borough-specific resources to address problems that can keep their children out of school, like illness or immigration issues.

The new campaign’s Web site lets parents sign up for a “Text2Track” SMS program that will help them keep track of their children’s absences. An attendance calculator on the site will also help them see the correlation between their child’s attendance and the child’s academic performance.

Rob Feakins, chief creative officer and president of Publicis Kaplan Thaler, said the new advertising took “the conventions of school” and flipped “them on their head. Instead of coming up to get a diploma, they’re asked to leave the auditorium. Any time you take convention and flip it, it’s more compelling.”

Robert Balfanz, co-director of the Everyone Graduates Center at Johns Hopkins University, an author of the study issued last year and an adviser to the Bloomberg administration’s task force, called the new advertising “evocative. What they’re trying to break through is not recognized as the critical issue it is.”

Andrew White, director of the Center for New York City Affairs, predicted the ads would “reach the general public and make them think twice about the really straightforward reasons their kids don’t go to school.” He said, however, that his “big concern was that not enough resources are put into the harder-to-reach problems, deeper issues, like the intersection of poverty and education.”

Similarly, Claire E. Smrekar, an associate professor of education and public policy at Peabody College at Vanderbilt University, called the campaign “a very limited approach to a very complex issue.”

She said the impact of the texting initiative could be affected by some parents’ ability to afford regular cellphone service, and suggested the campaign would be more effective over all if it focused “school by school on teachers, mentors, strong relationship-building.”
644 2013-08-29 She is known for her knee socks, war paint, tattoos and, of course, her tennis ball fringe jacket from Wimbledon 2011.

But this summer, Bethanie Mattek-Sands, the American player often called the Lady Gaga of tennis, has been making fashion statements with her hair.

At Wimbledon, she wore a blue, lime green and yellow updo after a brief flirtation with a more subdued look (blond ponytail, black knee socks) at the French Open.

But the United States Open, where Andre Agassi has worn acid-washed jean shorts and Serena Williams has appeared in knee-high shoe-boots, is all about individual style.

So on Monday, for her first-round match against Mathilde Johansson, a Swedish-born French player, Ms. Mattek-Sands, ranked 52nd, walked onto the court with bright purple hair. (She beat Ms. Johansson in a brisk match, 6-3, 6-1.)

After the match, Ms. Mattek-Sands tweeted to her 24,000 followers, “It’s all about the hair!!!”

The color choice was made during a visit to a New York salon right before the tournament began.

“Our colorist Aidan Harty brought a palette of fun sherbet-like colors, and Bethanie instantly gravitated toward the purple hue,” said Julien Farel, the owner of the Madison Avenue salon where Ms. Mattek-Sands had her appointment last week. “Hopefully, purple will bring her to the second week of the U.S. Open.”
645 2013-08-29 Portuguese authorities said this month that rising exports were the main reason Portugal posted the strongest growth in the second quarter among the nations of the European Union. The country’s gross domestic product rose 1.1 percent from the previous quarter, according to data from Eurostat, the union’s statistics agency.

Struggling euro zone countries cannot make themselves globally competitive by devaluing the local currency to make their exports cheaper because they belong to the currency union. But Portugal’s unexpected increase in G.D.P., which followed 10 consecutive quarters of contraction, “shows that you can increase export competitiveness even without the option of an exchange rate devaluation,” said Luis Cabral, an economics professor at New York University.

Like other Portuguese economists, Mr. Cabral warned against overstating Portugal’s turnaround. Its economy is still expected to contract over the full year, partly because the second-quarter results were buoyed by seasonal factors like better prices for petroleum.

Further drag on the economy is expected because the government is likely to introduce further austerity measures to help meet its budget deficit targets.

Still, Mr. Cabral suggested that Portugal had reached “if not the end of the recession, at least the beginning of the end of the recession.”

Further indications of whether a broader euro zone recovery is taking shape might come on Friday, when data including the region’s July unemployment rate will be released.

Lisbon continues to have financing difficulties despite the bailout worth 78 billion euros it negotiated in 2011 with international creditors. Several of the country’s banks have possible capital shortfalls, say analysts at Barclays Capital in London.

Barclays cited the continued deterioration of the loan portfolios of the six largest Portuguese banks, estimating that their ratio of nonperforming loans would rise to 15 percent by the end of next year, from 11.2 percent in June. That could leave those banks, which account for four-fifths of the country’s banking sector, with combined losses of 20.5 billion euros, or 9 percent of all their loans, exceeding their existing reserves by 6.6 billion euros.

Miguel Morale de Almeida, another member of the olive-producing family, said Manantiz had wanted its irrigation system in place earlier in the crisis, but was unable to arrange an affordable bank loan.

“Had a bank given us credit, we could have done this irrigation revolution two or three years earlier,” Mr. Morale de Almeida said.

Eventually, Manantiz managed to tap into European and Portuguese rural development subsidies to cover 40 percent of the construction cost. The rest of the financing came from the savings of family members, which Mr. Morale de Almeida called “a significant personal sacrifice, but a controlled risk.”

Previously, Manantiz had relied on rare rainfall to water its 30,000 olive trees, planted across 529 acres of parched land in one of southern Europe’s driest regions.

Over all, after falling about 9 percent in 2008 at the onset of the financial crisis, Portugal’s olive oil exports have more than doubled since, according to data from Casa do Azeite, an industry body. Last year alone, olive oil exports rose 20 percent.

Mariana Matos, secretary general of Casa do Azeite, estimated that Portugal had added about 20,000 hectares of olive trees over the past five years, in part because of investors from countries like Spain, Italy and Switzerland.

Manuel Costa Reis, an economist at Present Value Consulting in Lisbon, which advises Portuguese banks and other corporations on asset valuations, said that Portugal’s export competitiveness was “without a doubt a very surprising and positive outcome of this crisis.”

“Portugal had been one of the losers in the globalization process because most of our industries were competing directly with the emerging markets,” he said.

He said that the economic crisis had forced companies to start producing higher-quality products that can be marketed at a higher price. Manantiz is a good example of that. Its initial shipment of olive oil to Brazil sold at 60 reais, or nearly $26, a bottle, four times what is sells for in Portugal.

Portuguese exports rose 6.2 percent in the second quarter from the comparable period in 2012, according to data this month from Portugal’s national statistics institute.

Exports of fuels and lubricants soared 37 percent, as a result of the upgrade of the Port of Sines refinery operated by Galp Energia, the Portuguese oil company, which has turned Portugal into a net exporter of diesel fuel. Exports of food and beverages rose 11 percent in the quarter, while capital goods — excluding transport equipment — climbed 6 percent.

Mr. Costa Reis cited, among other positive economic indicators, recent increases in business confidence and industrial productivity. Portugal’s unemployment rate also fell back to 16.4 percent in the second quarter, from 17.7 percent in the previous one, the first quarterly decline in two years.

In a twist, it was Portugal’s high jobless rate that played a part in persuading the family owners of Manantiz to double down on their agricultural business. António Morais de Almeida, 27, became exports director, in charge of finding clients overseas, after being let go earlier this year by a Lisbon-based bank where he had traded currencies. His 48-year-old aunt, Cristina, has also devoted more time to the family business since losing her job last December as a compliance officer at another bank.

Many businesses have shuttered, but the remaining producers have emphasized more efficient production and pursued outside markets more aggressively. The value of Portugal’s furniture exports, for example, topped 1 billion euros last year, rising for a third consecutive year. That was 10 percent above pre-crisis levels.

“We’ve been through a very bad time, but I think that everybody has now understood that, without exports, no company in Portugal is certain to survive,” said Mário Silva, chief executive of AM Classic Furniture, which has annual revenue of about 7.5 million euros.

Mr. Silva said his company, which was founded by his parents in the northern town of Paços de Ferreira, had in the past four years added three new export markets: Germany, Russia and China. It raised productivity by about 15 percent, notably by switching to just-in-time production, whereby its furniture is made only to meet demand. For this year, he is forecasting an increase in exports of 20 to 30 percent.

“I am positive that we have reached the bottom and this is the beginning of a recovery, although not a fast one whatsoever,” said Mr. Costa Reis, the economist.
646 2013-08-29 ATLANTA — At the 3rd World Youth Open Championships here this month, the final of the Junior Knockout Teams was between Australia and one of the United States teams.

Australia was represented by Ellena Moskovsky, Lauren Travis, the brothers Justin and Nathan Howard, Max Henbest and Peter Hollands. The American team was Marius Agica, Adam Kaplan, the brothers Adam and Zack Grossack, Kevin Dwyer and Owen Lien. (Dwyer played only two-thirds of the 48-board final, having competed over the previous three days in the Spingold Knockout Teams, so he will not be credited with the title.)

If the match had consisted of only the first and third sets, Australia would have won by 16 international match points. But the United States took the middle set by 45 imps to win by 29.

The diagramed deal was the second from that second session.

At the first table, Adam Grossack (South) opened one diamond, and Peter Hollands (West) made an anemic one-spade overcall. If Zach Grossack (North) had doubled, it would have been negative, not for penalty. Eying the prevailing vulnerability, he passed, hoping that his older brother would reopen with a takeout double and the final contract would be one spade doubled. South, though, had too many spades to double, and one spade was passed out.

The defenders took three spades, three diamonds and two clubs for down two, but must have feared a 5- or 6-imp loss against three no-trump made at the other table.

In the given auction, the two-diamond rebid by Max Henbest (North) was an artificial game-force. Lien (West) led a club. There are several lines to at least nine tricks, perhaps the easiest being to play immediately on hearts. Instead, Nathan Howard (South) won with his club jack and returned a club. West won with his ace and shifted to a diamond to cut declarer’s communications. South overtook dummy’s jack with his ace and cashed his other two top diamonds, discarding hearts from the dummy. Now, declarer should have played a spade, taking the finesse or winning with dummy’s king, cashing the two club winners and playing a heart. However, South immediately led a heart.
647 2013-08-29 Summer days at the pool and the beach make for fond memories, but the toll that the sun, salt and chlorine take on your skin and hair is something you would probably like to forget. Not surprisingly, there are several products that claim to help with end-of-season beauty woes like brown spots and brittle hair. Herein, three new choices.

This clear and fast-absorbing treatment, in a sleek silver applicator, promises to diminish sun-induced dark spots. The soy isoflavone in the formula is meant to prevent the lightening of the skin around the targeted area. It also contains something called “sprout extract.” ($150, laprairie.com)

The company making this exfoliator says it is suitable even for sensitive skin because it is made without parabens or harsh chemicals. Instead, there are pure-sounding ingredients like shea nut shell powder and willow bark extract. ($24, sephora.com)

Part of the French brand’s new hair-care line using essential oils. This creamy mask is fragrant with five scents, including lavender, geranium and ylang-ylang. It’s supposed to help repair damaged and dry hair as well as strengthen the strands. The instructions promise results after three minutes. ($32, usaloccitane.com)
648 2013-08-29 China has a particularly bitter memory of the Kosovo bombing campaign because its embassy in Belgrade was struck by a missile. The United States said it was an accident, but many Chinese believe that it was deliberate.

In a similar vein, Chinese analysts said, China was disappointed by the outcome of the United Nations-authorized military action against Libya during its popular uprising in 2011.

In that instance, China, in an unusual move, gave the green light by abstaining from the vote in the Security Council.

But the campaign against the forces of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, lasted far longer than China wanted. And China expressed unhappiness that the military action resulted in the toppling of the Qaddafi government. For domestic reasons — the fear of encouraging ethnic minorities at home — China avoids supporting actions on the international front suggesting that rebellion can be justified.

The Obama administration said Tuesday that the goal of a military operation was not to upend governments but to punish the forces of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, for its use of chemical weapons. The strikes would be aimed at military units that carried out the chemical attacks, administration officials said.

Foreign Minister Wang Yi said China “adamantly opposes anyone using chemical weapons” and continued to stress the need for a political solution.

“External military intervention would be at odds with the tenets of the charter of the United Nations and the basic rules of international relations, and it would also exacerbate turmoil in the Middle East,” the foreign minister said in a statement Wednesday. “China calls on all sides to exercise restraint and calm, and to stick to the correct track of a political solution.”

He carefully avoided assigning blame for the use of the weapons. Chinese experts on the Middle East insisted that it would be nearly impossible to come up with definitive proof of who used them.

“As far as I know it is very hard to get the evidence,” said Yin Gang, a Middle East analyst at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.

Despite its huge energy interests in the Middle East, China has been reluctant to get deeply involved in the complicated diplomacy of the region, and the government has declined to heed the calls of some nationalists for a more assertive presence.

As the Syrian conflict worsened last year, Chinese leaders invited some members of the opposition to talks here in the capital, but those efforts were interpreted as gestures rather than serious engagement.

Beijing has been less vocal in its support of Mr. Assad than Moscow, but has left the strong impression that it much prefers Mr. Assad to the opposition. China joined Russia last year in vetoing a Security Council resolution backing an Arab plan that urged Mr. Assad to give up power.

The Chinese government is not convinced that military strikes will be limited, the Middle East experts said. Any Western military action will probably result in a wider conflict in the Middle East, they said.

“If Obama starts a war, he helps Al Qaeda,” said Mr. Yin. “Al Qaeda may do something against Israel. Obama should think about what Iran would do.”

There were calls for China to take a bolder approach commensurate with its economic power, and its dependence on the Middle East for its largest source of oil.

“China is a different country than it was over a decade ago,” said Paul Haenle, director of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing. “Beijing’s new leadership aspires to regional and global leadership positions. It needs to look at Syria differently than Kosovo. Beijing needs to play a truly constructive role.”

Some Chinese academics and military figures who favor a stronger foreign policy agreed that China’s caution was outmoded. Within the Communist Party “there is still a strong force against abandoning the nonaligned strategy,” said Yan Xuetong, the dean of the Institute of Modern International Relations at Tsinghua University, who favors an alliance with Russia. “I think we should totally abandon the nonaligned policy.”

A retired military general, Luo Yuan, said that with so much oil at stake, the Chinese government could no longer act as though the Middle East was divorced from China’s strategic interests.

“We cannot think that the issues of Syria and Iran have nothing to do with us,” he told People’s Daily last year.
649 2013-08-29 In a letter explaining his veto, Mr. Nixon said the federal government’s supremacy over the states’ “is as logically sound as it is legally well established.” He said that another provision of the measure, which makes it a crime to publish the name of any gun owner, violates the First Amendment and could make a crime out of local newspapers’ traditional publication of “photos of proud young Missourians who harvest their first turkey or deer.”

But the votes for the measure were overwhelming. In the House, all but one of the 109 Republicans voted for the bill, joined by 11 Democrats. In the Senate, all 24 Republicans supported it, along with 2 Democrats. Overriding the governor’s veto would require 23 votes in the Senate and 109 in the House, where at least one Democrat would have to come on board.

The National Rifle Association, which has praised Mr. Nixon in the past for signing pro-gun legislation, has been silent about the new bill. Repeated calls to the organization were not returned.

Historically used by civil rights opponents, nullification has bloomed in recent years around a host of other issues, broadly including medical marijuana by liberals and the new health care law by conservatives.

State Representative T. J. McKenna, a Democrat from Festus, voted for the bill despite saying it was unconstitutional and raised a firestorm of protest against himself. “If you just Google my name, it’s all over the place about what a big coward I am,” he said with consternation, and “how big of a ‘craven’ I was. I had to look that up.”

The voters in his largely rural district have voiced overwhelming support for the bill, he said. “I can’t be Mr. Liberal, St. Louis wannabe,” he said. “What am I supposed to do? Just go against all my constituents?”

As for the veto override vote, he said, “I don’t know how I’m going to vote yet.”

State Representative Doug Funderburk, a Republican from St. Peters and the author of the bill, said he expected to have more than enough votes when the veto override came up for consideration.

Adam Winkler, a professor of law at the University of California, Los Angeles, who follows nullification efforts nationally, said that nearly two dozen states had passed medical marijuana laws in defiance of federal restrictions. Richard Cauchi, who tracks such health legislation for the National Conference of State Legislatures, said: “Since January 2011, at least 23 states have considered bills seeking to nullify the health care law; as of mid-2013 only one state, North Dakota, had a signed law. Its language states, however, that the nullification provisions ‘likely are not authorized by the United States Constitution.’ ”

What distinguishes the Missouri gun measure from the marijuana initiatives is its attempt to actually block federal enforcement by setting criminal penalties for federal agents, and prohibiting state officials from cooperating with federal efforts. That crosses the constitutional line, said Robert A. Levy, chairman of the libertarian Cato Institute’s board of directors — a state cannot frustrate the federal government’s attempts to enforce its laws.

Mr. Levy, whose organization has taken a leading role in fighting for gun rights, said, “With the exception of a few really radical self-proclaimed constitutional authorities, state nullification of federal law is not on the radar scope.”

Still, other states have passed gun laws that challenge federal power; a recent wave began with a Firearms Freedom Act in Montana that exempts from federal regulations guns manufactured there that have not left the state.

Gary Marbut, a gun rights advocate in Montana who wrote the Firearms Freedom Act, said that such laws were “a vehicle to challenge commerce clause power,” the constitutional provision that has historically granted broad authority to Washington to regulate activities that have an impact on interstate commerce. His measure has served as a model that is spreading to other states. Recently, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit struck down Montana’s law, calling it “pre-empted and invalid.”

A law passed this year in Kansas has also been compared to the Missouri law. But Kris W. Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state, disagreed, saying it had been drafted “very carefully to ensure that there would be no situation where a state official would be trying to arrest a federal official.”

In Missouri, State Representative Jacob Hummel, a St. Louis Democrat and the minority floor leader, said that he was working to get Democrats who voted for the bill to vote against overriding the veto. “I think some cooler heads will prevail in the end,” he said, “but we will see.”

Taking up legislative time to vote for unconstitutional bills that are destined to end up failing in the courts is “a waste of taxpayers’ money,” Mr. Hummel said, adding that more and more, the legislature passes largely symbolic resolutions directed at Congress.

“We’re elected to serve the citizens of the state of Missouri, at the state level,” he said. “We were not elected to tell the federal government what to do — that’s why we have Congressional elections.”

The lone Republican opponent of the bill in the House, State Representative Jay Barnes, said, “Our Constitution is not some cheap Chinese buffet where we get to pick the parts we like and ignore the rest.” He added, “Two centuries of constitutional jurisprudence shows that this bill is plainly unconstitutional, and I’m not going to violate my oath of office.”

Mr. Funderburk, the bill’s author, clearly disagrees. And, he said, Missouri is only the beginning. “I’ve got five different states that want a copy” of the bill, he said.
650 2013-08-29 “He was the iconic image for Central Park,” said Jim Breheny, the general director for zoos and aquariums for the Wildlife Conservation Society, which runs the city’s zoos. “Some of my favorite images were seeing Gus in his exhibit with the New York cityscape behind him. It was surreal.”

Gus’s death leaves the city with a single polar bear, Tundra, who is 22 and resides at the Bronx Zoo.

Polar bears are among the most beloved animals, but Gus was something else. In 1994, notice was drawn to his peculiar swimming protocol. He would plop into the pool and swim lap after lap in figure-eight patterns, pawing his way through the water with powerful backstrokes. He did this for as many as 12 hours a day. Every day. Every week. Every month.

Zoo visitors found the repetitive swimming by the 700-pound polar bear mesmerizing. Zoo ticket sales shot up. Tourists and New Yorkers alike flocked to glimpse what had become a novelty act: the endlessly swimming bear.

But zoo officials became increasingly worried. Why was he doing this? Was it something physical? Was it woman problems? Was he having a nervous breakdown?

Dr. William Conway, then the general director of the Wildlife Conservation Society, said at the time: “It’s too repetitive. The first thing you worry about is whether this reflects some deep-seated physical problem. Is he losing weight? Is his appetite off? Is his behavior toward the ladies he’s living with declining?”

Some suggested that the tedious swimming by the brooding bear was the inevitable consequence of an animal that yearned for freedom living an unhappy life in captivity.

The mystery drew widespread news media attention. Reporters from around the world wrote about him. He was called neurotic, flaky, the bipolar bear. The odd behavior prompted a humorous book, “What’s Worrying Gus: The True Story of a Big City Bear,” and a short play, “Gus.”

At a cost of $25,000, an animal behaviorist was hired to treat Gus. In essence, the conclusion was that Gus was bored.

An enrichment program was put into effect to try to put him in a better frame of mind. He was given toys containing treats like salmon and peanut butter. He was subjected to positive-reinforcement training sessions. His mealtimes were turned into challenges. He was compelled to forage for some of his food — mackerel frozen in ice, chicken wrapped in rawhide — to keep his mind and body more active.

His habitat was redesigned. A playroom was added with toys like rubber garbage cans and traffic cones.

In a matter of months, the repetitive swimming began to taper off. It never ceased entirely. “Even at the end it happened sometimes,” Mr. Breheny said. “But not to the point where we thought it was a problem.”

Such was his popularity that the zoo estimated that more than 20 million people visited the polar bear during his lifetime.

Polar bears are a protected species. In recent years, those in zoos have brought attention to the threat bears in the wild face from hunters and changes in their environment.

On Wednesday, as waterfalls cascaded into the pool where Gus swam, visitors trooped through the covered observation room.

Eve Parness, who lives in Manhattan, used to visit the polar bear every few weeks with her daughter, who is almost a year old. “She liked looking at a nice white puffy bear,” she said. “He was entertaining to watch swim around.”

August Gresens, 46, was there with his two young children. “We were looking forward to seeing him swimming,” he said. “That was one of the kind of signature experiences here at the zoo, so it’s really sad that he’s not around.”

A necropsy is being conducted on Gus. Then he will be cremated.

The zoo has not decided whether it will try to find a polar bear at another zoo to occupy Gus’s habitat. It might instead select a different species to go there, like a seal.
651 2013-08-29 Especially after the recession, many owners have been reluctant to spend the money to hire workers, especially if there’s a chance demand will recede and the workers will have to be laid off. The on-again, off-again recovery hasn’t helped. And with small businesses representing 49.2 percent of private sector employment, according to the Small Business Administration, this reluctance has inevitably had an impact on unemployment rates.

Some owners have turned to paying overtime, which makes it easier to scale back if demand slips. The downside is that it can be expensive and it can lead to an overworked staff.

For example, the work force at Narragansett Creamery in Providence, R.I., has grown slowly even as more customers are drawn to the company’s homemade yogurt and cheeses, said Mark Federico, the owner. Started in 2007, the company has grown to a staff of 30.

“We found that if we worked too many hours for too long a period of time, people get burned out,” Mr. Federico said. “People need days off. It’s not scientific, and we’re not right all the time.”

Based on the experiences of owners like Mr. Johnson and Mr. Federico, this small-business guide looks how owners determine when it’s time to hire.

HOURS WORKED Mr. Johnson said he ran his employment numbers weekly, as clients were added and lost, to ensure he had enough people. He uses a spreadsheet to help him decide when the company can support the wages of new employees.

He keeps careful count of the number of pools the company cleans and the hours required for each job. He separates residential jobs, which typically require 30 minutes of time, from those at commercial pools, which can take two hours.

To calculate the required number of employees, Mr. Johnson estimates the number of hours required to clean all client pools and divides that by a standard 40-hour workweek. When the result is greater than the number of employees on staff, he makes a new hire.

THE PAYROLL PERCENTAGE Earlier this year, when there was a surge in demand for swimming lessons at SwimLabs, in Highlands Ranch, Colo., Michael Mann was taken by surprise. Suddenly, the 15 full-time employees he keeps during the off-season — as opposed to 25 or more during spring and summer — were not enough.

Opened in 2006, SwimLabs offers one-on-one lessons to children and adults. All students are videotaped and analyzed as they take their strokes in small pools equipped with water jets.

The company saw the same surge in business after the 2012 Summer Olympics.

“The Olympics always elevates the sport,” said Mr. Mann, who holds several masters swimming records. His business got an extra boost because the four-time gold medalist Missy Franklin lived nearby.

To decide how many instructors he needed to hire, Mr. Mann looked at monthly gross earnings and calculated that the payroll should consume a maximum of 25 percent of his operating costs. If he generates an additional $10,000 a month in revenue, he knows he can afford another instructor who is paid $2,500 a month. As a result, Mr. Mann started hunting for two more part-time instructors.

CALL VOLUME Growth can be deceptive. Sometimes, efficiencies may keep three times as many customers from meaning three times as much work. That is a lesson learned by Hudl, a company in Lincoln, Neb., that builds video analysis tools for coaches in 20 different sports, allowing them to break down plays and share them with their players.

The company’s big market is high school football. In the 2011 season, its six-person service team went from working with 2,000 teams to working with more than 6,600. “We were staying up all night” to manage problems like software bugs, said Bryant Bone, who heads the support team. Clearly, Hudl needed help.

Mr. Bone had noticed that between 2009 and 2010 Hudl’s clientele had risen by more than 550 percent, to 2,300 teams from 350 — but the volume of service calls had grown by only about 400 percent. Mr. Bone reasoned that service calls would continue to rise at a lower rate than the number of clients as the company improved its software design, development and training.

Given that, he concluded that Hudl needed to increase its support team at a rate between 70 and 80 percent of the company’s client growth. Today, the company has 105 employees.

“We trust that a combination of better design, development processes and more experienced users helps keep our overall growth outpacing our team’s size,” Mr. Bone said.

BACKLOG ORDERS Like SwimLabs, PeggyBank in Omaha got caught short-handed recently. The company scans family photographs, VHS tapes and slides, preserving them in digital formats.

Its founder, James Simon, made a deal with a social commerce Web site that offered discount coupons for PeggyBank’s services. Orders poured in, and the staff was soon overwhelmed. Suddenly, it was taking four to five weeks to finish some projects, as opposed to the customary two. And some employees were logging up to 15 hours of overtime a week. That prompted Mr. Simon to hire more help.

He said that he tried to avoid the problem by looking at two crucial data points every day: the number of orders in the queue and the time it was taking for the orders to be fulfilled.

He knows that he needs more workers when he is “running an excessive amount of overtime and the orders aren’t getting filled,” said Mr. Simon, who employs 16 people. “When I see the number of orders in the backlog start to breach 100, that’s my cue to start hiring people,” he said. “When it gets over 100, I know our production times will take longer than two weeks to turn around.”

COMMON SENSE There are times when numbers do not tell the real story. Sometimes, Mr. Simon said, the best indication that he has to hire more people is when his supervisor starts screaming from the production floor, “Hey! We need serious help down here!”

“That’s the God’s honest truth,” he said. “I listen to her instincts more than anything else.”
652 2013-08-29 Wall Street rose on Wednesday, with energy shares rallying on higher oil prices as the United States and its allies came closer to military action against Syria.

Trading volume was thin and came after a drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index on Tuesday, to its lowest in two months.

On Wednesday, stocks recouped some of the losses as traders bought energy stocks, which rose on a spike in oil prices as markets feared supply interruptions from the Middle East.

Energy shares rose 1.8 percent, by far the biggest gainer among the S.& P. 500 sectors. Chevron gained $3, or 2.5 percent, to close at $121.81. Exxon Mobil rose $2.02, or 2.3 percent, to $88.84. The two companies provided the biggest lifts to the Dow industrials and the S.& P. 500.

United States crude futures rose 0.4 percent. Those futures are up 5.3 percent over the last five sessions.
653 2013-08-29 The slow progress on reforms in many Asian economies is causing many investors to look for better opportunities elsewhere, especially given the gradual pickup in the United States and Europe, said Andrew Sullivan, the director of sales trading at Kim Eng Securities in Hong Kong.

“A lot of cash flowed into emerging markets in the last few years as investors searched for yield,” Mr. Sullivan said. Now that Western economies are showing signs of turning around, he said, these flows have been reversing. Investors “are seeking the safety of returning their cash to nearer home,” he said. “It is difficult to see that changing anytime soon.”

The performance of Asian markets on Wednesday highlighted the problems. Stock markets in Japan and Hong Kong both fell more than 1.5 percent. The benchmark index in the Philippines, one of the best performers in the world in 2012, sagged 3 percent.

In Thailand, the main index dropped 1.4 percent, taking its decline since late May to more than 20 percent, while the baht fell to 32.24 per United States dollar, its weakest level since March 2010. Those falls came despite soothing comments from the Thai central bank’s deputy governor, Pongpen Ruengvirayudh, who said on Tuesday that the bank had “enough reserves at the moment to cover outflows and maintain economic growth including imports,” Reuters reported.

In Indonesia, the rupiah fell to 10,930 per dollar, its weakest level since April 2009. Investors there are awaiting a central bank policy meeting, hastily called for Thursday, amid widespread speculation that the bank may move to raise interest rates to prop up the currency.

Policy makers in Indonesia and other emerging markets are in a tough situation. While higher interest rates might help attract renewed capital inflows, they would also raise finance costs for companies and risk stifling growth, Mr. Sullivan said. “It’s a very difficult situation — there are no easy answers to this.”

In India, the recent turmoil follows years of nervousness about slowing growth and political gridlock ahead of elections next year. A persistent current-account deficit also means that the outflows from India have been especially pronounced in recent months.

As a result, the rupee has been weakening for more than two years, with especially significant moves since the Federal Reserve signaled in May that it would soon scale back its support of the American economy. On Wednesday, the rupee hit 68.77 per dollar, compared with around 55 at the beginning of the year. The rupee’s weakness and higher oil prices are sharply increasing its import bills.

Many analysts and policy makers have stressed that the recent volatility does not portend another crisis of the sort that shook Asia in 1997 and 1998. Central banks’ foreign exchange reserves are higher than they were back then. At the same time, more Asian debt is now in local currencies, rather than in dollars, meaning that weaker local currencies do not bring a painful increase in debt-servicing costs.

“The road may be rocky in the near term, particularly for the largest-deficit countries — India and Indonesia — but we don’t think this is the Asian crisis all over again,” Paul Gruenwald, Standard & Poor’s chief economist for the Asia-Pacific region, said in a report on Wednesday.
654 2013-08-30 GURFEIN--Leonard M.,beloved husband of Penny, devoted father of Lois, Daniel and Gregory, adored grandfather of Kate, Brian, Laura, Eric, Allegra, and Ty, and a longtime diamond dealer, died on August 28th. Light-hearted and fun-loving, always rea...
655 2013-08-30 Credit: Sim Chi Yin for The New York Times
656 2013-08-30 Beauty we probably won’t see again....
657 2013-08-30 Despite turmoil in the Middle East and potential Western involvement in the Syrian crisis, the price of oil has been relatively stable and the price of gas this weekend will be lower than it was in the last two years.
658 2013-08-30 The saga of Steve Ballmer’s exit from Microsoft deepened on Friday with an agreement between Microsoft and an activist shareholder, ValueAct Capital, that averts a potentially nasty battle over the company’s lagging performance....
659 2013-08-30 Apple is trying to give people another reason to come to its elegant retail stores. Customers with older iPhones and trade it in for store credit toward a new iPhone....
660 2013-08-30 Today’s U.S. Open food review: the vegetable kati roll and samosas at New Delhi Spice....
661 2013-08-30 Earlier this week, the brothers Michael and Bryan Voltaggio, American chefs and former “Top Chef” contestants, traveled to Copenhagen for the third MAD Symposium, an annual food festival that brings together chefs and farmers. Curated by David Chang and his Lucky Peach team, this year’s two-day sold-out symposium was dedicated to guts — meaning both innards and courage. Chang introduced the theme literally, however, by bringing out the butcher Dario Cecchini, who proceeded to carve a pig on the stage. Between events, Michael, the chef and owner of Ink in Los Angeles, and Bryan, the executive chef of Volt restaurant in Maryland, caught up with fellow chefs and friends. Here, Michael shares his photos from the event.
662 2013-08-30 The Los Angeles-based chef traveled to Denmark with his brother and fellow chef Bryan Voltaggio for a symposium curated this year by David Chang....
663 2013-08-30 A day after the British Parliament voted against military intervention in Syria, the Secretary of State made the case for U.S. involvement.
664 2013-08-30 Should Verizon Communications successfully buy out Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless — analysts suggest that the transaction would be valued at more than $125 billion — it would consummate one of the largest takeovers on record...
665 2013-08-30 Where is this optimism coming from? (You won’t find it at Nevada’s brothels.) Why Twitter’s conversation view is a big deal. Take a vacation!...
666 2013-08-30 Li Na, who has suddenly fallen in love with the volley, faces Laura Robson, who in addition to being one of brightest young talents on the tour is also one of the bigger hitters....
667 2013-08-30 Mike Davis ran 75 yards for a touchdown, Connor Shaw and Dylan Thompson each threw long scoring passes, and No. 6 South Carolina defeated North Carolina, 27-10, in Columbia, S.C. The all-American Jadeveon Clowney helped the Gamecocks’ defense hold the Tar Heels to their lowest point total under Coach Larry Fedora.

The game was delayed nearly two hours in the fourth quarter by rain. Clowney did not have a sack and finished with three first-half tackles.
668 2013-08-30 Earlier this week, the brothers Michael and Bryan Voltaggio, American chefs and former “Top Chef” contestants, traveled to Copenhagen for the third MAD Symposium, an annual food festival that brings together chefs and farmers. Curated by David Chang and his Lucky Peach team, this year’s two-day sold-out symposium was dedicated to guts — meaning both innards and courage. Chang introduced the theme literally, however, by bringing out the butcher Dario Cecchini, who proceeded to carve a pig on the stage. Between events, Michael, the chef and owner of Ink in Los Angeles, and Bryan, the executive chef of Volt restaurant in Maryland, caught up with fellow chefs and friends. Here, Michael shares his photos from the event.
669 2013-08-30 Officials at Liberia’s largest university say that every one of the nearly 25,000 students who took an entrance exam failed, casting a harsh spotlight on the country’s educational system. The official explanation was that for the first time the test was graded using raw scores; in the past, applicants had been graded on a curve. Students have expressed outrage at the results, accusing university officials of pocketing exam fees and then denying them admission. University officials offered a plan to relax admission standards to enroll 1,626 students.
670 2013-08-30 Re “The Ideas Behind the March” (column, Aug. 27): David Brooks has done us all a favor by recalling the deep theological roots that underlay the nonviolent self-discipline of the civil rights movement and the 1963 March on Washington. Those roots were already evident in 1947, when we met Bayard Rustin and a few others who were on a “Journey of Reconciliation,” which anticipated the Freedom Rides that were to come later.

The first Journey of Reconciliation was in North Carolina, where they were taken off an interstate bus, beaten by segregationists and jailed by the local authorities. Despite such treatment, Mr. Rustin never wavered from his nonviolent strategies in the cause of justice. Those strategies and spirit are again at work in North Carolina.

Hundreds of blacks and whites together, led in nonviolent action by the N.A.A.C.P., do civil disobedience at the state capitol in Raleigh every Monday.

The spirit of Bayard Rustin, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and others lives on in these “Moral Mondays,” resisting the state’s recent laws that benefit the rich at the expense of the poor.

Such actions are the best way to memorialize the civil rights leaders.

The writers are a retired history professor at the SUNY College at Old Westbury and professor emeritus at the Union Theological Seminary.
671 2013-08-30 The rubber farmers’ blockade has caused a political storm in Thailand, and analysts say it will not be the last. The Thai police tried and failed to remove the farmers here by force, a clash that has helped embolden the political opposition led by the Democrat Party, which is strongest in southern Thailand.

Bridget Welsh, a researcher based in Singapore and an expert on Southeast Asian politics, said that falling commodity prices were likely to have political implications in Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam as well, all countries where the government relies to varying degrees on rural support. In Indonesia, five million people work on palm oil plantations; in Malaysia, farmworkers and holders of small tracts of land are part of the core of the governing party’s support.

If prices continue to slide, governments in Asia may soon be faced with deciding which farmers to support, as Thailand has on a large scale by providing billions of dollars in subsidies to rice farmers, and which ones they cannot afford to help.

Ms. Welsh predicted that the price declines would “lead to instability and strengthen the opposition” in Malaysia and Thailand, and “expose regional governments to more scrutiny” of how they manage their economies.

The sharp decline in rubber prices — more than 45 percent in two years — appears traceable to a classic boom-and-bust cycle: farms that expanded when demand was high now produce too much rubber when demand is slack.

Thailand has long been the world’s leading producer of rubber, but over the past decade China, India, Indonesia, Myanmar and Vietnam have contributed to an increase in output of millions of tons, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.

“We are in real trouble,” said Banlue Chankaew, a third-generation rubber farmer standing at a barricade on the main north-south road on Thursday. After splurging on cars, motorcycles, furniture and smartphones during the good years, many farmers have now had to borrow money, often at usurious rates from loan sharks. Those who cannot pay their debts have fled to other parts of the country, Mr. Banlue said.

Responding to the farmers’ calls to guarantee them prices well above current market rates, government officials have held negotiations and appear to be haggling over how much assistance they will provide. But the government has also sought to portray the protesters as troublemakers. The provincial police chief warned reporters and government officials on Thursday that it would be dangerous to visit the protests.

“Don’t risk your life,” said Maj. Gen. Ronnapong Saikaew, the chief of police in the province of Nakhon Si Thammarat.

Mr. Banlue does not elicit fear. Soft-spoken and courteous, he seemed out of place at the barricade. “I’m 45 years old, and this is my first time taking part in a protest,” he said.

Other protesters, especially younger ones, were armed with wooden sticks and slingshots. At night, they burn tires near the barricades.

Opposition leaders accuse Thailand’s prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, of botching the government’s response to the protests. Responding to reporters’ questions earlier this month, Ms. Yingluck said Thailand would not be able to influence the global rubber price because “with regards to the quantity of rubber, we have a small amount compared with other countries.” Thailand has been the world’s largest rubber producer since 1990, when it overtook neighboring Malaysia and today produces just under one-third of the world total.

The rubber crisis is one of a number of problems facing Ms. Yingluck, who had not held political office before becoming prime minister in 2011, and the opposition often faults her for being inexperienced and for lacking detailed knowledge of the economy. Beyond that, rubber farmers say she favors rice farmers, who are concentrated in areas where Ms. Yingluck’s political party, Pheu Thai, has strong support.

“We feel we are the forgotten child in the family,” said Mr. Banlue, who was also the deputy headman of his village.

The rubber farmers say they only resorted to blockades after repeatedly writing to government officials asking for help but never receiving a response.

“We had to think of a way,” said Wichan Raksapon, whose neat rows of rubber trees grow beside the blocked road, “that would make people understand that we have severe problems.”
672 2013-08-30 Taylor competitors Dole and Fresh Express, a unit of Chiquita Brands, each had four recalls in 2012 and one in 2011. Neither company has conducted a recall so far this year, according to F.D.A. records.

Bill Marler, a lawyer who specializes in food safety litigation, also said that even for a company of its size, the rate of recalls by Taylor seemed a bit high. “That’s quite a number of recalls over that time period,” Mr. Marler said.

But several of those recalls could have been prompted by random inspections by state health agencies under a federal program that is now defunct, he said.

Taylor and other large produce companies had successfully lobbied to get rid of it, arguing that by the time the program identified a pathogen, the tainted product had already long since been consumed, making it hard to recall.

Shelly Burgess, a spokeswoman for the F.D.A., which is responsible for the safety of fruits and vegetables, among other foods, said there was no specific number of recalls that would require greater scrutiny by the agency.

“In assessing whether a firm should be subject to increased F.D.A. scrutiny, the agency takes many risk factors into account beyond the number of recalls the firm has initiated,” Ms. Burgess wrote in an e-mail.

Mr. Taylor said many of the recalls were prompted by the company’s own food safety regimen. For example, preliminary company tests drove the decision to issue a 39-state recall of organic baby spinach that was potentially contaminated with E. coli, he said.

“We have a protocol where we do an initial test and get an initial positive or negative and then follow that with a confirmation test that gives a positive or negative,” he said. “I violated that protocol, though, out of an abundance of caution, acting to recall the product before we got the final result.”

Mr. Taylor said the final testing found no contamination, turning the company’s recall into a withdrawal of any remaining products from the market. “It was a fire drill we didn’t need to do,” he said.

And two of Taylor’s recalls this year — almost 700 cases of its BBQ Flavored Ranch Salad with Chicken and a Black Forest ham and Swiss cheese sandwich sold under the Wawa stores’ name — involved undeclared allergens like peanuts, not pathogens. “We make 700 items with over 2,000 components,” Mr. Taylor said. “If an employee picks up the wrong item, we have a recall.”

This week, Taylor Farms resumed operations at its Mexican processing facilities, which were the source of the greens tainted with Cyclospora, after an inspection by the Food and Drug Administration found conditions met known safety protocols.

The Centers for Disease Control, which is working with the F.D.A. on the matter, said this week that while investigations in Nebraska and Iowa had linked the outbreaks there to products from Taylor Farms of Mexico, preliminary analysis of more recent cases in Texas suggested the greens involved did not come from there.

“Although the investigation of cases in 2013 is ongoing, available evidence suggests that not all of the cases of cyclosporiasis in the various states are directly related to each other,” the C.D.C. said.

Mr. Marler said he had not yet filed a lawsuit in the case for that reason. “Something else is going on, and I think it’s probably environmental,” he said.

Mr. Taylor wondered whether flooding earlier this summer in the areas where the problem surfaced provided the conditions for bacterial infections. He said notices posted in Nebraska, Iowa and Texas had warned residents in flooded regions to boil their water. “It’s pure speculation on my part,” he said, “Iowa and Nebraska represent somewhere around 4 percent of the salad sold from our plant in Mexico in any given week.”
673 2013-08-30 When she was 16, Cheri Huber considered her skin splotchy and pasty. She began going to a tanning salon about three times a week.

“There were tanning businesses everywhere,” said Ms. Huber, now 41 and living in Kingwood, a Houston suburb. “I said, ‘This must be cool to do because everybody’s doing it.’ ”

Ms. Huber continued her tanning regimen for more than a decade, eventually buying a tanning bed. In 2008, she was treated for melanoma and has been in recovery for almost five years.

“I wish I was a little more educated,” Ms. Huber said about her tanning routine.

Soon, Texas will join a number of states that bar minors from tanning indoors, which experts say greatly increases the risk of melanoma in those under 18. Senate Bill 329, written by State Senators Joan Huffman, Republican of Southside Place, and Sylvia R. Garcia, Democrat of Houston, automatically became law in June without the governor’s signature and will take effect on Sunday.

It will overturn a law allowing certain minors — those between 16½ and 18 — to tan with parental consent. Businesses will also be required to keep customer records for three years after a customer’s most recent visit.
674 2013-08-30 Lena Dunham and “Girls” can have Brooklyn. In “Tiny Times 2,” the writer and director Guo Jingming continues his adaptation of his coming-of-age trilogy about four young women, besties at least from high school, as they make their way in today’s careerist, consumerist Shanghai. “Sisterhood is powerful,” it turns out, translates easily to Mandarin.

The first “Tiny Times” introduced Lily (Amber Kuo), the sleek, wealthy, all-business mama hen; Nan Xiang (Bea Hayden), the multitalented artist; Ruby, the chubby, man-hungry one (Hsieh Yi-lin); and Lin Xiao (Mini Yang), the narrator and “regular” girl. Sort of a young “Sex and the City” without the sex. (The city, though, may be the sex, a dazzling Oz of gleaming architecture and luxury brands.)

“Tiny Times” borrowed heavily from “The Devil Wears Prada,” with Lin Xiao proving herself as an intern for a demanding fashion magazine editor; the twist is that her boss is a man, Gong Ming (Rhydian Vaughan), à la the Mr. Big of Carrie Bradshaw’s acquaintance, except he looks like Tom Cruise.

The first installment did so well in China this summer that Mr. Guo expedited the sequel’s release. Starting as the four graduate from college, this episode is a soap opera of betrayals and breakups, misunderstandings and forgiveness, disease and death, boardroom politics and corporate takeovers. You know, the 20s.

As entertainment, this is vintage potboiler fare. But the movie is also revealing as fantasy, an artifact of 21st-century China’s youth culture transfixed by its rising fortunes and Western ways.
675 2013-08-30 Mr. Richelson said he thought the N.S.A. budget figure understated the real cost of its electronic surveillance, because it omits much of the support it receives from military personnel who carry out eavesdropping on its behalf.

The latest disclosure underscores the extraordinary impact of the leaks by Mr. Snowden, 30, who has accepted temporary asylum in Russia as he tries to avoid prosecution in the United States on espionage charges.

The documents he took from his job as an N.S.A. contractor and provided to The Guardian, The Post and other publications have set off the most significant public debate in decades about surveillance and data collection by the government. The parts of the new budget document published by The Post, while containing no major surprises, offer by far the most granular look to date at how billions of dollars is spent for intelligence collection. (The Guardian has recently shared some of Mr. Snowden’s documents with The New York Times.)

On Thursday, complying with President Obama’s call for greater transparency about government surveillance, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., announced that his office would release more detailed information each year on the number of secret court orders and national security letters demanding data on Americans and the number of people affected.

For decades, administrations from both parties have hidden spy spending in what is popularly known as the “black budget,” asserting that letting adversaries know what the United States is spending would make the country less safe. Only since 2007 has even the total annual spending on what is called the national intelligence program been made public; another $23 billion is spent each year in a separate military intelligence budget.

Experts estimate that the government has spent about $500 billion on the intelligence agencies in the dozen years since the Sept. 11 attacks. That was a sharp increase in spending over the 1990s but is roughly what the Pentagon is spending this year alone.

The budget request lists five major missions for the intelligence agencies: warning American leaders about threats and instability; battling terrorism; countering weapons proliferation; cyberoperations; and counterespionage.

In a statement introducing the budget request, the director of national intelligence, Mr. Clapper wrote that counterterrorism efforts would be focused in particular on Yemen, Somalia and the Horn of Africa and would continue efforts in Libya “to deny terrorists a safe haven.”

Despite the declining budget, Mr. Clapper said, the N.S.A.’s eavesdropping would get additional money to use on “foreign leadership targets” as well as to break the encryption used on foreign communications and “exploit Internet traffic.”

The budget called for some $278 million for the N.S.A.’s “corporate partner access,” a reference to payments to Internet and fiber cable companies to provide it with access to their customers’ communications, and more than $48 million to study “coping with information overload,” a longstanding problem for the agency.

Even as Mr. Snowden was quietly beginning to collect the documents he would provide to the news media, The Post reported, the budget request emphasized “safeguarding classified networks” and a rigorous “review of high-risk, high-gain applicants and contractors” — an apparent reference to the young computer technicians the agencies have been recruiting. N.S.A. officials said they would carry out “a minimum of 4,000 periodic reinvestigations” of employees to avoid “insider compromise of sensitive information,” the document said.

Steven Aftergood, who runs the Project on Government Secrecy at the Federation of American Scientists and has long campaigned for greater budget transparency, said the document “highlights the ascension of the C.I.A.,” which before the Sept. 11 era accounted for about 10 percent of intelligence spending and now approaches a third of the total. President George W. Bush began a rapid expansion of the C.I.A.’s work force in response to the terrorist attacks and in support of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

“The C.I.A. has a presence in many places where they did not 15 years ago,” Mr. Aftergood said. In addition, it has taken on a major paramilitary role in combating terrorism, notably by carrying out missile strikes from drones in places where the United States is not officially at war.

The document reveals that agency spends about $2.5 billion on covert action, including the drone program.

The budget included $4.3 billion for cyberoperations, a relatively new and increasingly central part of national security programs. That covers both intrusions into foreign computers to gather intelligence and prepare for possible cyberattack, and spending to prevent electronic spying and hacking against the United States. But it is only a fraction of the entire government spending, since the Defense Department and the Department of Homeland Security account for most cyberspending.

According to The Post, the budget request included a candid account of the remaining holes in the government’s knowledge of the world despite the aggressive spying. The governments of China, Russia and Iran are hard to penetrate, but North Korea may be the hardest target of all, the document suggests.

Mr. Aftergood said the document suggested that the agencies could safely be far more open about their priorities and spending without damaging national security. “We did not need this document to tell us that North Korea is a hard target,” he said.
676 2013-08-30 Verizon Communications was the biggest gainer among the blue chips after Vodafone of Britain confirmed it was in talks with Verizon to sell its 45 percent stake in their joint venture, Verizon Wireless. Verizon rose $1.26, or 2.71 percent, to $47.82. The United States-listed shares of Vodafone rose $2.39, or 8.13 percent, to $31.80.

While many fund managers said they were not looking to jump back into the market just yet, some individual companies were looking attractive again.

“If you’re a long-term investor, it’s an opportunity,” said Richard Sichel, chief investment officer at the Philadelphia Trust Company, which has $1.9 billion under management.

Traders had two good economic reports to parse on Thursday. The economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate from April through June, much faster than previously estimated, the government said.

Also, the Labor Department said the number of people who filed for unemployment benefits last week fell to 331,000, the fewest in five years.

While lower unemployment claims and an upward revision in the gross domestic product are both positive signs, most of Wall Street’s attention is focused on next week, when the August jobs report will be released. The Federal Reserve is expected to decide the fate of its huge bond-buying program in mid-September, and the jobs survey will be the last bit of significant economic data the Fed will have to consider before making its decision.

Traders also continue to watch Syria, where a United States-led attack could happen, although such a strike seems less imminent than earlier in the week. Oil fell to below $109 a barrel Thursday.

“The general feeling is that Syrian tensions have eased a bit,” said Alec Young, global equity strategist with S&P Capital IQ.

The price of crude oil fell $1.30, or 1.2 percent, to $108.80 a barrel. Oil had climbed as high as $112 earlier this week.

Energy-related stocks fell. Exxon Mobil slipped 1.77 percent, or $1.57, to $87.27, and Chevron fell 1.18 percent, or $1.44, to $120.37.

Investors worry that a limited strike could drag the United States and its allies into that nation’s civil war, or worse, set off a regional conflict in an area where so much of the world’s oil is.

Beyond the news about Syria, it has been a mostly quiet week for stocks. Traders are winding down during the last week of summer and heading out for the Labor Day holiday.

Mr. Wilbanks said he did not expect the market to move substantially higher, citing the mediocre second-quarter earnings that companies just finished reporting. “We’re going to need to see robust corporate profit growth to move the market higher,” he said.

In other corporate news, the clothing store operator Guess jumped $3.51, or 12.85 percent, to $30.82, after the company reported second-quarter profit and revenue Wednesday that surpassed the expectations of analysts. The retailer also raised its profit forecast for the year.

Campbell Soup fell $1.38, or 3.09 percent, to $43.33, after posting a loss for its fiscal fourth quarter. The company’s results were dragged down by a charge related to the potential sale of a European business. While the results topped Wall Street’s estimates, revenue missed expectations.

Government bonds were little changed. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 1/32, to 97 24/32. The yield edged down to 2.76 percent from 2.77 percent late Wednesday.
677 2013-08-30 The Indonesian central bank raised its interest rates on Thursday, in a desperate effort to shore up a currency that has been badly hit by the recent sell-off in emerging markets worldwide.

The Indonesian central bank’s decision, announced at a hastily called board meeting, raised the benchmark rate by half a percentage point, to 7 percent, and highlighted the increasing pressure that many of the world’s largest developing economies have faced while market sentiment has withered.

Investors have poured billions of dollars into emerging economies in recent years, as buoyant growth rates and relatively high interest rates made them attractive investments compared with the United States and Europe. Since May, however, a gradual recovery in the West and signs that the Federal Reserve would soon scale back its support of the American economy have prompted a stark shift away from emerging markets back to assets like United States Treasury securities.

That shift has dragged down stocks and currencies in emerging markets, depriving them of the cash that fueled their previous growth spurts and raising the cost of crucial imports like oil.

Hit hardest have been those countries that, like Indonesia, have trade deficits and are more risky in the eyes of investors.
678 2013-08-30 Now, many Chinese companies are catering to the expanding ambitions of Chinese parents, and their offspring, by offering summer experiences costing $5,000 to $15,000 for several weeks in the United States, often a first step to an American college education, or a high school degree, which have become badges of prestige here.

But concerns about the programs’ cost, far beyond the means of most Chinese families, and their effectiveness have been the focus of a sharp national discussion since the crash of Asiana Flight 214 in San Francisco last month. About 70 Chinese students headed for American summer camps were aboard, and three were killed. The news elicited sympathy, of course, but also admiration for families who had saved enough to send their children abroad.

It also stirred questions about why young Chinese must go overseas to study and — in a nation incensed by corruption and a widening wealth gap — about whose children can enjoy such expensive opportunities.

“It’s a privilege reserved for the wealthy, or at least for families above middle class,” said Zhang Yang, who has a master’s degree in education from Harvard and is the director of the overseas education department of the EIC Group, an education agency in Beijing. “I don’t think these study-abroad tours are things ordinary families can afford.”

A typical middle-class family could afford programs costing about $2,500, about half that of the least expensive summer sessions in the United States, he said.

When photographs of Chinese students looking forlorn as they ate hamburgers outside an American retail outlet while their teachers shopped inside appeared in mid-July on Sina Weibo, China’s equivalent of Twitter, angry citizens asked why the teenagers were left to lounge around.

“People feel resentful because most families do not have the financial means to offer their children the opportunity to go on such tours, and they feel jealous of the families who do,” said Li Jiayu, who runs the education company USAdaxue in Beijing.

Families who pay for the costliest summer programs often want to ensure that their children attend one of the 50 top-ranked American colleges, Chinese educators said, so competition for a place in one of these programs is high.

A closely supervised $14,000 program run by Elite Scholars of China accepted 26 out of 100 applicants who attended a two-week academic course at Wellesley College in Massachusetts followed by a week of visits to a dozen top colleges and their admissions officers. Participants were selected on the basis of interviews, said Tomer Rothschild, a co-founder of the agency.

Elite Scholars markets its summer programs as an academic version of minor-league baseball scouting. Admissions officers know the Chinese students chosen for the program are among the best and the brightest, he said. “We are brokers of trust,” he said.

Li Jiang, a senior at Beijing No. 4 High School, who took part in Elite’s winter program at Wellesley this year, was accepted at Harvard and Princeton. She chose Harvard.

“The students are managed minute to minute,” Mr. Rothschild said of Elite’s programs. The day starts at 8 a.m. with tutoring for the SATs, turns to writing skills in the afternoon and closes with more SAT preparation in the evening, he said.

In writing classes, Mr. Rothschild said, students are encouraged to be reflective. “The Chinese want to say how they failed, then worked hard, persevered and succeeded,” he said. “We want to wean them off that.”

A student who attended the Elite writing tutorials, Song Kexin, 17, said she was coached on how to impress admissions officers. “In China, we often write about things that happened to other people,” she said. “We are too shy to talk about ourselves. In one of our practice essays, I wrote about my grandma. My counselor told me that by writing about her I should ultimately show admissions officers something about myself.”

Not all summer programs are so determinedly academic. Unhappy with the rote learning and strict discipline of China’s school system, a Beijing business executive, David Cao, sent his 10-year-old son, Yuxuan, to a $6,000 summer camp run by the Y.M.C.A. in Whittier, Calif.

“My son doesn’t like the didactic nature of Chinese education,” Mr. Cao said. “From what I understand, in America they respect children’s individual characters.”

Yuxuan played sports, studied some English, mixed with American students and visited the Universal Studios Hollywood theme park, Mr. Cao said.

After the crash of the Asiana flight in San Francisco, some parents learned for the first time that a nondenominational Christian church in Los Angeles sponsored the program, a fact that did not trouble Mr. Cao.

“I believe they are not going to proselytize children at the camp,” he said.

Some summer programs made little effort to offer more than sightseeing and a stay with an American host family.

“I went to Yellowstone Park, the Grand Canyon and Disneyland,” said Li Zhuo, 16, who is entering her junior year at Chaoyang High School in Shanghai. “In California, American teachers taught us how to sing English songs, and we stayed at local residents’ homes.”

Growth in the high-end summer camp business is spurred, in part, by some Chinese high schools tailoring their curriculum for students who know early on that they want to attend college in the United States rather than China.

Between their junior and senior years, many of these students travel to the United States hoping to improve their English language skills, that way gaining an edge in their college applications, school counselors said.

At Beijing No. 4 High School, summer school in the United States is now almost expected for students who want to go to college there, said Shi Guopeng, deputy dean of academic affairs.

“Families should pay for good programs as long as they can afford them,” Mr. Shi said. “Not attending them because of their cost is no different from giving up eating for fear of choking.”
679 2013-08-30 Ms. Lim-Napoles met Wednesday night with Edwin Lacierda, a presidential spokesman, in a Manila cemetery and asked to be allowed to surrender directly to the president. Mr. Lacierda said she was taken to Mr. Aquino, who assured her of her safety and told her that she would be given due process in her defense.

On Thursday, Mr. Lacierda denied that Ms. Lim-Napoles had received special treatment by being allowed to surrender directly to Mr. Aquino. He said other high-profile fugitives had turned themselves in to presidents.

“Let me just say that the president is an honorable man,” Mr. Lacierda said at an afternoon news conference. “It is in our culture that if the fugitive throws himself at the mercy of the highest official, the president is honor-bound to secure and receive the fugitive.”

Ms. Lim-Napoles, who has denied the allegations against her, was taken to the Philippine National Police Headquarters before her transfer to a city jail.

Mr. Aquino has made the battle against corruption a hallmark of his three-year-old administration, but he has faced a series of high-profile allegations in recent months: police officers’ engaging in extrajudicial killings and thefts, immigration officers’ allowing a fugitive to escape the country, and diplomats’ sexually harassing Filipinos working in the Middle East.

Despite the problems, Mr. Aquino has received positive marks from financial ratings agencies and international organizations for his efforts to address persistent corruption.

The latest Global Corruption Barometer report, produced by Transparency International and released in July, pointed to the Philippines as one of only 11 countries out of 107 where people reported a general improvement in the corruption situation.

But the report said Mr. Aquino had not been effective in overhauling government institutions like the police and customs departments, nor had pushed through pending anticorruption legislation, including a freedom of information act and a whistle-blower protection law. “The government has initiated a number of anticorruption frameworks, plans and road maps, and the strategies can be overwhelming and confusing,” the report said. “Moreover, there is no synergy among the government agencies tasked to implement them and, in the end, nothing gets accomplished.”

Lawmakers in the Philippines are no stranger to corruption allegations and legal problems. According to the Philippine Center for Investigative Journalism, 504 candidates in the national elections in May had been charged at some point with corruption or other crimes and more than half of them were elected, including 17 who had been convicted.

“If you can’t jail them, elect them,” said Malou Mangahas, executive director of the center. “If you do jail them, well, you can always elect them again.”
680 2013-08-30 Barberries are a tart dried fruit that add an interesting flavor to this salad....
681 2013-08-31 President Obama, speaking about the conflict in Syria, said that the United States would be stronger if all agreed on the path for our nation to take.
682 2013-08-31 The dangers of Formula One racing are keenly felt at high-speed tracks like Spa-Francorchamps, where the Belgian Grand Prix recently took place....
683 2013-08-31 Daniel Evans, a qualifier from England, is one of the most remarkable underdog-made-good stories of the U.S. Open so far. He plays Tommy Robredo on Saturday....
684 2013-08-31 There will be 21 hours of third- and fourth-round United States Open tennis coverage on CBS from Saturday through Monday.

But more than 3.2 million Time Warner Cable customers in the New York, Los Angeles and Dallas markets will not be able to watch the coverage on their local CBS stations. A rights-fee dispute between Time Warner Cable and CBS has resulted in a blackout of those stations.

That will prompt fans to seek alternatives. One is to watch the matches on USOpen.org, which is streaming them live and without a need for authentication. The second is to turn to the United States Open on the CBS Sports Network cable channel, which is not subject to the blackout, and which is showing tournament action all three days — but not the marquee matches that will be featured on CBS.

If the blackout is not lifted by Friday, when CBS’s tournament coverage resumes, fans in the affected markets will not be able to watch the men’s and women’s semifinals and finals on their local stations. But they will still be able to watch them at USOpen.org.

CBS and Time Warner are negotiating, but the impasse could push the blackout into football. The first crucial date is Sept. 14, when Alabama, the defending national champion, plays at Texas A&M at 3:30 p.m. Eastern, in a game of greater concern to fans in the Dallas area than in New York.

The next day, Peyton and Eli Manning will meet when Denver plays the Giants at MetLife Stadium at 4:25 p.m., also on CBS.
685 2013-08-31 Diplomats and others say President Obama’s proposal to attack Syria fails to plan for risks like a surge in anti-Americanism and a wider regional conflict....
686 2013-08-31 Pictures From the Week in Business
687 2013-08-31 Re “A Question of How Women’s Issues Will Fare, in Washington and Overseas” (news article, Aug. 23):

As an organization dedicated to protecting the rights and dignity of the world’s most marginalized people, American Jewish World Service supports Ambassador Catherine M. Russell’s efforts to make women’s issues a top priority of Secretary of State John Kerry. Women and girls make up 70 percent of the global poor, an alarming statistic compounded by their vulnerability to violence.

Ambassador Russell played a critical role in writing the International Violence Against Women Act and is well placed to prod Congress to pass this critical legislation. She can help ensure that fighting violence against women internationally is not only given importance but also codified as a diplomatic priority in future administrations.

Advancing peace, security and democracy internationally requires putting women and girls at the center of foreign policy. We urge Congress and Secretary Kerry to make sure that the rights of women and girls around the world remain a centerpiece of American diplomacy.
688 2013-08-31 The Committee to Save New York, a coalition of business leaders that spent millions of dollars supporting the agenda of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and that seemed, overnight, to become the biggest lobbying force in Albany, said on Friday that it was shutting down.

“From our perspective, we believe our mission was largely successful,” said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for the group. He added that the decision to shut down was motivated by the election calendar, as the group did not want to be seen as interfering with next year’s state elections.

“We decided that to avoid any suggestion that we would play in electoral politics, the time had come for us to close up shop,” Mr. McKeon said.

The committee was formed near the end of 2010, as Mr. Cuomo was preparing to assume office, and proved to be a critical ally for him. Over the next two years, it reported spending more than $16 million to support his agenda, financing television commercials advocating his positions. The group spent more money on lobbying than any other organization in New York State in 2011 and 2012.

While it was active, the committee was not required to reveal where it was getting its money from. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, came under scrutiny last year after a report that the committee had received $2 million from gambling interests at the same time the governor was developing a proposal to expand casino gambling in the state.

Under a state ethics law approved by Mr. Cuomo in 2011, nonprofit lobbying groups are now required to disclose the sources of their funds. The Committee to Save New York has been dormant since the disclosure requirement took effect, and Mr. Cuomo has instead used the State Democratic Party to finance commercials promoting his agenda.
689 2013-08-31 Ms. Palosz said the family had pleaded with school officials to intervene.

“We’re so upset right now with everything because we have been asking the school system for help,” she said. “Every time there is an incident, there is a meeting and nothing is done afterwards.” She cited four occasions when her parents met with school officials to discuss the bullying, but it continued.

“We asked for help over and over,” she said. “The school said they would do something but they never did.”

William S. McKersie, the superintendent of Greenwich’s public schools, said on Thursday that school officials were aware of the bullying Bart had endured, but declined to comment on specific incidents or school responses because the district was still reviewing its files.

But he said officials were unaware of Bart’s posts about suicide on social media. While they sometimes monitor students’ posts, they had missed these.

Another school district employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter, said Bart had met with a guidance counselor 10 or 12 times in the last school year, but that he had told her things were fine.

Connecticut law requires schools to have a “safe-school climate specialist to investigate or supervise the investigation of all reports of bullying,” and to notify the police if the school “believes that any acts of bullying constitute criminal conduct.”

In recent decades, 49 states and the District of Columbia have passed anti-bullying laws — all but Montana. But studies of their effectiveness have produced mixed results, especially at the high school level.

The Greenwich Police Department did not return phone calls seeking comment.

At a funeral service for Bart at the Holy Name of Jesus Church in Stamford, Conn., on Friday, neighbors, classmates, fellow Boy Scouts and school officials mourned the young man. Football players arrived in uniform. Nearly every pew was filled, with people standing in the back.

A family friend, Brian Raabe, 47, gave a eulogy urging the community to take responsibility:

“His death can only have meaning if the bullying and indifference that led to his feelings of isolation and despair are confronted,” he said.

“The simple observation that kids can be cruel is not action,” he added, “it is an excuse, an inequitable pardon for those whose actions led to us being here today and an excuse for not teaching our children well.”

Experts caution that suicide is a complex act, committed for reasons known only to those who commit it.

Bart left a trail of suicidal musings on his Google Plus page. On June 7, he described an apparent attempt to kill himself. “Goodbye forever my good friends, goodbye, I regret nothing,” he wrote. “I have chosen to go with 3 peoples advice and kill myself. I just wish it was faster.” Later posts that night described drinking lighter fluid but only getting nauseated and passing out. “I am positive I will not try that method again,” he concluded.

On July 3, he posted a photograph of himself holding a knife to his eye and wrote, “Hey if I were to stab my eye out due to school caused insanity, who would miss me?”

But social media can be a world where posts are read by people in Arizona but not by those in the next room. Ms. Palosz said she was surprised to learn of her brother’s posts. When she talked to her brother on Monday, the day before he took his life, “he seemed fine.”

After the funeral, the family planned to take the body to Poland for burial.
690 2013-08-31 Mr. Robbins, the deputy national security adviser on intelligence, security and resilience, said in the statement provided to the court that the government had so far viewed only a portion of the encrypted files seized from Mr. Miranda. In all, he said, the files contained about 58,000 highly classified documents, which were “highly likely to describe techniques which have been crucial in lifesaving counterterrorist operations, and other intelligence activities vital to U.K. national security.” Allowing the material to become public, he said, “would do serious damage to U.K. national security and ultimately risk lives.”

The material included “personal information that would allow staff to be identified, including those deployed overseas,” Mr. Robbins said. But no evidence for the assertions was provided during the hearing, prompting Mr. Miranda’s lawyer and the editor of The Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, who sued last week to stop the police from viewing the material, to accuse the government of making unsubstantiated claims.

“The defendant presented a smorgasbord of doomsday allegations without providing any specifics,” Gwendolen Morgan, Mr. Miranda’s lawyer, said in a telephone interview. In a statement, Ms. Morgan accused the government and the police of making “sweeping assertions about national security threats which they said entitled them to look at the materials seized, but they have said that they cannot provide further details in open court.”

“Mr. Miranda does not accept the assertions they have made,” she added, “and is disappointed that the U.K. government is attempting to justify the use of terrorist powers by making what appear to be unfounded assertions.”

Mr. Rusbridger called Mr. Robbins’s assertions inaccurate and asked why, if the material made public by Mr. Snowden presented such acute danger to national security, the government had done so little before detaining Mr. Miranda.

“The way the government has behaved over the past three months belies the picture of urgency and crisis they have painted,” he wrote on The Guardian’s Web site. “The government claims that they have at all times acted with the utmost urgency because of what they believed to be a grave threat to national security. However, their behavior since early June — when The Guardian’s first Snowden articles were published — belies these claims.”

To give an example of what he views as the British government’s lack of urgency, Mr. Rusbridger said in a statement that in late July The Guardian told the British authorities that some of the classified material it received from Mr. Snowden had been sent to The New York Times and ProPublica. This took place, he said, two days after The Guardian destroyed copies of documents provided by Mr. Snowden because the newspaper was facing threats of legal action by the British government.

Mr. Rusbridger said weeks had passed before the British government contacted The Times. “We understand the British Embassy in Washington met with The New York Times in mid-August — over three weeks after The Guardian’s material was destroyed in London,” he said. “To date, no one has contacted ProPublica, and there has been two weeks of further silence towards The New York Times from the government.”

A Times spokeswoman, Eileen Murphy, said, “Jill Abramson and Dean Baquet met with a British government representative in Washington.” Ms. Abramson is the executive editor of The Times, and Mr. Baquet is the managing editor.

“At the meeting, The New York Times was asked to relinquish classified material, a request that was declined,” Ms. Murphy said.Under the interim injunction issued by the high court, investigators will be permitted to determine whether possessing the encrypted files could constitute a crime of “communication of material to an enemy” or a crime of communicating material about members of the military and the intelligence agencies that might prove useful for terrorists.

The case will receive a full judicial review in late October.
691 2013-08-31 For the second time in two days, pets forced the suspension of service on a major transit line in New York City. On Thursday, two kittens were rescued from the tracks of a Brooklyn subway station. But on Friday, the escape of a dog from a Queens yard turned into a pet owner’s nightmare: The dog, a female pit bull, was struck and killed by a Long Island Rail Road train, and her owner was grazed trying to get her back.

After the accident, which occurred just after the morning rush, the railroad suspended service in both directions for 45 minutes on the Port Washington line, and trains ran with delays until about noon.

On Thursday, the authorities cut power to two Brooklyn subway lines for over 90 minutes after the kittens were spotted at the Church Avenue station.

The kittens were found several hours later. And though the service disruptions prompted some complaints, the episode elicited soft-eyed sighs from many New Yorkers.

The dog, Duchess, had been in the backyard of a two-story row house in Elmhurst when she ran out an open gate in the yard’s chain link fence, up a small embankment and onto the tracks, the authorities said. Her owner, Karma Gurung, 27, ran after her.
692 2013-08-31 Sheriff Mike Byrd of Jackson County, accused of using his office to retaliate against people he considered political and personal enemies, has been indicted on charges that include fraud, embezzlement, perjury, extortion and witness tampering. One of the charges said Sheriff Byrd forced a detective to sign a criminal affidavit against a man in a murder case in 2007, despite the detective’s objections that he did not believe the man committed the crime. The 31-count indictment, made public on Friday, said Sheriff Byrd was seeking re-election and wanted to be able to say there were no unsolved murders in the county. Sheriff Byrd’s lawyer, Joe Sam Owen, did not respond to a message.
693 2013-08-31 The first concert of this year’s Labor Day Festival of contemporary music at Bargemusic included four world premieres. But the composer of one, David Del Tredici, insisted that his “Dynamic Duo ‘Farewell’ for Violin and Bass Trombone” was more than that: a “civilization premiere,” the first pairing — ever, anywhere — of those two instruments.

“If you go back to the origins of the instruments,” he explained from the stage, “the violin was always treated well and kept indoors on cushions. The trombone was out with the animals in the barn. So it was a social thing: they never got together.”

Unusual combinations of instruments is a hallmark of this engaging festival, which repeats, with slight variations, the same program over four days. Another was the “social thing,” resulting from the convivial atmosphere in this intimate floating concert hall; the conversational introductions to the music; and the fact that nearly every work was rooted in human relationships, linking composer and performer as  neighbors, family members or friends.

“Dynamic Duo” was written for Mr. Del Tredici’s nephew, the extraordinarily versatile trombonist Felix Del Tredici, and the violinist Mark Peskanov, who is also the artistic and executive director of Bargemusic. The two instruments got along swimmingly, thanks to the skillful writing that found common timbres in the muted trombone and the high range of the violin’s G string, as well as to the trombonist’s ability to match the nimble articulation of Mr. Peskanov’s violin.

The younger Mr. Del Tredici also performed his uncle’s hair-raisingly virtuosic “Felix Variations for Solo Trombone,” on the theme of Paganini’s Caprice No. 24, covering, with the help of four different mutes, a range of expressive moods and sonic effects.
694 2013-08-31 ATLANTA — At the 3rd World Youth Open Championships here this month, in the Youngsters (under 21) Knockout Teams, eight teams, three Chinese and five American, qualified for 32-board quarterfinals, semifinals and final.

In principle, the same nation should not have two teams meet in a world championship final, but, in this instance, the only Chinese team to reach the semifinals lost to Ben Kristensen, Greg Herman, Brandon Harper and Ryan Miller. The all-American semifinal was taken by Oren Kriegel, Burke Snowden and the brothers Andrew and Richard Jeng.

The Jeng team won the final by 56 international match points to 44. The theme of the match was that debatable bids went unpunished — as in the diagramed deal.

In the given auction, Richard Jeng (South) intended his two-spade bid to be purely competitive. But his older brother really liked his own hand and jumped to four spades.

Herman (West) led the heart ace and shifted to a diamond.

South, with his back against the wall, had to hope for a 3-3 club break. He won with dummy’s diamond ace, took the top clubs to sluff his second heart and played a spade to his queen. Now, just in case Kristensen (East) had the spade ace and jack left, declarer carefully led a diamond.

East won and returned a heart, but South ruffed, trumped his last diamond in the dummy and played the spade king, claiming when the ace and jack appeared.
695 2013-08-31 Following is the text of President Obama’s comments on Friday about the use of chemical weapons in Syria, as transcribed by Federal News Service:

MR. OBAMA: Well, obviously, I’m very grateful to have my fellow presidents here, as well as the vice president.

Before I begin, I want to say a few words about the situation in Syria.

As you’ve seen, today we’ve released our unclassified assessment detailing with high confidence that the Syrian regime carried out a chemical weapons attack that killed well over a thousand people, including hundreds of children. This follows the horrific images that shocked us all.

This kind of attack is a challenge to the world. We cannot accept a world where women and children and innocent civilians are gassed on a terrible scale. This kind of attack threatens our national security interests by violating well-established international norms against the use of chemical weapons, by further threatening friends and allies of ours in the region like Israel and Turkey and Jordan, and it increases the risk that chemical weapons will be used in the future and fall into the hands of terrorists who might use them against us. So I have said before, and I meant what I said, that the world has an obligation to make sure that we maintain the norm against the use of chemical weapons.

Now, I have not made a final decision about various actions that might be taken to help enforce that norm. But as I’ve already said, I have had my military and our team look at a wide range of options. We have consulted with allies. We’ve consulted with Congress. We have been in conversations with all the interested parties.

And in no event are we considering any kind of military action that would involve boots on the ground, that would involve a long-term campaign. But we are looking at the possibility of a limited, narrow act that would help make sure that not only Syria but others around the world understands that the international community cares about maintaining this chemical weapons ban and norm.

But again, I repeat, we’re not considering any open-ended commitment. We’re not considering any boots-on-the-ground approach. What we will do is consider options that meet the narrow concern around chemical weapons, understanding that there is not going to be a solely military solution to the underlying conflict and tragedy that’s taking place in Syria. And I will continue to consult closely with Congress. In addition to the release of the unclassified documents, we are providing a classified briefing to congressional staffs today, and we’ll offer that same classified briefing to members of Congress as well as our international partners. And I will continue to provide updates to the American people as we get more information.
696 2013-08-31 But still, in order to protect sources and methods, some of what we know will only be released to members of Congress, the representatives of the American people.

That means that some things we do know, we can’t talk about publicly.

So, what do we really know that we can talk about? Well, we know that the Assad regime has the largest chemical weapons program in the entire Middle East. We know that the regime has used those weapons multiple times this year, and has used them on a smaller scale but still it has used them against its own people, including not very far from where last Wednesday’s attack happened.

We know that the regime was specifically determined to rid the Damascus suburbs of the opposition, and it was frustrated that it hadn’t succeeded in doing so. We know that for three days before the attack the Syrian regime’s chemical weapons personnel were on the ground, in the area, making preparations. And we know that the Syrian regime elements were told to prepare for the attack by putting on gas masks and taking precautions associated with chemical weapons. We know that these were specific instructions.

We know where the rockets were launched from, and at what time. We know where they landed, and when. We know rockets came only from regime-controlled areas, and went only to opposition-controlled or contested neighborhoods.

And we know, as does the world, that just 90 minutes later all hell broke loose in the social media. With our own eyes we have seen the thousands of reports from 11 separate sites in the Damascus suburbs. All of them show and report victims with breathing difficulties, people twitching, with spasms, coughing, rapid heartbeats, foaming at the mouth, unconsciousness and death.

And we know it was it was ordinary Syrian citizens who reported all of these horrors.

And just as important, we know what the doctors and the nurses who treated them didn’t report: not a scratch, not a shrapnel wound, not a cut, not a gunshot wound. We saw rows of dead lined up in burial shrouds, the white linen unstained by a single drop of blood.

Instead of being tucked safely in their beds at home, we saw rows of children lying side by side, sprawled on a hospital floor, all of them dead from Assad’s gas, and surrounded by parents and grandparents who had suffered the same fate.

The United States government now knows that at least 1,429 Syrians were killed in this attack, including at least 426 children. Even the first responders -- the doctors, nurses and medics who tried to save them -- they became victims themselves. We saw them gasping for air, terrified that their own lives were in danger.

This is the indiscriminate, inconceivable horror of chemical weapons. This is what Assad did to his own people.

We also know many disturbing details about the aftermath. We know that a senior regime official who knew about the attack confirmed that chemical weapons were used by the regime, reviewed the impact and actually was afraid that they would be discovered.

We know this.

And we know what they did next. I personally called the foreign minister of Syria, and I said to him, if, as you say, your nation has nothing to hide, then let the United Nations in immediately and give the inspectors the unfettered access so they have the opportunity to tell your story.

Instead, for four days they shelled the neighborhood in order to destroy evidence, bombarding block after block at a rate four times higher than they had over the previous 10 days. And when the U.N. inspectors finally gained access, that access, as we now know, was restricted and controlled.

In all of these things that I have listed, in all of these things that we know, all of that, the American intelligence community has high confidence, high confidence this is common sense, this is evidence, these are facts.

So the primary question is really no longer, what do we know. The question is what are we -- we collectively -- what are we in the world going to do about it.

As previous storms in history have gathered, when unspeakable crimes were within our power to stop them, we have been warned against the temptations of looking the other way. History if full of leaders who have warned against inaction, indifference and especially against silence when it mattered most.

Our choices then in history had great consequences, and our choice today has great consequences.

It matters that nearly a hundred years ago, in direct response to the utter horror and inhumanity of World War I that the civilized world agreed that chemical weapons should never be used again. That was the world’s resolve then. And that began nearly a century of effort to create a clear red line for the international community.

It matters today that we are working as an international community to rid the world of the worst weapons. That’s why we signed agreements like the START treaty, the New START treaty, the Chemical Weapons Convention, which more than 180 countries, including Iran, Iraq and Lebanon, have signed onto.

It matters to our security and the security of our allies. It matters to Israel. It matters to our close friends Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon, all of whom live just a stiff breeze away from Damascus. It matters to all of them where the Syrian chemical weapons are, and if unchecked, they can cause even greater death and destruction to those friends.

And it matters deeply to the credibility and the future interests of the United States of America and our allies. It matters because a lot of other countries whose policies challenge these international norms are watching. They are watching. They want to see whether the United States and our friends mean what we say. It is directly related to our credibility and whether countries still believe the United States when it says something. They are watching to see if Syria can get away with it because then maybe they too can put the world at greater risk.

And make no mistake. In an increasingly complicated world of sectarian and religious extremist violence, what we choose to do -- or not do -- matters in real ways to our own security. Some cite the risk of doing things. We need to ask what is the risk of doing nothing.

It matters because if we choose to live in a world where a thug and a murderer like Bashar al-Assad can gas thousands of his own people with impunity, even after the United States and our allies said no, and then the world does nothing about it, there will be no end to the test of our resolve and the dangers that will flow from those others who believe that they can do as they will.

This matters also beyond the limits of Syria’s borders. It is about whether Iran, which itself has been a victim of chemical weapons attacks, will now feel emboldened in the absence of action to obtain nuclear weapons. It is about Hezbollah, and North Korea, and every other terrorist group or dictator that might ever again contemplate the use of weapons of mass destruction. Will they remember that the Assad regime was stopped from those weapons’ current or future use, or will they remember that the world stood aside and created impunity?

So our concern is not just about some far-off land oceans away. That’s not what this is about. Our concern with the cause of the defenseless people of Syria is about choices that will directly affect our role in the world and our interests in the world.

It is also profoundly about who we are. We are the United States of America. We are the country that has tried, not always successfully, but always tried to honor a set of universal values around which we have organized our lives and our aspirations. This crime against conscience, this crime against humanity, this crime against the most fundamental principles of international community, against the norm of the international community, this matters to us, and it matters to who we are. And it matters to leadership and to our credibility in the world.

My friends, it matters here if nothing is done. It matters if the world speaks out in condemnation and then nothing happens.

America should feel confident and gratified that we are not alone in our condemnation and we are not alone in our will to do something about it and to act. The world is speaking out, and many friends stand ready to respond. the Arab League pledged, quote, “to hold the Syrian regime fully responsible for this crime.” The Organization for Islamic Cooperation condemned the regime and said we needed, quote, “to hold the Syrian government legally and morally accountable for this heinous crime.”

Turkey said there is no doubt that the regime is responsible. Our oldest ally, the French, said the regime, quote, “committed this vile action, and it is an outrage to use weapons that the community has banned for the last 90 years in all international conventions.”

The Australian prime minister said he didn’t want history to record that we were, quote, a party to turning such a blind eye.

So now that we know what we know, the question we must all be asking is what we will do. Let me emphasize President Obama, we in the United States, we believe in the United Nations. And we have great respect for the brave inspectors who endured regime gunfire and obstructions to their investigation. But as Ban Ki-moon, the secretary-general, has said again and again, the U.N. investigation will not affirm who used these chemical weapons. That is not the mandate of the U.N. investigation. They will only affirm whether such weapons were used. By the definition of their own mandate, the U.N. can’t tell us anything that we haven’t shared with you this afternoon or that we don’t already know. And because of the guaranteed Russian obstructionism of any action through the U.N. Security Council, the U.N. cannot galvanize the world to act, as it should.

So let me be clear: We will continue talking to the Congress, talking to our allies and, most importantly, talking to the American people. President Obama will ensure that the United States of America makes our own decisions on our own timelines based on our values and our interests.

Now, we know that after a decade of conflict, the American people are tired of war. Believe me, I am too. But fatigue does not absolve us of our responsibility. Just longing for peace does not necessarily bring it about.

And history would judge us all extraordinarily harshly if we turned a blind eye to a dictator’s wanton use of weapons of mass destruction against all warnings, against all common understanding of decency. These things, we do know.

We also know that we have a president who does what he says that he will do. And he has said very clearly that whatever decision he makes in Syria, it will bear no resemblance to Afghanistan, Iraq or even Libya. It will not involve any boots on the ground. It will not be open-ended. And it will not assume responsibility for a civil war that is already well underway.

The president has been clear: Any action that he might decide to take will be limited and tailored response to ensure that a despot’s brutal and flagrant use of chemical weapons is held accountable. And ultimately, we are committed, we remain committed, we believe it’s the primary objective is to have a diplomatic process that can resolve this through negotiation because we know there is no ultimate military solution. It has to be political. It has to happen at the negotiating table. And we are deeply committed to getting there.

So that is what we know. That’s what the leaders of Congress now know. And that’s what the American people need to know. And that is at the core of the decisions that must now be made for the security of our country and for the promise of a planet where the world’s most heinous weapons must never again be used against the world’s most vulnerable people.

Thank you very much.
697 2013-08-31 On Friday, Li shared the women’s stage with Sloane Stephens, another player trying to push to a new level. But Stephens’s Open matches come with an added complication: she is known as the next American It Girl, a 20-year-old with the talent and game many believe will have her winning championships soon. None of that seemed to bother her Friday as she powered past another young American player, Jamie Hampton, in their third-round match on Arthur Ashe Stadium.

For Stephens, who made her first waves this year after beating Serena Williams in the Australian Open quarterfinals, Hampton was little more than a speed bump in a 6-1, 6-3 victory. Stephens, who also defeated Hampton in the first round at Wimbledon, seemed unfazed by the big crowd and the big stage. It was a departure from her first-round match, when she dropped a set after a brief fit of nerves.

“This year has been a learning process for me,” she said. “I’ve gone through so much and learned so much and improved so much. I’ve just been working so hard, and it’s paying off.”

If the match seemed like an American event — Stephens is the second-highest-ranked American woman at No. 15, and Hampton, at No. 23, is third — it paled in comparison to what loomed in the next round: a match against Williams on Sunday.

Stephens said of the possibility of playing Williams: “As I always say, I think it will be epic. I’m really looking forward to it.”

Starting just before midnight, Williams met Yaroslava Shvedova, who gave her some trouble at Wimbledon earlier this summer. But Williams had no problem on the hardcourt at Ashe Stadium, showing off her arsenal of shots — including some nifty volley work at the net— to win, 6-3, 6-1.

Li’s success has already made her a sporting pioneer in China — her 2011 French Open title was not only the first Grand Slam singles victory by a Chinese woman but also the first by any player from Asia. But she has always wanted to do better here, in a city where so many Chinese fans want to see her break down barriers.

Li seems to have honed a game that can now match up against those of the best hardcourt players. Next is a matchup with No. 9 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia, who beat the qualifier Kurumi Nara of Japan, 6-4, 7-6 (5), on Friday afternoon.

Li said she was not evaluating her chances to win yet.

“It is still far away to win the tournament,” she said. “Now is just beginning the second week, so still a lot of matches. I have to improve myself.”

Among the other contenders, third-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland advanced Friday with a 6-4, 7-6 (1) victory over No. 32 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia.

The twist that Li brings to the competition is her rejuvenated game. She was frustrated with her results last year and decided to sideline her coach and husband, Jiang Shan, in favor of Rodriguez, who used to coach the former No. 1 player Justine Henin. The similarities between Li and Henin are many, starting with their reliance on speed and footwork. Rodriguez has worked with Li on her speed to get her to the net and dictate points from there.

Against Robson, Li went to the net nine times and won all nine points.

“I think he would say, yes, that is good, but I think he would say I can come even more into the net,” Li said.

Her new-and-improved serve produced 11 aces, including one on match point on a second serve.

“She was serving really well, and I thought she was returning really deep,” Robson said. “You know, there wasn’t a lot I could do in some points.”

A year ago it was Li who left the court with that feeling. Now, she is the one feeling young and fit.

“I am still young,” she said. “I can do even more hard work.”
698 2013-08-31 Oil prices retreated by about $2 a barrel on Thursday and slumped a bit more on Friday. Experts said prices could easily jump back up after an expected attack on Syria.

Oil experts say gasoline prices could rise as much as 10 cents a gallon over the next week or two, as higher oil prices gradually push up wholesale and retail prices. But few expect a big, lasting jump unless there is a major expansion of conflict across the Middle East that seriously threatens oil production and shipments.

The Energy Information Administration projects that the national average price for a regular gallon of gasoline will be $3.59 during the third quarter and $3.52 for the entire year, 11 cents below the average 2012 price. It expects an even lower 2014 annual price of $3.37 a gallon.

“Gas prices are probably going to be spiking over the next few days,” said Michael Green, a spokesman for AAA. But he added: “It’s not horrendous. We’re looking at the lowest Labor Day gas prices since 2010.”

One reason, according to a report by the Energy Department on Wednesday, is a surprise weekly jump of three million barrels in national oil inventories. The report also showed a much lower-than-expected drop in inventories of gasoline, which remained particularly well supplied on the heavily populated East Coast. Several East Coast refineries that curtailed operations last week for unplanned maintenance are expected to be back up in the next few days, which should further increase supplies.

Summer driving normally tapers off after the Labor Day weekend, and that should help keep a lid on prices. Demand for gasoline should drop by about 15 million gallons a day in September from August levels, according to government statistics.

Most important, the country is better prepared for any shocks if the instability in the Middle East and North Africa escalates much further. United States gasoline inventories are up nearly 10 percent from a year ago, while demand is up by only about 1 percent.

Mostly because of a frenzy of shale drilling and expansion of oil sands production, the United States and Canada are producing two million barrels of oil a day more than when the turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa broke out two years ago. That, along with the decline in consumption since 2007, has meant that the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and other inventories now have the capacity to replace about nine months of imports, about 40 percent more than only five years ago.

Still, some energy experts are expressing concerns. “This kind of unrest will lead to higher prices in the short term,” Tim Dodson, executive vice president for exploration at Statoil, the Norwegian oil giant, said in an interview this week. “It should be a concern for everyone.”

Oil prices are set globally, and there are several weak links in the global supply chain that could cause prices to spike in the coming weeks.

Over the last month, tankers in Libya have been unable to load crude from three large export terminals because of strikes and other protests as the government continues to fail in its efforts to consolidate power two years after the overthrow of the Muammar el-Qaddafi government. This week the situation worsened when an armed group blocked a critical pipeline, which shut down several important western oil fields. Oil production has fallen by roughly one million barrels, representing a bit over 1 percent of global supplies.

As the Syrian violence has begun to spill over into Iraq, militants have repeatedly sabotaged the critical Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline, which transports Iraqi oil to the Mediterranean for shipment to Europe and to a second pipeline for transport to Central Asia.

But so far, the turmoil in Egypt has threatened neither the Suez Canal, through which more than 800,000 barrels of oil move by tanker every day, nor production in the country’s oil fields offshore or in the desert. Syrian oil production, never a major factor on world markets, was reduced to a trickle shortly after the civil war began two years ago and no longer affects prices directly.

Saudi Arabia, by far the most important Middle East producer, has continued its efforts to fill the supply gaps as it has since the Middle East and North African unrest began three years ago. Saudi crude production has increased by roughly 150,000 barrels a day since the Egyptian military overthrew President Mohamed Morsi nearly two months ago.
699 2013-08-31 U.S. Assessment of Syrian Use of Chemical Weapons

“The United States Government assesses with high confidence that the Syrian government carried out a chemical weapons attack in the Damascus suburbs on August 21, 2013,” said a declassified report released by the White House on Friday.
700 2013-08-31 American stocks fell in a thinly traded session on Friday as investors avoided making large bets before a long weekend with the situation about Syria still uncertain.

Afternoon trading was volatile, with indexes swinging between break-even levels and solid losses as Secretary of State John Kerry said in televised remarks that Syria’s government used poison gas against civilians and made the case for a limited military response.

“People are uneasy not knowing what’s going on,” said John Carey, portfolio manager at Pioneer Investment Management in Boston. “With that uncertainty and going into the Labor Day holiday, we’re seeing people step back.”

The Dow Jones industrial average was down 30.64 points, or 0.21 percent, at 14,810.31. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 5.20 points, or 0.32 percent, at 1,632.97. The Nasdaq composite index was down 30.44 points, or 0.84 percent, at 3,589.87.

Trading was light ahead of the market holiday on Monday for Labor Day. About 3.99 billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq and NYSE MKT, below the daily average so far this year of about 6.31 billion shares.
701 2013-08-31 The intelligence found “activities that we assess were associated with preparations for a chemical weapons attack” in the three days before the weapons were unleashed, the summary said.

The administration has moved missile-armed warships close to the Syrian coast in preparations for a possible strike, even as United Nations chemical weapons inspectors on the ground in Syria were still conducting research to ascertain whether chemical munitions were in fact used in the attack in Ghouta, a suburb of Damascus, the Syrian capital.

A spokesman for Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, said he had given the five permanent members of the Security Council “an overview” of the inspector mission’s work on Friday and that the inspectors intended to leave Syria on Saturday with their samples and other information.

The spokesman, Martin Nesirky, also said Mr. Ban would confer on Saturday with Angela Kane, his top disarmament official, who was returning from Syria. He declined to specify what — if anything — the inspectors had concluded so far.

He also declined to specify when the inspectors might complete their report. “We’re not giving a timeline on that except to say they are doing this as swiftly as possible,” he told reporters at the United Nations.

The Obama administration has made clear, however, that it has already concluded that chemical munitions were used in Syria and that the government of President Bashar al-Assad was culpable. Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain asserted the same position, and the British had been expected to join the Americans in a possible military strike aimed at Mr. Assad’s forces. But in a surprise vote on Thursday, British lawmakers rejected Mr. Cameron’s plan, opposing what they called an ill-advised rush to military action that recalled Britain’s alliance with America in the Iraq war 10 years ago.

President François Hollande of France, however, on Friday offered strong support for international military action against the Syrian government.

The Aug. 21 chemical attack “must not go unpunished,” Mr. Hollande said in an interview with Le Monde, the French daily newspaper. “Otherwise, it would be taking the risk of an escalation that would normalize the use of these weapons and threaten other countries.”

A military strike against government targets would have a “deterrence value” and push President Assad toward a negotiated “political solution” to the conflict, said Mr. Hollande, referring to France’s explicitly stated goal.

Mr. Assad has denied responsibility for the use of chemical weapons. Backed by allies Iran and Russia, he has said that if chemical munitions were deployed, the insurgents trying to topple him must have used them.

Although Mr. Hollande has presented no specific evidence linking the Syrian government to the attacks, he has spoken confidently of its culpability. Parliamentary approval is not required for French military action, and Mr. Hollande has said his government is “prepared to punish” those responsible.

“France possesses a body of evidence that goes in the sense of the regime’s responsibility” for the chemical attacks near Damascus, Mr. Hollande said. The use of chemical weapons there is an “established fact,” he said, and “it is known that the opposition possesses none of these weapons.”

The government of Turkey, an outspoken opponent of Mr. Assad, added its voice on Friday to those who have concluded that Mr. Assad’s forces used the weapons and who assert that they have proof. Ahmet Davutoglu, Turkey’s foreign minister, said in a televised statement that Turkish intelligence sources had what he called “healthy information” that implicated the Syrian government.

“The regime responsibility is undeniable when launching vehicles, angles between launching locations and targeted regions, traces are considered,” Mr. Davutoglu said, without further elaborating on the precise origins of such information.

By contrast, Iranian officials, who frequently remind the world that they were targeted with Iraqi chemical weapons during the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s, said Mr. Assad’s government had assured them that it had never used such munitions.

“Iran, as a main victim of use of chemical weapons, is against any kind of usage of this inhuman warfare,” Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations, Mohammad Khazaee, said in an e-mailed statement to The New York Times. He urged other countries to let the United Nations inspectors in Syria complete their work, and he indirectly criticized the United States and France for moving missile-armed warships closer to the Syrian coast.

“We are against any foreign military intervention, which will damage the efforts aimed at finding a political solution for the conflict in Syria,” Mr. Khazaee said. “We believe that missiles have never been peace messengers in the Middle East and the rest of the world.”

France’s determination contrasted sharply with the go-slowly approach of Germany. “We are pressing for the United Nations Security Council to reach a common position and for the U.N. inspectors to conclude their work as soon as possible,” the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, said in comments reported by a regional newspaper, The Neue Osnabrücker Zeitung. Referring to German participation in a military strike, he said, “Such participation was not requested of us, and neither are we contemplating it.”

Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government and the opposition have been cautious on Syria, anxious in a war-averse country not to have a military conflict become part of the campaign for elections on Sept. 22. Ms. Merkel’s main rivals, the Social Democrats, have urged President Obama to delay any military action at least until after he meets fellow world leaders at Group of 20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, late next week. Ms. Merkel, while condemning the chemical weapons attack in strong terms, has avoided any comment on suggestions from the Social Democrats that she mediate between the Russians and Americans on Syria.

In a telephone call Thursday with Mr. Hollande, Ms. Merkel said that while Germany declined to take part in a military action, she believed that the chemical weapons attack should not go unpunished.

Mr. Hollande’s interview appeared just a day after Mr. Cameron was handed a stinging rebuke in the House of Commons, where Parliament rejected British military participation in any strike on the Syrian government.

British legislators rejected a motion urging an international response to the chemical weapons attack by a vote of 285 to 272, reflecting concerns that there was insufficient evidence that the attack had been carried out by forces loyal to Mr. Assad. Lawmakers were also worried about the strategy behind the call for limited strikes, which they feared could escalate the conflict and strengthen opposition forces aligned with Al Qaeda.

The United States will continue trying to build an international coalition, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said Friday in Manila, the Philippine capital.

“Our approach is to continue to find an international coalition that will act together,” Mr. Hagel said. “And I think you’re seeing a number of countries state, publicly state, their position on the use of chemical weapons.”

Mr. Cameron addressed the parliamentary defeat on Friday, telling journalists in London: “We will continue to take a case to the United Nations. We will continue to work in all the organizations we are members of — whether the E.U., or NATO, or the G-8 or the G-20 — to condemn what’s happened in Syria.

“It’s important we uphold the international taboo on the use of chemical weapons,” he continued. “But one thing that was proposed, the potential — only after another vote — involvement of the British military in any action, that won’t be happening.”

Mr. Obama has no hope of obtaining a mandate for a military strike in the United Nations Security Council. Russia, Syria’s longtime backer, has long opposed military intervention of any sort, and China, which has urged that no decision be made until the results of the investigation by United Nations inspectors are revealed, has continued to push for more diplomacy.

On Friday, Yuri V. Ushakov, the top foreign policy aide to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, said Russia was “actively working to avoid a forceful intervention in Syria,” the Interfax news service reported.

“We would not like the situation to approach one when one government, or group of governments themselves, issue accusations, judge them and carry out their own personal sentence,” he said.

Mr. Ushakov said the United States had not shared intelligence showing that Mr. Assad was behind last week’s chemical weapons attack, and “we do not believe it.”

Aleksei K. Pushkov, chairman of the Russian Parliament’s foreign affairs committee, described the British Parliament’s rejection of military action as evidence of a “deepening schism” in the West.

“The refusal of Great Britain to support aggression against Syria is the strongest strike against the positions of the supporters of war, both for NATO and for the U.S.A.,” Mr. Pushkov said in a Twitter post. “The schism is getting deeper.”

Mr. Pushkov wrote earlier that Mr. Obama wanted to strike Syria this week, before his departure for the Group of 20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, next week.

George Osborne, chancellor of the Exchequer and a senior politician in Mr. Cameron’s Conservative Party, told the BBC on Friday that Parliament’s rejection of military action would bring “a national soul-searching about our role in the world and whether Britain wants to play a big part in upholding the international system.”

He was optimistic, however, that Britain’s “special relationship” with the United States would survive. “There’s a bit of hyperbole on this in the last 24 hours,” he said. “The relationship with the United States is a very old one, very deep and operates on many layers.”

The British Foreign Office on Friday warned its citizens against “all but essential travel” to Lebanon, particularly areas close to the border with Syria, citing “the recent upsurge in violence and wider regional tensions.”