1 2013-12-01 WEISS--Philis Babbit, 85, passed away peacefully on November 14, 2013 surrounded by her loving family and partner Stanley Gerla. Beloved mother of Michael, Larry and Peter, and mother-in-law of Carol, Juli and Gretha. Cherished Grammy of Drew, Bre...
2 2013-12-01 BISSELL--Elliston Perot III. Pete passed away peacefully on the evening of November 19, 2013 in Chatham, New Jersey. Pete was well known and loved by many and lived a rich and rewarding life. The son of Elliston Perot Bissell, Jr. and Ann Packard ...
3 2013-12-01 Marissa Anne Martini and Jonathan Ryan Cyprys were married Saturday evening at Liberty House, an event space in Jersey City. Rabbi David Greenberg officiated, with the Rev. Shari K. Brink, a minister of the Reformed Church in America, taking part.

The bride, 31, is an associate specializing in labor and employment law at the New York law firm McElroy, Deutsch, Mulvaney & Carpenter. She graduated from Villanova and received her law degree from Rutgers.

She is the daughter of Gloria D. Martini of Clifton, N.J., and Judge William J. Martini of Point Pleasant, N.J. The bride’s father is a judge for the United States District Court, District of New Jersey. Her mother, who worked in Clifton, retired as the president of the North Jersey Regional Chamber of Commerce.

The groom, also 31, is an associate specializing in securities litigation at the White Plains office of Greenberg Traurig, a law firm based in New York. He graduated from the State University of New York at Albany and received his law degree from Nova Southeastern University in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

He is the son of Andrea N. Cyprys and Kenneth M. Cyprys of Chappaqua, N.Y. The groom’s mother is the principal of the School for Inquiry and Social Justice, a middle school in the Bronx. His father is an information technology consultant in Branchburg, N.J.
4 2013-12-01 Holly Anne Pippitt and Alexander Carl Edward Fleiss were married Saturday evening at the Fels Planetarium at the Franklin Institute Science Museum in Philadelphia. Rabbi Dr. David M. Posner officiated.

Mrs. Fleiss, 32, is a vice president in the asset management unit of JPMorgan Chase, where she analyzes the stocks of health-care companies for a mutual fund. She graduated from Johns Hopkins University, from which she also received a master’s degree in psychological and brain sciences.

She is a daughter of Joanne H. Pippitt of Riverside, N.J., and Mark A. Pippitt of Tyngsborough, Mass. The bride’s father is a systems engineer and program manager at the M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory in Lexington, Mass. Her mother works in Westampton, N.J., as a customer service and sales representative for Atlantic Can, a wholesale distributor of decorative cookie tins.

Mr. Fleiss, 30, is the chairman and president of Rebellion Research, a New York hedge fund, investment advisory and financial technology firm he helped found. He graduated from Amherst College.

He is a son of Karen M. Fleiss and Dr. David J. Fleiss of New York. The groom’s mother is the founder of KMF Partners, a New York hedge fund, and a former chairwoman of Barnard College’s endowment. His father is an orthopedic surgeon in New York.
5 2013-12-01 Lara Gut of Switzerland won a second straight World Cup race, edging a strong Austrian contingent in the super-G in Beaver Creek, Colo. Gut finished in a blazing 1 minute 18.42 seconds. Elisabeth Görgl of Austria originally took second but was disqualified for improper ski equipment, bumping up her teammates Anna Fenninger and Nicole Hosp to second and third.

■ Dominik Paris won the first downhill of the men’s Alpine World Cup season, his time of 1:49.9 giving him the victory over Klaus Kröll of Austria in Lake Louise, Alberta. Kröll was second in 1:49.93, and Adrien Théaux of France was third in 1:50.01.

■ Steven Holcomb piloted USA-1 to a win in the opening World Cup four-man bobsled race of the season in Calgary, Alberta. The team of Holcomb, Curt Tomasevicz, Steve Langton and Chris Fogt finished two runs in 1:48.56. There was a two-way tie for second between Germany, piloted by Maximilian Arndt, and Russia, piloted by Alexander Zubkov.
6 2013-12-01 More large retailers were open on Thanksgiving Day this year, and it appears those openings nibbled away not only at the holiday, but at the sales the day after, too....
7 2013-12-01 A traffic enforcement agent was struck and killed by an industrial street-cleaning truck amid throngs of holiday shoppers in Midtown Manhattan on Saturday in what officials said was most likely an accident.

The officer, whom the Police Department identified as Kalyanarat Ranasinghe, was struck at about 2:30 p.m. at 6 East 44th Street near Fifth Avenue, a Fire Department spokesman said.

The truck, which contractors can rent to clear debris, had been parked on the curb and was pulling into traffic when it struck Mr. Ranasinghe, 71, who was standing in the street, Deputy Chief Kim Royster said. It was not immediately clear what he was doing, but he was on duty, Chief Royster said. After the accident, a bus struck the truck, she said.

Mr. Ranasinghe was pinned under the truck’s front right wheel for over two and a half hours. No one else was injured.

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, who arrived on the scene about an hour after Mr. Ranasinghe was hit, said it appeared to have been an accident. “It’s a dangerous job, and they don’t make a lot of money,” he said of traffic enforcement agents.
8 2013-12-01 Critics say the new rules, which apply to the entire wine region north of the city of Ensenada, could destroy all that. And it could happen quickly. Carlos Lagos, a major developer with close financial and personal ties to Ensenada officials, has already published plans for a 996-acre development, Rancho Olivares, which includes a nine-hole golf course, a spa, pools and more than 400 new homes.

Mr. D’Acosta and many others believe they are up against a familiar brand of Mexican corruption, especially with the local government again controlled by the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which led (and pilfered) Mexico for 71 years.

This time, though, a savvy resistance coalition has begun to emerge. On Monday, a little over a week after winemakers canceled the popular harvest festival in protest, about 300 supporters marched to City Hall. On Tuesday, at a public forum in a cramped university conference room in Ensenada, state officials, scientists and the municipality’s own planning experts all criticized the new rules.

“The valley should continue to be what it is now, an agricultural area, for wine and food and beautiful scenery,” said Javier Sandoval, director of urban planning at the Municipal Institute of Investigation and Planning, which advises the local government on development.

After comparing the new regulations with the regional program, he said the vote amounted to a breakdown in land management and procedure. “Technical expertise has been de-linked from government decisions,” he said.

Many longtime residents and new arrivals favor growth on a small scale. R. P. McCabe, an American novelist building a winery on a patch of hillside across from where Rancho Olivares would be, said he started coming here years ago because it reminded him of the Napa Valley of his youth — family-oriented, friendly. “I don’t want to see something rural, traditional and historic be taken away,” he said.

His neighbors to the north, Hector Perez, 40, who is building a winery, and south, Natalia Badán, 60, who grew up on a 12-acre farm that now produces wine and organic produce, said the Lagos development would hurt the entire valley. Ms. Badán called the new zoning decision “an aggression.”

“It’s opportunism,” she said. “They changed the rules in a dirty, disagreeable way to favor development that has nothing to do with what we’ve been working on.”

Mr. Lagos’s office did not respond to emails seeking comment.

The regulations were supposed to be the final step of an 18-year process that involved scientific studies, public hearings and a published program for growth that prioritized agriculture and sustainability. Many features of the plan were innovative — it required that homes not be built in a straight line, for example — and a wide range of stakeholders were to be involved in major decisions.

Now, many of those groups, including an pro-winery association, have been cut from the process, according to Mr. Sandoval. The new rules also eliminate requirements for impact studies and legalize anything already built, and possibly anything built up to 360 days after the regulations are published, creating what Mr. D’Acosta described as an amnesty for anything-goes construction.

“It’s like inviting Mickey Mouse to the countryside,” he said, allowing Disney-style artifice to crowd out the authentic.

But the increase in density is the primary concern. “Urban development here will be fatal for the wine industry, completely fatal,” said Raúl Canino Herrera, a water treatment expert at the Autonomous University of Baja California.

It is not just a matter of limited water supply, he said; in the small towns here where most farm workers live, water flows only a few hours a day, often at a trickle. It is also a matter of quality. “Everything you use at home — detergents, chemicals — ends up in the water,” he said. “How are they going to make sure it stays clean?”

Raymundo de la Mora, a council member who voted for the new rules, said that water accessibility would still be taken into account, suggesting that water could be brought in. He did not deny that some officials would benefit from opening the area to more development, through property holdings or connections to developers, but he said poor landowners would be the main beneficiaries because the new regulations clarify what can be built. “We have given everyone certainty,” he said, adding that the regulations would preserve the valley’s beauty by codifying its growth.

“Until now, we didn’t have regulations that guaranteed organized growth and, above all, that conserve the Guadalupe Valley as part of the heritage of all Mexicans,” he said. “That is our priority.”

Some poorer residents said that if welcoming development would mean more jobs, they were for it. Others, like Clemente Rodriguez, 58, a sod farmer watering his grass on Wednesday morning, said subdivisions like the one planned by Mr. Lagos probably would not be as bad as critics feared.

“The people complaining aren’t even from here,” he said. “They’re from France, England or wherever.”

But many of his Mexican neighbors said they expected the worst. The website for Rancho Olivares proclaims that it will be what critics fear: “a catalyst for unprecedented change.” And like Mr. D’Acosta and Ms. Badán, many residents of all ages and classes said they worried that Mr. Lagos and others with money and connections would trample anyone whose needs did not align with their vision of a more crowded, real-estate-driven valley.

“This is the reality,” said Jose Ramirez, 79, a retired farmer. “If you’re powerful and you come here and there is only one glass of water, you’re going to get it, and I’ll get nothing.”
9 2013-12-01 The No. 24 Blue Devils (10-2, 6-2) made the goal a reality — complete with Cutcliffe being carried off the field as his players celebrated with Duke fans in their rival’s stadium.

Ross Martin kicked a 27-yard field goal with 2 minutes 22 seconds left for a win at North Carolina (6-6, 4-4), clinching the Coastal Division championship with the Blue Devils’ eighth straight victory. Duke faces No. 2 Florida State in next Saturday’s A.C.C. title game in Charlotte, N.C., where the heavy underdog Blue Devils will go for their first league crown since 1989.

FLORIDA STATE 37, FLORIDA 7 Jameis Winston threw three touchdown passes to Kelvin Benjamin, and No. 2 Florida State moved a step closer to playing for the national championship with a victory at its rival Florida (4-8).

The Seminoles improved to 12-0 for the first time since 1999 and will probably earn a spot in the Bowl Championship Series title game if they defeat Duke in the A.C.C. championship game.

S. CAROLINA 31, CLEMSON 17 Connor Shaw threw for one touchdown and rushed for another as No. 10 South Carolina won its record fifth straight over No. 6 Clemson (10-2).

The host Gamecocks (10-2) won their 18th straight at home.

MICHIGAN ST. 14, MINNESOTA 3 Jeremy Langford ran for 134 yards and a touchdown, and No. 11 Michigan State wrapped up an unbeaten regular season in Big Ten play with a victory over visiting Minnesota.

The Spartans (11-1, 8-0) finished a perfect Big Ten regular season for the third time. They also did it in 1965 and 1966. Minnesota fell to 8-4, 4-4.

Michigan State will face Ohio State in the Big Ten championship game next weekend.

PENN ST. 31, WISCONSIN 24 Christian Hackenberg threw for 339 yards and 4 touchdowns, and visiting Penn State pounced on a slew of blunders before holding off a late rally to upset No. 14 Wisconsin .

The Nittany Lions (7-5, 4-4 Big Ten) secured a statement win against a team that had been dominant all year at home. Joel Stave threw for three touchdowns for Wisconsin (9-3, 6-2).

STANFORD 27, NOTRE DAME 20 Wayne Lyons intercepted two passes from Tommy Rees late in the fourth quarter, and No. 8 Stanford held off No. 25 Notre Dame (8-4) in the regular-season finale for both teams.

The host Cardinal (10-2) will play for their second straight Pacific-12 title and Rose Bowl berth next week when it faces No. 13 Arizona State in the conference championship game.

U.C.L.A. 35, U.S.C. 14 Brett Hundley passed for 208 yards and rushed for two touchdowns, leading No. 22 U.C.L.A. (9-3, 6-3 Pacific-12) past No. 23 Southern California (9-4, 6-3).

BAYLOR 41, T.C.U. 38 Bryce Petty threw for two touchdowns and ran for another, Baylor returned two interceptions for scores and the No. 9 Bears hung on for a victory over host Texas Christian (4-8, 2-7 Big 12).

Baylor (10-1, 7-1) could win the league outright and qualify for a Bowl Championship Series bid, likely the Fiesta Bowl, if it beats Texas and the Cowboys lose to Oklahoma next Saturday.
10 2013-12-01 Lap of Love’s business has blossomed since 2010 from two providers to more than 68 vet partners in 18 states. The International Association for Animal Hospice and Palliative Care, a group started in 2009, now has 200 members, mostly vets, but also several family therapists, lawyers and an animal sanctuary in that takes in and provides holistic healing and hospice for terminally ill and elderly pets.

“There is a formal end-of-life movement, a formal hospice movement,” said Dr. Eden Myers, a veterinarian in who runs , which tracks industry trends. Of the providers who do this, she said: “They’re everywhere.”

Dr. Amir Shanan, a vet in who started the International Association for Animal Hospice, described the movement as growing, but still not mainstream; veterinary schools are only now embracing the idea. “There are skeptics out there,” he said. “But 20 years ago, there was almost no one other than skeptics, and that’s changing rapidly.”

There are no formal standards for this hospice care, and Dr. Shanan said there was a debate about what those standards should look like. “The core of the debate is who is to decide when is the right time to euthanize, if at all,” he said, noting that some hospice supporters advocate giving pets palliative care until they die naturally, as in human hospice.

Hospice and in-home euthanasia are different things. Their growth is owing to similar factors, says Dr. Myers, including a growing acceptance of hospice for humans, as well as cellphones, laptops and online marketing that make mobile vet services easier to operate. Plus, she said, more vets offer the services as a business alternative to the high cost of starting and maintaining a traditional clinic.

“And,” she added, “you’ve got people willing to spend scads of money on their pets.”

For pet owners, the financial implications of this end-of-life movement cut two ways. In one light, hospice can be seen as reducing the cost of aggressive medical care, or it can be seen as its own version of aggressive comfort care, at least when compared to euthanizing a pet sooner.

A hospice or euthanasia visit from Lap of Love generally costs $200 or $250, including drugs. Euthanasia at a clinic typically runs less, though prices vary widely, and is even less at a nonprofit shelter, like a local animal shelter. Some pet owners say costs are irrelevant given the peace of mind — their own.

“It was more for me than him,” said Jan Dorr, a bookkeeper in , Fla., who was an early Lap of Love customer in 2010. She’d spent $5,000 on for her chocolate lab, Darby, but the dog’s health continued to fail. When she heard about the idea of pet hospice, her reaction was positive; a year earlier, her own father died after a positive hospice experience. She called Dr. Gardner, who helped make Darby comfortable by increasing his , and giving Ms. Dorr a checklist of ways to recognize when it was time to let go, such as when Darby stopped eating, walking or interacting.

When Darby’s condition worsened just days later, the vet returned to perform euthanasia. Ms. Dorr lay down on her bed with Darby, hugging him. “She let me say when,” Ms. Dorr said, referring to the vet’s final injection. It was far preferable, she said, to the alternative: “I just couldn’t get it into my head to put him on a steel table in a cold room and let him go.”

Kathryn D. Marocchino, a professor of death and dying at in Vallejo, who in 1996 founded the Nikki Hospice Foundation for Pets, said the end-of-life movement for pets addressed what she described as a “sense of coercion” faced by owners of sick pets forced to decide between aggressive treatment or euthanasia. She said that her group got calls from people thanking them, and saying things like: “Where were you 30 years ago? They made me kill my dog.”

Dr. Michele Price, a veterinarian in Northern Virginia whose in-home end-of-care business has doubled since 2009 to 20 percent of her practice, got a call recently about an ailing Labrador named Champ. She’d first seen the dog in August when his owners thought it was time to euthanize. But when Dr. Price got to the house, Champ was doing O.K., and she and the family decided on hospice treatment and pain meds. Later, Champ took a sharp downward turn and couldn’t walk. Dr. Price returned and they set up for the euthanasia.

Champ was on a quilt next to the fireplace when Dr. Price administered the initial sedation. “They hugged him, and told him what a good dog he was. They said, ‘We love you’ and ‘We’ll miss you,’ ” Ms. Price said of the dog’s owners. As for Champ, “He fell asleep. That’s the last thing he remembered.”
11 2013-12-01 As textile and apparel companies begin shifting more production to the United States, taking advantage of automation and other cost savings, a hard economic truth is emerging:  Production of cheaper goods, for which consumers are looking for low prices, is by and large staying overseas, where manufacturers can find less expensive manufacturing. Even when consumers are confronted with the human costs of cheap production, like the factory collapse in Bangladesh that killed more than 1,000 garment workers, garment makers say, they show little inclination to pay more for clothes.

Essentially, to buy American is to pay a premium — a reality that is acting as a drag on the nascent manufacturing resurgence in textiles and apparel, while also forcing United States companies to focus their American-made efforts on higher-quality goods that fetch higher prices.

Last year, Dillard’s, the midtier department store, wanted to promote American-made clothing, according to Fessler USA, an apparel maker in eastern Pennsylvania. It turned to Fessler to produce tops. Theirs was a brief relationship. “Almost overnight, they called and said, ‘Made in America just doesn’t sell better than made in Asia, and you can’t beat the price,’ ” said Walter Meck, Fessler’s chief executive and principal owner.

The pattern repeats across retailers. Brooks Brothers’ American-made cashmere sport coats sell for $1,395; comparable imported ones go for $1,098. At Lands’ End, American-made sweatshirts cost $59, while the ones made in Vietnam cost $25. The label on an Abercrombie & Fitch American-made sweater, which sells for $150, screams about its American origins. But most of the sweaters for sale at Abercrombie are the cheaper ones priced at $68 and up, and made abroad.

Eric Schiffer, known as Ricky, and his business partner, Leonard Keff, last year opened Keff NYC, a knitting operation in New York’s garment district. Business has been good, with contracts from higher-price retailers like Abercrombie, Anthropologie and Ralph Lauren. One afternoon earlier this year, Mr. Schiffer watched as a table full of women knotted loose threads on Ralph Lauren gloves destined for the American team in the Winter Olympics next year in Sochi, Russia. (Ralph Lauren chose American manufacturing only under pressure from consumers and government officials up in arms after it supplied Olympics uniforms made in China for the 2012 Summer Games.)

Though labor costs about 40 percent more than in China, and retail prices end up 20 percent higher, Mr. Schiffer says Keff’s clients — and, more important, their customers — can afford it.

“We can’t work with the Targets and the J. C. Penneys of the world,” he said. “It’s not for everyone. It’s really just for the higher-end companies.”

Paying for Quality, or Not

Americans spend more than $340 billion a year on clothes and shoes, more than double what they spend on new cars, according to the American Apparel and Footwear Association. And they say they want to buy American, even if it hits them harder in the pocketbook.

Two-thirds of Americans say they check labels when shopping to see if they are buying American goods, according to a New York Times poll taken early this year. Given the example of a $50 garment made overseas, almost half of respondents — 46 percent — said they would be willing to pay from $5 to $20 more for a similar garment made in the United States.

It is a sentiment that advertisers have picked up on. In the first half of 2013, according to the most recent data available from the research firm Kantar Media, spending on advertising by companies like the Toyota Dealer Association, Chevron and New Balance that emphasized products’ American-made status nearly tripled when compared with the first half of 2012.

The flurry of new promotions also has the Federal Trade Commission policing made-in-America claims. According to its rules, “all or virtually all” of a product has to be both assembled and sourced in the United States in order to qualify.

But shoppers’ statements that they are interested in American-made goods don’t always square with how they actually spend their money, especially when they are on a budget.

“A while back, we thought we’d stick little American flags on the products made in America,” said Frank Blake, chairman and chief executive of Home Depot. He said he had figured, based on the prevailing marketing wisdom, that customers would flock to the items. “But whatever segment really cares about it doesn’t make much difference from a retail perspective.”

So retailers are focusing on the quality when trying to justify the higher cost of American goods. The exception to Mr. Blake’s rule comes when buyers are willing to pay more for perceived quality. A majority of consumers, rich and poor, say they believe that American-made products have higher quality than imports, according to the Times survey. Fifty-six percent of those making more than $100,000 said so, as did 67 percent of those making less than $50,000.

Lands’ End promotes its American manufacturers as “the highest-quality companies, working with vendors and artisans.” New Balance says its American products are made by “highly skilled craftsmen.” At L. L. Bean, bags are “still made by us here in Maine from practically indestructible cotton canvas.”

“With higher-end fashion goods, where it’s made is an identifying source of quality,” said Anthony Dukes, an associate professor of marketing at the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California. “But at the lower end, I don’t get a sense that people pay too much attention to where it’s made.”

He said, however, that attention to where items were manufactured “could catch on and is certainly catching on in food, so things can go in the other direction.”

It ended last year with a four-inch stack of paperwork from the bank. Fessler USA, an apparel maker in the Blue Mountain foothills of Pennsylvania, was being liquidated after 112 years.

By March this year, all except four of the 300 sewing machines had been sold off. The few administrative employees still left on the job had written their names on chairs so they wouldn’t be sold just yet. And Fessler had made its final order, for Michael Stars T-shirts, five months earlier.

“It’s eerie,” said Mr. Meck, its chief executive, whose grandfather started the company, then known as Meck & Company, in 1900. “The lights started to go out throughout the factory: that department’s done, that department’s done.”

After Mr. Meck and his four siblings bought back the company in 1994 — his father sold it while Mr. Meck was a child — Fessler met time after time with retailers interested in selling American-made goods and produced batches of American-made fashion T-shirts and knits. Business looked so good that just before the recession, it borrowed $4 million to buy a long, low brick factory with the idea of expanding.

Clients were already shifting work overseas in the 1990s, so Fessler’s strategy was to focus on smaller companies that couldn’t order the large volumes that most Chinese factories required. While Fessler’s cost was double China’s for finished goods, it had quicker turnaround. But as everyone scurried for customers of any size during the downturn, Chinese factories offered airfreight, making their turnaround almost as fast, at about half the cost.

“All of a sudden we had competition from China and everyone else,” Mr. Meck said.

Fessler watched one customer after another jump ship. Lucky Brand, which made up 20 percent of its business, discontinued the products it was making at Fessler. Urban Outfitters, its second-biggest customer, told the factory that it was moving work overseas. And as Michael Stars’s business declined with the recession, so did its orders.

There seemed to be lifelines at times. J. C. Penney, under new management with Ron Johnson as chief executive, placed a priority on American-made clothing and talked with Fessler about producing there. But as Penney’s revenue fell, its executives stopped returning Fessler’s calls. Cost ruled. Eventually, Mr. Johnson himself was out.

“We got a little bit of business — not enough to recover — and not many people were willing to pay what it costs to make it in the U.S.A.,” Mr. Meck said. “We have had people who have walked away from us for a nickel.”

As the recession hit in 2008, Fessler’s revenue dropped in half from the previous year. By 2011, the banks started circling. Fessler laid off about half of its staff, stopped its 401(k) match and kept only three days of thread on hand rather than three weeks. Mr. Meck went from bank to bank and investor to investor looking for additional capital, while Fessler tried a bunch of one-off projects that didn’t go anywhere, like fireproof clothing and a Pampers washable cloth diaper with a paper lining.

Mr. Meck still maintains a small office in the factory in Deer Lake, Pa.; much of the plant is being leased by a bottled-water distributor and a fitness training center. In the front of the building, there is a collection of dusty equipment and supplies that haven’t sold: lights, scales, office chairs, wooden hangers, bins of flawed T-shirts. In the former factory, between stacks of bottled water, there’s a dark line on the floor that signaled the end of the knitting room, gray lines where walls once were, yellow safety lines that encircled the sewing area, scratches and bolt holes in the floor where the cutting machines moved back and forth.

The old entrance is lined with logos, a who-was-who of clients like Pendleton and Nordstrom. Up on the roof is another sign of Fessler’s once-grand ambitions: a spread of solar panels that Mr. Meck installed to try to modernize the factory.

Now the hallways are dark and silent. The lights are on because of a motion sensor, but there isn’t much motion these days.

“This is what’s left of our company,” Mr. Meck said from his office. “We have one room.”

There are some hopeful signs for retailers, even at the lower end.

Walmart, which centers its business on inexpensive items, started a program this year to increase its purchasing of American-made goods by $50 billion over the next 10 years. The company says that more than 150 projects are under way, with products ranging from socks to flat-screen TVs.

Walmart has an advantage that few other retailers can match: Because of its scale, it can push suppliers on cost. For example, it got the price on an American-made towel down to $9.47, or 50 cents less than a foreign-made towel previously for sale. (That $9.47 towel is a premium product at Walmart, where some towels sell for as little as $1.97.)

“We do have research that says, yes, it is an attractive proposition, customers will buy more because of the ‘Made in the U.S.,’ ” said Michelle Gloeckler, a Walmart executive who oversees the program. “We even have some research that says customers will pay more for made in the U.S., but we don’t believe that they should have to.”

Walmart’s efforts go only so far. Asked if it would push suppliers to provide more apparel made domestically, executives said probably not, because of the labor costs associated with cutting and sewing.

“The wages in other countries are still lower than the absolute wages here, so products that lend themselves to more U.S. production are generally more highly automated,” Ms. Gloeckler said.

That has drawn criticism from some suppliers. Price targets “barely cover the cost of the fabric required to make the garments, never mind the salaries and expenses of American workers,” wrote Christopher Dal Piaz, president of the sportswear company SML Sport in New York, in a letter to the Walmart merchandising chief after a frustrating buying meeting. The machine-made products on which Walmart is focusing “do not build a new middle class,” he wrote. (Walmart says the effort has drawn pledges from manufacturers to create more than 1,600 American jobs.)

The average price of a garment sold in the United States is $13.49, according to the NPD Group, an industry researcher. That low price is largely a result of sales at extremely low prices by huge retailers like Walmart, Target and H&M — sales that are made possible by efficient supply chains and purchases of products from low-cost countries like Bangladesh and Cambodia, said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst at NPD.

But keeping costs low, which consumers now expect, can often mean lower quality.

“In many cases the product that we buy today does not have the same, higher level of standards that we saw in earlier years,” Mr. Cohen said. “Are you buying a T-shirt that’s lighter than it used to be? In many cases, absolutely, yes. They had to take things out to keep the price the same.”

As some consumers look for higher quality, the door to American-made goods seems to be opening wider. But even at the higher end, companies like Keff NYC say the market is too new and uncertain to bet on the future. Mr. Schiffer, the company’s chief executive, said a lot of companies were still just testing the appetite for American-made goods. After all, it is the shoppers who will make this movement succeed or fail.

“We’re not under any illusions,” he said. “We take orders as we get them. If people come back to us with reorders, great.”
12 2013-12-01 Change in the real minimum wage since 1960, in 2013 dollars.

Where the minimum wage would be if it tracked the changing incomes of the top 1 percent.

In 1960, the minimum wage was 47 percent of the median wage of U.S. full-time workers.

Today, the minimum wage is 37 percent of the median wage.

is the 2013 poverty wage level for a single full-time worker with one child.

The minimum wage dipped below this amount in 1982 and has stayed there.

Age distribution of those earning the federal minimum or less:
13 2013-12-01 The mystery is resolved when we remember that context shapes evaluations of safety less heavily than it does for other goods — say, housing. In that case, even well-informed workers in perfectly competitive markets will tend to buy too little safety on their own. The forces that underlie this distortion are captured in a pair of thought experiments involving choices between two environments.

In World A, your family lives in a 4,000-square-foot house, while everyone else lives in 6,000-square-foot houses. In World B, you live in a 3,000-square-foot house, while everyone else has to make do with just 2,500 square feet. If conditions were otherwise identical and would forever remain, which would you choose?

Classical economics, which says that only absolute values matter, portrays World A as the correct choice, because you would have a larger house there. But when researchers confront real people with variations on this hypothetical decision, most of them choose B. Once houses expand past a certain size, it seems, relative advantage trumps absolute size.

Now suppose you need to choose between levels of workplace safety. In World A, you would have a two-in-100,000 chance of dying on the job this year, while everyone else has a one-in-100,000 chance. In World B, you would have a four-in-100,000 chance of dying, versus a six-in-100,000 chance for everyone else.

Death is sobering. Again, the choice is between absolute and relative advantage, but this time almost everyone chooses World A. For safety, it seems, choice patterns affirm the classical theory’s assumption that only absolute quantities matter.

Here is where it gets tricky: Relative advantage matters more for housing than for safety, so markets won’t sustain an optimal trade-off between the two. Suppose a worker accepts a slightly riskier job for slightly higher pay. The extra money buys a house whose size, in absolute terms, isn’t enough to compensate for the reduction in safety. But that house is larger in relative terms, too, and that makes the difference. Now the exchange is attractive on balance.

Similar incentives apply to everyone else, though, so when all workers sacrifice safety in the hope of buying a relatively larger house, no one moves forward. They are like spectators in a sporting event: All stand to get a better view, yet no one sees any better than before.

The problem isn’t that workers are ill-informed, or that markets are insufficiently competitive. Even with full knowledge, there just isn’t much that workers can do to change matters on their own.

Consider safety regulations in hockey. Helmets are required, even in the National Hockey League but that’s a fairly recent development. Many players had believed that they could see and hear better without them. But when everyone skated without helmets, the relative advantage disappeared, resulting in gratuitous risk of injury to all players. In 1979, the N.H.L. required all newly hired players to wear helmets, but veterans were exempted. Some continued to skate without a helmet until 1997, believing that it gave them an edge — but today’s players seem to see futility in sacrificing safety for an unsustainable relative advantage.

We all value freedom. But while classical economics encourages the complaint that safety regulations violate workers’ freedom, that complaint is misguided. It is little different from complaining that helmet rules violate athletes’ freedom. Of course they do — but with athletes as with workers, that’s precisely what people wanted.
14 2013-12-01 NIIGATA, Japan — Seeking broader international support for opposing China’s claims to airspace over the East China Sea, Japan has asked the United Nations agency that oversees civil aviation to look into whether the newly created Chinese air defense zone could endanger civilian airliners, the Foreign Ministry said Saturday.

The ministry said that it submitted a proposal for the agency, the International Civil Aviation Organization, to examine whether China’s move could threaten the order and safety of international aviation in the area. Though the organization can make only nonbinding recommendations, Japan appears to be hoping that the heightened international scrutiny will force China to back off its declared intent to control the airspace with military measures if necessary.

China’s new “air defense identification zone” covers a broad section of sea that includes islands claimed by both nations, and overlaps with a zone claimed by Japan since the late 1960s. Japan views the zone, which China declared last week, as a new move to gain control of the islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in Chinese.

China has said its new zone would not affect civilian air traffic, and was aimed instead at stopping Japanese military aircraft from entering airspace that it says rightfully belongs to China. However, China says that all aircraft, including commercial flights, must submit a flight plan before entering the zone.

While the United States military continues to fly into the zone without notifying China, Obama administration officials said Friday that they were advising American airlines to comply with the Chinese requirement in order to ensure their safety.
15 2013-12-01 Last spring, in her role as NBC News special correspondent, Chelsea Clinton interviewed the designer Stella McCartney. The anchor Brian Williams introduced the segment by describing Ms. McCartney as “a young woman of high accomplishment who happens to have a famous father. Well, we happen to have one of those around here as well.”

This is a far cry from the sentiment expressed by Alexandra Pelosi, the 43-year-old HBO documentarian and a daughter of Representative Nancy Pelosi, the former House speaker, who recently said, “My proudest accomplishment will be the day when there’s an article written about me that doesn’t mention who my mother is.”

But a recent crop of political daughters seems at ease with the name-tagging. Emboldened by social media, they’re using their lineage — and the Internet — to parlay daughter-of status into media fame.

What Got Her Noticed Once called a “Valley girl gone awry,” Ms. McCain, the 29-year-old Columbia graduate, garnered attention during her father’s 2008 presidential bid when she blogged about her experiences on the campaign trail. “The campaign saw they could use me to attract voters of my generation,” she said in a recent phone interview. After the election, Ms. McCain was given a platform at The Daily Beast, where an early article about how the campaign ruined her dating life went viral. She was soon a pundit on MSNBC, a position she held until earlier this year. “I don’t think I was that great at it,” Ms. McCain said. “I never want to have to wear a Tahari suit and Spanx to work again.”

Where She is Now “Raising McCain,” her talk show on Pivot, a new channel targeted to millennials, began in September. Each episode follows Ms. McCain as she explores a topic. (Sample segment: “I like wearing makeup and a push-up bra and I sometimes like to dress slutty on Halloween. Do I get to be a feminist anymore?”) “These are honest questions I really have,” she said. A self-described “over-sharer,” Ms. McCain has nearly 250,000 Twitter followers. “I absolutely would not be where I am without social media,” she said. “I worship at the altar of Twitter.”

Upon Reflection Of her decision to embrace her daughter-of status, Ms. McCain said, “It would be there no matter what I did. If I cured cancer, I’d be John McCain’s daughter who cured cancer. I just hope someday it’s John McCain’s daughter who wrote a cool book or had a good show, or did something interesting.”
16 2013-12-01 Having grown up in Australia as an immigrant, I am dismayed at my country’s policies. Without the populace noticing, the Australian government has created a second class of people: boat people. These individuals are turned into beads on some sadistic abacus. The proposed 2011 “people swap” — whereby 800 asylum seekers who had arrived in Australia were sent to Malaysia and 4,000 refugees whose claims were processed in Malaysia were to be accepted in Australia — epitomized this. Your article has surfaced on social media and in conversation here. People are finally engaging with the humanity of the issue, instead of with the numbers. I cannot thank you enough. KRISTÓF WING, Tasmania, Australia

As an Australian who works with refugees, I travel regularly to Akkar, the region in northern Lebanon that is home to some of those who lost their lives at sea off the Indonesian coast (and to whom you refer in your article). The paradox is that this region, despite offering little for its own people, is host to thousands of Syrian refugees. Many Lebanese families have shared their homes with total strangers, squeezing their families into one or two rooms of their houses to make space for a Syrian family. This is in stark contrast to the frantic, unfounded hysteria with which my government in Australia reacts to asylum seekers who arrive by boat. Thank you, Luke Mogelson and Joel van Houdt, for risking your own lives to write this article and for demonstrating the lengths to which people will go to secure what we take for granted. YANYA VISKOVICH, Beirut, Lebanon

Your article made me confront my own moral dilemma, the same one the Australian people and politicians have to face. I grapple with my tolerance for my own selfishness and the knowledge that there is no pot of gold for these refugees at the end of their imaginary rainbow. Either choice is tough. If you turn the refugees away, they face poor future prospects at home. If you accept them into your country, they face poor future prospects and could potentially become disruptive locally. Thank you for your thoughtful and gripping writing. And for making me think and feel. ROBERT S. MILLER, Danbury, Conn., posted on nytimes.com

I am so conflicted by this story. I’m not anti-adoption — three years ago, my wife and I adopted a 3-year-old. But Misty and Jon’s children have been transferred from foster care into mini-orphanages. The parents can’t take care of all of these special-needs kids without help from the older children. It’s unfair that Misty’s daughter Lauren had to quit sports to help care for her siblings. And how did the social workers place children into a home that uses spanking for punishment? I’m not sure the adoption agencies, the social workers and courts are acting in the best interests of the children. CLAUDE LEWIN, Tenafly, N.J., posted on nytimes.com

Misty and Jon are rightfully praised for opening their home. But your article missed an opportunity to critically examine the foster-care system from which this couple adopted so many children. The paucity of families willing to adopt is not the main problem; it’s that too many children languish in the system when they could be safely returned to their loving parents. Of the children who are in foster care, 47 percent of their parents have trouble paying for basic necessities. Yet under the Adoption and Safe Families Act of 1997, states are encouraged to invest in adoption instead of reunifying families. Your story of the kind saviors who rescue children perpetuates the misguided view that the government can best care for children by removing them from their homes. PATRICK CLARK, Staff Lawyer, Family Defense Practice, The Bronx Defenders, N.Y.

“Always blown away by women who ‘know’ they want large families of ‘6-8.’ Who are you?!” @elizabethm_j, via Twitter
17 2013-12-01 You dropped out of school when you were 16 to pursue racing. Do you think you would be where you are had you not done that? 

I took the opportunity that was in front of me, which meant moving to and leaving school. I did get my G.E.D. — I call it my “Good Enough Diploma” — but I don’t know, I think I showed my dedication by doing that.

Was your mother worried about you?

My parents were very comfortable and confident with me racing. They always said that they were more worried about everybody else than me.

Lately some fans have complained that the cars are so souped up that they don’t resemble regular cars anymore, undermining a big part of the appeal of .

This year there was a big shift, and the cars look a lot more like what’s going to be sold to the public, and that’s important for the manufacturers. There’s a saying: “Win on Sunday, sell on Monday.” There has to be R.O.I. for the automakers or they’re not going to stick around.

Nascar was going to get a track in New York, but that didn’t work out.

That’s because there’s so much to do in a big city. You pop into small-town America, where there’s nothing else to do, and the whole town shows up. I grew up in a small town, so I’m not putting them down.

The racer Ed Carpenter once quipped that you are an aggressive driver, “especially if you catch her at the right time of the month.” Does that type of thing bother you?

When you spend enough time around guys, you understand that some of them have a different sense of humor. It’s not offensive to me whatsoever.

And at the Daytona 500 this year, when the announcer said, “Drivers and Danica, start your engines”?

Usually they just say, “Drivers, start your engines,” and that’s my preference. I’m flattered to hear my name, but there’s 42 others that make the racing exciting. If it was just me out there driving all by myself, I promise nobody would be watching. I can’t remember who the actor was who said that.
18 2013-12-01 Europe’s last divided capital, Nicosia, Cyprus, is experiencing a renaissance with more and more venues catering to the artistic set. No longer wary of the demilitarized United Nations Buffer Zone that bisects the ancient walled city between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot sides, young Nicosians have reclaimed their old town. Emboldened by falling real estate prices, arty cafes, boutiques celebrating homegrown fashion and buzzy restaurants have opened among the Venetian fortifications and Byzantine churches on the Greek side. While beachgoers have long flocked to the coasts, the rebirth of the inland capital is evidence of a historic city in transition.

This cult snack shop has helped revitalize Old Nicosia’s once desolate former fabric district. The formula is simple: A wood-burning stove plus delicious and cheap Armenian street food. Locals line up for freshly baked specialties like lahmajoun — piquant minced meat atop crispy flat bread — and halloumi cheese pies.

This unisex boutique focusing on up-and-coming Cypriot and Greek designers opened steps from the ancient Famagusta Gate last December. The owner, Alexia Kirmitsi, set prices that correspond to the country’s grim economic reality: Many of her daringly original garments, like a butterfly-shaped jacket, sell for under 80 euros, or $105 at $1.31 to the euro, while striking accessories like oxidized silver hoops are even more affordable.

Patrons of this cafe and design showroom, opened in 2012, gather around courtyard tables resembling flowerpots to sip cocktails like the Ouzografos, which improbably mixes ouzo, lemonade and basil with cubes of local halloumi cheese. The adjacent shop offers such items as traditional painted wood Cypriot chairs with colorful coverings knit by Sylvette Fissentzides, mother of a co-owner.

Multicolored umbrellas hang overhead at this relaxed cafe in a small pedestrian alley filled with new galleries and shops. A favorite haunt of creative types since it opened in 2011, 7 Kleidia serves Cypriot coffee the traditional way — made in a copper pot over hot sand — along with local wine and spirits.

Numerous restaurant-bars have recently popped up around Onasagorou Street, turning this stretch near the border checkpoint into a happening night-life quarter. The liveliest stop is Market Company, an industrial-chic spot that opened in 2012. Stylish denizens order small plates like prawns flavored with berries and toast at the white-tiled bar until the early morning hours.
19 2013-12-01 Not long ago, in certain circles, serving anything other than the most tender and expensive rib or loin chops — in the form of a “rack” or a “meat lollipop” — to respectable company was considered déclassé. Leg and shank eventually got their dues — and now the shoulder has finally arrived.

It’s about time, because all things considered, it’s the best major cut of lamb. (The best minor cut might be the neck, or even the kidney or tongue, but we’re not addressing “specialty meats” here.)

Though far less glorified than rib chops or legs, lamb shoulder is explosively delicious and juicy. Like the shoulders of pigs and cows, it is a hardworking muscle rippled with intramuscular fat, which makes it ideal for the stewing or braising that’s requisite this times of year.

But the shoulder’s not that hardworking, which keeps it tender enough to be subjected to the shorter blasts of heat typically reserved for more elegant cuts. You can roast a whole shoulder (or chunks or slices of one) in a hot oven, and it will be crisp and juicy.
20 2013-12-01 Not long ago, in certain circles, serving anything other than the most tender and expensive rib or loin chops — in the form of a “rack” or a “meat lollipop” — to respectable company was considered déclassé. Leg and shank eventually got their dues — and now the shoulder has finally arrived.

It’s about time, because all things considered, it’s the best major cut of lamb. (The best minor cut might be the neck, or even the kidney or tongue, but we’re not addressing “specialty meats” here.)

Though far less glorified than rib chops or legs, lamb shoulder is explosively delicious and juicy. Like the shoulders of pigs and cows, it is a hardworking muscle rippled with intramuscular fat, which makes it ideal for the stewing or braising that’s requisite this times of year.

But the shoulder’s not that hardworking, which keeps it tender enough to be subjected to the shorter blasts of heat typically reserved for more elegant cuts. You can roast a whole shoulder (or chunks or slices of one) in a hot oven, and it will be crisp and juicy.
21 2013-12-02 LUBARS--Regina "Jean," (nee Gipfel), 81, of Brookline, MA and Brooklyn, NY; on November 30th. Cherished wife of Walter; adored mother of Susan, David and Steven; beloved grandmother of Paul and Elissa Dunn, Michael, Alex, Jayden and Nya Lubars; tr...
22 2013-12-02 The Hartman Group, which represents such hit shows as “Wicked” and “Rock of Ages,” will close in January....
23 2013-12-02 The investment firm owned by Peter Chernin, the former News Corporation executive, acquired a majority stake in Crunchyroll, which streams Japanese anime over the Internet....
24 2013-12-02 In a lengthy report, the information commissioner concluded that B.B.M. was being used in a way that keeps messages from and between bureaucrats out of public view....
25 2013-12-02 Microsoft said it was pleased to receive the approval and it looked “forward to the date when our partners at Nokia will become members of the Microsoft family.”...
26 2013-12-02 A new study has found that drinking sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with an increased risk for endometrial cancer....
27 2013-12-02 The Canadian Opera Company in Toronto has commissioned Mr. Wainwright’s second opera, “Hadrian.”...
28 2013-12-02 Rob Deichert joined Criteo, New York, in a new post, chief operating officer for North America. He had most recently been global general manager and senior vice president for business operations at Tribal Fusion.

Craig Duncan, partner and executive producer at Cutters, Chicago, and Rachelle Madden, managing director at Poetica, New York, part of Jump Editorial, were elected co-presidents of the international board of the Association of Independent Creative Editors. Mr. Duncan had been vice president and Ms. Madden had been treasurer. They assume duties from Clayton Hemmert, owner and editor at Crew Cuts, New York, whose two-year term as president expires at the end of the year.

Karen Halstead joined Mekanism, San Francisco, in a new post, head of media. She had been associate partner and director for communications strategy at Eleven, San Francisco.

David Lang, president of Mindshare Entertainment, New York, part of the Mindshare division of GroupM, was named to an added, new post, chief content officer for North America. GroupM is owned by WPP.

Meredith Corporation made promotions at its New York office. Stephen Bohlinger, publisher at EatingWell magazine, was promoted to publisher at Every Day With Rachael Ray magazine, in addition to overseeing EatingWell and a new Meredith magazine, Allrecipes. Mr. Bohlinger assumes duties from Christine Guilfoyle, who had been vice president and group publisher at Every Day With Rachael Ray, overseeing that magazine along with Allrecipes and EatingWell; Ms. Guilfoyle was promoted to senior vice president and publisher at Better Homes and Gardens magazine as well as group publisher for the Meredith Women’s Group, overseeing advertising for Family Circle and Ladies’ Home Journal magazines in addition to Better Homes and Gardens. At Better Homes and Gardens, Ms. Guilfoyle assumes duties from Tony Imperato, who had been vice president and publisher; he was promoted to vice president and managing director at Meredith 360 Degrees, overseeing multiplatform advertising programs. Mr. Imperato succeeds Rich Berenson, now senior vice president and chief business development officer at Meredith Xcelerated Marketing.

McLean Hospital, Belmont, Mass., named Forge Worldwide, Boston, as agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The hospital had previously worked with various local agencies on a project basis.

Chris Paul joined Edelman, New York, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc., in a new post, global director for paid media. He had been executive vice president and general manager of Audience on Demand, part of the VivaKi division of the Publicis Groupe.

PR Week, New York, part of Haymarket Media, named six men and women to its inaugural PR Week Hall of Fame, which is being started in observance of the trade publication’s 15th anniversary. The inductees are Harold Burson, a founder of Burson-Marsteller; Al Golin, a founder and chairman of GolinHarris; Jon C. Iwata, senior vice president for marketing and communications at IBM; Marilyn Laurie, former executive vice president for public relations and brand management at AT&T, who is being inducted posthumously; Charlotte Otto, senior corporate strategist at Weber Shandwick and former global external relations officer at Procter & Gamble; and Marcia Silverman, former global chief executive, Ogilvy Public Relations.

R&R Partners, Las Vegas, hired three employees for its media and measurement area. They are Coleman Engellenner, media director, overseeing strategy, planning and buying for the Los Angeles office; Megan Estrada, digital media director, overseeing digital media planning and buying for the agency’s offices in Denver, Washington and Austin, Tex., as well as Las Vegas; and Chris Evans, group media director, responsible for media planning for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority account along with statewide clients in Colorado, Nevada and Texas along with clients in the District of Columbia.

Katharine Ricci joined DeVries Global, New York, in a new post, vice president for social planning. She had most recently been associate director at Attention, New York.

Saatchi & Saatchi Los Angeles hired three staff members. They are Marlon Hernandez, creative director; Mark Laughlin, group creative director; and David Lowrie, group account director. Saatchi & Saatchi Los Angeles is the Torrance, Calif., office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Ariana Stolarz joined MRM Worldwide as executive vice president and strategy director for MRM East, becoming the strategic leader for the New York and Princeton, N.J., offices. She succeeds Adam Donnelley, who is now managing partner at DDB Sydney, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. Ms. Stolarz had been managing director for digital strategy and social media at McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Aegis Network division of Dentsu. MRM is part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Todd Tran joined Nexage, Boston, in a new post, managing director for Europe, based in the London office. He had been head of brand partnerships and advertising for two regions — Asia-Pacific as well as Europe, the Middle East and Africa — at Rovio Entertainment, also based in London.

Penny Veneziano joined 140 Proof, San Francisco, in a new post, vice president of sales for the Eastern region, based in New York. She had most recently been sales director of digital sales for the Eastern region at Weather Channel, part of the Weather Company.

John Watkins, president for national television sales at ABC Owned Television Stations, New York, part of the ABC division of the Walt Disney Company, is retiring at the end of January, the company said, after nearly 42 years with ABC. A successor is to be named soon. The stations owned by ABC include KABC-TV, Los Angeles; WABC-TV, New York; WLS-TV, Chicago; and WPVI-TV, Philadelphia.
29 2013-12-02 Retail sales for the big weekend disappoint. But manufacturing accelerated in November. And, surprise, there is still work to be done on HealthCare.gov....
30 2013-12-02 A sauce that can double as a vegetable side dish....
31 2013-12-02 The European Securities and Markets Authority says its investigation into Fitch, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s has revealed issues in sovereign rating processes....
32 2013-12-02 The possible sale or spinoff of assets – including chlorine production facilities and epoxy businesses – is the latest move by a big industrial company to try to streamline itself....
33 2013-12-02 The Swiss bank said it expected to incur a small loss on the buyback, but believed that would be offset by a decrease in its future interest expense....
34 2013-12-02 The Carpetbagger is back, ready to sort out the hopefuls from the wannabes, the campaigns from the backlashes....
35 2013-12-02 A Chinese collector paid more than 89 million renminbi, or $14.7 million, for “Abstraction” by Zao Wou-ki, the Chinese-French painter who died in April....
36 2013-12-02 Wang Qinglei, who worked on prominent news programs including “24 Hours” and “Face to Face,” has written an open letter criticizing the state-run network for its role in China’s campaign to curb Internet gossip....
37 2013-12-02 Natalya Gorbanevskaya, a Russian dissident and poet who defied Soviet authorities by starting an influential underground publication and protesting the Soviet Union’s 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia, died on Friday at her home in Paris. She was 77.

The Russian news agency RIA Novosti announced her death but did not give a cause.

On Aug. 25, 1968, Ms. Gorbanevskaya and a handful of other dissidents gathered in Red Square, in Moscow, to denounce the Soviets’ sending tanks to Czechoslovakia four days earlier to quell the liberal reforms known as the Prague Spring. The group stood on a spot reserved for executions in prerevolutionary times and held up banners with slogans like “shame to the invaders.”

Ms. Gorbanevskaya’s companions were arrested, but she was not, presumably because she had two young sons. She wrote about the trial of her associates for The Chronicle of Current Events, an influential underground publication she had helped to start earlier that year. Produced on mimeographed sheets, it concentrated on human rights news. Such publications — called “samizdat,” meaning self-published — were meant to be counterweights to official Soviet publications like Pravda and Izvestia.

In 1969, Ms. Gorbanevskaya helped found a group to promote civil rights in the Soviet Union. “One must begin by postulating that truth is needed for its own sake and no other reason,” she said.

The next year, she published a book called “Noon” about the demonstration and subsequent trial. Later in the 1970s, it was published in Britain, France, Mexico and the United States under the title “Red Square at Noon.”

The author and New York Times journalist Harrison E. Salisbury wrote in the introduction to the English edition, “The virtue of the document is its meticulous detail; its crystal exposition of the rude violation of Soviet law; the willful application of force and deceit; the use of the court as an instrument of injustice; the falsification and suppression of testimony; the deliberate provocation by state organs; and over it all the total banality of the system.”
38 2013-12-02 Rory McIlroy birdied the 18th hole to beat Adam Scott at the Australian Open in Sydney, winning for the first time in 2013 and denying Scott the triple crown of Australian golf.

McIlroy started the last round four shots behind Scott but drew even when he eagled the seventh and birdied the eighth.

The pair then went shot for shot over the back nine before the dramatic finish.

■ Charl Schwartzel successfully defended his title at the Alfred Dunhill Championship in Malelane, South Africa, shooting a four-under-par 68 for a four-shot victory and his first European Tour win in a year.
39 2013-12-02 Shiffrin’s finish also confirmed her evolution from a slalom specialist into a multidiscipline threat. Her best finish in giant slalom had been sixth in Sölden, Austria, in October.

Coming into the season, she said, her goal was to reach a podium in giant slalom. With that feat accomplished, her focus is on the Olympics and beyond.

“My biggest dream is to win several medals at the Olympics and also the overall World Cup title,” she said.

In March 2011, at age 15, Shiffrin made her World Cup debut. Less than a year later, in December 2011, she attained her first podium result, a third-place finish in Lienz, Austria. She did not yet have her driver’s license.

She followed her rookie year with a breakthrough season in 2012-13, winning four World Cup events and finishing third three times. She won the slalom gold at the world championships in Schladming, Austria, in February. In March, she claimed the World Cup slalom title, becoming the sixth-youngest woman in history to win a World Cup title.

With 10 podium finishes, she is established as one of the United States’ most talented racers.

“I’m sure she will be a threat for the overall title,” said Tina Maze, the defending World Cup overall titleholder. “She has great chances to do that, and I think her team is doing great work creating her as overall racer.”

Early success invites inevitable comparisons to Vonn, who made her World Cup debut at 16. Vonn was 19 when she reached her first podium, with a third place in the downhill in Cortina d’Ampezzo, Italy.

“Lindsey was also really focused and talented when she was young, but it took her some more years,” said Maria Höfl-Riesch, 29, a 13-year World Cup veteran and two-time Olympic gold medalist who is a close friend of Vonn’s. “She wasn’t as good as Mikaela at the age of 17.”

Shiffrin said she was flattered by the comparisons but wanted to make her own mark.

“I have a lot of respect for Lindsey, but we’re our own individuals,” she said. “I hope to have my own successful career, and I hope that in the future when people look back on these years of ski racing, they will know of Lindsey Vonn and Mikaela Shiffrin.”

In some ways, Shiffrin is still very much a teenager. She travels the World Cup circuit with her mother, Eileen. She watches the television show “Glee.” She goofs around with her older brother, Taylor, 21, and goes to bed at 9 p.m.

With her high school diploma and a driver’s license now on her résumé, Shiffrin looks toward the next milestone, though one far different from most people her age.

“She’s not working for normal teenage hallmarks anymore,” her mother said. “She’s working to win the overall World Cup.”

VONN TO DELAY SURGERY Lindsey Vonn is delaying further surgery on her right knee for as long as possible in hopes of skiing at the Sochi Olympics.

Vonn partly tore a reconstructed anterior cruciate knee ligament during a crash in training two weeks ago in Copper Mountain, Colo. She is seeing if she can ski without another operation because that would all but end any chance of defending her Olympic downhill title in February.

Vonn said she probably would be proceeding in the same way even if this were not an Olympic season.

“I probably would have done what I’m doing right now, test it out,” Vonn said after a training session in Vail, Colo. “If I felt like it was possible to keep skiing, I probably would have. Either way, at the end of the season, I have to reconstruct the A.C.L.

“So it’s kind of like, might as well see how long it holds up. Not a lot of options. In the end, surgery is going to have to happen.” (AP)

SVINDAL WINS SUPER-G Aksel Lund Svindal won the men’s alpine World Cup super-G in Lake Louise, Alberta, on an Olympic course he has made his own.

Svindal, of Norway, clocked 1 minute 28.53 seconds to beat Matthias Mayer of Austria by 0.24 of a second. Georg Streitberger, also of Austria, was third, 0.38 of a second off the lead.

It was Svindal’s sixth win in Lake Louise, five in the super-G.

GERMANS SWEEP LUGE The world champion Natalie Geisenberger led a German sweep of the top three spots in World Cup luge, winning for the third time in a perfect start to her season.

Geisenberger was fastest in both runs down the Hochsauerland course in Winterberg, Germany, to finish in a combined time of 1:53.457 for her 19th career victory.

Tatjana Huefner overcame earlier back problems to finish second in 1:53.897. Anke Wischnewski was third.

The Americans Erin Hamlin and Kate Hansen were sixth and seventh. (AP)
40 2013-12-02 The current draft, like others before it, was based on Egypt’s 1971 Constitution, which the writers have repeatedly returned to “like it’s a bible,” said Zaid al-Ali, a Cairo-based constitutional expert with the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance. “It’s remarkable that, in a revolutionary environment, you don’t have a revolutionary constitution,” he said.

Recently, the voices clamoring for change have grown louder. The government has faced anger for what its critics say is an authoritarian turn, including by passing a repressive protest law that has led to a renewed crackdown on demonstrations by students and non-Islamist activists. On Sunday, officials said they had extended the detention of Alaa Abd El Fattah, a well-known activist who is being charged with violating the protest law.

The detentions of Mr. Abd El Fattah and other prominent leftists and liberals have begun to widen opposition to the interim government beyond Mr. Morsi’s Islamist supporters, who have borne the brunt of the state’s repression. The security services have killed more than 1,000 Islamist protesters since July. Thousands of others have been detained, including leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood, Mr. Morsi’s Islamist movement, but also young people who have received harsh prison sentences for protesting against the military.

In some respects, the charter being debated now is a further attempt to wipe away the vestiges of Islamist rule. The Constitution passed under Mr. Morsi left a bitter legacy, with critics arguing that its Islamist drafters rushed it to approval without consensus, amplified the role of Islamic law and restricted freedoms. It was passed by a majority of voters, but the low turnout — 33 percent — left it open to further criticism.

The committee writing the new Constitution included a handful of Islamists, making it vulnerable to similar charges of exclusion. And while the current draft removes many of the religious references that secular-leaning figures objected to — including the mention of “public morals” — it did not offer significant new protections for religious minorities or fundamentally alter the relationship of religion and the state, analysts said.

For instance, while the new draft refers to freedom of belief as “absolute,” rather than “protected,” as the old draft had, both charters leave freedom to practice religion subject to the state’s laws, which have traditionally offered scant protection against religious discrimination.

The new charter also bans political parties based on religion, potentially outlawing Islamist parties.

Experts noted several significant improvements over the last Constitution, including detailed provisions on children’s rights and a commitment to abide by international human rights treaties signed by Egypt. The charter enshrines a defendant’s right to silence and creates a commission to fight discrimination.

In the change to one of the articles on Sunday, the committee members voted down a provision that would have set parliamentary elections for between 30 and 90 days after the ratification of a constitution — as mandated by the road map. Instead, they left the decision about whether parliamentary or presidential elections would be held first in the hands of the military-backed interim president, Adli Mansour.

Analysts speculated that the switch could be intended to give non-Islamist parties more time to organize themselves ahead of parliamentary elections, while giving a sitting president more control over the makeup of Parliament. One of the most frequently mentioned candidates for president is Egypt’s de facto leader, General Sisi.

“No political party seems ready to run,” said Nathan J. Brown, an expert on Egyptian law at George Washington University. If General Sisi were to stand for president, “then he might not mind getting there first, and shaping things,” Professor Brown said.
41 2013-12-02 Re “How to Do Right by the Disabled” (editorial, Nov. 25):

We find it inexplicable that the United States’ ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities is subject to debate. Ratification would provide the United States with legitimacy and access to share the protections and values of the American With Disabilities Act with other countries.

People with disabilities are entitled to the same rights and freedoms as anyone else, to live and enjoy a full life without discrimination. Claims that the treaty “crushes” American sovereignty and jeopardizes parental rights simply aren’t true.

By exporting our values about people with disabilities, we are expanding United States sovereignty. The treaty in no way affects the rights of home-schooled children or their parents.

The role of the United States as a leader in the field of human rights is at stake. We can only hope that the Senate will do the right thing.

The writer is chief executive of YAI, a provider of programs for the disabled.
42 2013-12-02 A mixed breed dog named Elwood (below), who was named the “World’s Ugliest Dog” in 2007 and inspired his owner to write a children’s book about self-acceptance, has died, The Associated Press reported. He was 8 years old. Karen Quigley, 52, of Sewell, N.J., adopted Elwood, a dark-colored, nearly hairless Chinese crested and Chihuahua mix, after a breeder decided that he was too ugly to sell and would euthanize him. His odd appearance, which included heavy eyelids, a protruded tongue that hung out the side of his mouth and a white tuft of hair on his head, was a hit at the Sonoma-Marin County Fair in California, where the ugly dog contest is held. The experience motivated Ms. Quigley to write and self-publish a children’s book that promoted acceptance called “Everybody Loves Elwood.” The dog later developed an online following, being referred to as Yoda or E.T. by his fans. Elwood appeared at more than 200 events to help raise money for animal rescue groups and nonprofit animal organizations.
43 2013-12-02 ■ Golfsmith International, Austin, Tex., a specialty retailer that operates Golfsmith stores in the United States and Golf Town stores in Canada, selected Doner, Southfield, Mich., part of MDC Partners, as its creative agency of record. Spending was estimated at more than $35 million. The account had been handled by Greatest Common Factory, Austin.

■ BMO Financial Group, Toronto, changed agencies on several accounts. Billings were not disclosed. BMO expanded its relationship with Y & R, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP, by naming Y & R as its lead agency for all brand and retail banking marketing in North America. Y & R Midwest will continue to be the lead agency for BMO Harris Bank, Chicago; Y & R offices in New York, Chicago and Toronto will now assume assignments in Canada that had been handled by Cossette, which resigned in September when BMO began a review for those assignments. Also, the BMO wealth management division awarded its North American advertising to Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners; the work will be led from the agency’s office in Toronto. The division had worked with agencies that included Cossette and Y & R.

■ CIT Bank, part of the CIT Group, New York, chose Erwin Penland, Greenville, S.C., as its agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by HNW, New York. Erwin Penland, which will handle the account primarily from its New York office, is part of the Hill Holliday division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

■ Alex Leikikh, president at Mullen, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was promoted to chief executive. He succeeds Joe Grimaldi, who becomes chairman, serving in that post through the end of 2015 as part of what the agency described as a planned succession. Mr. Leikikh becomes the third chief executive in the agency’s history, after Mr. Grimaldi and Jim Mullen.

■ Mitch Rotter joined Evolve Media, Los Angeles, as senior vice president for marketing, a new post. He had been executive vice president for programming at Break Media, Los Angeles, which merged with Alloy Digital to form Defy Media.

■ M & C Saatchi, London, sold 75.1 percent of a unit, Walker Media, to the Publicis Groupe, Paris. Financial terms were not disclosed. Walker will become part of the ZenithOptimedia Group division of Publicis, remaining a separate agency in Britain and becoming a cornerstone of what Publicis called “a new global media network,” to be formed in 2014, “that will sit within” ZenithOptimedia. M & C Saatchi will keep a 24.9 percent stake in Walker.
44 2013-12-02 “It drives me crazy that we are still struggling to make that case around the country,” she said.

Dr. Campbell is retiring at the end of the academic year and plans to fill her time writing — she has a cultural biography about Romare Bearden to finish for Oxford University Press — and spending time with her husband, George Campbell Jr., who stepped down two years ago as president of Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art.

But she will continue to press her point of view as vice chairwoman of the President’s Committee on the Arts and Humanities. She was confirmed last month for her second term. The committee, which advises the White House on cultural matters, has made arts education its main issue.

A report by the committee — “Reinvesting in Arts Education: Winning America’s Future Through Creative Schools” — released in 2011 found that building creatively rich schools and integrating arts strategies into classroom instruction across disciplines is vital to preparing students for success.

As a result, the committee developed the Turnaround Arts initiative, which aims to narrow the achievement gap and increase student engagement through the arts. Members of the committee have “adopted” eight of the country’s worst-performing schools — as determined by the federal Education Department — visiting multiple times, teaching classes, and meeting with parents and students. The actress Kerry Washington adopted Savoy Elementary School in Washington, for example; the cellist YoYo Ma and the dancer Damian Woetzel have Orchard Gardens K-8 Pilot School in Boston; the painter Chuck Close has Roosevelt School in Bridgeport, Conn; and the actress Sarah Jessica Parker has the King School in Portland, Ore.

Already, the schools are showing some progress, Dr. Campbell said; attendance is improving, along with behavior and academic performance.

“Because of her stature in the community, it’s been invaluable to have her input in terms of what kinds of questions we should be asking, both in terms of pedagogy and results to be looking for,” said Margo Lion, a theater producer who heads the committee with George Stevens Jr.

“She’s not a ramparts person,” Ms. Lion added. “She has a low flame but she’s very engaged.”

At N.Y.U. in 2008, Dr. Campbell established the Tisch Talent Identification Process, a program that recruits high-performing, high-need students, a number of whom have gone on to professional success.

“As we see the horrible movement of America towards a short-term utilitarianism in almost all of our social policy and the de-emphasis of that which feeds the soul of humankind, it’s shown dramatically in the move away from funding for cultural institutions and the emasculation of arts education,” John Sexton, the president of N.Y.U., said in an interview. “If you asked me to predict one person who would stand up and raise a fist to that, it would be Mary Campbell. And it doesn’t surprise me that she’s doing it.”

Dr. Campbell has also changed the profile of the school to include digital media in addition to theater, film and television. Tisch also has founded new disciplines and departments, including a moving image archiving and preservation program, the Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music and a dual M.B.A.-M.F.A. degree with the Stern School of Business at N.Y.U.

Dr. Campbell has tried to press arts education issues in her work as a trustee on various boards, namely at the Harlem School of the Arts, which she helped rescue in 2010 as one of five board members appointed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. (She recently stepped down.) She remains on the board of the Public Theater and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, which finances education related to science, technology and economic performance.

Americans for the Arts, a nonprofit organization for advancing the arts and arts education, in September joined the National Coalition for Core Arts Standards, a partnership of organizations and states, in revising the national voluntary learning standards for dance, music, theater, visual arts and media arts for grades pre-K to grade 12.

But arts education tends to be among the first casualties of school budget cutbacks in the United States. Other parts of the world have been quicker to acknowledge its intrinsic value, Dr. Campbell said. “There is an important recognition in countries like China and Singapore that these creative areas are extremely important in terms of developing the capacity for resilience and metaphorical thinking — for innovation,” she said.

Dr. Campbell said that she considers it her responsibility to be an advocate for such recognition and that she looks forward to doing more of it.

“Those of us who are in public positions or private organizations can in time make a powerful narrative,” she added. “We have an obligation to be out front.”
45 2013-12-02 Kerry Keenan, chief creative officer at Deutsch New York, said that along with previewing the show, the promotion is meant to build interest in the creative and technical challenges of capturing another era.

“This goes deeper and deeper into the show,” Ms. Keenan said. “It’s not just the dialogue — it’s the making of the show and all the attention to details.”

Mr. Darabont is expected to add commentary on Twitter as the script is released, as are some of the actors on the show, who include Edward Burns, Jon Bernthal and Simon Pegg, along with crew members like costume designers and set designers.

Tricia Melton, senior vice president for entertainment marketing and branding at TNT, TBS and Turner Classic Movies, said the term adaptweetion was apt, because the alchemy of the script, clips, images and commentary constituted a unique form.

“Bringing the script to life in a different medium is designed to intrigue you so that you want to watch the premiere,” Ms. Melton said. “But this brings a different level of context and I think that it elevates Twitter as a platform because it takes it to a different level of storytelling experience.”

Rohit Bhargava, a social media strategist and the author of “Likeonomics,” reviewed the “Mob City” promotion and said it was a wise use of Twitter.

“What tends to work on social media is context, because we want to connect on a deeper level beyond just liking what we watch,” Mr. Bhargava said. “We want the back story that we can’t get anywhere else.”

The campaign should be evaluated not on the sheer number of Twitter followers it garners, but whether those followers are really passionate, perhaps because they hold previous work of the director or actors in high regard, Mr. Bhargava said.

“If they’re trying to become another ‘Scandal’ right out of the gate and hit everybody, it won’t work,” he said. “But if they’re doing it as an influencer campaign, where they connect with even only a thousand superfans who are going to tell everyone else, it will do well.”

“The Spoils of Babylon,” a spoof of the historical mini-series genre that will premiere on IFC on Jan. 9, also has taken an unusual approach to promotion. Displays at Hudson News stores for a novel, also titled “The Spoils of Babylon,” say it is “now an epic television event on IFC” — but the displays are always empty, as if the book has sold out, because the book does not exist.

Citing viewers’ binge-watching tendencies in the Netflix era, TNT will air the six-part “Mob City” series in three weeks, with two consecutive hourlong episodes each Wednesday.

Passengers flying into Los Angeles International Airport have been greeted for the last two weeks by a message emblazoned in block letters on the roofs of three side-by-side hangars, “Welcome to Mob City,” along with the premiere date. Benches along the Sunset Strip have featured, along with the show’s logo, sayings like “Bugsy owned this city,” a reference to the real-life mobster Bugsy Siegel, who is played by Mr. Burns in the series.

On Monday, TNT will open a pop-up store in New York’s Chelsea Market called Mickey’s Haberdashery, which is modeled after a men’s clothing store that Mickey Cohen, another Los Angeles gangster of the era depicted in the show, once owned in the Sunset Strip. Along with stocking clothing and accessories reminiscent of the 1940s, the store, which will be open for only three days, will offer hot shaves for a throwback price of 35 cents and shoe shines for a dime.
46 2013-12-02 “China’s getting a lot of prestige, which turns into geostrategic influence, from the fact that they are the third country to have manned spaceflight capabilities, that they are going to the moon,” she said.

The Chinese state-run news media has responded to the launch from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center with jubilation. That is likely to reach a climax in about two weeks, when the landing vehicle is scheduled to descend on the moon and release the Jade Rabbit, or Yutu, robotic rover to start sending back data and pictures from Sinus Iridum, or the Bay of Rainbows, a basaltic plain formed from lava that filled a crater.

But as well as patriotic pride, China’s space activities are generating skills to enhance the country’s science, satellites and military, experts said. China’s advances in space include five manned flights, which are intended to pave the way for a space station. The country is also developing an array of new satellites, including the BeiDou navigation system that will have a chain of 35 satellites. Many of the advances used for better rockets and space guidance can be applied in missiles.

“Simple prestige is certainly a key driver in a lot of China’s space programs, in particular the manned space program,” said Mark Stokes, the executive director of the Project 2049 Institute, a research organization in Washington focused on security issues in Asia. “It’s also a way to mobilize resources and to concentrate resources in a way that could result in certain types of spinoff technologies.”

Above all, China has been learning how to orchestrate complicated engineering tasks and to surmount the poor bureaucratic coordination that has often frustrated such efforts, said Dean Cheng, a senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in Washington who has studied China’s space programs.

“We in the U.S., in the West, tend to focus on the widget aspect of China’s space progress,” Mr. Cheng said. “But I would say that what we sometimes miss is how important these organizational changes are. All the Chinese space efforts are efforts at improving their systems engineering.”

China’s military drives the country’s space program, and that has caused wariness among Western governments. Suspicions have been magnified by allegations that China has stolen information for its space and missile programs. Congress passed a law in 2011 that bans the National Aeronautics and Space Administration from developing bilateral contacts with China, although multilateral contacts are not proscribed.

But China’s program has reached a point where deeper cooperation with the United States or Russia would make little difference, said Gregory Kulacki, China project manager at the Union of Concerned Scientists. He nonetheless supports closer contacts to foster cooperation and reduce mistrust. “They don’t really need to rely on any outside sources to continue to make the progress that they’re making,” Mr. Kulacki said.

China established a foothold in space in 1970, when a small, primitive satellite beamed back an ode to Mao Zedong, “The East is Red.” From the 1980s, the Communist Party leadership began to develop bigger plans, and in 2003, China sent its first astronaut into space. China has since carried out four more manned missions.

The Chang’e lunar exploration program, named after a moon goddess, began in 2007 with a craft that orbited the moon, and the Cheng’e-2 mission launched in 2010 sent back more detailed images of the moon, including of the area where Chang’e-3 will land. (The Chang’e-1 craft hurtled into the moon in a controlled, hard landing in 2009.)

For the Chang’e-3 mission, the rover — a solar-powered, six-wheeled vehicle similar to ones the United States has sent to Mars — will spend three months exploring and collecting data. A future mission that could take place in several years would be intended to bring back rocks and other samples from the moon. The Chinese government said in 2011 it was also studying sending an astronaut to the moon, but that remains a distant prospect.
47 2013-12-03 City officials hope a judge’s ruling allowing bankruptcy will release Detroit from the grip of creditors and move it toward recovery....
48 2013-12-03 Two years ago, Egan-Jones criticized the investment bank Jefferies on CNBC, Fox Business Network and Bloomberg Television....
49 2013-12-03 Always inquisitive and lively, the deputy business editor David Gillen makes sense of the world’s business, tackling complicated issues from a common-sense perspective.
50 2013-12-03 Recruiting is mostly about sales, one owner said, which is why the success of an office depends on the sales abilities of its recruiters....
51 2013-12-03 The audacious British artist, who has a solo show opening tomorrow at the Museum of Contemporary Art North Miami, has adopted South Florida as a home away from home. Here, she shares a few favorite destinations....
52 2013-12-03 Federal regulators have reached a tentative agreement to vote next week on the new rule, overcoming internal squabbling and an onslaught of Wall Street lobbying....
53 2013-12-03 Of those who applied and were found eligible for the Medicaid or CHIP, slightly more than half were in states that have decided to expand Medicaid, as permitted under the Affordable Care Act, while 48 percent were in states that have not expanded ...
54 2013-12-03 A Purple Heart recipient becomes an entrepreneur. How to use Instagram to increase sales. Will the holidays be happy?...
55 2013-12-03 The chances of abrupt jolts from climate change are mostly low in this century, but a pretty sure bet down the line. Can humans deal with that?...
56 2013-12-03 Nongovernmental organizations have pushed to get homeless people in the city registered to vote in this year’s state assembly elections....
57 2013-12-03 An Australian security expert argues that China miscalculated when it established a new air defense zone over the East China Sea, and that the United States should use the moment to establish “rules of the road” in the region to minimize the r...
58 2013-12-03 The banning of the reporter was probably in retaliation for Bloomberg News’s critical coverage of the Chinese leadership....
59 2013-12-03 “We will be keeping a watchful eye over any servicing company that engages in unfair or deceptive acts or practices toward student loan borrowers,” said Richard Cordray, the bureau’s director, in a phone call with reporters.

The rule applies to nonbank servicers that manage at least one million accounts. The bureau said it estimated that the rule gave it authority over the seven largest loan servicers, whether they handle loans made by the federal government or those made by private lenders. The bureau said it would “continue to coordinate closely” with the federal Education Department, which originates most student loans.

The seven combined manage more than 49 million borrower accounts and represent most of the activity in the student loan servicing market, the bureau said.

The bureau’s policy is not to identify the biggest nonbank servicers by name. But according to 2012 data from the Student Loan Servicing Alliance, a trade group, Sallie Mae is by far the largest.

“As the largest servicer of student loans, we have been engaged with the C.F.P.B. in the review of our lending, servicing and collections operations,” said a Sallie Mae spokeswoman, Patricia Christel.

The bureau has been collecting complaints about loan servicing from borrowers, who cited problems like having difficulty getting payments properly applied to their balance when they tried to prepay loans. Because options to refinance student loans at lower rates are limited, some borrowers choose to reduce their debt by paying down the loan early. Some borrowers complained that servicers don’t always apply the payment to their highest-interest loan first, which would save them the most money. Borrowers also complained that when loans were transferred between different servicers, they often encountered delays in having payments processed, resulting in late fees and possible damage to credit scores.

As a result of the findings, the bureau’s student loan ombudsman, Rohit Chopra, last week asked some servicers of private loans to voluntarily disclose details of their payment processing policies.

Mr. Cordray said, “Student loan borrowers should be able to rest assured that when they make a payment toward their loans, the company that takes their money is playing by the rules.”

Here are some questions to consider:

■ How can I make a complaint about my loan servicer?

You can go to the bureau’s website at www.consumerfinance.gov/students/

■ Does it matter if my loans were made by the federal government, or by a private lender?

A bureau spokeswoman said borrowers could lodge complaints with the consumer bureau, which will share the information with the Education Department “as appropriate.”

■ Where can I get more information about the new rule?

A fact sheet is available on the consumer bureau’s website.
60 2013-12-03 With very different priorities, conservatives and progressives alike are supporting a higher minimum wage, an economist writes....
61 2013-12-03 But from appearances at least, she is a changed woman. Her clingy, look-at-me clothes have been replaced by functional skirts and blouses; she wears little makeup. She sees a small circle of close friends, no longer goes to the glamorous parties she used to love, and is devoting her time to the legal case and to the baby she had via a surrogate.

“She’s doing as well as can be expected, which is not great,” a friend said.

Still, she is rich. And she is in better shape than Mr. Coulson, 45, who resigned twice over different phases of the phone hacking scandal: once as editor of The News of the World in 2007 and again as director of communications for Mr. Cameron in 2011. Cut loose by the Murdochs, shunned by his old government friends, short of cash and out of work for nearly three years, he has had to sell his expensive London house and move out of town with his wife and three children.

Mr. Coulson appears unchanged physically, and still wears the same nondescript business suits he always did. He commutes to the trial from his new home in Kent or stays overnight in modest hotels or friends’ houses. The Murdochs washed their hands of him long ago, rightly concluding that his employment at Downing Street made the hacking scandal far more combustible by implicating the government and the dominant Conservative Party.

“My feeling is that he has paid a much higher price than anyone else,” said Roy Greenslade, a professor of journalism at City University here. “He didn’t get a massive payoff, he didn’t get Murdoch standing behind him, and he had to fall on his sword twice.”

A journalist from a competing news organization said, “He has lost everything, basically.”

While Ms. Brooks’s legal expenses have been paid by her old employer, Mr. Coulson — whose bills have passed the $400,000 mark and will inevitably climb much higher — has had a different experience. Despite negotiating an exit package in which the company was obliged to pay his legal bills should he be charged in connection with his work as editor, Mr. Coulson has had to take the company to court to obtain the payments.

Even though it lost the case, the company is still paying only grudgingly, Mr. Coulson’s friends say.

“To this day, they’re making it supremely difficult for him to get his bills paid,” said an acquaintance of Mr. Coulson’s who, like others interviewed for this article, spoke anonymously to comment on a pending case. “They’re going through his bills with a fine-tooth comb, and the big problem is that they’re delaying payments. He has a big team, and it makes life very difficult.”

Both Mr. Coulson and Ms. Brooks are likely to have to pay back at least some of the money to the company if they are found guilty. (Both have pleaded not guilty to the hacking charges.)

The trial is expected to run for several more months. It is now in its second month, and the prosecution is still presenting its arguments. This is a complicated undertaking, in part because of the multiple defendants and multiple charges relating to phone hacking, computer hacking, paying off public officials and perverting the course of justice.

In addition to Mr. Coulson and Ms. Brooks, there are six other defendants, among them Charlie Brooks, Ms. Brooks’s husband, who has been accused of conspiring with her to destroy evidence.

More trials are expected to follow. What began as an investigation into the illegal interception of voice mail messages has grown into a sprawling octopus of a case, with law enforcement strands stretching in many directions and involving more than 160 police officers and staff members; at least 1,000 likely victims from politics, sports, show business and the media; and millions of emails and other documents.

It is far too early to say how the case will end; the defendants’ lawyers have not started presenting their arguments. But on the surface, at least, Mr. Coulson looks to be in a worse position than Ms. Brooks. While prosecutors have already introduced email and voice mail messages they say directly link Mr. Coulson to phone hacking, they have not yet presented similar evidence in the case of Ms. Brooks.

She and her husband seem more vulnerable to the charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The prosecution contends that they illegally removed files from the office and tried to discard a laptop that potentially contained evidence in the case.

As for Mr. Coulson, even when this case is finished, his woes will not be over. Whether or not he is convicted, he faces a second trial in Scotland, which has a different legal system from England’s and a reputation for being tough on English journalists. He stands accused there of committing perjury while testifying in the trial of a Scottish politician who, among other things, claimed his phone had been hacked.

In that trial, Mr. Coulson repeatedly declared that there was no phone hacking going on at The News of the World.
62 2013-12-03 The oil accords with Turkey, potentially worth billions of dollars, are part of a broader effort by Iraqi Kurds in recent years to cut their own energy deals — including exploration agreements with foreign companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Gazprom — that sidelined the central government. The Kurds, and the Turks, say they will pay Baghdad its fair share. But officials in the capital have long claimed such arrangements are illegal.

The controversy is in part the unfinished business of the American occupation of Iraq. The failure of the Iraqi government to pass a national oil law, one of the benchmarks set by President George W. Bush when he announced the United States troop “surge” in 2007, has left Baghdad and Erbil, the Kurdish capital, in a perpetual feud over how to divide profits and who has the authority to make agreements with international oil companies.

Qasim Mishkhati, a Kurdish member of Parliament’s oil and gas committee, insisted that the wealth from the deals would be shared with the rest of Iraq, and that it was the responsibility of the regional government in the north to find international markets for its oil resources. “Kurdistan is working to increase the national income so that all Iraqis can enjoy better services and more wealth,” he said.

Although the mechanism for such payments has not been worked out, the Turks and the Kurds have indicated that they would adhere to the existing proportions for the division of national revenue, meaning Baghdad would receive 83 percent of the net profit and the Kurds would keep 17 percent.

But the alarm in Baghdad and Washington has grown with these oil deals, which appear to be part of a slow, long-term strategy by the Iraqi Kurds to pursue a path of increasing autonomy that experts say has one endgame: an independent Kurdish state.

Tens of millions of Kurds live in Iraq, Syria, Turkey and Iran, and they have long held ambitions for independence that for decades were thwarted. Now, amid the turmoil of the Middle East, Kurdish leaders are taking decisive steps to advance that dream, not just in Iraq, but also in Syria, where Kurdish factions recently declared an autonomous administration in the northeast.

The Iraqi Kurds run their own autonomous and relatively prosperous region in northern Iraq, control their own ports of entry, field their own army and intelligence service and conduct their own foreign policy. The Kurdish region also has separate visa rules, so an American, for instance, might wait weeks or months to secure a visa to Baghdad, but could buy one at the airport in Erbil. The region has also served as a safe haven for Sunni officials looking to escape the reach of the Shiite-led government, including former Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi, accused in 2011 of terrorism.

But the oil deals also highlight the drastic reshaping of regional alliances in the past few years. In 2003 Turkey, worried that the American invasion of Iraq would promote Kurdish independence, forbade American troops to use its territory to enter Iraq.

But now Turkey is in the process of making peace with its own Kurds, who have waged a three-decade insurgency against the Turkish state with bases in Iraq. In a region where Turkey has few allies these days, the Iraqi Kurds have become close partners.

For Turkey, though, the energy deals with Iraqi Kurdistan, which include oil and natural gas, underscore a persistent national challenge to secure reliable supplies of energy for its economy. Turkey boasts the Middle East’s largest economy but has few domestic energy sources. It has historically relied on two countries for the bulk of its energy — Russia and Iran — and a national priority for Turkey has been to diversify its sources of oil and gas.

The only place in the world where demand for energy is growing faster than Turkey is in China, and the only people who pay more for gasoline at the pump than Turks are Norwegians. In Turkey it can cost more than $120 to fill the tank of a compact car because of high taxes the government has levied in an effort to keep demand down

While Turkey and the Iraqi Kurdish regional government have slowly expanded their relationship in the past few years, they have recently agreed to something ambitious and broader: a multibillion-dollar pact that includes the building of the second pipeline, according to press reports and oil executives involved in the negotiations.

That deal comes as Turkish and Iraqi government officials have recently sought to mend ties that had soured in recent years, an effort that included a visit to Baghdad on Sunday by Turkey’s energy minister, who indicated Turkey would try to win Baghdad’s support for the deals with the Kurds. Turkey had supported the Sunni Muslim opposition in Iraq, angering the Shiite leadership that dominates the government in Baghdad.

“There has been a rapprochement between Ankara and Baghdad, but what I see in the energy policy of Turkey relating to Kurdistan still seems to be a fly in the ointment for the Ministry of Oil in Baghdad,” said Badr H. Jafar, the chairman of the Pearl Petroleum consortium, the largest private oil and gas investor in Iraqi Kurdistan.

The recent steps taken to improve the relationship between Turkey and Iraq — a reconciliation pushed by the Americans — now seem to be the best bet, analysts said, to achieve an agreement on an elusive national oil law to divide the country’s vast petroleum profits.

The Iraqi Kurdish leadership “is positioning itself for greater autonomy in negotiations with Baghdad, but as relations between Ankara and Baghdad continue to warm it is inconceivable that the K.R.G. will be allowed to export to Turkey without Baghdad’s consent,” said David L. Goldwyn, the State Department’s coordinator for international energy affairs during the first term of the Obama administration, referring to the initials for the Kurdistan Regional Government in Iraq.

Turkey, though, has said it will ensure that the government in Baghdad will be paid for any oil it imports from Kurdistan in accordance with Iraq’s revenue-sharing arrangement.

“If done correctly, these deals have the potential to generate huge revenues for Iraq, distributed by the Iraqi government in accordance with the Iraqi Constitution and for the ultimate benefit of the Iraqi people, including of course, the Kurdish region,” Mr. Jafar said.
63 2013-12-03 SAN FRANCISCO — Apple is not known for being social — rather, it is known for being buttoned up about everything it does. But on Monday, the company confirmed that it had bought Topsy Labs, a research company that could help Apple better understand what people are talking about on social media networks like Twitter.

Topsy focuses on analyzing the half a billion messages sent over Twitter every day. The company has indexed every tweet ever sent and has made them searchable, much like Google does for the web. The company also helps clients analyze tweets for various business trends.

While Apple has built some of its software to work with Twitter’s service, it remained unclear why a hardware maker like Apple would be interested in Topsy. Apple was not giving any clues.

“Apple buys smaller technology companies from time to time, and we generally do not discuss our purpose or plans,” said Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman. She did not disclose how much Apple paid for Topsy.

Apple has made a fortune making hardware, but it has botched some online services in the past, like Ping, Apple’s short-lived social network for finding music.

Ross Rubin, an independent analyst for Reticle Research, said Apple could use Topsy’s data analysis to better understand popular trends on social media and make smarter recommendations for things like finding apps, music and movies to buy, or perhaps finding content to watch with a future TV service.
64 2013-12-03 Hospital pricing is often convoluted, and hospital charges represent about a third of the total United States health care bill....
65 2013-12-03 Besides noting the art’s use of sculpture and sound, Ms. Haines said it was too early to provide specifics on the works. But she did describe some themes that are likely to emerge. “I think it’s a really rich site that allows him to address the most basic human rights, like freedom of expression and its importance in building a culture,” she said. “We’re also hoping to address parallels between forms of imprisonment and governments that use restrictions in communications to control people.”

Mr. Ai said that he is “not thinking about work that will directly connect to my own detention,” as he was recently for a set of six dioramas shown in a church in Venice. (Those sculptural tableaus recreated painfully cramped scenes from his own detainment, like his being interrogated or showering, all under the watch of two guards.)

The plan is to install some artworks in the building that served as a maximum-security penitentiary from 1934 to 1963. Other works are intended for an adjacent laundry building, where inmates like Al Capone were once put to work.

Ms. Haines said she has long been interested in the multilayered history of Alcatraz — as federal prison, a military prison before that, and later as a site of American Indian protests. She said she first mentioned the place to Mr. Ai during a visit two years ago to his studio on the outskirts of Beijing.

“He was talking about how interested he was in reaching a broad audience, beyond the art world,” she said by telephone. “It was just four months after his release from incarceration, and this thought popped into my mind: ‘What if I brought you a prison?’ ”

After the artist expressed interest, Ms. Haines worked to gain support from the National Park Service, which oversees the island, and the Golden Gate National Parks Conservancy, which provides funding and programming for it.

Frank Dean, a National Park Service superintendent for the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, said there was serious interest in Mr. Ai’s work from the start but also practical issues his group had to review before issuing approval. The island, which measures only 22 acres, receives 1.5 million visitors annually — up to 5,000 daily during peak season.

“We couldn’t do something like this lightly, because the island is so popular — and small,” Mr. Dean said. “There are also logistical challenges: The island is not connected to the electrical grid, and we have to bring water out on the barge.”

He described a careful selection process for determining the particular sites for artwork, with an eye to not disturbing the architecture, the natural seabird habitat or the standard flow of visitors.

Then there were political concerns. Given the artist’s embattled history with the Chinese government, Mr. Dean said his group didn’t want to give its go-ahead until it heard from the State Department.

“If this were a standard educational exhibition,” he said, “we wouldn’t need Department of State clearance, but considering the situation — that the artist remains under a sort of house arrest — let’s just say we wanted to make sure that nobody was surprised in Washington.”

Mr. Dean said that clearance came from the State Department in the form of an email from a public diplomacy coordinator the day before Thanksgiving.

The government is not providing any financial support for the project. Rather, For-Site is in the process of raising funds through private donors and foundations and possibly corporations, as it has in the past for works in San Francisco by the artist Andy Goldsworthy and a suite of projects relating to the 75th anniversary of the Golden Gate Bridge.

The foundation declined to disclose its budget for “Ai Weiwei on Alcatraz,” as the show is to be called. It has confirmed, however, that the artist is not receiving any commission and that access to the exhibition will be free to anyone who purchases a regular Alcatraz tour ticket (now $30, including ferry rides).

Alcatraz tickets generally go on sale three months in advance. It is not yet clear whether the tickets for the time period of Mr. Ai’s show, Sept. 27, 2014, through April 26, 2015, would be made available any earlier than usual.

In the meantime, Ms. Haines is busy sending Mr. Ai resources on Alcatraz Island, the history and the myth. In October, she took him a stack of books and DVDs, including such classics as “Birdman of Alcatraz” and “Escape From Alcatraz.”

Mr. Ai may not be able to escape from China to visit the prison — at least not before the show opens.“I would love to regain my rights to travel before that,” he said, “but I have no idea if it’s possible.”
66 2013-12-03 GENEVA — The top United Nations human rights official linked President Bashar al-Assad of Syria to war crimes and crimes against humanity for the first time on Monday, citing evidence collected by her panel of investigators over the course of the 33-month-old conflict in that country.

The four-member panel investigating human rights offenses in Syria has produced “massive evidence” of the commission of war crimes and crimes against humanity, the official, Navi Pillay, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, told reporters here in Geneva. She went on: “They point to the fact that the evidence indicates responsibility at the highest level of government, including the head of state.”

The panel, which has not been allowed to enter Syria, has gathered information from Syrian refugees and other sources. The panel has compiled lists of names of individuals, military units and intelligence agencies implicated in the human rights abuses committed on a wide scale since the conflict began in March 2011, with a view to ensuring that those responsible are eventually brought to justice.

As long ago as February 2012, the panel found “reasonable grounds to believe that particular individuals, including commanding officers, and officials at the highest levels of government bear responsibility for war crimes and gross human rights violations.” The panel also found Syrian opposition groups implicated in war crimes and crimes against humanity, although on a lesser scale.

But panel members, led by Paulo Pinheiro, a Brazilian rights expert, and including Carla Del Ponte, the former war crimes tribunal prosecutor, have studiously avoided going further in identifying either the individuals or even the number of names on their lists.
67 2013-12-03 One of the biggest reasons we misbehave is that we react solely to emotion instead of considering the facts. But the opposite is true, too. When we consider only the facts and don’t take the time to understand our emotions, it can lead to regret and make it difficult to behave.

In this instance, my decision takes into account both the facts (I won’t save as much on taxes) and the emotion (but I’ll have the money available for my goal). Yes, it’s not the optimal spreadsheet answer, but I feel as if it’s the right decision for me.

This is a perfect example of what my friend Tim Maurer has said about personal finance. It’s more personal than it is finance. There are certainly other examples of this push and pull between the spreadsheet and what we feel:

To save money, one of the first things budget experts recommend cutting out is that morning cup of coffee. Of course we can save money by making our own coffee, but what if that perfect cup of coffee made by our favorite barista just makes us feel better? What’s that worth to us?

It’s time for a new car, and the spreadsheet shows that buying a cheaper model makes more sense. But we’ve really been saving to buy our dream car. We have the money to afford the dream, but the spreadsheet says to save that money instead. The numbers may point to economy, but can we handle the emotion of passing on our dream?

If we look only at the numbers, it often doesn’t make sense to be a stay-at-home parent. There may even be a financial cost for that decision. But what’s the emotional cost if we’ve decided there’s huge value in being with our children every day?

To be clear, I’m not recommending that we don’t consider the facts in these decisions, but too often we skip over the question of whether we can handle a financial decision emotionally. It’s no wonder that it’s so hard to behave if we pretend that emotion has nothing to do with our decisions. We need to consider our financial decisions through both the filter of numbers and emotions.

For instance, why pretend that we don’t have mixed emotions about saving money? Of course it makes sense to systematically add money to our savings account, but we also wonder about the other things we could do with that money. Recognizing that emotion and putting it in context can help us do a better job of sticking with our plan instead of only looking at a row of numbers on a spreadsheet.

Perhaps I’m in the minority, but I think spreadsheet answers are only the starting point for most of us. They give us a baseline and a way to get closer to our goals, and sometimes we’ll be comfortable with the spreadsheet answer. But when it doesn’t feel right, don’t panic.

Take the time to walk through why another option feels like a better choice and understand the trade-offs of that choice. We can even add a line item to our spreadsheet with the value we place on our option. It can help add some perspective even though that number is based on how we feel.

Sometimes, facts will trump our emotions, and we’ll go with the optimal spreadsheet answer. But sometimes, emotion will win in our financial decisions, and if we understand why, it becomes a decision we can handle without regret.
68 2013-12-03 Until now, all the actions have addressed the issue of animal welfare, not animal rights. But Mr. Wise filed papers on Monday in State Supreme Court in Fulton County, N.Y., demanding that courts in New York recognize Tommy as a legal person, with a right to liberty, but one that has its limits.

Tommy, the group says, “is being held captive in a cage in a shed at a used-trailer lot.”

The petition does not ask the court to set Tommy free to roam Gloversville, or to send him back to Africa after a life in captivity. It asks the court to remove him from his owners and place him in a sanctuary.

The group said it intended to file suit later this week on behalf of three more chimps in New York, also demanding their freedom. Two of the chimpanzees are believed to be owned by the New Iberia Research Center, at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, but are housed at Stony Brook University for a study of locomotion. The fourth, according to the rights project, is owned by Carmen Presti of Niagara Falls, who runs the Primate Sanctuary, a nonprofit organization that has monkeys and the one chimpanzee.

Patrick C. Lavery, the owner of Circle L Trailer Sales in Gloversville, where Tommy lives, said he heard about the petition from reporters’ telephone calls. He said from his home in Florida that he had complied with all state and federal regulations, that Tommy had a spacious cage “with tons of toys,” and that he had been trying to place him in sanctuaries, but that they had no room. He said he had rescued the chimp from his previous home, where he was badly treated.

“People ought to use common sense,” he said. Of the Nonhuman Rights Project, a group he was not aware of, he said, “If they were to see where this chimp lived for the first 30 years of his life, they would jump up and down for joy about where he is now.”

The other people who are named in the petitions being filed this week did not immediately comment.

The use of habeas corpus actions is a time-honored legal strategy for addressing unlawful imprisonment of human beings. Mr. Wise argues in a 70-plus-page memo rich with legal, scientific and philosophical references that being human is not essential to having rights. He argues that captive chimps are, in fact, enslaved, and that the same principles apply to them as to humans who were enslaved.

“This petition asks this court to issue a writ recognizing that Tommy is not a legal thing to be possessed by respondents, but rather is a cognitively complex autonomous legal person with the fundamental legal right not to be imprisoned,” the court filing says.

Mr. Wise is not asking the courts to declare the chimps equivalent to human beings, any more than a corporation, also considered a legal person, is a human being. Because the rights group has set up a trust for all four chimps, they are already legal persons under New York law, he argues.

He also marshals evidence from various scientists that a chimpanzee has qualities, including awareness of self, past and future, that should provide it with a right to bodily liberty.

The request is not for the chimps to be set completely free, but to be moved to one of the eight sanctuaries in the North American Primate Sanctuary Alliance.

David S. Favre, a professor at Michigan State University College of Law, who teaches animal law but is not associated with the rights project or the legal action, said Mr. Wise’s arguments are “a serious legal strategy,” though one that had not been tried before in the United States. “It is unique,” Mr. Favre said. He added, however, that he would not comment on its chances of success.

Laurence H. Tribe, a professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email that in seeking rights for nonhuman animals, “The classic writ of habeas corpus is as good a place to begin as any.”

Though it has been used only on humans, he said, “that need not be decisive if one remembers that the central point of the writ is to impose the restraints of law on those who wield power in the people’s name.”

Enormous changes have occurred worldwide in how chimps are viewed and treated. Only the United States and Gabon allow biomedical experiments on the animals, and the United States is working to phase them out. But the human responsibility to lessen activities that are seen as cruel is far different from conferring chimps with rights under the law — a move that would, among other things, distinguish them from other animals.

Still, the legal action is not unprecedented. Chimps were granted certain legal rights by the Spanish Parliament in 2008, and sporadic efforts in other countries, like India, have had some successes.
69 2013-12-03 This is an adaptation of a sauce that Yotam Ottolenghi serves with leek fritters. It is wonderful with mild fish like cod. I like the cool sauce with the hot fish.

2 cups cilantro leaves (some stems are okay – you don’t have to pick off each leaf the way you do with parsley)

1. To make the sauce, coarsely chop the cilantro and the parsley leaves. In a mortar and pestle, mash the garlic with a pinch of salt. Place the cilantro and parsley in a food processor fitted with the steel blade and process until finely chopped. Add the garlic, lemon juice, olive oil, about 1/2 teaspoon salt (or to taste), and the yogurt and process until the mixture is smooth and green. Transfer to a bowl.

2. Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. Line a sheet pan with foil and oil the foil. Season the fish fillets with salt and pepper and lay on the foil. Place a pan of just boiled water on the floor of your oven and place the baking sheet with the fish in the oven on the middle rack. Bake 10 to 20 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fillets, until the fish is opaque on the surface and you can pull it apart with a fork.

3. Remove the fish from the oven, transfer to plates or a platter, and spoon on the sauce. Garnish with lemon wedges, and serve.
70 2013-12-03 Regarding “Old Poland, new nationalism” (Nov. 20): Artur Domoslawski’s attack on the Independence Day marchers was an excuse to bash the followers of the “Smolensk religion” — Poles who suspect that the crash that killed President Lech Kaczynski in 2010 was more than an accident. His dismissive tone, however, cannot obscure the fact that Vladimir Putin hated Mr. Kaczynski for his policy of rallying the former “captive nations” of Central and Eastern Europe. Mr. Domoslawski also fails to provide evidence to support his assertion that “the assassination theory has collapsed like a house of cards, as its pseudo-experts have been exposed as frauds or fools.”

As a retired United Nations peacekeeper who served with the U.N. Mission to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (now known as Monusco, formerly Monuc) until 2012, I was astonished by the historical amnesia in Andrew M. Mwenda’s opinion article “Don’t Save the Congo” (Nov. 12).

Mr. Mwenda has every right to be critical of the Congolese authorities, but surely he is aware that the U.N. peacekeeping mission began in 1999 as a response to what some call Africa’s First World War, a conflict fought on Congolese soil involving some seven African nations, with Uganda as a very active participant. And surely Mr. Mwenda knows that, after getting the foreign armies to leave, Monusco has been struggling to get a number of foreign armed groups to leave as well. Finally, Mr. Mwenda must also be aware of the 2012 U.N. Group of Experts Report, which clearly states that the recently defeated M23 rebels were under “command and control” of Rwanda, with support from Uganda.

With the capitulation of M23, there is a real chance for a very welcome peace in the Great Lakes region. But Mr. Mwenda advocates having the international community “allow the belligerents to fight until one side secures a decisive military victory.” He seems to forget that that option has already been tested — at a cost of an estimated 5 million lives.

Regarding the use of cellphones on planes: You can’t be serious! Unfortunately, we have shown our colors regarding civil behavior relating to the use of cellphones — and those colors are not pretty.

We get on our cellphones and no one else in the world exists, except ourselves. Our particular business is very important and the rest of the people in our immediate vicinity be damned. Since there are no phone booths on airplanes and we as a species have shown ourselves to be incapable of taking other people into consideration when we choose to get our verbal business done, we, once again, need to be saved from ourselves.

I have little faith in the airline industry not pandering to the lowest of our trending cultural behaviors, but it would be refreshing if someone took a more measured view of the noisy scene on an airplane.
71 2013-12-03 Most of the Bangkok area, which has a population of about 10 million, remained calm on Monday, and a vast majority of businesses here in the capital were open for most of the day, including shopping malls that had shut their doors as a precaution on Sunday. Yet in areas targeted by protesters — particularly those around the prime minister’s office and the metropolitan police headquarters — clashes were intense.

Bloodied demonstrators, many of whom threw stones at police officers, were carried away from those areas with injuries from rubber bullets apparently fired by the police. Two men had bullet wounds, doctors at a Bangkok hospital said. By late evening, as two trucks burned near the prime minister’s office, the government said 98 people had been injured on Monday.

Protesters have set the ambitious — and, according to many analysts, unachievable — goal of ridding the country of the Shinawatras, the country’s most influential political family. Led by Thaksin Shinawatra, who was deposed as prime minister in a military coup in 2006 and now lives in exile, the family has spearheaded one of the most popular political movements in modern Thai history, winning every national election since 2001.

Mr. Thaksin fled overseas in 2008, just before being convicted of abuse of power in a highly politicized trial. The current prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, who is Mr. Thaksin’s sister, sounded both firm and conciliatory on Monday. “The government is leaving open every option for discussion,” Ms. Yingluck said. But she rejected protesters’ demands for a “people’s council” of unelected representatives to replace the country’s parliamentary democracy.

The protesters’ proposal has been ridiculed by academics and openly questioned by some members of the opposition Democrat Party, who are allied with the protesters.

Ms. Yingluck was more diplomatic in rejecting the idea. “At this point, we don’t see how we can make it happen under this Constitution,” she said.

The European Union’s office in Thailand issued a statement late  Monday saying it was “very concerned to see the occupation of public office buildings, television broadcasting stations and intimidation of the media.”

The police said they would allow peaceful demonstrations to continue, including in the capital’s historic district, where tens of thousands of protesters have gathered for the past week. Crowds there have swollen in the evenings to create a carnival-like atmosphere, with demonstrators offering foot massages and free food. Protesters who occupied the Finance Ministry and a large government complex last week announced over the weekend that they would seize more government buildings.

Demonstrators spent Sunday and Monday dismantling razor wire and pushing over dozens of concrete barriers erected by the police to protect the prime minister’s office.

“I would like to urge your cooperation in not attempting to invade the area behind the barriers,” Lt. Col. Anchulee Thirawongpaisal of the police said Monday in a televised news briefing. Journalists using miniature drones mounted with cameras — an innovation not widely used in the many previous bouts of unrest in Thailand — circulated videos of the battles between a thin line of riot police officers protecting the prime minister’s office and protesters attacking the barricades.

Protests reached a climax over the weekend when a group of students allied with the antigovernment demonstrators clashed with the government supporters known as red shirts.

Shootings involving the two groups left at least three people dead and dozens wounded. As of late Monday, the government reported that the total number of people injured since Friday had risen to 201.

The demonstrators are divided into disparate factions. Some are allied with the Democrat Party, the oldest political party in Thailand, which broke with tradition this year and joined street protests. Others come from an ascetic Buddhist sect, vocational schools and an ultramonarchist grouping known as the yellow shirts.

The protests were set off by the government’s effort to push through an amnesty that would have broadly applied to any politics-related cases since 2004. Critics said it would help ease Mr. Thaksin’s return to Thailand by wiping clean pending corruption cases against him and voiding his conviction. The government withdrew the amnesty bill last month after a public outcry, but Mr. Suthep, the protest leader, expanded protesters’ demands to include the elimination of what they call the “Thaksin regime.”
72 2013-12-03 HONG KONG — Chinese investors on Monday gave a frosty reception to the country’s plans to end a yearlong ban on new stock offerings, sending some domestic markets down sharply.

China’s securities regulator announced on Saturday a package of overhauls to the domestic market for initial public offerings that could see new share sales resume as early as January, with a first batch of about 50 companies ready for listings.

The new measures, which came after a major meeting of the Communist Party leadership last month that concluded with promises of sweeping financial overhauls, would unfreeze an I.P.O. market that has not seen a new listing since October 2012.

The moratorium on share sales has created a tremendous backlog of Chinese companies seeking to tap investors for financing. As of Friday, 763 companies were waiting to list on domestic markets — with some of them on hold for several years — according to figures from the China Securities Regulatory Commission.

An additional 145 companies have withdrawn their listing applications during the past year. Some of those companies that gave up opted instead for a Hong Kong listing, like the Bank of Chongqing, which raised more than $500 million in a Hong Kong I.P.O. in October.
73 2013-12-04 A visit to the designing brothers Simon and Nikolai Haas as they gear up for Art Basel Miami Beach.
74 2013-12-04 Wednesday’s highlights from around the web include the latest in what appears to be a brewing rivalry between Facebook and Snapchat. Plus, what does Imgur, one of the most visited sites online, want to be when it grows up?...
75 2013-12-04 “Facing Our Truth: 10-Minute Plays on Trayvon, Race and Privilege” will be performed at the City University of New York Graduate Center....
76 2013-12-04 The move is a response to an initiative led by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission’s chairman, Gary Gensler, to increase oversight of derivatives trading in markets like London and Hong Kong....
77 2013-12-04 Carl C. Icahn told Time magazine that he had filed a “precatory proposal” with Apple to strengthen his push for the company to increase its stock buyback program....
78 2013-12-04 The principal of Trumbull High School in Trumbull, Conn., canceled a planned drama-club production of the Pulitzer Prize-winning musical....
79 2013-12-04 If you happen to be in Miami for Art Basel or Design Miami, there are quite a few other art- and design-related attractions you should make time for....
80 2013-12-04 The company plans to introduce a slew of new products and services to its cloud computing offerings in 2014....
81 2013-12-04 The lenient treatment of Barclays and UBS, the first banks to settle with financial agencies in the Libor case, highlights the risks in delaying settlements....
82 2013-12-04 From a spare bedroom strewn with computer monitors and cables in her New Orleans home, Kellie Stevens combs through thousands of lines of code a week searching for clues to the latest affiliate marketing scams....
83 2013-12-04 Small-business borrowing and hiring are both up. Walmart’s hottest item. What are the most ridiculous things your employees have tried to expense?...
84 2013-12-04 Based on the evidence presented in two new picture books, animals have a big advantage over humans when it comes to international travel. With no need for passports, reservations, foreign currency or fanny packs, they simply flit from place to place, enjoying the best views without ever having to wait in line.

In “City Cat,” by Kate Banks, with illustrations by Lauren Castillo, an inquisitive pet makes her way through eight cities in six countries, hitching rides in cars, trucks, trains and boats as she keeps pace with a young family traveling the same route from their home in Rome to the great cities of Spain, France, Germany, Holland and England.

Though there are hints — in the text and in the pictures — to help readers figure out which city the cat is exploring, the endpaper maps and an appendix naming and describing each location will be a necessary aid for all but the most experienced tourists. Charmingly, Banks includes the word for “cat” in each country’s language and mentions local cat facts when pertinent: “The Catboat, a houseboat in Amsterdam’s canal belt, is a sanctuary for stray cats”; “The city of Venice has a big cat, the winged Lion of Saint Mark, as its mascot.”

Banks’s verse narrative is as elegant and lithe as her subject, full of poetic descriptions and playful, sophisticated vocabulary.

“City cat, strutting down the boulevards,

taking in the city sights.

The skyline, pulsing, bathed in light.

An obelisk, a graceful arch,

a gilded bridge, a sprawling park.”
85 2013-12-04 The European Union fined a group of global financial institutions a combined 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion) on Wednesday to settle charges that they colluded to fix benchmark interest rates....
86 2013-12-04 At least three World Cup stadiums in Brazil will not be finished by the end of December as FIFA requested. The stadiums in São Paulo, Curitiba and Cuiabá are unable to meet the deadline because of construction delays. At the site in São Paulo, a crane collapse last week killed two workers and damaged part of the stadium.

■ Hoffenheim stunned Schalke, 3-1, to reach the quarterfinals of the German Cup, and the three-time champion Borussia Dortmund eased to a 2-0 win over third-tier Saarbrücken.
87 2013-12-04 The income decay among the lowest-paid workers does not reflect a decline in the value they add, and a moderate increase in the minimum wage would improve their lot without violating economic taboos, an economist writes....
88 2013-12-04 If you are walking to improve your health, it’s time to stop strolling and pick up the pace, Gretchen Reynolds reports in this week’s Phys Ed column....
89 2013-12-04 The District of Columbia Council gave preliminary approval on Tuesday to an increase in the district’s minimum wage to $11.50 an hour, one of the nation’s highest. The 13-member Council voted unanimously on Tuesday to advance the bill. It will have to clear one more vote before going to Mayor Vincent C. Gray’s desk. Mr. Gray, a Democrat, supports raising the minimum wage from its current $8.25 to $10 an hour, but not higher. He said Tuesday that he wants to continue working with the Council to find a consensus.
90 2013-12-04 A scientific panel’s report rules out some doomsday notions but says dire climatic surprises seem inevitable....
91 2013-12-04 As a millennial born in 1991 who is serving a yearlong global health fellowship in rural Haiti, I read the article with bewilderment and fascination. What makes my generation so different from all prior generations and those still to come? Doesn’t each generation struggle with balancing meaning and happiness, work and play, selfish interests and communal obligations?

Compromises, false starts, mistakes and chased dreams are nothing new. We may move with our heads half-buried in our texts and smartphones, but we are all more alike than different.

Relax, parents; we’ll turn out O.K. I’d even wager that millennials won’t be the last generation grappling with the question of life’s meaning.

Millennials may have a higher calling, but some people may not have the patience to deal with their impatience.

Millennials, also known as Generation Y, live in an amped-up, mobile and social-media-heavy world. They’re very smart, tech savvy, highly collaborative and in some ways transparent. But many often don’t want help. Offer it, and you’d better “wow” them in two or three seconds or get tuned out. Presenting an idea or help with subtlety sometimes works.
92 2013-12-04 The venerable seafood restaurant in Grand Central Terminal has crossed the river to give Brooklynites a taste of oyster stew, lobster pan roast, freshly shucked bivalves and other seafood specialties in a spacious room whose décor echoes the signature arches, tilework and lights of the original. This is one of several franchises, but the first in New York City. Bruce Fox, who is head of franchising, and Jonathan Young, who was a manager at the Grand Central restaurant, own the Brooklyn edition. The chef is Justin Ernsberger, who plans to vary the menu to feature many catches of the day. The Brooklyn location also has a seafood market with a counter for slurping oysters on the spot. The staff will provide recipes from the restaurant and offer cooking tips to shoppers. (Opens Dec. 11): 256 Fifth Avenue (Carroll Street), Park Slope, Brooklyn; 347-294-0596; oysterbarbrooklyn.com.

DOVER Joe Ogrodnek and Walker Stern have opened this capacious sibling to Battersby, their tiny destination restaurant nearby. “We have a bigger kitchen here, so we have expanded the menu and the food can be more elegant,” Mr. Ogrodnek said. The chef is Evyatar Lapidot: 412 Court Street (First Place), Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn; 347-987-3545; doverbrooklyn.com.

GRINDHAUS Erin Norris has been working on this restaurant (all of 20 seats) for some five years. Hurricane Sandy was a big setback. Two chefs, Aaron Taber and Leon Douglas, make breads and pastas along with beef tartare with bone marrow and trout roe, and pasta with lamb neck ragù. (Thursday): 275 Van Brunt Street (Pioneer Street), Red Hook, Brooklyn; 718-909-2881; grindhausnyc.com.

MOZZARELLA & VINO Having moved Il Gattopardo down the block, Gianfranco and Paula Bolla Sorrentino have given the original space more informality with bare dark-wood tables and a sleek bar. The star is buffalo mozzarella imported from Italy, on panini, in fried snacks like arancini and in many appetizers: 33 West 54th Street, 646-692-8894, mozzarellaevino.com.

DYLAN PRIME This TriBeCa steak house suffered a financial downturn and closed last April. It is back, with a menu that is wide-ranging and seasonal rather than mostly slabs of beef: 62 Laight Street (Greenwich Street), 212-334-4783, dylanprime.com.

FATTY ‘CUE in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, has become Fatty Lab, for private parties and recipe development: fattycue.com
93 2013-12-04 Louis C. K. is extending his association with the FX network, signing a production deal that will create new shows for the networks under the FX umbrella.

Mr. C. K., now considered among the top stand-up comedians in the country, has a much-honored comedy series, “Louie,” on FX, though the series has been on hiatus since September 2012. It is scheduled to return next May.

That show was created under a unique deal that allowed Mr. C. K. complete creative control. Beyond being the star, he wrote and directed every episode, and edited many of them. The new deal is similarly structured to allow him to develop shows and then decide whether he will serve as a writer or director. He will be an executive producer on all shows he develops.

His production partner on “Louie,” Blair Breard, will also be a partner in the new deal, under Mr. C. K.'s production company, Pig Newton.
94 2013-12-04 Myanmar was for years a country by, of and for the military. In 2011, the military junta officially dissolved itself, opening the way for a democratic transition under the government of President Thein Sein, a former general. A central policy of the regime is to attract foreign investment into the impoverished country, whose national product amounts to $2 to $3 a day per person for a population of more than 60 million. At issue now is whether Myanmar’s transition will be more than a ploy to draw in foreign money to fatten the military.

The military junta had run an isolationist foreign policy and Soviet-style economic planning with disastrous consequences. In the late 1990s, the United States, Europe, Japan and others imposed economic sanctions on Myanmar for its gross violation of human rights. The sanctions eventually led to the dissolution of the military junta, accompanied by the promise of press and other freedoms, as well as the release of political prisoners, notably Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the pro-democracy activist and 1991 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.

Since then, Myanmar has established substantially more open foreign investment laws. The Asian Development Bank opened an office there last year. And foreign investors, including many garment manufacturers, have been lured by very low labor costs to set up shop. Still, a quarter of government expenditure goes to the military, and expenditures for education and health are negligible. Most of the local partners that foreign investors team up with are companies run by the military. And the military still appoints a quarter of the members of Parliament.

Basic infrastructure — like roads, airports and the electricity grid — is woefully inadequate, and the military is clearly expecting foreign investments. But as they consider such investments, the primary investor states — the United States, Europe, Japan — must make sure that they are not merely enabling a transition from a military dictatorship to military-run crony capitalism.
95 2013-12-04 Ms. Marton has alerted us to the real danger that Bosnia may revert to chaos. But to address the major underlying problems of postwar Bosnia we must first understand their causes. The chief cause is the dysfunctional state created by the Dayton Accords, which has allowed the nationalists to set the agenda. While Dayton ended violent ethnic cleansing, it tragically legitimatized its results: Witness the inclusion of Srebrenica within the borders of Republika Srpska.

I agree with Ms. Marton that no treaty can serve as a nation’s permanent constitution. It is time that the European Union and the United States scrapped Dayton and helped the people of Bosnia create a functional state with a workable constitution that will heal the wounds of the war rather than deepen its scars.

While it is true that the Dayton agreement stopped the war, it did not, as Ms. Marton says, give “birth to a new country,” quite simply because that country had already existed since 1991, following a popular referendum. More importantly, as the author fails to highlight, the Dayton agreement did not produce viable institutions, capable of promoting progress through compromise. Rather, it favored brinkmanship and corruption among political leaders, who could thrive on separatist and nationalist rhetoric to perpetuate their grip on power. Furthermore, Ms. Marton correctly points out that Dayton has been “neither implemented nor updated.” One reason for this, however, is that Richard Holbrooke’s team at the time did not include a review mechanism in the agreement.

As a recipe for improving the situation in Bosnia, Ms. Marton advocates a more muscular U.S. diplomatic role. Washington, according to her analysis, has been disengaging and this has “emboldened nationalists.” She also contends that the European Union has been ineffective in stopping a dangerous “slide” toward another conflict, which could break out any moment, when the “next Milosevic lights the fuse.”

This reflects some misperceptions. First, there is no sign of U.S. disengagement — the U.S. Embassy in Sarajevo is one of the largest in Europe — though one hopes that the American strategy amounts to something more sophisticated than “Pull your socks up!” Second, it is hard to believe that a more brawny international role would solve Bosnia’s problems. It is precisely the excess of international interventionism that created a society and political class highly dependent on foreign support. More important, the risk of another Slobodan Milosevic appearing on the Balkan scene is fortunately very slim, if nonexistent. And this is very much thanks to the E.U. enlargement process, which has stabilized the countries of the western Balkans, including Serbia, now a candidate to join the Union.

Finally, Ms. Marton’s portrait of Sarajevo is as superficial as her views about Bosnian politics. Sarajevo has neither a “fine opera house” (only an old national theater) nor “one of the world’s richest libraries.” In fact, during the last conflict the historic library went up in flames, together with most of its precious content, and is still being restored, thanks to money from the European Union.

To suggest that Bosnia and Herzegovina is sliding back into a state of civil war misreads the contemporary context. Political dinosaurs many of them may be, but Bosnia’s politicians, without support from Belgrade, and Zagreb in the case of Croat nationalism, can only go so far.

Croatia is now a member of the European Union, and Serbia desperately aspires to be a member. Neither will allow Milorad Dodik, president of Republika Srpska, the Bosnian Serb entity, or his Bosnian Croat counterpart, to interfere with their national priorities.

Moreover, Bosnia and Herzegovina now has a unified army — polls suggest it is one of the country’s most respected institutions — committed to maintaining the territorial integrity of the country.

Rather than the E.U. incompetence Ms. Marton suggests, Europe is probably betting that gradual generational change, helped by a growing public impatience with Mr. Dodik’s stewardship of the economy and public purse, will allow an evolution toward Bosnia and Herzegovina’s eventual association with Europe, much as is happening in other parts of the former Yugoslavia.

Clearly, a forceful effort by the international community, led by the United States, to replace Dayton with new constitutional arrangements could certainly help. Unfortunately this has been tried before and failed, suggesting that perhaps slow but steady may be the way to go after all.

The writer was formerly president and C.E.O. of The North-South Institute, the World Bank’s special representative to the United Nations and the W.T.O., and director of the World Bank office in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
96 2013-12-04 “This once proud and prosperous city can’t pay its debts,” said the judge, who sits in United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. “It’s insolvent. It’s eligible for bankruptcy. But it also has an opportunity for a fresh start.”

Appeals were expected to be filed quickly. At least one union filed a notice of appeal on Tuesday, and other unions and pension fund representatives said they were considering contesting the outcome as well. But the ruling also allows Kevyn D. Orr, an emergency manager assigned in March by the state to oversee Detroit’s finances, to proceed swiftly with a formal plan for starting over — a proposal to pay off only a portion of its $18 billion in debts and to restore essential services, like streetlights, to tolerable levels.

Mr. Orr said he intended to file the formal blueprint, known as a “plan of adjustment,” by the first week of 2014. That plan could include efforts to spin off city departments to outside entities, to sell city assets and to reinvest in failing city services. Mr. Orr has said his goal is to bring Detroit, the nation’s largest city ever to find itself in bankruptcy, out of the court process by next fall.

“We have some heavy work ahead of us,” Mr. Orr said Tuesday.

Around Detroit, leaders sounded somber but mildly hopeful tones. Mayor-elect Mike Duggan said that Tuesday was a day no one wanted to see, but that the city now needed to move forward. And Dave Bing, the departing mayor, whose tenure in office has been consumed by the financial distress, said it was inevitable that Detroit would ultimately be found insolvent. “We are now starting from Square 1,” he said.

Municipal workers and retirees said they were shaken by the developments, and unsure what to expect. Any cut to pensions, many said, would be crushing.

“The impact of this is going to be catastrophic on families like mine on fixed income,” said Brendan Milewski, 34, a Detroit firefighter who was seriously injured in an arson in 2010 and said he received a pension of $2,800 a month from the city. “Retirees are going to be put out of house and home. They’re not going to be able to afford a car, food or medicine.”

Bruce Babiarz, a spokesman for the Detroit Police and Fire Retirement System, was blunt in his assessment. “This is one of the strongest protected pension obligations in the country here in Michigan,” he said. “If this ruling is upheld, this is the canary in a coal mine for protected pension benefits across the country. They’re gone.”

Since July, Mr. Orr, with approval from Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican, has sought bankruptcy protection, and most here agree that the city’s situation is dire: Annual operating deficits since 2008, a pattern of new borrowing to pay for old borrowing, miserably diminished city services, and the earmarking of about 38 percent of tax revenues for debt service. A city that was once the nation’s fourth largest has dropped to 18th, losing more than half of its population since 1950. The city was once home to 1.8 million people but now has closer to 700,000.

Judge Rhodes rejected arguments by unions and other opponents that the bankruptcy filing was the result of secret and unconstitutional decisions made by Mr. Snyder and others. He agreed with opponents of the bankruptcy that the city had failed to make “good faith” attempts to negotiate with creditors, but said that such negotiations had been “impracticable.”

In perhaps the most contested portion of the case, the judge made it clear that federal bankruptcy law trumps the state law when it comes to protections for public employees’ pensions, making the pensions of 23,000 retirees fair game for the city to include in its plan of adjustment. But while the judge said pensions could not be treated differently from other unsecured debt, he said the court would be careful before approving any cuts in monthly payments to retirees.

That seemed to be of little comfort to union leaders, who denounced the ruling as illegal and immoral.

Lee Saunders, the president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said the ruling, in essence, put a “bull’s eye” on the backs of municipal workers and retirees by saying pensions are vulnerable. “It sets a bad precedent for cities that are under economic distress to look at doing the easy thing: to attack the workers and attack the retirees,” Mr. Saunders said.

Experts said the decision seemed unlikely to prompt a rush of bankruptcy filings by cities, but was likely to give cities more leverage over pensions in negotiations before bankruptcies. Detroit has included $3.5 billion in unfunded pension liabilities in its larger mound of debt, and city lawyers say it can simply no longer afford its pension plan.

For his part, Mr. Orr said he had a difficult reality to present to retirees. “There’s not enough money to address the situation no matter what we do,” he said. “That is clear.” At another point, he said of the pension question, “We’re trying to be very thoughtful, measured and humane about what we have to do.”
97 2013-12-05 One of those who’s-the-murderer parlor games is a plot pillar of “Merry Christmas,” an experiment in filmmaking by Anna Condo that itself feels like a parlor game, and not a particularly entertaining one.

Ms. Condo turned 10 actors loose with character descriptions but no script and let her cameras roll. The story is set in a Pennsylvania bed-and-breakfast at Christmastime, and most of the characters are supposed to be annoying bourgeois types. They start off engaged in a role-playing murder mystery game, costumes reminiscent of a French farce included. But dribs and drabs of their real personalities surface awkwardly: One, for instance, has plans to open a restaurant.

Improvisation appears not to be a strong suit of anyone involved; you can feel the actors looking for ways to force elements of their assigned character descriptions into the proceedings. Ms. Condo generates a little energy by introducing an apparently homeless man into the goings-on, but the other actors aren’t able to make much out of the opportunity. Simply making a documentary about a real bed-and-breakfast murder mystery weekend would probably have yielded a more enlightening result.
98 2013-12-05 Jackson Rathbone, Jasper from the “Twilight” movies, has a pretty good singing voice, and he shows it off in “Live at the Foxes Den,” a slight movie that could have been significantly better with a little story doctoring.

Mr. Rathbone plays Bobby Kelly, a promising lawyer who, after an accumulation of troubles at work, quits his job in favor of singing at a run-down lounge that was once a trendy spot. He bonds with the few regulars there, who include an older gay couple played by Elliott Gould and Bob Gunton, and forms a friction-laden friendship with the heavy-drinking pianist (Jack Holmes). These new pals all have back stories, some of which require Bobby’s legal expertise, and soon he is torn between singing and a return to his law career.

Besides Mr. Rathbone’s vocals, the film showcases Mr. Holmes, a musician as well as an actor, who does his own piano playing in the movie and also wrote it with Michael Kristoff, who directed. The story becomes less credible as it goes along. Bobby, for instance, appears to need no rehearsal time, yet he can’t figure out how to be a lawyer by day while carving out two hours a couple of evenings a week to be a crooner.

So the music is the only draw here. The songs include several by Mr. Holmes, which are pretty good.
99 2013-12-05 Good on atmospherics but unimaginatively plotted, “The Last Days on Mars” is a low-budget zombie movie whose observations of group psychology in high-stress situations fitfully signal higher aspirations. The feature film debut of the Irish director Ruairi Robinson, it was adapted by Clive Dawson from Sydney J. Bounds’s short story “The Animators.”

Hours before a six-month research mission on Mars is about to end, the eight exhausted crew members of Tantalus Base, demoralized after having made no significant discoveries, are counting the moments until their voyage home. Everything changes when an ambitious officer (Goran Kostic) finds fossilized evidence of life during a lab test and leaves the base with another crew member to investigate. After taking a bacterial sample from the soil, they find themselves infected and transforming into zombies on the rampage.

The crew members aren’t the usual cross section of hyper-efficient techies. The senior systems manager, Vincent Campbell (Liev Schreiber), is an anxiety-prone claustrophobe forced to confront his deepest fears. The most hardheaded character is the science officer, Aldrich (Olivia Williams), a dislikable cold fish. The screenplay does a reasonably good job of capturing the group dynamic of these backbiting astronauts, whose frayed nerves are exacerbated by a shared sense of futility.

But once it turns into a horror movie, “The Last Days on Mars” loses its originality and becomes the usual us-against-them battle between the dead and the undead. The most sympathetic character, Lane (Romola Garai), is a medic exposed to the bacteria who waits for the inevitable to happen, as Campbell gives her moral support.

Filmed in the Jordanian desert, “The Last Days on Mars” portrays the planet as an uninhabitable wasteland shrouded in haze and susceptible to ominous, rolling dust storms. The outpost is a cramped hellhole in which the opening of an airlock signals imminent catastrophe. “The Last Days on Mars” ultimately can’t transcend its pulpy roots.

“The Last Days on Mars” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for gory violence and strong language.
100 2013-12-05 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
101 2013-12-05 Jon Horvath said at the trial of his ex-boss Michael S. Steinberg, formerly of SAC Capital Advisors, that he didn’t tell him the data he had obtained about Dell was insider information....
102 2013-12-05 The art adviser shares her tips on essential booths to visit at the fair this weekend, which are well worth paying attention to even if you’re not in Miami Beach right now....
103 2013-12-05 Memories of Nelson Mandela by Barry Bearak, who was Johannesburg bureau chief from 2008 to 2011....
104 2013-12-05 Nelson Mandela, the leading emancipator of South Africa and its first black president, died on Thursday....
105 2013-12-05 Edward S. Lampert was once hailed in the same league as Warren Buffett, but his struggles with Sears have disenchanted a number of investors....
106 2013-12-05 Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio announced William J. Bratton as his choice for commissioner of the New York City Police Department.
107 2013-12-05 With a Dec. 15 deadline approaching, a small-business owner thinks he has cracked the code on understanding the new health insurance rates — and found a way to save tens of thousands of dollars on his next plan....
108 2013-12-05 Rajat Gupta had accused a former longtime friend of trying to stop him from having a say over a private equity fund they started together....
109 2013-12-05 How to keep employees happy. Super Bowl ads are already sold out. Do you micro-schedule your day?...
110 2013-12-05 A new funding round gave the data insights company with roots in the intelligence world a $9 billion valuation, and it is now aiming for a bigger corporate presence....
111 2013-12-05 Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew plans to call on overseas regulators to make their rules tougher. | Carl C. Icahn has a new platform to pressure Apple: the cover of Time magazine. | Jon Horvath’s memory failed him again during the trial of his f...
112 2013-12-05 Merck said that the purchase of AZ Electronic Materials, which makes chemicals used in semiconductors, would give it “additional growth areas in the electronics industry.”...
113 2013-12-05 The author, who participated in the efforts to deny the Gujarat chief minister a United States visa in 2005, retraces the roots of that campaign, which has taken on new importance as Mr. Modi rises....
114 2013-12-05 The divide, between conservative groups that are fighting against government regulation and oil companies that are planning for it as a practical business decision, echoes a deeper rift in the party, as business-friendly establishment Republicans clash with the .

Tom , North American president of CDP, said that the five big oil companies seemed to have determined that a carbon price was an inevitable part of their financial future.

“It’s climate change as a line item,” Mr. Carnac said. “They’re looking at it from a rational perspective, making a profit. It drives internal decision-making.”

Companies do not know what form a future carbon price would take. Congress could one day vote to directly tax emissions. is moving forward with plans to regulate carbon pollution from coal plants, with or without action from Congress — and states could carry out those regulations by taxing carbon polluters. At climate change talks at the , State Department negotiators have pledged that the United States will cut its carbon emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, and 80 percent by 2050.

Mr. Carnac said: “Companies see that the trend is inevitable. What you see here is a hardening of that understanding.”

Other companies that are incorporating a carbon price into their strategic planning include , , , , , DuPont, , and .

During the 2012 election, every Republican presidential candidate but one, , questioned or denied the science of climate change and rejected policies to deal with global warming. Opponents of carbon-pricing policies consider them an energy tax that will hurt business and consumers.

Mainstream economists have long agreed that putting a price on carbon pollution is the most effective way to fight global warming. The idea is fairly simple: if industry must pay to spew the carbon pollution that scientists say is the chief cause of global warming, the costs will be passed on to consumers in higher prices for gasoline and electricity. Those high prices are expected to drive the market away from fossil fuels like oil and coal, and toward low-carbon renewable sources of energy.

Past efforts to enact a carbon price in have failed largely because powerful fossil-fuel groups financed campaigns against lawmakers who supported a carbon tax.

In 1994, dozens of Democratic lawmakers lost their jobs after , who was vice president at the time, urged them to vote for a that would have effectively taxed carbon pollution. In 2009, President Obama urged House Democrats to vote for a bill that would have required companies whose carbon-dioxide emissions exceeded set levels to buy emissions rights from those who emitted less. The next year, Tea Party groups spent millions to successfully unseat members who voted for the bill.

But Exxon Mobil, which last year was ranked by the Fortune 500 as the nation’s most profitable company, is representative of Big Oil’s slow evolution on climate change policy. A decade ago, the company was known for contributing to research organizations that questioned the science of climate change. In 2010, Exxon Mobil purchased a company that produces , which creates less carbon pollution than oil or coal.

Exxon Mobil is now the nation’s biggest natural gas producer, meaning that it will stand to profit in a future in which a price is placed on carbon emissions. Coal, which produces twice the carbon pollution of natural gas, would be a loser. Today, Exxon Mobil openly acknowledges that carbon pollution from fossil fuels contributes to climate change.

“Ultimately, we think the government will take action through a myriad of policies that will raise the prices and reduce demand” of carbon-polluting fossil fuels, said Alan Jeffers, an Exxon Mobil spokesman.

Internally, Exxon Mobil now plans its financial future with the expectation that eventually carbon pollution will be priced at about $60 a ton, which Mr. Jeffers acknowledged was at odds with some of the company’s Republican friends.

“We’re going to say and do what’s in the best interest of our shareholders,” he said. “We won’t always be on the same page.”

It remains unlikely that any climate policy will move in today’s deadlocked Congress, but if Congress does take up climate change legislation in the future, Mr. Jeffers said Exxon Mobil would support a carbon tax if it was paired with an equal cut elsewhere in the tax code — the same policy that Mr. Gore has endorsed. “Exxon Mobil and many other large companies understand that climate change poses a direct economic threat to their businesses,” said Dan Weiss, director for climate policy at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group with close ties to the Obama administration. “They need to convince their political allies to act before it’s too late.”

Koch Industries maintains ties to the Tea Party group Americans for Prosperity, which last year campaigned against Republicans who acknowledged the science of climate change. The company also contributes money to the American Energy Alliance, a Washington-based advocacy group that campaigns against lawmakers that it claims support a carbon price. This year, the American Energy Alliance says it has spent about $1.2 million in ads and campaign activities attacking candidates who it says support a carbon price.

Robert Murphy, senior economist at the American Energy Alliance, said his group was not concerned that it had taken a different position from the major oil companies. “We’re not taking marching orders from Big Oil,” he said.

In fact, Koch has a longtime resentment of the biggest oil companies.

According to company history, Koch’s founder, Fred Koch, the father of Charles and David, invented a chemical process to more efficiently refine oil but was blocked from bringing it to the market by the nation’s largest oil companies, including Standard Oil of New Jersey, which today is known as Exxon Mobil.

People at Koch say sore feelings remain to this day.
115 2013-12-05 In a broad policy speech, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew asserted that a bank bailout in any future crisis is much less likely, but he also urged overseas regulators to make their rules tougher....
116 2013-12-05 Microsoft became the latest tech company to roll out state-of-the-art encryption, following similar moves by other tech companies in response to government surveillance....
117 2013-12-05 The United Nations official in charge of coordinating the disposal of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal provided new details on Wednesday about the plan to eliminate them, saying the most dangerous materials would be sealed by trained Syrians and sent overland to the country’s Mediterranean port of Latakia, where ships would take them to a second, unspecified foreign port.

From there, the official said, the chemicals would be transferred to a specially equipped naval vessel offered by the United States, which is capable of safely neutralizing the chemicals at sea.

The official, Sigrid Kaag, acknowledged that the overland routes in Syria were dangerous because of the civil war, but that the Syrian authorities were taking steps to secure them and had designated Latakia as the departure point for the chemicals.

Under a timetable established by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which is collaborating with the United Nations in a joint mission to oversee the destruction of Syria’s arsenal under a Security Council resolution passed Sept. 27, the most dangerous chemical agents are to be removed from the country by Dec. 31 — less than four weeks away.

Under the resolution, the entire stockpile of Syrian chemical weapons must be destroyed by mid-2014.

“If there are delays due to security conditions, we have to assess and revisit that of course,” Ms. Kaag, the coordinator of the joint mission, told reporters after privately briefing the Security Council on the mission’s progress. “But for now, we don’t assume any alternatives.”
118 2013-12-05 There will be versions of the special commercials in two lengths, 30 seconds and two minutes, and they will appear online — on websites that include bravotv.com and blog.jeep.com — as well as on television. The cast commercials are part of an initiative for the 2014 Jeep Cherokee that carries the theme “The Cherokee Effect,” which celebrates “spontaneous acts of boundless adventure without warning.”

The cast commercials for Cherokee are also part of a larger buy of advertising from NBCUniversal that the Chrysler Group has made through its media agency, Universal McCann, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The partnership came after Universal McCann developed an idea for another Chrysler Group division, Dodge, that was centered on incorporating the Dodge Charger and Challenger into “Defiance,” a series on another NBCUniversal cable channel, Syfy, and into an online “Defiance” video game.

Because the sport utility segment of the auto market “is one of the most competitive,” said Kim Adams House, head of Jeep advertising at the Chrysler Group in Auburn Hills, Mich., “we knew we needed to create a launch campaign with many levers that would break through and create some noise, frankly.”

The special commercials will “tell a story of adventure in a unique and creative way,” she added, and by using cast members from diverse shows, the spots will “resonate with a broad demographic,” an important goal for an S.U.V. meant to appeal to a wide variety of drivers.

The cast members “had a hand in crafting the story” for each commercial, Ms. House said, so viewers will not dismiss the spots as them “just reading from a script.”

Although the commercials are still in production, a rough cut of one suggests the intent is indeed to offer a low-key kind of peddling. In a voice-over narration that is heard as Ms. Richards and her husband, Mauricio Umansky, ride in a Cherokee past scenic vistas, she discusses in a conversational tone how, despite her image as a denizen of Beverly Hills and Palm Springs, she likes to “hit the road less traveled.”

At the end of the rough cut, an announcer who narrates Bravo’s own promotional spots declares: “To see more of Kyle’s journey go to bravotv.com. Discover your adventurous side with the Cherokee effect.”

Alison Tarrant, executive vice president for the client solutions group at NBCUniversal in New York, said the goal of the cast commercials was “creating content that’s entertaining and shareable” while not blurring the line between content and advertising. “It’s a fine balance,” she acknowledged, with the goal being “a beautiful balance of the entertainment and the natural presence of the brand message.”

Cast commercials are “so valuable now,” Ms. Tarrant said, because of their “storytelling component” as more advertisers and agencies are concluding that spinning tales rather than being hucksters makes ads more palatable and less annoying to consumers.

Ms. Tarrant and Ms. House said there would be additional cast commercials as the effort continues into next year, and some may feature actors from series on the NBC broadcast network in addition to other NBCUniversal cable channels.

Imagine: James Spader as the creepy Raymond (Red) Reddington and Megan Boone as the young FBI profiler Elizabeth Keen, racing in a Cherokee as they hunt a criminal mastermind on “The Blacklist.”
119 2013-12-05 China actually has a reasonable claim to the Diaoyu Islands, as it calls them, although it is increasingly ham-handed in asserting those claims. The strongest evidence comes from Japanese government documents of the Meiji era, referring to the islands as China’s and scheming to grab them — which is what Japan did when China was weak in 1895. It renamed the islands the Senkakus.

After World War II, the United States controlled the islands, and, in 1972, it handed over “administration” to its ally Japan without taking position on who owns them. Conflict has grown with rising nationalism in both China and Japan ( , which also claims the islands, has been most levelheaded).

Japan erred last year when it bought the islands from a private landowner — nationalizing them — despite strong warnings from both China and America. Likewise, the Obama administration was wrong to say explicitly that it would back Japan in any war over the islands.

Really? We’re ready to fight over uninhabited rocks when we don’t even take a position on their ownership? If Washington’s intention was to get Beijing to back off, this was counterproductive. The move just inflamed Chinese opinion.

“We are dealing with an extremely delicate situation,” notes Cheng Li, a China expert at the . He worries that Americans may not always appreciate the sensitivities involved.

China’s new leader, , is a complicated figure and a self-confident nationalist who has ties to some of the fiery ultranationalists in the but also wants good relations with Washington. He presumably is behind China’s declaration last month of an air defense identification zone that overlaps with disputed territory.

Xi badly overplayed his hand. There’s nothing wrong with China declaring such a zone (the United States and Japan both have them), but it was done in a bellicose way that echoed similarly belligerence in the South China Sea. And the world doesn’t have much sympathy for China’s leaders when they bully neighbors, blockade news and social media websites, and imprison a Nobel Peace Prize winner like .

China’s Foreign Ministry officials offer Xi sensible counsel, but they are often outmaneuvered by hawks in the military. I once asked a Chinese general about moderate Foreign Ministry statements on the South China Sea. The general scoffed: “That’s the Foreign Ministry’s position, not China’s position.”

One risk is of a military accident like the 2001 collision of a U.S. spy plane and a Chinese fighter aircraft. The Chinese leader at the time, , returned the American plane and crew, but Xi might not be so conciliatory.

The upshot is that we need crisis hotlines so we can manage a crisis if it happens. The Obama administration also needs a senior point person for China, which it doesn’t really have now.

For his part, Xi should realize that saber-rattling distracts from economic development and that an emerging great power like China cannot harness modern weaponry to old and almost tribal hatreds. Those of us who admire China’s accomplishments need to make the point that nationalist propaganda, muscle-flexing and demonizing Japan are dangerous games. As a Chinese saying goes, it’s easier to ride a tiger than to dismount.
120 2013-12-05 “We are extremely surprised,” said Helga Kuhn, a Unicef Germany spokeswoman, “and want to get to the bottom of this. Anyone can make a criminal complaint.”

Unicef received 789 works from Dr. Rau and began selling them this year. So far, 204 of the works have been sold, and the charity said it expects to reap more than $161 million from the sales, including Thursday’s auction in London. Another 250 of the works given to Unicef are on loan to a German museum until 2026, as outlined in Dr. Rau’s will.

Peter Dürsteler, a district council member, said the Swiss foundation that Dr. Rau created — and to which he had given most of the works while he was alive — did not have the right under Swiss law to cede ownership of the collection. Renzo Schüepp, another member of the council, whose official role includes monitoring guardians of foundations, said the sale of the collection made it important for the Swiss to act now to challenge the transfer. “Time is running out,” he said. Hans Maurer, who is in charge of the case for the Zurich prosecutor’s office, confirmed the investigation but declined to comment.

Dr. Rau, a reclusive bachelor and the wealthy scion of Stuttgart industrialists, moved in the early 1980s to Africa, where he founded a hospital near Bukavu, now part of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Over the course of several decades, he took lengthy breaks from his medical work to roam auction houses in his old hiking boots, looking to build up his collection.

When his health started to fail in the early 1990s, he returned to Europe and agreed to leave the paintings to three foundations he had set up in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. In 1993, he moved to Monaco, where he was later found roaming the streets disoriented, behavior that prompted foundation employees to challenge his ability to run his affairs.

By the end of the decade, he had written a will that made Unicef Germany his sole heir, and in 2001, he transferred ownership of the works. The Swiss foundations protested at the time that the ailing doctor — who was in the care of his private secretary and assistant — was not competent to make the decision. Four months later, he died, at the age of 79.

Ultimately, Unicef triumphed in the German courts, but the case was characterized by unsettling twists, including an investigation into the circumstances of the doctor’s death. Forensic tests revealed toxic levels in his body of an anti-Parkinson’s medication he had been taking. But the case was closed with no proof of poisoning, according to the prosecutor, Hans-Otto Rieleder.

When new questions arose about ownership of the art, Unicef signed an agreement in 2011 with the Rau Foundation, the Swiss organization that had since been formed to consolidate the doctor’s three foundations. In return for ceding any ownership claim to the works, the foundation was given a say in how a substantial portion of the proceeds from this year’s auctions is spent. Of those proceeds, for example, about $4 million has already been allocated over the next seven years to the Bukavu hospital.

But Mr. Dürsteler said the foundation did not have the power to abandon its interests in the works.

“A Swiss foundation cannot do that,” Mr. Dürsteler said. “It can’t just say they have no interest and then renounce their own property.”

René Peterhans, the foundation’s president, said the current investigation, which he referred to as being part of this “never-ending story,” would not affect the organization.

It’s not clear, even to the council, what should be done with the art were the foundation ever to reclaim it. Council members said they simply want to settle doubts about whether Dr. Rau’s wishes were respected.

“We know the chances of success for our complaint is difficult,” said Mr. Schüepp, the council member. “But we all felt that we won’t feel right unless we try.”
121 2013-12-05 That left a much narrower question about the reach of the federal law under which Mr. Apel was convicted. It forbids people to re-enter military installations from which they have been barred.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in California, ruled for Mr. Apel on statutory rather than constitutional grounds. It said the federal government could not enforce the law because Mr. Apel had been standing on property partly controlled by the state and county.

“The federal government lacks the exclusive right of possession in the area on which the trespass allegedly occurred,” said the unsigned opinion, which overturned Mr. Apel’s conviction.

It was that ruling that interested the justices, and there seemed to be a consensus that the Ninth Circuit had gotten it wrong.

Benjamin J. Horwich, a lawyer for the federal government, said nothing should turn on whether the base had allowed some public access or granted state and local governments some rights to the stretch of the Pacific Coast Highway that crosses the base. So long as a military commander has authority over the property, Mr. Horwich said, the law under which Mr. Apel was convicted applies.

He added that various military and government activities occur on the base, including a rocket launch scheduled for Thursday.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor suggested that Mr. Apel could not pose much of a threat. “It seems such an odd thing for a Class B misdemeanor to be used to protect the national security,” she said. Mr. Apel’s punishment was $355 in fines and fees.

Mr. Horwich was asked no direct questions about the First Amendment. In its brief, the federal government urged the justices to clarify the scope of the law under which Mr. Apel was convicted and to return the case to the lower courts for a ruling on his First Amendment defense if the government prevailed on its statutory argument.

When Mr. Chemerinsky tried to invoke the First Amendment, he was rebuffed.

“You have a First Amendment argument,” Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said. “I understand that. But let’s just concentrate on the property ownership.”

Justice Scalia also admonished Mr. Chemerinsky. “You keep sliding into the First Amendment issue,” he said. “We’re only interested in whether the statute applies.”

When Mr. Chemerinsky turned to the question of how to determine the reach of the law, he said, “The United States wants to have it both ways.” The federal government gave the state responsibility for the road, “but they also want to claim that they have all of the control over that public road as they would within the base,” he said.

Justice Scalia was not convinced. “They’re entitled to have it both ways,” he said. “It’s their base.”

Justice Elena Kagan said Mr. Chemerinsky’s position amounted to “sort of a ‘use it or lose it’ argument.”

“The government has this commanding authority,” she said, but “unless the government uses it to its full extent every day of the week, it loses it.”

Mr. Chemerinsky replied that Justice Kagan was in a sense right, given that the government had “decided to create a public road with a protest zone outside of it.”

He concluded his argument in the case, United States v. Apel, No. 12-1038, with an expression often heard at the Supreme Court in a figurative sense. But Mr. Chemerinsky was also being literal.

“Like so many cases to come before you, this one is about where do you draw the line,” he said. “Here the government has drawn the line, and it’s a green line. Now, on this side of the green line, there is a First Amendment right to speak.”
122 2013-12-05 While everyone was watching Apple’s can-you-top-this show and Android’s flood-the-zone operation, Microsoft was grinding out mobile software that eventually reached Downright Lovely status.

Why didn’t anyone notice? Oh. Right. Microsoft hadn’t quite figured out apps or hardware.

Apps remain an open question, but good Microsoft mobile hardware finally arrived this year, with the release in October 2012 of the Surface and last February of the Surface Pro. These are tablets that can double as laptops because of a beautifully designed kickstand and a detachable keyboard (the Type Cover, $130). Put another way, these were entertainment machines that could double as workhorses. The Surface runs the company’s basic level software for desktops, laptops and other devices, Windows RT (version 8.1), while the Surface Pro runs Windows Pro (version 8.1).

The upsides were significant. Here, at last, were Windows machines that let users experience the company’s mobile and desktop software in one device, with a nifty interface, and, most notably, the Type Cover, which enabled a seamless transition between tablet and laptop. (The Type Cover’s less versatile sibling, the Touch Cover, sells for $80.)

The downsides, sadly, were also significant. Among them: a rigidly designed stand, a battery with a short life — someone get me the powerstrip! — and, on the base Surface version, the omission of Outlook, the popular email and scheduling program.

But the second version of the Surface, which went on sale in late October, most of those downers have been addressed. The new Surface includes Outlook, an upgraded battery, a kickstand with two viewing angles instead of just one and faster USB ports, and other goodies.

It has roughly the same thickness and weight as the iPad — it weighs 1.5 pounds without the cover — and the overall screen size is 10.6 inches, giving it slightly more viewing space. With a Type Cover, it feels similar in your hands to an iPad with a cover. In all, the device falls nicely below the “bulky” threshold.

The company says the battery lasts up to 10 hours, two hours more than the previous version. I tested it by streaming video with the screen at full brightness and had power for 8.5 hours.

Why buy the Surface 2 instead of the Surface Pro 2? The Surface Pro 2 is a $900 machine, not including the $130 keyboard, and at that price the detachable tablet would have to provide a great all-around experience to justify the cost. While the Pro has an excellent high-definition screen (1080p) and a feather-light feel, you can get better apps — and many more of them designed for a mobile experience — on Apple and Android devices. (Disclosure: I co-created an iPad app.)

The value proposition of the base Surface 2 seems about right. For around the price of an iPad, you get a tablet that’s great for watching movies, checking email, browsing the web and using most of the basic apps you’ll need.

The selection of apps still is not what you’ll find for Android or Apple devices, but basic apps like Facebook, Twitter, Flipboard and Slacker are there, as are many games, including popular Xbox titles. Strangely, games like Angry Birds Space and Angry Birds Star Wars cost $3.50, while they’re free on Apple and Android. And that premium price for apps isn’t limited to the Angry Birds franchise, so if apps and games are your thing, and you’ve spent time on other mobile platforms, prepare for an occasional case of sticker shock.

But still. The Surface is a bargain machine that packs a tremendous amount of value for the price. The software sparkles with thoughtful and innovative touches that will most likely find their way to competing platforms. When a website or page includes information that spills over onto another page, for instance, part of that page peeks out at you as you browse, so you know it’s only a swipe away.

You can toggle between the traditional Windows interface and the mobile interface by just tapping the home button. And if you want to devote a small portion of your screen to one thing — say, your Twitter feed — while using the rest for another app, the software lets you do that easily.

I found the touchpad on the Type Cover less responsive than the touchpads found on laptops, but then I realized: Who needs one when you can swipe and tap the screen?

Note that on the Surface 2, the Office experience isn’t exactly the same as you would find on a Windows laptop — or, for that matter, on the Surface Pro. If you are an Excel ninja, for instance, you’ll be sad to know you can’t perform some advanced functions with Office RT. Same goes for other Office applications. That said, Office RT is far better than mobile apps that seek to approximate the Office suite. Google last year bought the best of the bunch, QuickOffice, and the user reviews have plummeted since the deal.

Neither Surface device connects to a cellular network, so it’s Wi-Fi or nothing, and the sound on the Surface left me pining for more volume.

Your children will also be sad to know they can’t download Minecraft or any other desktop apps on the Surface 2. The Windows mobile app market has no official Minecraft app, which is available on Apple and Android.

As one might expect from any successful device birthed in the Windows realm, competitors have quickly emerged. There are more than a dozen Windows tablets with keyboard attachments on Microsoft’s online store. (The company refers to these devices as 2-in-1 PCs.)

So if the Surface doesn’t quite fit your needs, cast about. Nokia’s new Lumia 2520, for instance, offers a cellular connection. It’s available for $400 with a two-year contract on Verizon or AT&T. But the Nokia Power Keyboard attachment ($150) is not included, and even if it were, it’s not nearly as good as Microsoft’s Type Cover. Among other things, the keyboard is thicker, and I found it harder to type on.

Perhaps competing manufacturers will catch up. Maybe Nokia, now that it is being bought by Microsoft, will build a better keypad.

In the meantime, Microsoft gets to enjoy a first-out-of-the gate advantage in the category. Imagine that.
123 2013-12-05 The advertisers in other categories that have announced they are buying commercials include Anheuser-Busch InBev, Butterfinger, Dannon Oikos yogurt, Doritos, GoDaddy, Intuit, SodaStream and Wonderful pistachios.

Coincidentally, another advertiser announced on Thursday that it, too, would buy a commercial during Super Bowl XLVIII: the Cheerios cereal brand sold by General Mills. It will be the first time that Cheerios has run a spot in a Super Bowl, executives at General Mills said.

In recent weeks, Fox Sports executives have described the commercial inventory for the game as virtually sold out, practically sold out and almost sold out. Back in September, for example, when announcing a Super Bowl ad contest, the executives said the game was about 95 percent sold.

Demand among potential sponsors did not seem to be affected much by the rates Fox is charging. Earlier estimates were that the price tag was around $4 million for each 30 seconds of commercial time in the game, but there are indications that some advertisers are paying in a range between $4 million and $4.5 million.

Mr. Mulcahy and Marla Newman, senior vice president for digital ad sales at Fox Sports, said they still had spots available during pregame and postgame programming on Fox Broadcasting; during programming related to the Super Bowl on a new cable channel, Fox Sports 1; and in the live stream of the Super Bowl that is to be available on foxsports.com and on tablets.

Ms. Newman said that the auto category was also strong in digital advertising, along with categories like consumer packaged goods, mobile devices and insurance.

Both she and Mr. Mulcahy said they believed that the fact the Super Bowl will be played for the first time in the metropolitan New York area may be encouraging ad sales, pointing to the many special events and promotions that are scheduled to begin the Monday before the game and extend through the postgame.

Various 21st Century Fox properties are planning special programming to take advantage of the novelty of the location. For instance, Mr. Mulcahy said, Fox Sports 1; WNYW, Channel 5, the Fox Broadcasting station in New York; and the Fox News cable channel will present shows from Times Square.

And “each night at 8 p.m., there will be a roadblock on all the Fox properties,” he added, with content with Super Bowl themes. (A roadblock is a media term meaning that the same ad, announcement or show appears across multiple media outlets at the same time.)

Another reason that the commercial time during Super Bowl XLVIII is already sold out could be the additional planning required by sponsors to coordinate on platforms like social media the promotional campaigns related to their Super Bowl spots.

In social media outlets like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and blogs, advertisers can tease, preview and build interest in their in-game ads weeks or months ahead of time rather than waiting until much closer to the game as they would have years ago.

“The beauty of the Super Bowl now,” Mr. Mulcahy said, is that advertisers “know in May they want to be there and build their marketing programs” early.
124 2013-12-05 The Institute for College Access and Success estimated that of the students who earned bachelor’s degrees in the United States in 2011-12, 71 percent had student loans, and the average borrower had $29,400 in debt, compared with 68 percent and $23,450 four years earlier. The group derived the figures from an annual survey of more than 1,000 colleges and a federal government survey of former students conducted every four years.

The numbers are skewed somewhat by for-profit colleges, which award about 6 percent of bachelor’s degrees, and where students are much more likely to borrow money, and borrow far more on average. Excluding for-profit schools, the institute reported that 68 percent of graduates had student debt, averaging $27,850; a recent report by the College Board, using different methodology, put those figures at 60 percent and $26,500.

The institute’s report lists some of the colleges where students borrow the most and the least, based on the college survey, but cautions that some colleges that did not take part in the survey might have made those rosters. Nearly all for-profit colleges did not take part. The high-debt private colleges listed are concentrated in the Northeast, while half of the high-debt public colleges are state schools in Pennsylvania or New Jersey.

The institute also posted college-specific figures on Wednesday in a searchable online database. It shows two private colleges, Anna Maria College and Wheelock College, both in Massachusetts, with more than 80 percent of graduates having student loans, and the highest average debt per borrower, around $49,000, among colleges that provided figures. At two other private schools, Becker College in Massachusetts and Marylhurst University in Oregon, average debt was a few thousand dollars lower, but there were more borrowers — more than 90 percent of their graduates had debts.

The colleges on the report’s low-debt list are a geographically diverse mix of public and private, ranging from little-known places like Campbellsville University in Kentucky to Princeton University.

At California State University at Sacramento, fewer than half of graduates had student loans, which averaged less than $4,500. At Bernard M. Baruch College of the City University of New York, the average debt per borrower was slightly higher, but only about one graduate in five borrowed any money for college.

State-wise, graduates of colleges in Arizona, California, Louisiana, Nevada, Utah and Wyoming were among the least likely to have student debt, and those who did borrowed relatively little. Graduates in New Mexico had the lowest average debt per borrower of any state, about $18,000.

At the other end of the spectrum, graduates in New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Maine, Minnesota and Ohio were among the most likely to borrow and had some of the highest debt loads. Delaware colleges had the highest debt per borrower, almost $34,000.
125 2013-12-05 The episode raised concerns about securing discarded nuclear material. It was unclear what if any security precautions had been taken in transporting the material, but truck hijackings are common in Mexico — both of vehicles and cargo — and terrorists are known to be interested in cobalt 60.

An American military official said that while the Pentagon was monitoring the Mexico situation closely, the theft did not appear to be connected to terrorist activity.

Still, the material is one of the ingredients commonly cited as a possible component of a dirty bomb, a combination of explosives and radioactive material.

Counterterrorism officials have said such weapons are far more useful in spreading panic than harming people. Just scattering a radioactive isotope in a densely populated area would have the same effect, but the person delivering the isotope would probably receive a large dose.

After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the United States went on a campaign to ensure that cobalt 60 and other isotopes commonly used in medicine and industry were better protected against theft.

In an online guide to radiation protection, the E.P.A. identifies cobalt 60 as a substance used in a range of industrial and medical applications, including radiotherapy in hospitals. Large amounts of cobalt 60 are also used to sterilize spices and some foods because its powerful gamma rays kill bacteria and other pathogens without damaging the products or leaving them radioactive.

The E.P.A. guide also warns that cobalt 60 is known to cause cancer.

Industrial and medical users periodically replace used cobalt 60 with fresh supplies because, as with all radioactive isotopes, its emissions slowly weaken over time; its half-life is 5.27 years.

The authorities in Mexico said the truck departed Tijuana on Nov. 28 en route to a repository 30 miles northeast of Mexico City. When it stopped at a gas station, two armed men ordered the driver out of the truck, tied him up and made off with the truck.

Many trucks in Mexico carry warnings that they are tracked by satellite, though it was unclear if that was the case with this stolen truck. Experts also say thieves have become adept at disabling the systems.

It was not the first time a dangerous cargo like cobalt 60 had been seized by outlaws in Mexico or raised public health alarms. In the 1980s, discarded cobalt 60 in Ciudad Juárez near the United States border was found to have been used in making reinforcing rods for construction, causing an international health scare.
126 2013-12-05 Iran is unlikely to be able to increase exports much over the next six months, and most experts think that rebuilding the Iranian oil industry will be a lengthy process. But Iran’s posture was a warning that OPEC’s future cohesion might be in jeopardy.

“They are laying down a marker for future negotiations that others will have to make room for them or suffer price cuts,” said Bhushan Bahree, an OPEC analyst at the research firm IHS Cera, who was in Vienna for the meeting.

The market seemed to consider the Iranian comments a sign of potentially heightened political tensions rather than of an imminent glut of supplies. United States crude rose about 1 percent to about $97 a barrel, while Brent, the international crude, fell slightly to about $112.50 a barrel.

In recent years, OPEC has not disclosed quotas or production ceilings for individual members. But the whole organization is supposed to adhere to a target of 30 million barrels a day, which is approximately the current output.

In practice, most members produce all they can, leaving Saudi Arabia, by far the largest producer and the key decision maker in OPEC, and its Gulf allies, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, to adjust supplies as needed without risking friction over changing individual ceilings. The other member countries are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar and Venezuela. Over all, it has been another easy year for the 12 OPEC members in terms of maintaining prices. Production in Libya and Nigeria has dwindled. That has allowed Saudi Arabia and the other Gulf countries to continue producing at high levels, without depressing prices.

As a result, prices have been remarkably steady and at historically high levels. Brent crude, the main international benchmark, has traded above $100 a barrel for all but a few days in 2013.

The implications for consumers — particularly automobile drivers in Europe and the United States — is that fuel prices, generally lower now than a year ago, are unlikely to change significantly anytime soon. In the United States, the average gasoline price on Tuesday was $3.24 a gallon, compared with $3.39 a year ago, according to Gregg Laskoski, an oil analyst at GasBuddy.com, a consumer website.

“OPEC is a reactive organization, and with oil prices at these levels there is no issue for them to react to,” said Seth Kleinman, an analyst at Citigroup who was also in Vienna.

But OPEC could face challenges going forward.

New output from Iraqi Kurdistan could add substantially to Iraq’s total exports. At the meeting, Iran appeared to be signaling, as Iraq has also argued, that it should be given a free pass by OPEC to increase production to make up for the revenues lost under sanctions.

“There is a serious tension between Saudi Arabia and both Iraq and Iran in terms of the potential for those countries to bring increasing volumes into the market and what that means for Saudi Arabia’s share,” said Richard Mallinson, an analyst at Energy Aspects, a research firm in London. OPEC, which produces about a third of world oil supplies, also risks being squeezed by rising production in countries outside the organization.

The United States, which is seeing a sharp growth in production from shale formations, is expected to add nearly one million barrels a day to its output of oil and other liquid fuels in 2014, after a similar increase this year. Other non-OPEC countries like Canada and Brazil are also raising production.

David L. Goldwyn, a former senior energy official at the State Department, said OPEC risked “significant erosion of market share as non-OPEC production rises.” He added that “the question is whether they are going to cede market share and elevate prices, or let prices drop and try to force out some of the high-cost oil” that is being produced in the United States. Drilling in shale formations, a big source of the increased American output, is relatively costly and could slow if prices fall, analysts say.

Eventually, analysts say, there could be a substantial fall in oil prices if the worries about disruptions ease. “A lot of people think that $90 per barrel to $100 per barrel is normal, which it is not — it is stubbornly high,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research, a consulting firm. Mr. Lynch said that if Libya resumed its full production and a permanent agreement were reached on Iran’s nuclear program, prices could fall by $25 a barrel.
127 2013-12-05 The initiative was a spinoff of a series of round tables held in the early 2000s by curators, mostly of photography collections. “We decided we wanted to formalize our relations,” said Jacqueline d’Amécourt, the founding president and former curator of the Lhoist Collection in Belgium. “It was something that didn’t exist in France, or internationally.”

The idea was to bring together corporate collectors so that they could share so-called best practices on subjects ranging from conservation to insurance, as well as to broaden their perspective and enhance their profile in the fast-moving world of contemporary art.

From the start, the focus was exclusively on contemporary art, in part because that was the field best known to the founders but also because companies that invest in living artists tend to be more involved with the creative process. “They are necessarily more engaged,” Ms. Pujo said.

To establish itself as a voice for “interesting and important” collectors, as Ms. Pujo put it, the association set criteria for membership based on the quality of the art, the professionalism of the curators and the corporations’ willingness to share information on inventory, to publish catalogs and to participate in art exchanges.

The collections vary in size and focus, and are held by companies as disparate as Deutsche Bank — one of the world’s largest and oldest corporate collectors, with some 70,000 works — and the Norac Group, a food company based in the French region of Brittany, which began collecting in 2005, two years after France adopted a law allowing tax deductions for cultural philanthropy.

Many corporate collections are rarely open to the general public, and the value of their works remains a tightly held secret, a reticence that can put their curators at a disadvantage. The international group of corporate collectors, with its periodic forums and its group membership in organizations such as the International Council of Museums, is working to give them greater visibility.

Companies in the United States and Canada tend to be even more hesitant about revealing the extent of their art collections, said Shirley Reiff Howarth, the founder and editor of the International Directory of Corporate Art Collections. “In Europe, art is part of the fabric of society, while in North America, it is regarded as something of a luxury,” Ms. Howarth said by telephone from Montreal. “When budgets are cut, art is often the first to go.”

Different corporate collectors have moved in different directions. Some have been shifted to public galleries, like the Fondation Cartier pour l’Art Contemporain, which opened its own museum in Paris in 1994, designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel. Others have expanded into community arts programs — Norac for instance sponsors a biannual art fair in Rennes — and involve employees in the selection of art works.

The state-owned Norwegian gas giant Statoil, meanwhile, has hung works from its collection on its North Sea drilling platforms. The company, whose collection focuses on emerging Scandinavian and international artists, also puts works on display on the grounds and surfaces of its 2012 award-winning Fornebu office building near Oslo, which opens its doors to school groups and other visitors. According to the Statoil website, one of the main purposes of the new building’s design was “to create a location where people could perform and develop — and be stimulated by art and architecture.”

One of the international corporate collection group’s main objectives is to encourage businesses to commit to the permanence of their art collections, to avoid speculation and dispersal of the works. In North America, the 2003 sale of the famed Seagrams collection still haunts art experts, while in France, curators were relieved when the auto company Renault, after a traumatic management shake-up in the mid 1980s, managed to hold on to most of the collection it assembled through close collaboration with artists such as Vasarely, Dubuffet and Rauschenberg.

“It’s a real shame when collections are broken up and all the energy that went into creating them is dissipated,” Ms. Pujo said.
128 2013-12-05 “He’s an unsung hero of Chinese contemporary art, a strong conceptual artist who hasn’t been pandering to the marketplace,” she said. “He’s been very true to himself and very committed to the process.”

Although Mr. Wang is less well known than other Chinese artists of his generation like Ai Weiwei, he has been involved in Chinese contemporary art since its inception. “He has a very long track record — one of the longest,” said Mr. Wu. “He started in the late 1970s, just after the Cultural Revolution.”

Indeed, Mr. Wang was a member of the groundbreaking “Stars Group,” an art collective that experimented with Western, avant-garde art styles and pushed for artistic freedom. Barred from China’s museums and galleries, which were then filled with socialist-realist art, the group staged a now legendary exhibition outside the gates of the National Art Museum of China (then called the China Arts Gallery) in 1979.

Mr. Wang went on to become one of the three members of the “New Measurement” group (with Gu Dexin and Chen Shaoping), which was a major force in the avant-garde movement of the 1980s and 1990s, and part of the path-breaking “China Avant-Garde” exhibition at the National Art Museum in 1989. The show featured works by 300 artists and it was the first time avant-garde art had been permitted in a museum, but it was shut down near the end of the first day when two artists fired a gun at their own installation.

Many of the artists who participated in these seminal exhibitions went on to enroll in China’s renowned arts academies and became members of the artistic establishment, but Mr. Wang was not among them. “Back then, if you were someone who loved art but had no chance of testing into an arts academy, your only choice was to enter an ‘Amateur Arts Training Course,”’ he explained.

He thus enrolled in amateur drawing classes at the Workers’ Cultural Palace while holding down a day job, working first as a lathe operator at the Beijing Furnace Factory and then as mastheads editor for China Communications News. Eventually he stopped taking art classes because he came to believe they did more harm than good.

“I realized that kind of art ‘training’ is actually a poison to artistic enlightenment,” he said. “In fact, the majority of people who go through it are harmed, and unlikely ever to become independent-thinking and creative artists.”

Mr. Wang largely shunned the Chinese art world during what he calls the “post-colonial” commercial frenzy of the late 1990s and 2000s, when Western critics, curators, museums and collectors descended on Beijing and local artists lined up to meet them. While many artists got rich overnight — Mr. Wang recalls one acquaintance who arrived in Beijing in 2005 unable even to pay rent and several years later was a millionaire — he used the time to sketch, read, ponder and paint.

“I never considered being an artist from the perspective of choosing a career,” he explained. “Whether I was an artist or not, I was always going to paint.”

It was while working at the Beijing Furnace Factory, making metal parts according to design images, that Mr. Wang first became interested in the artistic possibilities of paradox.

“Industrialized production, and modern society, are full of rational rules,” he said. “If you don’t have rules in a factory, the products produced will be useless, and if you don’t have them in society, there will be chaos. But, as science and technology continue to progress and society to develop, there are ever more rules which increasingly conflict with human personality.”

Mr. Wang began sketching his concept of this paradox, starting in 1990 with a simple drawing of a horizontal line wrapped by a red thread that is simultaneously pulling up and down. This concept — of one action resulting in two contradictory reactions — became the primary theory of his work.

“I value paradox because it is the basic mode of existence for human society,” he said.

For many years, Mr. Wang’s focus was on mechanical manifestations of paradox like guns, tanks, screws or bicycles whose intended purpose was subverted or negated. His wristwatches, branded W, are a series of bold, bright and provocative acrylic paintings. The “W Six Party Wrist Watch,” for example, has gears painted with the flags of the countries in the six-party talks on North Korea’s nuclear development; the movement of any of the interlocked gears will cause the others to turn, just as an action by any one of the nations would elicit a reaction from the others.

The “W Birdcage Switch” depicts a bald eagle, a symbol of freedom, in a cage with a complicated series of ropes and pulleys that, if used, would simultaneously open and close the door. (The ropes are red, evoking the red string that Mr. Wang drew around that single line back in 1990.) The artist’s more recent exploration of the contradictions inherent in religious faith is similarly grounded in his conviction that “disbelief is also a form of faith.”

Mr. Wang, who finally quit his day job in 2005, has had solo exhibitions each year since 2007 and his work, according to Ms. Maggio, is in increasingly high demand among collectors in China. But he continues to work at his own pace and to guard his hard-earned independence.

“What’s important is to persist and carry on,” he said. “The more you do this, the deeper your explorations — and the greater the possibility for you to discover and create.”
129 2013-12-05 The killing fueled fears of an escalation of tit-for-tat violence in Lebanon related to the Syrian conflict, and it happened despite heightened security measures by Hezbollah. The assassination occurred shortly after Hezbollah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, accused Saudi Arabia of being behind last month’s deadly bombing at the Iranian Embassy in Beirut, another attack on a major ally of the Syrian government.

Hezbollah did not say how Mr. Laqees had been killed but accused “the Israeli enemy” of targeting him and said Israel would have to “bear all the responsibility and ramifications of this vile crime.”

Yet at the same time, memorial images circulating on social media framed his death as part of the conflict in Syria, showing him against a backdrop of the Sayida Zeinab shrine near Damascus, Syria, a site revered by Shiites that Hezbollah has helped to defend.

At the funeral in Baalbek, in the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon, mourners gathered under umbrellas to watch a procession that placed Mr. Laqees’s portrait by those of the group’s top leaders, a level of ceremony that analysts said spoke to his importance. Mohammed Yazbek, a senior Hezbollah cleric, said at the funeral that whoever was responsible was associated with those responsible for the attack on Iran’s embassy.

Two previously unknown groups whose names suggested they consisted of Sunni militants claimed responsibility for the killing, though it was unclear if either group existed beyond online statements. One called itself Free Sunnis of Baalbek, a town where Hezbollah support is strong. The other, Ansar al-Sunnah, said in an online statement that Mr. Laqees bore direct responsibility for the “massacre” in Qusayr, a strategic border town that Hezbollah helped Syrian forces capture.

Israeli officials denied involvement, and Israeli analysts said they believed that Mr. Laqees was targeted by radical Sunnis in Lebanon as part of sectarian tensions over Syria.

Hezbollah’s statement announcing the death, in keeping with the deep secrecy surrounding its military structure and operations, did not spell out what role Mr. Laqees played in the organization or how senior he was.

But Iran’s semiofficial Fars news agency said he had run the telecommunications network, and Haaretz, an Israeli newspaper, said he had played a significant role in obtaining weapons, including long-range rockets that, according to American officials, Israel had bombed several times to prevent them from being delivered from Syria.

Mr. Laqees was “the address on the other side of the efforts to smuggle advanced weapons systems from Syria to Hezbollah,” Amos Harel, an Israeli journalist who frequently writes about intelligence matters, wrote in Haaretz. He added that Israel could have been taking advantage of the chaos around Syria to target a Hezbollah leader.

Matthew Levitt, the author of “Hezbollah: The Global Footprint of Lebanon’s Party of God,” said that in the late 1990s Mr. Laqees had been a “very, very senior” figure, in charge of procuring dual-use supplies for Hezbollah from Canada, such as computers and night-vision goggles. According to information gathered by the F.B.I. and other agencies during an investigation of Hezbollah cigarette smuggling in Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Laqees was in close touch with Imad Mughniyeh, a Hezbollah commander assassinated in Syria by Israel in 2008.

Hezbollah has blamed Israel for previous attacks rather than point a finger at Sunni militants, in what analysts view as a signal that the group, which is also Lebanon’s strongest political movement, does not want to escalate sectarian tensions inside Lebanon.

The Hezbollah statement said that Mr. Laqees had dedicated his life “to the honorable resistance from its first days to his final hours” and noted that he lost a son in the 2006 war between Hezbollah and Israel.

Hisham Jaber, a retired Lebanese Army commander and head of the Middle East Center for Studies and Public Relations, said it was odd that such a senior figure did not have better security precautions and was staying outside Hezbollah’s security zone and traveling without bodyguards. But Mr. Wazne said it was not unusual for senior commanders to keep a low profile.

Al Manar, a Hezbollah television channel, reported from the scene that the authorities were questioning the concierge of the building where Mr. Laqees occasionally worked and stayed. Footage showed blood on the driver’s seat of his car, and the Manar correspondent said footprints suggested there had been multiple assassins.
130 2013-12-06 In T’s final issue of the year, we get into the festive mood of the season and pay tribute to the creative genius of Rei Kawakubo, the enduring allure of iconic old restaurants, the seduction of Tangier and more....
131 2013-12-06 The Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided $1.4 billion in grants for emergency assistance and rebuilding since Hurricane Sandy. Here is an accounting of the kinds of losses for which the money was earmarked.
132 2013-12-06 Plus, Starbucks’s “metal” gift card, Pantone’s color of the year and more, as we run the numbers from the last week in style and culture....
133 2013-12-06 Kikkerland, a New York company that has been selling quirky, colorful accessories for more than 20 years, has opened its first retail store. The shop — a 1,000-square-foot space in the West Village — offers the company’s entire collection, including lightning-bolt-shaped power strips and bottle openers resembling Mexican wrestlers, along with products from other manufacturers. Kevin Brynan, an owner of the home store Mxyplyzyk, which closed its Greenwich Avenue location last year after more than two decades, was hired to assist in the creation. “I was actually one of their first customers,” in the early ’90s, Mr. Brynan said, adding that he and Kikkerland’s owner, Jan van der Lande, have long shared an appreciation for amusing design. The store’s interior, designed by FormNation, is as playful as the products, with display structures shaped like buildings, tables reminiscent of haphazardly stacked boxes and a central shelving unit that doubles as a floor-to-ceiling ladder to nowhere. Kikkerland is at 493 Avenue of the Americas (West 13th Street). Information: 212-678-2250 or kikkerland.com.
134 2013-12-06 As anemic as the job market recovery has been in the United States, recoveries after financial crises around the world have historically been even worse....
135 2013-12-06 Deutsche Bank’s decision to withdraw from trading in most raw materials markets underscores the contraction in the commodities business and the tough prospects for making money....
136 2013-12-06 An article in the bank’s magazine notes a more unusual employee achievement....
137 2013-12-06 The sale of the stake, valued at more than $1 billion, is the latest in a series of divestitures aimed at streamlining Nestlé’s offerings....
138 2013-12-06 Fast food workers go on strike. Assessing the strength of your passwords. Are you on Instagram?...
139 2013-12-06 A controversial new work by China’s most famous art house director, Jia Zhangke, may not be shown in Taiwan after failing to get released in mainland China....
140 2013-12-06 Do you think New York and other cities can bring down crime without aggressively using stop-and-frisk? Do you think the police can use the tactic without violating constitutional rights?...
141 2013-12-06 The reaction reflected his complicated legacy in a country that is struggling with human rights issues....
142 2013-12-06 Bowing to the Food and Drug Administration, the genetic testing service 23andMe said Thursday that it would stop providing consumers with health information while its test undergoes regulatory review.

The decision was in response to a warning letter sent by the agency two weeks ago saying that the genetic test was a medical device that requires approval.

“We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our long-term mission to help people everywhere have access to their own genetic data and have the ability to use that information to improve their lives,” Anne Wojcicki, the chief executive of 23andMe, said in a statement Thursday evening.

“Our goal is to work cooperatively with the F.D.A. to provide that opportunity in a way that clearly demonstrates the benefit to people and the validity of the science that underlies the test.”

The company will continue to take orders for new tests but will provide only ancestry information and raw data, without interpretations of the health implications. It said it might resume providing health data if it receives regulatory approval.
143 2013-12-06 “We were changing behavior by using the police more efficiently. We were defying the common wisdom of the last twenty years that the most cops can do is respond to crime. In the subways, we were preventing it.”

Core to Mr. Bratton’s policing strategy has been the notion, now broadly accepted in law enforcement circles, that the actions of police officers can proactively decrease crime. In particular, he pushed his officers – first as the Transit Bureau chief, then as New York City police commissioner – to aggressively pursue low-level offenders, some of whom had open warrants for more serious crimes. It was a means of addressing both petty disorder that made New York out-of-control –the “squeegee men” who harassed stopped drivers, for example – as well as robberies and murders.

"Bratton was the first police official who stated that it is not social issues that drive crime, it's policing,” said State Senator Eric Adams, who was a Transit officer during Mr. Bratton’s tenure. “And he proved it."

He saw his approach as implementing the so-called “broken windows” theory of crime, which holds that signs of lawlessness like prostitution or turnstile jumping create an atmosphere that emboldens criminals. The theory, which is in part psychological in nature, has been criticized over the years but its hold remains; Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio has said he is an adherent.

“We were confident we could reduce crime and disorder, but if we did it by antagonizing the public, or in a disrespectful way, or in an abusive way, or in a way that alienated an already suspicious public – particularly the minority community – we would win the battle but lose the war.”

Policing strategies that Mr. Bratton put into effect coincided with a drop in crime in New York, but also a rise in complaints about the police misconduct. Civil liberties groups complained that the pursuit of minor offenses antagonized New Yorkers in high-crime neighborhoods that were often made up of predominantly minority residents.

“The aggressive policing that was a plus, was also a minus,” said Norman Siegel, who was the head of the New York Civil Liberties Union at the time. Mr. Bratton, in his 1998 book, acknowledged the problem and said it had not been fixed under his watch. While New Yorkers came to believe the police had made the city safer, “we had not yet convinced them that this was being done by a department that was not disrespectful,” he wrote, lamenting his forced departure in 1996 by then-mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. “We weren’t done yet.”

For some critics, the explosion of street stops in recent years can be traced to the change in policing style that Mr. Bratton shepherded. “Stop-and-frisk is the problem of proactive policing has gone wild,” said Jeffrey A. Fagan, a Columbia Law School professor and expert on policing who testified against the city in the federal case over stop-and-frisk tactics.

“Many police officials worry about what a reporter might find; I had faith in my officers, and I knew the net result of a reporter’s night in the system could only benefit us.”

As commissioner, Mr. Bratton offered regular fuel for New York’s high-octane media environment. He saw newspapers and television stations as a necessary means for communicating his message of change to the public and to the tens of thousands of officers spread across the city, who do not always pay strict attention to internal memos from the commissioner. Mr. Bratton granted regular interviews and encouraged reporters to accompany police officers on their tours.

“Each ride-along had the potential to be a mini-N.Y.P.D. Blue, get good ratings and help tell our story,” he wrote.

Hed TK Here “Once again, City Hall was not happy.”As crime fell, Mr. Bratton repeatedly clashed with Rudolph W. Giuliani, a law-and-order mayor, who watched as the news media gave much of the credit to his police commissioner. There were profiles of Mr. Bratton in local and national publications and battles over who would announce major policing initiatives.In 1995, Mr. Bratton thought it would be natural for the city to hold a parade celebrating the Police Department, as it does for winning local sports teams; Mr. Giuliani disagreed. (In his book, Mr. Bratton said it was a coincidence that the proposed parade date in 1995 was also his birthday.)Eventually the Police Department’s press operation was cleaned out by the mayor’s office. Then Mr. Bratton was replaced as commissioner in 1996. Among the stated reasons at the time: Mr. Bratton’s contract with Random House to write a book about his tenure.
144 2013-12-06 Before Detroit, There Was Stockton
145 2013-12-06 The city of Stockton, Calif., which declared Chapter 9 bankruptcy, has filed a proposed legal road map for settling its debts.
146 2013-12-06 “I also have no doubt whatsoever, that in a very short period of time, with police supervision and training and leadership change, that we also will be able to very quickly address the concerns about stop-and-frisk,” Mr. Bratton said.

In fact, both he and Mr. de Blasio acknowledged that stop-and-frisk tactics, used legally and appropriately, were an essential tool for the police. They could wind up having a hard time bringing the stop-and-frisk rate below where it now stands.

You would not have heard the slightest hint of that at the news conference.

Nor, for that matter, would you have heard the names of any of Mr. Bratton’s predecessors as police commissioner, with one exception: his own. He served as commissioner for two years at the beginning of the Giuliani administration. In every place where Mr. Bratton has been the top police leader — in New York, Boston and Los Angeles — Mr. de Blasio noted, crime has gone down. “Extraordinary,” Mr. de Blasio said.

Well yes, but no.

The man he is replacing as police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, was twice in charge of the New York police when crime went down — once in the early 1990s, and now for more than a decade. In 2001, there were 714 murders in New York City (excluding those who were killed in the attack on Sept. 11). The following year, 2002, Mr. Kelly became the commissioner. In 2012, there were 419 murders. During the 11 years in which murders declined, the city grew by 287,000 people — as if everyone from Cincinnati had moved to the five boroughs. The murder rate declined to 5.1 per 100,000 people, from 8.9.

New York’s police commissioners are, in many ways, the greatest divas in the city’s public life. They can be given altogether too much credit or blame for crime rates, or as happened Thursday, only blame and no credit at all. For nearly an hour, Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Bratton managed to talk about policing without once mentioning Mr. Kelly or Mr. Bloomberg.

Twelve years ago, I stood in Gracie Mansion and listened to Mr. Kelly accept the appointment as police commissioner, his second stint in the office. He acknowledged the work of Mr. Bratton and his other predecessors, at least two of whom were in the room.

That said, Mr. Kelly also noted that the Police Department had to make up ground lost to the aggressive tactics of the previous decade. “The Police Department needs better relations with the people it serves,” he said.

None of his predecessors were standing with Mr. Bratton on Thursday. He talked about smiting the already dead, or at least toothless, dragon of stop-and-frisk. Other than an unbecoming touch of begrudgery, his second coming sounded quite a bit like Mr. Kelly’s. “At a time police and community should be so much closer, that there should be a bond of trust between them, that is not the case in some of the communities in this city,” Mr. Bratton said. “That is unfortunate. But it can be corrected.”
147 2013-12-06 JACKSON, Miss. — Former Gov. Bill Allain of Mississippi, a Democrat who increased the number of women and members of minorities in government jobs and strengthened the executive branch by removing legislators from state boards, died here on Monday. He was 85.

A law associate, Louis Clifford, confirmed the death. He said Mr. Allain had been hospitalized for about two weeks with pneumonia.

Mr. Allain was governor from January 1984 to January 1988, after serving as attorney general from 1980 to 1984. He then returned to private law practice.

Mr. Allain (pronounced al-LANE) would not say which of his statewide jobs he preferred.

“As attorney general, you get up in the morning and you drink coffee and have breakfast and you go and you get your staff together and you say, ‘Who we going to give hell to today?’ ” he told The Associated Press in 2001. “And as governor you get up and do the same thing, but your staff says, ‘Who’s giving us hell today?’ ”

Through work Mr. Allain started as attorney general and continued as governor, legislators were removed from a number of state boards. That strengthened the executive branch in a state where the 1890 Constitution creates a relatively weak governorship.

Mr. Allain also hired numerous women and minority members. In 1985, he appointed the first black justice on the Mississippi Supreme Court, Reuben V. Anderson.

Mr. Allain, who was divorced, is survived by two sisters, Mildred Newsome and Maggie Gibbs.

His campaign for governor in 1983 was marred by some of the most scandalous accusations in Mississippi political history. A Republican-financed campaign accused Mr. Allain of sexual improprieties, which were never substantiated. Mr. Allain vehemently denied the claims.
148 2013-12-06 “I’ve never seen anything like this before because I think more than half the team is new. But we jelled so quickly.”

The conversations in N.B.A. locker rooms tend to drift toward cliché. The Blazers used just about every one that referred to unselfish play, consistency and the embracing of roles. But the look in their eyes and the looseness in the locker room imbued the banalities with profundity.

As Lillard walked through singing Next’s slow jam “Too Close” in a fragile falsetto, Aldridge joked that it sounded like a little girl being attacked by a dog.

A notoriously reticent player in years past, Aldridge called this the happiest time in his career.

“Guys are playing so unselfish — our team chemistry is unreal right now,” he said. “Coach Stotts gives us the freedom to play loose and make plays, and guys aren’t abusing it.”

Like Aldridge, guard Wesley Matthews endured the bad times, and he is cherishing this young season.

“The fact that we were so bad, recordwise, last year, we grew,” he said. “A lot of the guys that were here last year, experienced all that losing last year, we’re still here. When you’re on both ends of the spectrum, you have no choice but to be close.”

In any professional environment, an infusion of new personnel usually leads to a feeling-out period in which everyone searches for a role. As in any office, that process can create friction when a player does not accept his designated role or resents an opportunity afforded to a teammate, or both. Amazingly, the Blazers said, there were no formal discussions about what each player’s role would be.

That Aldridge and Lillard would be the stars was obvious, but Watson said: “Everyone accepts their role, and the roles were never defined. It’s the truth of our team, the DNA of our team. The way we fit together, it’s like the perfect storm, so to speak.”

That chemistry comes through on the court, where the spacing is outstanding because there is little overlap in the places each player likes to use on the floor.

Forward Nicolas Batum epitomizes this dynamic. The second-highest-paid player on the team, Batum is nonetheless content to make an impact in more subtle ways than point totals.

Along with being the team’s best defender, he often initiates the offense with his passing from the corner and top of the key, and his 3-point shooting and precisely timed cuts to the rim provide counterpunches when opponents load up against Aldridge and Lillard.

Despite their huge wins, the Trail Blazers have plenty of work to do before ranking as contenders in the loaded West. They still have serious concerns on defense, and there will be nights when the shots do not fall. But they are clearly enjoying one another, and the victories, now.

“It’s the design and makeup of the team,” Matthews said. “They handpicked the team. It’s fitting Coach’s system, and they bought in — we really bought in. It’s hard not to buy in when you’re playing this well.”
149 2013-12-06 FRANKFURT — Danièle Nouy, the French official proposed to lead Europe’s new banking regulator, on Thursday received the overwhelming backing of a key committee of the European Parliament, virtually assuring she will get the job.

The Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, meeting in Brussels, backed Ms. Nouy by a vote of 29 to 0, with one abstention. Assuming the full body backs her next week — something that would appear to be assured — Ms. Nouy will take over the thorny job of overseeing the largest banks in the 17 nations of the euro zone and coordinating policy with national governments.

The new regulator, known as the single supervisor, will operate under the umbrella of the European Central Bank beginning Nov. 4, 2014.

Ms. Nouy’s nomination may help the European Central Bank smooth its image as an old-boys club. There are currently no women on the bank’s executive board at a time when the Federal Reserve is soon to be headed by Janet L. Yellen, though Ms. Nouy will not be on the executive board itself. The gender issue had become a point of contention between the central bank and some members of Parliament, including Sharon Bowles, the head of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee.

The euro crisis has exposed numerous weaknesses in the bloc’s banking regulation, where a hodgepodge of national regimes coexist without a strong central authority. European Union leaders have sought to address that flaw by giving the European Central Bank direct oversight of about 130 of the largest lenders, something seen as an important step toward the creation of a banking union. Before the supervisor formally begins work, Ms. Nouy will help oversee the asset reviews and stress tests that will last into next autumn.

Ms. Nouy will oversee a new organization to be based in the E.C.B.'s current headquarters in Frankfurt, with plans for a staff of 700 to 1,000 bank regulators. The supervisor’s functions will be kept at arm’s length from the central bank’s monetary policy operations, though a member of the E.C.B.'s executive board will serve as Ms. Nouy’s vice chairman.

Speaking at a media briefing in Frankfurt on Thursday, Mario Draghi, the E.C.B. president, quipped that she was facing “not an insignificant amount of work.”
150 2013-12-06 In July, after a video showing an Emirati man hitting an Indian van driver spread rapidly, the police arrested the Emirati as well as the man who posted the video because he had “shared” images of a potential crime.

The case over the martial arts video is likely to embarrass the United Arab Emirates at a time when the country is advertising itself as an international destination for culture. Last week, Dubai won the bid to host the World Expo in 2020 under the slogan “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future,” after a lengthy campaign endorsed by Bill Gates.

Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai, said on Twitter that the Expo would “breathe new life into the ancient role of the Middle East as a melting pot for cultures and creativity.”

On Friday, the Dubai International Film Festival begins, with Cate Blanchett and Martin Sheen among the guests. Critics say that jailing residents for online expression contradicts that message of openness.

“Dubai’s business model relies on it being able to project an image of progressiveness and stability, and hosting expos and film festivals all fits into this,” said Nicholas McGeehan, Persian Gulf researcher for Human Rights Watch. “But cases likes this seriously undermine that image and reveal it to be nothing more than a public relations artifice.”

Emirati officials did not respond to requests for comment.

The case has only become public recently, after the family members of Mr. Cassim, the American citizen, decided that their efforts to navigate the Emirati justice system had done them little good.

“There seems to be no end in sight,” said Mr. Cassim’s brother, Shervon, who spent nearly three months in the Emirates trying to secure his brother’s release.

In a telephone interview from his home in North Carolina, Mr. Cassim said his brother’s detention had become a bitter end to his family’s decades-old relationship with the Emirates.

His parents emigrated from Sri Lanka to Dubai in 1976 because it was a land of opportunity “where you could go and make your fortune,” he said.

His mother worked for an airline and his father became an advertising executive, part of the large group of expatriates that helped expand the city from a desert backwater into the hypermodern crop of skyscrapers, malls and upscale hotels that it is today.

Shezanne Cassim’s two siblings were born there and all three were educated in British private schools, where they had close friends from the Emirates and many other countries, his brother said.

“We were so happy to see Dubai boom and we have so much affection for the city and its people, and yet this is how the authorities treat my brother,” he said.

The family moved to the United States in the early 2000s and became citizens. But Shezanne Cassim returned to Dubai after graduating from the University of Minnesota in 2006 to do business development for a subsidiary of Emirates airline, his brother said.

Three weeks before his arrest, he started a consulting job with PricewaterhouseCoopers.

In his free time, Mr. Cassim and his friends made videos spoofing aspects of Dubai life. The videos start with a “Don’t try this at home” warning, then show Mr. Cassim doing things he says are not done in Dubai, like changing lanes on the highway to let faster drivers pass and cleaning up after yourself at McDonalds.

In one video, he wears deodorant on public transit, implying that other riders do not.

In October 2012, the martial arts mocumentary was posted online, in which a portly grandmaster in a striped robe explains the United Arab Emirates’ key weapons: the sandal, the rope from an Arab headdress and “the Twitter.”

In April, after the video had logged thousands of views, the police detained Mr. Cassim and four others who appear in the video. They were later put on trial for national security violations that include endangering public order.

Emirati commentators, none of whom wanted to be named in connection with a national security case, guessed that the authorities objected to the video’s stereotyping of Emiratis or thought it implied that the country had gangs. One suggested that the police cracked down to prevent a “snowball effect” of similar videos in the future.

The case recalls the fate of the Sudanese rapper Dangour, who was arrested in the Emirates in June 2011 and jailed for two years after he posted a video of himself rapping about drugs and violence.

But not all such indiscretions are punished. One month before Dangour’s arrest, the Emirates welcomed the American rapper Snoop Dogg, who greeted the audience in a white robe and Arab headdress to deliver an expletive-filled show.

The verdict in Mr. Cassim’s case was expected in September, but it has been delayed numerous times. His family says that he is being held in a desert prison outside Abu Dhabi with the other four defendants and that he has not been allowed to meet privately with his defense lawyer.

A State Department official said that the United States was “troubled by the prolonged incarceration” of Mr. Cassim and that American diplomats were working with their counterparts in the United Arab Emirates to “to urge a fair and expedient trial and judgment.”

Mr. Cassim’s next hearing is scheduled for Dec. 16.
151 2013-12-06 “A lot of people most focused on this issue said that Francis needs to game up,” Mr. Allen said in a telephone interview. “So the P.R. thing to say was, ‘We’re doing something.’ ”

The announcement elicited a mixed reaction, reflecting some skepticism, particularly among victims and their advocates, over whether a new commission would be more than cosmetic.

The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the coordinating body of bishops in the United States, called the pope’s move “a most welcome initiative.” In a statement, the group said: “Abuse of minors is a sin and a crime, and every step must be taken to eradicate this blight. Such abuse is especially grave when committed by anyone in ministry in our church.”

At the same time, the Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests, known as SNAP, the leading United States-based support group for clergy abuse victims, called the news a disappointment that reflected badly on the new pope. David Clohessy, executive director of the group, said the announcement suggested that the Vatican remained strongly resistant to making sexually abusive members of the clergy and their church protectors accountable to external criminal prosecution.

“A new church panel is the last thing that kids need,” Mr. Clohessy said in a telephone interview. “Church officials have mountains of information about those who have committed and those who are concealing horrible child sex crimes and cover-ups. They just have to give that information to the police.”

BishopAccountability.org, an organization that has amassed an enormous collection of documents on the abuse problem in the church, gave a cautious welcome to the announcement, but also expressed skepticism.

“It’s good that the Vatican will be giving this terrible problem high-level and focused attention,” Anne Barrett Doyle, the group’s co-director, said in a statement. “But we are concerned that the commission will be toothless and off-target.”

The suggestion to establish a commission came from the group of eight cardinals brought together by the pope a month after his election in March to advise him on reforming the Vatican’s labyrinthine bureaucracy.

Precisely who will serve on the advisory commission and what authority it will have remained unclear. But Cardinal Sean P. O’Malley, the only American among the eight cardinals advising the pope, said it would include priests, men and women from religious orders and laypeople with expertise in safeguarding children, and that it would offer advice on pastoral care rather than judicial functions. That seemed to signal that it would not make proposals for exposing or punishing abusive clerics.

The commission will have a broad mandate including the development of “norms, procedures and strategies for the protection of children and the prevention of abuse of minors,” the Vatican said in a statement.

It could also develop guidelines for cooperating with civil authorities, reporting of crimes and compliance with civil law, the Vatican said. Procedures for “screening and checking of previous offenses” and “the state of action of requests for psychiatric evaluation” could also be examined.

“Up to now, there’s been so much focus on the judicial parts of this, but the pastoral response of the church is very, very important, and the Holy Father is concerned about that,” Cardinal O’Malley said at a news conference at the Vatican. “And so we feel as though having the advantage of a commission of experts that would be able to study some of these issues and bring concrete recommendations for the Holy Father and the Holy See will be very important.”

The cardinal’s diocese in Boston was the center of the sexual abuse scandal in the United States a decade ago. The cardinal also is known to be among the most proactive advisers to Francis in pushing to address the abuse issue more assertively.

While the commission’s powers, precise composition and influence are not yet known, Mr. Allen said, Cardinal O’Malley’s role “suggested that it’s substantive.”

Other Vatican experts expressed caution. John Thavis, the author of “The Vatican Diaries,” a best-selling book about how the Vatican works, said the commission was a “positive step.” But he expressed doubt that it would “revolutionize anything” in how the church deals with sexual abuse cases.

“This is an advisory commission to the pope, and doesn’t have any authority on how its recommendations would be implemented or on issues of how bishops report to local civil authorities,” he said.

This week, the Vatican sidestepped a request from the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child for information about its handling of abuse cases, saying that the responsibility for such cases rested with individual bishops.

Sexual abuse of children has haunted the Vatican, particularly during the eight-year papacy of Benedict XVI, Francis’ predecessor, who often seemed overwhelmed by scandals involving cover-ups of pedophilia and other forms of sexual abuse that undermined the church’s moral authority and stature.

In June 2010, Benedict addressed the abuse issue in public, telling priests in St. Peter’s Square, “We, too, insistently beg forgiveness from God and from the persons involved, while promising to do everything possible to ensure that such abuse will never occur again.” In 2012, he approved a symposium to discuss ways of preventing the sexual abuse of minors by members of the clergy.

An aloof theologian, Benedict resigned in February, the first pope to relinquish the Roman Catholic Church’s highest office voluntarily in nearly 600 years. Francis has sought to project a more down-to-earth image, blending personal humility with a readiness to embrace new thinking.

Even as Cardinal O’Malley announced the commission, parts of the church were bracing for new disclosures. The Archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis told its priests that a new report would illuminate the prevalence of abuse in its parishes.

Cardinal O’Malley said the new advisory commission would study existing measures and proposals for “new initiatives” to safeguard children, as well as guidelines for the personal conduct of priests and the creation of safe environments to limit the likelihood of abuse.

Under Benedict, the Vatican asked the bishops of every country to produce a policy on handling abuse cases, and to submit the policies to the Vatican for approval. But not all of them did so; bishops in some parts of Africa, Asia and Latin America said they had little experience or expertise on the issue. By contrast, the church has been calling bishops and officials from English-speaking countries to meetings in Rome for decades to discuss the abuse problem and share their best practices.

The new emphasis on pastoral care for abuse victims may present challenges for the Vatican. Many victims of abuse by priests say they want nothing more to do with the church, and would not feel comfortable receiving counsel or spiritual care from a professional affiliated with the church.
152 2013-12-06 LOS ANGELES — Universal Pictures is shutting down production on “Fast & Furious 7” for an indefinite period following the death of one of the film’s stars, Paul Walker, ensuring a delayed release date for the big-budget picture.

Universal said in a statement on Wednesday that it would halt filming “for a period of time so we can assess all options available to move forward with the franchise.” The studio added, “We are committed to keeping ‘Fast & Furious’ fans informed, and we will provide further information to them when we have it.”

Simultaneously, the Los Angeles County coroner’s office released the results of an autopsy of Mr. Walker’s remains. Mr. Walker, 40, was the passenger in a Porsche that crashed into a light pole and tree on Saturday afternoon. He died of the combined effects of “traumatic and thermal” injuries, the coroner said. The driver of the car, Roger Rodas, died of “multiple traumatic injuries.”

Mr. Walker died in suburban Los Angeles while on a Thanksgiving break from filming. “Fast & Furious 7,” which Universal had scheduled for release on July 11, is only about half-finished. “Right now, all of us at Universal are dedicated to providing support to Paul’s immediate family and our extended ‘Fast & Furious’ family of cast, crew and filmmakers,” the studio's statement said.
153 2013-12-06 When Mr. Osborne provided his economic assessment last year, many feared that Britain might slip back into recession. On Thursday he claimed credit for an unexpected surge in growth. But he also insisted that “the job is not done” — an appeal to voters not to entrust his party’s political opponents with stewardship of the economy after the next elections, in 2015.

“We seek a responsible recovery,” Mr. Osborne told Parliament, “one where we don’t squander the gains that we have made but go on taking the difficult decisions.”

While other European governments may look in envy at British growth forecasts, analysts said Britain was risking an unbalanced recovery. Robert Wood, chief economist here for Britain at Berenberg, argued that one of the main reasons for the speed of the pickup was a more aggressive monetary policy and a consumer culture more reliant on credit than elsewhere in Europe.

“Unlike in France, where you can only encourage people to borrow today if they think they can repay it tomorrow, the British consumer is not worried that much about the long term,” Mr. Wood said.

Government programs that made it easier to get credit over the last three years, and a banking sector that had cleaned itself of bad assets faster, helped the British economy push ahead of the euro zone.

At the same time, though, the stabilization of the euro zone, Britain’s largest single export market, has helped the British recovery. Although British exports have failed to improve, greater stability in the euro zone made consumers in Britain more confident and eager to spend. Growing consumer confidence coupled with inflation that remained above the Bank of England’s 2 percent target, meant that household savings fell and consumption increased.

In a separate announcement on Thursday, Britain’s central bank said that it would keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent and that it would maintain its program of economic stimulus at 375 billion pounds, or about $615 billion.

Mr. Osborne did deliver good news to some British voters, announcing plans to help married couples through a new tax allowance; drivers with a freeze on the taxes applied to fuel; and small businesses, whose local taxes will be curbed.

But his statement was carefully balanced and laced with warnings that much more work needed to be done to secure a sustainable, long-term recovery.

So the squeeze on government spending will continue, with an additional £3 billion cut from government departmental budgets. And employees will have to work longer before they can claim state pensions. The government had planned to start raising the retirement age to 68 from 65 by 2046 to reflect improved life expectancy. But that switch will now be brought forward to the mid-2030s, then bumped up again, to 69, in the mid-2040s.

The government’s caution is partly political, because the statement Thursday represented an important point in the debate over economic strategy. Competing agendas will dominate the political landscape before the next general elections in Britain, which are due in 2015.

The Labour Party, which until recently had called on Mr. Osborne to change economic course and stimulate the economy, has switched tactics. It now highlights the fact that most Britons feel no better off and remain squeezed by low wage increases and soaring utility costs. That focus on the cost of living has put the government on the defensive, particularly on energy costs.

On Thursday, Mr. Osborne said that he would reduce the environmental levies the government assesses on energy bills, saving consumers around £50 a year on average.

Speaking in Parliament, Labour’s economy spokesman, Ed Balls, said there was “a cost of living crisis” and accused the chancellor of “utterly breathtaking complacency.” Labour argues that the recovery being constructed by the Conservative-led coalition will most likely benefit the wealthier. Mr. Osborne’s message is that the opposition cannot be trusted to continue stabilizing the economy after the worst crash in decades.

In his statement, Mr. Osborne predicted that Britain would run a budget surplus by 2018-19, and announced a cap on business rates — the taxes that companies pay on their properties to the local authorities.

But behind the good news on growth, big challenges remain amid worries that the recovery is being driven by housing price increases and consumer spending.

Home price rises, particularly in London and southeast England, have provoked concerns that Britain is about to begin its familiar cycle of economic boom and bust. Last week, the Bank of England elected to refocus a £60 billion lending program away from the housing market and toward businesses.

On Thursday, Mr. Osborne announced that nonresidents would have to pay tax on gains they make on property in Britain, a measure meant to deter foreign speculators, particularly in the most exclusive parts of London.

Meanwhile, other fundamentals like productivity growth and exports remain disappointing, and ministers accept the need for better infrastructure.

The government, which cut back strongly on capital spending when it came to power in 2010, has begun to change course. This week, it announced plans to invest £375 billion in energy, transportation and communications networks. The plan involves selling the government’s 40 percent stake in the Eurostar high-speed rail service.

Because of the length of the recession, Mr. Osborne’s original plan for public finances has long been off course. Howard Archer, an economist at IHS in London, welcomed the news that Britain’s net debt level is now expected to peak a year earlier and at a lower level than once expected. “The government borrowing and debt forecasts are still horribly high,” he said. “But they do look an awful lot better than they did back in March.”

Ryan Bourne, head of Economic Research at the Center for Policy Studies, a pro-free market research institute, said Britain was undergoing “a cyclical upturn” with forecasts showing that “the underlying structural deficit will be higher as a proportion of G.D.P. in the next two years than forecast in the budget in March.”

Speaking in Parliament, Michael Meacher, a Labour lawmaker and former minister, reeled off a list of negative statistics, arguing that business investment remained 25 percent below the precrash level, that productivity was among the lowest in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, that real wages had fallen 7 percent and that the deficit on traded goods was quite likely to exceed £100 billion this year.

“How can the chancellor conceivably claim that this recovery is sustainable?” Mr. Meacher asked.
154 2013-12-06 Some are Islamist militias that want to impose Shariah law. Others are local powerhouses that want special privileges for their regions or control over certain sectors of the government and economy. Well-equipped and often ruthless, the militias extort money from the government, confiscate property from civilians and run their own jails, with little respect for human rights.

Still, for the past two years, the residents of Tripoli have been largely apathetic, even while Libyans elsewhere have spoken up. A small group of us activists would meet regularly in Maidan Al-Jazair to, say, call for the inclusion of women in public life or condemn the mufti’s interventions in politics. Week after week, our ranks never seemed to grow.

Then the Nov. 15 massacre occurred, and thousands of Tripolitans mobilized overnight. The day after the killings, the Movement for Civil Action in Tripoli, a group no one had heard of, set up the stage next to Maidan Al-Jazair Mosque. For the following week physicians, teachers, bureaucrats — anyone who wanted to — got up on that stage to call for law and order, and the audience shouted back in approval. During every lull, the crowd would chant, “Libya is in dire straits! We need an army and police!”

A few days in, some of us suggested breaking up the speeches with film screenings. On Sunday, Nov. 24, while we were setting up a projector and portable screen on the stage, several bearded men walked up to us. One said we should invite a religious scholar to speak. Another said the women on stage who weren’t wearing hijabs shouldn’t sit facing the audience; certainly, they should not speak. Another asked that there be no singing, not a cappella, not even of national tunes.

The stage managers were in no mood. “We’re tired of them,” one said. “We are trying to bring the people together, and they want to divide us and obstruct our work over small inconsequential issues.” The men were driven away, to claps and cheers from the audience.

As we prepared to show our films, we asked the sound manager to respect the sanctity of the mosque nearby and keep the volume down. He did during the first film, but then he let it blare. A short video from Syria depicting the effects of violence on children got a large round of applause. Another film, which showed a militiaman placing his clothes in a washing machine and later retrieving from it a new crisp police uniform, drew raucous applause and some hoots.

Not long after our screening ended the play on the steps of the mosque began. The lead actor, Jamal Abu Mees, started to sing a popular tune about a family house that brings people together. Then he launched into the old mariner’s lament.

I had to go. But as I walked away, throngs were gathering. I could not believe that this square, now so loud with speeches against the militias and the fundamentalists, was the same as that lethargic, near-empty space of a few months ago.

The next day, I called Abu Mees to congratulate him. The play, he said, could not be completed: A half-hour into the performance, the fundamentalists had made too great a fuss about his singing.

But “at least we now know that we have supporters, people to stand on our side,” I said. He said he planned to put on another play in the square soon. And I promised to help.

Khaled Mattawa is a professor of English at the University of Michigan and co-founder of the Arete Foundation for Arts and Culture in Tripoli.
155 2013-12-07 Confidential documents offer the most detailed account yet of JPMorgan Chase’s “Sons and Daughters” hiring program in China, which has been at the center of a federal bribery investigation....
156 2013-12-07 But Ms. Gillibrand’s savvy has quickly brought her national prominence in a chamber in which she has served less than five years and has elevated the issues she has championed, like the sexual assault bill and gays in the military. Her relentlessness is combined with a personal warmth and charm — she steps an inch toward anyone who approaches her, not away, locking eyes as they speak — and she deftly uses outside advocacy groups and the news media to push her agenda.

“She just approaches colleagues differently than other Republicans and Democrats from New York,” said Senator , Republican of . What distinguishes her, he said, is “her determination and knowledge and willingness to sit down one on one with senators and explain what she is up to.”

An outside player in her caucus, the New York Democrat is nonetheless admired for her ample fund-raising, especially by women; she has raised nearly $30 million since being appointed in 2009, a tally that has scared away potential challengers from both parties and turned her into a mentor for female candidates around the country.

Ms. Gillibrand, who is 46, was the youngest senator when she was sworn in, and she seems a distinctly modern figure in a sometimes cobwebbed institution. She can swear like the litigator she once was, and runs one of the most informal offices in the Senate; her staff members are welcome in jeans and even in something resembling pajamas, and they call her Kirsten, rather than Senator, largely unheard-of on Capitol Hill.

She appeared in an elegant dress in Vogue magazine, and is co-captain of the congressional softball team. Seemingly always working — she has a book out next September — Ms. Gillibrand nonetheless leaves the office promptly at 5 every night to pick up her children from school. If there is a vote at that hour, she has developed a system to signal her aye or nay from a doorway off the Senate floor — where children are not permitted — so she can hold onto her 5-year-old’s hand. “She is ubiquitous,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of , “and I mean that as a compliment. I don’t know how she does it.”

Some of Ms. Gillibrand’s Democratic colleagues are less enamored, likening her zeal to that of the Republicans who hew to a belief and won’t let it go, ignoring some of the structural protocols of seniority.

“She is unwilling to knuckle under to demands for deference,” said Eugene R. Fidell, who teaches military justice at Yale Law School. “It is very rare that you see a relatively junior member of the Senate staking out a position and sticking by it.”

Ms. Gillibrand’s taste for a fight was presaged in her decision to run for the House in 2006, when she took on Representative John E. Sweeney in a Republican-rich district in upstate New York.

When she approached Howard Wolfson, a Democratic strategist, for help, he told her she could not win. “She told me she was going to run, was going to win, and I would either be the winning consultant or someone else would be,” he said. “I took the race.”

The campaign was one of the nastiest of the cycle, with a spate of negative ads that depicted Ms. Gillibrand as alternately dippy and a war profiteer for investing in war bonds, and ended with the release of a police report that detailed a domestic violence call made from Mr. Sweeney’s home. Ms. Gillibrand won over 50 percent of the vote. “She never wavered, never faltered,” Mr. Wolfson recalled.

A low-profile House member who was appointed to the Senate with the backing of Senator in 2009, despite the interest of better-known figures like , Ms. Gillibrand ran in a special election for the seat in 2010 and won with 63 percent of the vote. In 2012, she was re-elected with 72 percent of the vote.

She has skillfully aligned herself with causes with visible, moving human characters who have helped amplified her policy goals. Early to the fight for ending the policy for gays in the military, she set up a website that featured videos of gay veterans telling their stories.

She was equally canny pushing through health care legislation for the first responders who worked on the cleanup after the Sept. 11 attacks, helping them appear before the cameras, which helped lead to a coveted spot on “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart” to press what at the time seemed doomed.

Ms. Gillibrand has also made victims of sexual assault in the military more visible to her Senate colleagues, handing out copies of a documentary about their tribulations, which helped sway Senator of , the majority leader, to support her legislation.

“I’ve always seen myself as a voice for the voiceless,” Ms. Gillibrand said about her choice of issues. “When I hear these stories, they outrage me.”

The sexual assault fight exposed some of the tensions surrounding Ms. Gillibrand’s methods, and divided some in the party, as a fellow Democrat, Senator Claire McCaskill of , offered competing and less aggressive sexual assault legislation.

Last month, in a private meeting, female senators tried unsuccessfully to bridge the gap between the measures. Ms. McCaskill, a former prosecutor, was outraged when an ally of Ms. Gillibrand’s, the advocacy group Protect Our Defenders, took out an ad in Ms. McCaskill’s hometown paper that suggested she did not care about sexual assault.

Fellow lawmakers saw this as another stop on Ms. Gillibrand’s for-me-or-against-me campaign to get votes. Ms. Gillibrand told one member on the Senate floor that he needed to “stand with women,” even after he made it clear he supported Ms. McCaskill’s legislation, which angered him.

“When I talk to my colleagues, I want them to know all the facts,” Ms. Gillibrand said in an interview at a near Capitol Hill. She dismisses any talk of tension, saying that she gets along with her Democratic colleagues. “I don’t have any adversaries.”

Ms. Gillibrand cuts an unusual personal swath in the Capitol. Her sons, Theo, 10, and Henry, 5, go to school near the Capitol Hill home she shares with her husband, Jonathan, who commutes to New York during the week.

After fetching her boys from school, she brings them back to work if needed, where they hang around Mr. Reid’s office. A sitter takes over at 6:30 p.m. if she has an evening event to attend. The children are fixtures around the Senate, and can be seen horsing around with Senator , Republican of , or Mr. Schumer. “She is a very good mother, and she gets things done,” said Mr. Schumer, Ms. Gillibrand’s mentor and, according to other senators, sometimes her friendly competitor. “She’s a formidable figure.”

In the interview, Ms. Gillibrand began to lay out her agenda for the coming year: pushing her sexual assault amendment, even if it fails, raising the minimum wage, trying to restore cuts in food stamps, even as she fights, once again, with her own party. “All of these issues are about speaking truth to power,” she said, as her aide nudged her. It was time to pick up the kids.
157 2013-12-07 Speaking in one of Washington’s poorest neighborhoods on Tuesday, Mr. Obama threw his weight behind a $10.10 federal minimum wage, saying declining social mobility and inequality “pose a fundamental threat to the American dream.”

Democrats across the country are hoping to use the issue in next year’s midterm elections. Drives to place a minimum-wage measure on the 2014 ballot are underway in half a dozen states, including three — Arkansas, Alaska and South Dakota — where Democrats are fighting to retain vulnerable Senate seats in states that voted for Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee.

“There is much more action at the state and local level around raising the minimum wage than we’ve ever seen before,” said Paul Sonn, the general counsel of the National Employment Law Project, which tracks the issue. “We clearly think what’s driving it is the fact that the economy is producing mostly low-wage jobs. Every indication is Democrats are going to run on it.”

Republicans counter that low pay will indeed be an issue in the midterm elections, but in ways that favor their candidates. They argue that Mr. Obama’s health care law has suppressed hiring and could cause employers to shed full-time employees in favor of part-time workers.

The minimum wage’s impact on jobs is sufficiently debated by economists to offer ammunition to both sides. Mayor Vincent C. Gray of Washington, a Democrat, vetoed a bill to raise the minimum wage to $12.50 last summer after Walmart threatened to pull the plug on as many as six stores it planned for the city.

On Tuesday, the Washington Council unanimously passed a veto-proof version of the bill. It would start with a bump up to $9.50 an hour in July from the current minimum of $8.25. The floor rises to $11.50 in 2016 and thereafter is tied to inflation.

The two Maryland counties, the most populous in the state, reach $11.50 in 2017.

Mayor Gray, who is seeking changes to the bill, which must clear another Council vote, has warned that anything more than $10 will cause beauty shops, restaurants and other small businesses to reduce hiring. But a spokesman, Pedro Ribeiro, said the mayor, who moved this week to seek a second term, would sign a bill substantially like the one the Council already passed.

In a coincidence of timing, Walmart opened two stores in Washington on Wednesday, bringing low-cost goods and entry-level jobs to an increasingly gentrifying city with a shortage of both. The company said 23,000 people applied for about 600 jobs.

A Walmart spokesman declined to say whether plans for four other stores were in jeopardy with the city set to approve the $11.50 minimum wage.

“We realize that the discussion around the minimum wage is an important one and recognize government will take steps to address this issue,” said Lorenzo Lopez, the spokesman.

Vincent B. Orange, a Washington councilman, said the city essentially called Walmart’s bluff: The giant retailer needs inner-city shoppers because it has saturated rural and suburban markets.

“At the end of the day, the District of Columbia has one of the highest disposable incomes in the nation,” said Mr. Orange, a candidate for mayor next year. “We’re saying our citizens need to grow with you, and they can’t do it on $8.25 an hour.”

Adjusted for inflation, the national minimum wage reached a peak in 1968 and has lost about 6 percent of buying power since it was last raised in 2009. Across the country, a number of Democratic-led states and cities have responded to what they consider congressional inaction by raising their own minimum wage. Washington State is scheduled to increase its inflation-indexed minimum to $9.32 an hour in January. San Francisco’s entry-level wage will be $10.74 in January.

In Montgomery County, Md., the Chamber of Commerce objected to the increase, saying it would add red tape for companies with employees who work in adjacent counties, in Virginia or around the country with different minimums. “You have state and local officials trying to grapple with issues that are really a national issue,” said Gigi Godwin, the chamber president.

In Prince George’s County, the Council also unanimously approved the increase to $11.50, a veto-proof margin facing the county executive, Rushern L. Baker III, who has expressed misgivings about a loss of competitiveness in luring businesses.

Prince George’s, which has long drawn African-Americans from Washington moving into the middle class, is one of the wealthiest black-majority counties in the country, with a median family income of $73,000, according to the census. But 8.2 percent are below the poverty level.

“We all believe our residents should have a little better opportunity at a fair wage,” said Andrea C. Harrison, the chairwoman of the County Council.

She disputed that employers would pick up and move to lower-cost counties, including in Virginia. “There are studies and studies of minimum wage that show that’s not necessarily the case,” she said.
158 2013-12-07 “This has been a horrendously hard year for me,” she said. “If I don’t think of this in a way that is going to relieve the anger and upset, then I’ll just go back to crying every day.”

More than a year after one of the country’s largest-ever disaster recovery efforts began, Ms. Fitzgerald is among the more than 30,000 residents of New York and New Jersey who remain displaced by the storm, mired in a bureaucratic and financial limbo.

Imposing on relatives and draining their savings while pleading for assistance from a dizzying array of government agencies, they say they fear they will never get home.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency said it had provided $1.4 billion in direct aid to victims of the storm and $7.9 billion in flood insurance payouts, and that the Small Business Administration had made $2.4 billion in low-interest loans to homeowners and businesses. What it did not announce was that less than half of the people who sought emergency money received any, as an analysis by The New York Times of FEMA data shows, or that in many cases flood insurance covered only a fraction of the losses.

According to the analysis by The Times, in the areas in and around New York City that were hit hardest by the storm, almost half of the people who received assistance from FEMA got less than $5,000. Most of that money was intended to cover housing and other emergency costs immediately after the storm.

Hurricane Sandy was a storm like no other in the history of New York. It left more than 100 people dead and caused enormous structural damage that will take years to repair.

FEMA has received claims for nearly 16 million square feet of drywall, 56,000 furnaces and water heaters and enough paint to cover 43 million square feet.

But the most the agency gave in “individual assistance” to any single homeowner was about $36,000. The agency’s representatives instructed homeowners to file claims on their flood insurance policies, if they had one, and to apply for loans from the Small Business Administration, if they qualified. But as those first, small installments ran out, the frustration of negotiating with insurers added to the stress of being displaced.

“I think flood insurance underpayments is the single biggest reason for why the rebuilding hasn’t really taken off,” said Benjamin R. Rajotte, director of the Disaster Relief Clinic at the Touro Law Center in Central Islip, N.Y. “Frequently, people are coming in saying they received half or less of what it would take to rebuild their house, not even to raise them up but just to rebuild.”

Officials at FEMA, which oversees the national flood insurance program, said that adjusters had incentive to cover all eligible losses, but that some policyholders might be disappointed at receiving money for what things were worth, rather than what it would cost to replace them. Those with complaints may appeal the decisions.

Many residents of the region were also surprised to have claims denied for damage to the foundations of their houses because the damage was deemed to have resulted from “earth movement,” not storm flooding.

Some of those displaced, like Rochelle Grubb of Far Rockaway, Queens, had no insurance at all against a flood.

Ms. Grubb, 41, a special-needs teacher at Public School 256 in Queens, had allowed her flood insurance to lapse before her house on Beach 101st Street was inundated by the fast-rising water.

In early December, she said she had been tutoring and her husband, Timothy, had been working overtime to come up with the $270,000 they estimated it would cost them to rebuild.

They said they expected it would be more than a year before they could return to their house, but they do have flood insurance now. Ms. Grubb said she had to buy it to qualify for a $135,000 loan she received from the Small Business Administration.

“It’s 101 Street but we all called it One Hundred and Fun Street,” she said, referring to her close-knit neighbors. “Now when we see each other, we’d just hug and cry. And we’re like, when, when, when?”

FEMA officials say that their primary goal is to provide emergency aid in the days and weeks after a disaster strikes — the first splash of what is known in Washington as the cascade of federal assistance.

The process of obtaining full compensation for losses is designed to involve several steps and to frustrate efforts to take unfair advantage, as some were accused of doing after Hurricane Katrina struck in 2005, government officials say.

Standing beside Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, in Manhattan in late October, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that more care was being taken to minimize fraud. “We’re not just sending checks willy-nilly,” he said.

The biggest chunks of federal aid for residents come not from FEMA but from HUD, which received $16 billion from Congress to dole out in grants to state and local agencies. That money was part of a total federal allocation of about $60 billion in recovery money.

So far, New York City and the States of New York and New Jersey have received more than $10.2 billion of that money. But they have handed out only a small fraction of it.

By the anniversary of the storm on Oct. 29, New Jersey had spent about $230 million of its grants, but New York City and New York State had made very few payments through their rebuilding programs, known as Build it Back in the city and New York Rising on Long Island.

Robert Smith, 64, a retired New York Police Department detective, said he had nearly given up hope on receiving enough money to rebuild the cottage he shared with his wife in the Broad Channel section of Queens. “FEMA has been totally insensitive to what I consider our basic needs,” said Mr. Smith, who has been living with his wife in their cabin upstate.

As for the Build It Back program, he said he had talked to dozens of homeowners in Broad Channel and none had received any money from that program. “It’s close to 15 months later and the only thing we’re getting is a bureaucracy and promises,” Mr. Smith said. “I want nothing more than to go back to live in Queens, or buy me out.”

Caswell F. Holloway IV, the deputy mayor overseeing Build It Back, said city officials waited until HUD had made its second allocation to the program before telling applicants how much they might receive.

The state’s New York Rising program kicked into high gear this October, sending out 4,200 letters that promised $450 million to homeowners and families on Long Island. A second mass-mailing, in November, promised payments to an additional 350 recipients.

In late October, the announcement of the latest portion of federal money spurred Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York to declare that “the aid spigot is now open, money will be flowing.” He conceded that “in Year 1, we all agree, the aid flowed too slowly” and said that there was “too much red tape.”

Only a few of those payments have been made so far, but state officials said on Friday that they had asked HUD to allow them to send more than $650 million directly to 6,666 homeowners before the end of the year.

Garrett J. Kaiser, a heavy equipment operator who lives with his wife and two children in Patchogue on Long Island, became one of the first beneficiaries of the state’s program this week.

Mr. Kaiser, 37, and his family lived for months in a camping trailer in their next-door neighbors’ driveway after the nearby bay rose up and filled their single-level house with two feet of water.

After the storm, he set about tearing out the soaked Sheetrock almost immediately, then had the structure raised seven feet. He personally rebuilt much of it, dipping into his family’s savings before he started receiving installments of insurance proceeds that totaled $115,000. In late October, he was one of the first applicants to the New York Rising program to sign the final paperwork to close a deal.

The promised payment of $38,000 would cover all of the expenses that FEMA and flood insurance did not, he said last month. He added that he had heard of people receiving promises of as much as $250,000 from New York Rising and that everyone he knew who had applied to the program was satisfied.

“Now I feel blessed that the storm hit because I have a wonderful new home,” said Mr. Kaiser, who has gone into business elevating other homes in flood-prone areas. “I’m staying forever.”

On Wednesday evening, Mr. Kaiser had not yet received any money from New York Rising. But after an inquiry from a reporter about the delay, Mr. Kaiser said the full $38,000 was deposited in his account on Thursday.

Conni Freestone and her boyfriend, David Fagan, have been sleeping on air mattresses in a rented bungalow they have shared with Ms. Freestone’s ailing, 63-year-old mother in Toms River, N.J.

They had been living in her mother’s home in nearby Point Pleasant when the hurricane drove water from a creek into the garage and main floor of the two-story house. The flood ruined most of the instruments used by Mr. Fagan’s band and the equipment Ms. Freestone used as a freelance photographer. But the flood insurance on the house did not cover those contents.

Ms. Freestone had been frustrated by the slow response of FEMA to their many appeals for help and found out only after pestering Gov. Chris Christie in public that the agency had estimated the damage to the house at less than $7,000. (An aide to Mr. Christie investigated and discovered the low estimate.)

That sum amounted to a fraction of the $83,000 a local contractor said the repairs would cost. The family had been paying for his work out of equity withdrawn from the house, which was their main asset.

Much of that work, including electrical wiring, proved shoddy, Ms. Freestone said, and the family was afraid to move back in. With mold climbing the new drywall, they decided to sue the first contractor and find another. But they had received just $55,000 from their insurance policies, so they kept asking for more help as the anniversary of the storm came and went.

“I felt like I was begging,” Ms. Freestone said of her frequent appeals to FEMA and state agencies. “When I did suck it up and begged, I got shot down. I’m used to being the volunteer, not the one asking for help.”

The disparities in recovery from Hurricane Sandy are on stark display in Long Beach, N.Y., on the block of modest homes where Ms. Fitzgerald and Megan lived next door to a couple, Anne Walsh and Penny Ryan. Their two-story houses, which stood side by side on lots of just 1,800 square feet, suffered similar damage when the floodwaters rose above their floorboards.

But Long Beach officials did not declare Ms. Walsh and Ms. Ryan’s house to be “substantially damaged.” And that determination has made all the difference.

Unlike Ms. Fitzgerald, they were cleared to fix up their home without having to elevate it off the ground. So now Ms. Walsh and Ms. Ryan return from work in New York City to a pin-neat living room with a gleaming floor made of Brazilian teak.

Within weeks after the waters receded, Ms. Walsh, a nurse, and Ms. Ryan, a public school principal, had dipped into their savings to pay a contractor to start tearing out and replace the ruined floors and walls. All told, they said, they had spent about $200,000 to restore their home — considerably more than they recouped through FEMA, flood insurance and a $26,000 grant from New York Rising.

“We went from having a comfortable lifestyle to being totally in debt,” said Ms. Ryan, 50.

Ms. Walsh said she thought it would take five years for the neighborhood they cherished to come fully back to life. Some houses still sit dark and boarded up, others are being raised several feet to avoid another flooding.

Ms. Fitzgerald had held out hope that the New York Rising program would come through with a grant big enough to bridge the wide gap between what she received from her insurance companies and what it would cost to build a house from scratch so close to New York City.

When she finally got her answer from New York Rising, Ms. Fitzgerald said she was “wrecked” by “bitter disappointment.”

The state had calculated that her house could be rebuilt for $160,000, so they subtracted the $84,000 they say she had received from other sources since the storm and awarded her $76,000. She said that she thought it would cost closer to $250,000 to rebuild.

And she has already spent some of her insurance proceeds to pay for demolition and plans and permits for a new house, leaving her with far less than what she needs to rebuild.

“I’m not looking for anything fabulous,” Ms. Fitzgerald said, choking back the frustration of not knowing if she and her daughter would ever get back to Delaware Avenue. “I love that block,” she said. “I want to build back.”
159 2013-12-07 Pictures From the Week in Business
160 2013-12-07 The Obama administration said Friday that the enrollment records for roughly a quarter of all the people who signed up for health insurance on its website in October and November could contain errors....
161 2013-12-07 “Some parents fear they are handing their children over to their grandparents and they’ll never get them back,” but that is nonsense, she said. “What I tell adult parents is at the end of the day, the most impactful teacher in a child’s life is you,” she said. “Don’t worry if your parents get involved and go astray, because you’ll have the final word.”

This sounds wonderful. But how should it be done? Here is a little nonshopping holiday guide for grandparents looking for ways to connect with grandchildren about financial matters.

Of course, it all starts with a conversation, but the form that talk takes matters. The Rev. Davis Fisher, an Episcopalian minister, a former private banker and the grandfather of eight, said he was always fascinated with how people lived with money — not how they made, invested and spent it — from his time as a local minister on up through his career in business. When he became a grandfather, he felt it was important to talk to his grandchildren about this and to have deeper conversations with them than how their day at school was.

With their parents’ consent, he started giving his grandchildren “money savvy pigs,” which Ms. Beacham created to show children the four uses of money: save, spend, donate and invest. (She now has a cow, as well as a football and a soccer ball for older children.) He asked them to divide their allowances into the four categories, and they would talk about those decisions at their regular breakfasts.

With his granddaughter Morgan, he said, they discussed the different words on the pig, and that led to broader discussions about what she was overhearing from her parents and friends about money. A memorable conversation was about why her friend got $10 a week when she got only $8. (Maybe she had more things to pay for, he told her.)

“Kids pick up on all the money stuff, but they don’t have any context for it,” he said. “They just know there is a lot of emotion around it.”

He didn’t push the subject, but instead waited for it to come up. “We were talking about money topics and it would be very focused,” he said. “But we were talking about other things, too. It was, ‘Let’s go out and spend a little time talking.’ ”

When she was 8, he said, he brought up the idea of giving away some of the money in the donate part of her bank. She had $30, and he threw in $100 for the “Morgan/Papa Philanthropy Fund.” He then gave her a copy of the Episcopal Relief and Development catalog, which lets people pay for specific things to help people in developing countries, like a flock of chickens, mosquito nets or vocational training.

At their next breakfast, she told him she wanted to donate a latrine. “I was dumbfounded,” Mr. Fisher said. “I thought she’d want to buy a cute little goose.”

Instead, she explained that she had learned in school that clean water was important. The only problem was that the latrine cost almost twice what she had. That gave him the idea of suggesting that she write to family members who might want to donate to her cause. He then called them all to make sure they gave small amounts.

She ended up raising more than she needed, and she received a thank-you letter from the relief agency in return. “Now she’s 14, and it’s in her bloodstream,” he said. “You don’t get carried away, but you give.”

A less formal, more situational approach could be just asking grandchildren questions throughout a normal day out. “Have you ever asked your grandchild how money comes out of an A.T.M.?” said Peg Eddy, president of Creative Capital Management. “Explain if you take the grandchild out to lunch why you’re leaving money on the table as a tip.”

This, she said, is a good way to model behavior. And more situational discussions might also open up an opportunity for that crucial childhood conversation between a need and a want, she said.

Ms. Bruno said field trips worked for grandchildren of all ages, even if they were to visit a financial adviser or an accountant. To make the trip special, she said, grandparents could suggest skipping school for a day or taking a train trip into the city. The central point, though, is “to explain that everyone needs a financial team,” she said.

She also encouraged grandparents to create a financial memory bank with their grandchildren. Where did they struggle or fail? What did their first car or house cost? Why did they decide to go back to school while working with a young family?

“I’ve seen it be life-changing for the family dynamics,” she said.

With grandchildren who have summer jobs, Ms. Eddy said, grandparents could propose some sort of match for the dollars earned, perhaps by putting an equal amount into a Roth I.R.A. for the grandchild or contributing to a savings account, perhaps toward a car.

While grandparents may go overboard with gifts, they can just as easily make mistakes with advice.

“I think of the grandmother who finds out the kid is saving for a bike and writes a check and says, ‘There, you’re done,’ ” Ms. Beacham said. “Or there’s the grandparent who forgets that this is not their primary responsibility or who doesn’t understand that by partnering with their adult children, they’ll have success.”

Yet there are subtler mistakes — like the grandfather bent on teaching his grandchildren about investing above all else when the grandchild couldn’t care less about it.

“We know that doesn’t work,” said Joline Godfrey, chief executive of Independent Means and author of “Raising Financially Fit Kids.” “If we don’t engage them first by developing context around money, we’re not going to get them to a stage where we can talk about skills.”

She said she encouraged grandparents to reframe the conversation around what was valuable to their grandchildren and not try to teach them a specific skill like stock picking.

The same goes for gifts meant to encourage investing.

“If it’s, ‘Here’s this piece of stock,’ and it doesn’t go any further, it’s a missed opportunity,” Ms. Godfrey said. “The grandparent needs to understand that unlike a gift that is a toy, this isn’t a single gift but a process.”

Where the money to buy that stock came from and what could happen to the stock’s value over time can expand a grandchild’s understanding of money.

Ultimately, it’s up to the parents to be involved in teaching their children about money. “But what grandparents can do,” Ms. Beacham said, “is strengthen your money message.”
162 2013-12-07 On Tuesday, state news media said the nuns had been forced to leave at gunpoint. But Abu al-Majd, the leader of a local rebel group made up of Aramaic-speaking Muslims – part of a diverse social fabric in the area – said the nuns had left voluntarily for the town of Yabroud because Mar Takla, which had remained intact during the initial rebel incursion, was being shelled heavily by the government. Recent footage taken by rebels showed heavy damage.

The Vatican’s representatives in Damascus and Beirut said they had been in touch with the nuns. They said that it was unclear whether their departure had been an evacuation or an abduction, but that they were safe.

Conflicting reports have swirled in recent days, with some of the Arabic news media saying that the Islamist insurgents of the Nusra Front were demanding that the government release 1,000 prisoners in exchange for the nuns, some rebel spokesmen in the area echoing the demand, and others saying no demand had been made. Rebels said the removal of the nuns was a joint operation between local fighters and outsiders from the Nusra Front and other insurgent groups.

The video did not address conditions for the nuns’ release or identify the location, nor did it show who was with them or whether the nuns were speaking under duress. It showed them, in black habits, sitting on sofas in a room with a gas heater. Some were smiling, and some were grim-faced.

“They said there is heavy shelling, and we might get hurt,” Mother Pelagia said. “For the sake of our safety, we should leave the monastery.” She added that the nuns and three civilians were taken in fast-moving cars under heavy shelling to a “safe location.”

“We can’t say anything except may God give them all health,” she said. “I thank those who offered this favor, food, water and welfare.”

Another nun said, “We want the shelling to stop on the holy places, mosques and churches, and peace will prevail.”

“We left because of the heavy shelling,” she said. “A loving affectionate group took us.”

A third said they would be released in two days. Asked by a voice off-camera if they were “abducted, kidnapped or hostages,” she said, “No, no, they put us in a safe place because there were clashes.”

Abu al-Majd said in a telephone interview that the local rebels were trying to negotiate for the nuns’ release.

Fierce battles have been raging in the area, which is close to the Lebanese border and a critical north-south highway. Some residents complained that the foreign focus on the nuns ignored the suffering of civilians trapped by the fighting.

Ali Diab, a civilian in Yabroud, a town that has maintained some of its Christian population under rebel control, said, “All the world shaking about those nuns and would not care about 50,000 civilians besieged and trapped in Nabak without food or aid.” He was referring to a nearby town.

The heavy attention paid to the fate of the nuns, he said, was “either sectarian or stupid.”
163 2013-12-07 But at least they sold. Sanford Robinson Gifford’s Civil War masterpiece, “Sunday Morning in the Camp of the Seventh Regiment,” which was on loan to the White House and had hung in the Oval Office for over 20 years, didn’t sell at this week’s auction at Christie’s, which must have come as a shock to New York’s Union League Club, which had owned the painting since 1871. It was estimated to fetch $3 million to $5 million.

A Christie’s spokeswoman said afterward that “there was steady client interest” in the painting before the auction, “given the painting’s exceptional rarity and historical significance.” But at the auction, the bidding “simply did not meet the reserve price.” The spokeswoman, who declined to be named, citing Christie’s policy, added that interest in the work was still “very much alive.”

What explains the sharp gap between perception and reality?

“What we’ve seen is that the explosive prices represent only a tiny, tiny subset of lots,” said David Kusin, a former Metropolitan Museum of Art curator who also worked on Wall Street and now runs Kusin & Company, a consulting firm in Dallas that specializes in the economics of the art market. “They get all the press, but we’ve seen relatively stable hammer prices in most categories over the past few years.”

And just two categories have pushed up the averages.

“Postwar, contemporary art — artists active from 1950 to the present — which includes Francis Bacon, Jackson Pollock, has been doing extremely well for the past 25 years,” Michael Moses, a retired professor of economics at New York University’s Stern School of Business and a co-founder of the Mei Moses Art Index, told me this week. “And traditional Chinese art — works created before 1900 — has been doing even better.”

Mr. Moses said his data indicated that traditional Chinese art had gained a compounded annualized rate of return for the 10 years ending in 2012 of 15.5 percent. Postwar and contemporary art gained 11.6 percent. By contrast, old master paintings gained only 3.3 percent and American paintings just 1 percent. And the overall index gained 7.4 percent.

Some find the whole notion of an art market to be distasteful. Michael Findlay, author of “The Value of Art,” and a director at the Acquavella Galleries in New York, said: “What I believe in is the social and aesthetic value of art. We live in a society where everything is so monetized, the only way people can talk about art is in terms of money.”

Like many art professionals, Mr. Findlay is a critic of the Mei Moses index, which doesn’t account for private sales at galleries like Acquavella. Mr. Moses acknowledges that his index, like any index, including the Dow Jones industrial average, has its limitations. By definition, it takes what are unique objects and combines them into broad patterns. The art market is “like real estate,” he said. “No two objects are exactly alike.”

Take the disparate results for the Bacon “Triptych” (a record) and the Warhol “Liz” (disappointing). Both feature what would seem to the untrained eye to be yellow as the dominant color. At Christie’s, that was a major selling point of the Bacon work: “The juxtaposition of radiant sunshine yellow contrasting with the brutal physicality and immediacy of the brush strokes in this celebrated life-size triptych is what makes Bacon’s art so remarkable,” the auction house said. But when I asked a major collector why the similarly hued “Liz” hadn’t fared better, he said: “Did you see it? It’s the color of your urine.”

As for the failure of the Gifford to sell, and for the weak performance of American paintings in general, “You’re not going to see many American paintings breaking the $10 million mark,” Mr. Moses said. “Americans just don’t seem to view their national treasures the way the Chinese do. It’s almost like Americans have an inferiority complex.”

Mr. Kusin added: “The hedge fund managers aren’t interested in 19th-century American. The people who buy American paintings are solid, rational people with lots of money and good taste. They’re not buying as an investment. There are some stupendous works coming up for sale, and in my view, they have a very good future ahead of them.”

What the hedge fund managers — not to mention many of the world’s billionaires and sovereign wealth funds — are interested in tends to be contemporary and postwar art. Why they would all be flocking to the same handful of artists is, like many aspects of the art market, something of a mystery. But there’s nothing new in the phenomenon. People I spoke to pointed out that the robber barons tended to collect old masters, and during the booming 1990s, Impressionist works were all the rage.

Theories abound, from the supposed scarcity of masterpieces in other genres to a herd mentality. “Contemporary is so popular with this set of very rich, newly rich collectors,” Mr. Kusin said. “They can hang anything they want in their Manhattan co-ops or in Aspen and nobody can say that’s ugly because contemporary art has not been subjected to sustained critical appraisal. There are no markers of good or bad taste that have yet been laid down. It’s a safe place to park your money. And if you leave the price tag dangling from the frame, so much the better.”

Mr. Moses said that it shouldn’t be all that surprising that a few trophy paintings were selling for more than $100 million, even as the broad market languished. “There are over 2,000 billionaires,” he said. “If they’re putting together an art collection for 10 to 15 percent of their assets, they can invest at least $600 million in art. And a lot of them have many billions. So when they look for a centerpiece for their collections, they’ll reach for over $100 million. That’s not unusual given their relative wealth.”

“People have always shown off their wealth with the size of their edifice and what art they put in it,” Mr. Moses said. “Many very rich people are collecting modern paintings. They should be buying Turner” — the record for the British old master is $45 million for a painting sold to the Getty Museum in 2010. “He’s the father of it all. If you put the Turner on your wall, it will make everything else look bleak. But they’re just not into it. Their friends may not know Turner, but they know Warhol and Bacon.”

The upshot is that the art market may not be nearly as inaccessible for people of more limited means as the headline prices suggest. Even at auction, most lots sell for under $100,000, and there are many that sell for less than $10,000.

Contrary to the almost universal claim by art dealers and auctioneers that it’s impossible to overpay for quality art, “our research shows dramatically that high-purchase-price paintings underperform low-purchase-price paintings over time,” Mr. Moses said. “Art is very democratic. There’s a painting for every purse.”

When I asked Mr. Kusin what categories he’d recommend, he ticked off old master drawings, 19th-century European and American paintings, 18th- and 19th-century American furniture, and 20th-century decorative arts. “They’re rationally priced, stable stores of value and lovely to live with,” he said.

Mr. Moses warned that art was illiquid, and buyers shouldn’t expect to recoup their money anytime soon. He also urged collectors not to get swept up in the excitement of bidding. “Our research shows that the more you pay over the estimate, the lower your future returns will be.”

And he noted that there were worse things than losing an auction for any one object. “The beauty of art is that there is a lot of it.”
164 2013-12-07 “Mr. Xu has always been adamant that he never committed any crimes, that he was acting entirely within the bounds of his lawful rights,” Mr. Zhang said.

The accusations show that the government has targeted Mr. Xu for his leading role in a citizens’ rights movement that since last year has gained a public following with its demands for greater political freedom and disclosure of officials’ assets as a way to fight corruption.

The movement has also protested China’s education system, which prevents students from rural areas from sharing the same resources and opportunities as those in big cities.

Mr. Zhang said the criminal charge against Mr. Xu was “assembling a crowd to disrupt order in a public place, the one he was arrested for.”

“The public security claimed that he organized people to assemble and demand disclosure of officials’ wealth and equal educational rights, disturbing the public order,” he said.

The police also accuse Mr. Xu of helping to arrange banners and other paraphernalia for the small, usually brief protests in Beijing and elsewhere, Mr. Teng said.

The Communist Party closely controls Chinese prosecutors and judges, especially in politically delicate cases, and Mr. Xu appears unlikely to escape trial and a prison sentence.

The police detained Mr. Xu in July, after he had already spent more than three months under informal house arrest in his apartment. Several other supporters of the citizens’ movement and parallel rights campaigns have been arrested, including a wealthy investor, Wang Gongquan, and a veteran dissident, Yang Maodong. This week, a court in eastern China tried three other participants in the movement.

Mr. Xu, 40, has been prominent in China’s network of rights advocates since 2003, when he took up the case of Sun Zhigang, a young clothing designer who was fatally beaten in a detention center for people lacking the right residency documents. The resulting outcry led the government to abolish arbitrary detention in such centers.

Mr. Xu studied law, but government authorities have refused to give him a license to practice.

Mr. Zhang, his lawyer, said prosecutors might spend a month to six months or more considering the case. He said his most recent visit to Mr. Xu was in late November.

“He’s doing O.K.,” Mr. Zhang said. “He is very firm that he will defend himself as innocent.”
165 2013-12-07 In “For Love of Animals,” Dr. Camosy links his concern for animals to his beliefs on abortion, arguing that the Catholic ethics of respect for life and care for the vulnerable should make us reconsider how we treat animals. The Catholic catechism permits meat eating, he told me, “but with two qualifications: we owe animals kindness, and it’s wrong to cause them to suffer needlessly.” The clear implication, he said, is that except for the poor who can’t get food other ways, everyone has a duty at least to avoid eating factory-farmed animals.

Mary Eberstadt, a political conservative and a Catholic, wrote the introduction to Dr. Camosy’s book and has praised it in National Review. After being “in and out of vegetarianism for decades,” as she said in an email this week, she now eats fish. Her choices were influenced, she said, by the vegetarian Leo Tolstoy’s 1909 essay about a slaughterhouse, and by “Dominion: The Power of Man, the Suffering of Animals, and the Call to Mercy,” the 2002 book by Matthew Scully, a conservative who was raised Catholic and wrote speeches for President George W. Bush.

Although there is an old, small tradition of Christian vegetarianism, the modern field of Christian animal rights can be dated to 1976, when Andrew Linzey, a theology student at King’s College, London, looked around at his fellow Christians and was struck by how little they cared about cruelty to animals. “I was puzzled by the indifference of my teachers to the issue and the general thoughtlessness of Christians,” Professor Linzey, who now teaches at Oxford, said in an email this week. So he wrote “Animal Rights: A Christian Assessment,” which was published in 1976, while he was still a student.

Although Professor Linzey’s book caused a sensation in Christian circles, animal welfare became mainly a secular cause. Christians focused on other battles — from the right, abortion; from the left, war and poverty — while some secular animal-rights activists were suspicious of Christianity, concurring with Peter Singer’s claim, in his 1975 classic, “Animal Liberation,” that Christian teaching about man’s dominion had been an impediment to animal rights.

For several years, Professor Singer and Dr. Camosy have been in frequent communication, and last year Dr. Camosy wrote a book about his fellow ethicist, “Peter Singer and Christian Ethics: Beyond Polarization.” Last month, the two men spoke together in Maryland, at the national headquarters of the Humane Society of the United States. As a result of their conversations, Professor Singer says he has become somewhat more charitable toward Christianity.

“I think Charlie’s helped me to see that that’s overly negative,” Professor Singer said, referring to his depiction of Christianity in “Animal Liberation.” “It’s not that the negative statements” — giving humans permission to use and abuse animals — “aren’t there, because they are, and were made by major figures from Augustine to Aquinas and so on. But there is another side to it, and other Christians have different interpretations of man’s dominion.”

That “other side to it” includes a shadow history of Christian support for animal rights. Christine Gutleben, who runs religious outreach for the Humane Society, noted that Christian reformers, including the antislavery activist William Wilberforce, helped found what became the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, in 1824.

“Any serious look at the history will uncover examples of Christian concern for animals,” Ms. Gutleben said. “Absolutely, Christianity is part of the solution.”

Of course, these views are hardly mainstream. For every Rod Dreher, the Orthodox Christian blogger, and meat-eater, who recently wrote a respectful post about Dr. Camosy and the others, or Andrew Sullivan, the Catholic blogger who also praised Dr. Camosy, there may be an Austin Ruse. Writing in Crisis, a Catholic magazine, in October, he called Dr. Camosy’s views “deeply offensive.”

“It’s always offensive to lead the faithful astray,” Mr. Ruse said, when I called to ask about his choice of words.

But back to the important question: Did Rebecca, Professor Clough’s daughter, get her pet?

She did. Rebecca, now 15, can thank Mary Midgley, the English philosopher who wrote “Animals and Why They Matter.” Riding a train with Professor Clough, she suggested he consider a cat. “She said, ‘Surely a cat is O.K.,’   ” Professor Clough recalled. “If you allow them to go outside, they can come and go as they please. If they hate it, they can pick someone else, or go feral.”

Of course, one has to marvel at the cat foolish enough to abandon the Cloughs. She — the cat is named Mitsy — is unlikely to find more considerate treatment.
166 2013-12-07 Hyundai will recall about 15,500 Entourage minivans from the 2007-8 model years for a corrosion-related steering problem, according to a report the automaker posted on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration website.

Other, smaller recalls were issued by BMW, McLaren, Dodge and Mercedes-Benz for an assortment of safety problems.

The Hyundai recall is related to an action last month in which Kia recalled about 80,000 Sedona minivans from the 2006-12 model years. In its report, Hyundai said Kia manufactured the 2007-8 Entourage models, making a recall necessary. Control arms on the vehicles’ suspension systems could rust and possibly break, causing a loss of steering.

As with the Kia recall, the Hyundai action is limited in scope, covering vehicles originally sold or registered in Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, Wisconsin and the District of Columbia.

The automaker’s contention in such a geographic recall is that vehicles need to be fixed only in states where the problem is thought most likely to occur for reasons including the use of road salt or extreme temperatures.
167 2013-12-07 The primary could be the toughest race of his career. Mr. Cochran has faced little opposition in his 34 years in the Senate, routinely winning re-election by large margins over little-known Democrats. But the primary could offer insight into fundamental questions about the Republican Party: whether longevity and clout in a Deep South state that has venerated such qualities are enough to overcome national trends toward limited-government conservatism.

With some conservatives determined to replace Republicans like Mr. Cochran, he must appeal to elements of the primary electorate that prefer a more ideologically pure senator.

Mr. McDaniel has sought to seize on the new antispending fervor, casting Mr. Cochran — who has delivered billions of dollars in federal spending projects to his impoverished state — as an avatar of a bygone political culture.

“The national debt is the greatest moral crisis of this generation,” Mr. McDaniel said in announcing his candidacy in October. “So, let’s go forth from this place making it perfectly clear that the era of big spending is over. The age of appropriations must end.”

Mr. McDaniel has already gotten help in making this case from some conservative groups like the Club for Growth, which is already airing ads in the state praising him as “the new strong conservative leader Mississippi needs in the U.S. Senate.”

After Mr. Cochran announced his re-election bid Friday, the Club for Growth put out a statement that criticized the senator for his support of earmarked spending projects, for bailing out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and for raising the federal debt limit.

But Mr. Cochran is a formidable figure in a state that has long relied on federal largess and that rarely turns over its Senate seats. He will have the support of Mississippi’s political and business establishment, which are deeply worried about what losing Mr. Cochran would mean to a state that, without him, would have little seniority in its congressional delegation.

He will also have the support of Washington’s Republican establishment. Invitations to a “holiday reception” fund-raiser for Mr. Cochran, at a cost of $5,000 per political action committee, were sent by email to top Republicans in the capital on Friday afternoon. The event — which will feature Senator Mitch McConnell, the minority leader, who is facing a Tea Party challenge of his own in 2014 — is scheduled for next week on Capitol Hill.

Leading Republicans in Mississippi have already begun training their fire on Mr. McDaniel.

Right after Mr. Cochran announced, his allies began calling top Mississippi Republicans to prepare them for a tough campaign in which the senator will portray Mr. McDaniel as a plaintiff’s lawyer who is a puppet of Washington-based conservative groups.

“Senator Cochran’s opponent’s record as state senator and his trial lawyer practice are something that the voters of Mississippi will want to take a closer look at, because it’s very different than the commercials that are being funded by out-of-state special interest money,” said Henry Barbour, a well-connected state lobbyist and member of the Republican National Committee. “I certainly will do all I can to help make sure Senator Cochran is re-elected.”
168 2013-12-08 BAYLISS--Ann Palmer, died November 20, 2013, in Chapel Hill, NC. She was born October 16, 1924, in Orange, NJ, to Theodore and Margaret Ochs Palmer. She was a granddaughter of Milton Ochs, publisher of The Chattanooga Times, and a grandniece of Ad...
169 2013-12-08 Are victims of oppression obligated to resist that oppression? One of philosophy’s famous misogynists provides a surprising answer....
170 2013-12-08 Why were all the other mothers in my childbirth classes so much happier about their pregnancies than I was?...
171 2013-12-08 Haijing Zing Bai and Isaac Eugene Chao were married Saturday in Brooklyn. Judge Harold Baer Jr. of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in Manhattan, for whom the groom was an intern, officiated at the Montauk Club.

The couple are associates at the Manhattan law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, where they met in 2011 during an orientation for the summer associate program. She works in the financial services department and he specializes in intellectual property.

The bride, 33, who is keeping her surname, goes by Zing. She is also a guest lecturer who teaches a financial contracts class at New York Law School in Manhattan. She graduated from Hawaii Pacific University, from which she also received an M.B.A. She received a law degree cum laude from Cornell.

She is the daughter of Xi Feng Zheng and Shang Lin Bai of Beijing. The bride’s father retired as a pilot in the People’s Liberation Army Air Force, based in Beijing. Her mother retired as the director of the pharmacy on the base.

The groom, 30, graduated from Rutgers and received a law degree from Fordham.

He is a son of Helen Hsin Lan Lee Chao and Bill Yuh Jin Chao of Columbia, S.C. His mother is the media specialist at Robert E. Howard Middle School in Orangeburg, S.C. His father is a professor of mechanical engineering at the University of South Carolina.
172 2013-12-08 Kat Anne McCullough and Michael Ryan Braun were married Saturday evening at the W Union Square hotel in New York. Rabbi Lisa Rubin officiated.

The bride, 32, is a television producer in New York for the CNN Headline News channel. She graduated from DePaul University and received a master’s in journalism from Northwestern. She is a daughter of Joyce T. McCullough and Lee McCullough of Peru, Ill.

The groom, 33, is a producer’s assistant at Warner Brothers Television in New York for “The Following,” a Fox television show. He graduated from the University of Florida. He is a son of Elaine Braun and Dennis Braun of Davie, Fla.
173 2013-12-08 Emily Faye Felderman, a daughter of Lisa Morris Felderman and Dr. Theodore P. Felderman of Syosset, N.Y., was married Saturday evening to Jason Garrett Raxenberg, a son of Lawrence M. Raxenberg and Dr. Francine P. Raxenberg of Woodbury, N.Y. Rabbi Neil Kurshan performed the ceremony at Shelter Rock Jewish Center in Roslyn, N.Y.

Mrs. Raxenberg, 27, is a lawyer at the New York City Human Resources Administration. She graduated from the University of Maryland and received her law degree from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University. Her father is a urologist in Plainview, N.Y., with Advanced Urology Centers of New York. Her mother is a registered nurse anesthetist at Rockville Anesthesia Group in Rockville Centre, N.Y.

Mr. Raxenberg, 26, is a portfolio manager and trader for Goldman Sachs in New York. He also graduated from Maryland. His mother is a dentist in Syosset, and his father is an independent certified public accountant in Jericho, N.Y.
174 2013-12-08 The Baltimore Orioles have signed the free-agent outfielder Francisco Peguero to a one-year contract. Peguero, 25, played most of the 2013 season with the San Francisco Giants’ Class AAA team in Fresno, Calif., hitting .316 in 70 games. He also went 6 for 29 in 18 games with the Giants. In eight minor-league seasons, Peguero batted .306 in 690 games.
175 2013-12-08 “It’s a frustrating loss,” said Lundqvist, who signed a seven-year, $59.5 million contract extension with the Rangers last week. “We just didn’t get the bounces tonight.”

Lundqvist, who is 10 years younger than Brodeur, holds a 24-9-6 advantage in their meetings.

The slim margin of victory marked the 17th time in their last 24 meetings that the teams have been separated by two goals or fewer. For the Rangers (15-14-1), it was also their first overtime loss of the season, and it again denied them the chance to move to two games over .500.

“I thought for the most part both teams battled real hard,” Rangers Coach Alain Vigneault said. “I give them credit. They are a tough team, and they defended real well.”

Michael Ryder scored at 15:56 of the third to give the Devils a 3-2 lead. Ryder eluded defenseman John Moore just inside the blue line, then snapped the puck between Lundqvist’s pads. It was the eighth goal of the season for Ryder, who joined the Devils as a free agent last summer.

The victory ended a three-game losing streak for the Devils (12-13-6).

Devils right wing Jaromir Jagr had two assists, including one on the winning goal. Jagr, 41, praised the poised play of the 22-year-old Gelinas, who was recalled from Albany of the American Hockey League in October and been a steady contributor since.

“He came to play, and he has grabbed the opportunity 100 percent,” said Jagr, the N.H.L.’s active assists leader with 1,020, to go with his 692 goals. “He’s a great example for the young kids. Be ready, and anything can happen. He can be a superstar in this league.”

Brad Richards and Mats Zuccarello put the Rangers ahead, 2-0, before Cam Janssen and Travis Zajac answered for the Devils.

The loss came as the Rangers began a franchise-record nine-game homestand. They have eight more home games over the next 16 days, balancing out their season-opening nine-game trip in October as renovations at Madison Square Garden were completed. They will not play another road game until Dec. 27, at Washington.

Richards opened the scoring with his ninth goal of the season at 3:32 of the first, skating down the left wing on a two-on-one break with Callahan before firing the puck past Brodeur low to the stick side.

Zuccarello made it 2-0 at the 57-second mark of the second with his sixth goal of the season. Callahan’s slap shot from the right circle was stopped by Brodeur but went directly at a sharp angle to Zuccarello in the left circle.

Zuccarello fired the puck past the lunging Brodeur, leading to the usual Garden serenade of “Mar-ty, Mar-ty.” But Brodeur did enough to leave the Garden with another win in what could have been his final regular-season appearance at the arena as a Devil, as he will be a free agent after this season.

Janssen made it 2-1 with a disputed goal at 6:02 of the second. Tim Sestito’s shot from the left circle was stopped by Lundqvist, but the puck lay in the crease before Janssen knocked it into the open net with his skates as he tried to stop. The play went for review before the ruling came back in the Devils’ favor.

Lundqvist was livid with the decision, continuing to scream at officials from the crease until the ensuing face-off at center ice.

Zajac, playing in his 500th N.H.L. game, tied the score at 2-2 at 5:58 of the third period, banging a rebound past Lundqvist.

This was the second and final regular-season meeting between the Rangers and the Devils at the Garden this season. They will meet at Yankee Stadium on Jan. 26 and the Prudential Center in Newark on March 22.
176 2013-12-08 Fullback Jay Prosch said: “The crazy scientist. He did it.”

Gus Malzahn, Auburn’s first-year head coach, unleashed his whirling, eccentric offense of options and reverses and sweeps on Missouri, the SEC’s second-best run defense, and Missouri crumbled. Missouri (11-2) was giving up just 119 yards rushing per game, but Mason carved through what was regarded as the best defensive line in the conference on an Auburn-record 46 carries to help his team to 677 total yards.

Mason, a 5-foot-10, 205-pound junior, scored four touchdowns, including a fourth-down plunge from the 1 with 11 minutes 9 seconds to play that put Auburn ahead, 52-42.

Still, no one relaxed at that point because this was Auburn, which in its last two games had beaten Georgia on a deflected pass and defeated No. 1 Alabama when the Crimson Tide missed a field goal in the game’s final second and Chris Davis returned the kick from the back of the end zone for a score.

“It’s been a little too much on the heart for our fans,” Uzomah said. “I think that was enough the last two weeks.”

After that Mason touchdown Saturday, Missouri tried to convert a fourth-and-1 from its 13 and failed. Auburn took the ball and promptly handed it to Mason, who barged in for a score that put the game away, extending Auburn’s lead to 59-42 with 4:22 left.

Auburn was so dominant with its rushing offense that Malzahn was adamant his team should make the B.C.S. title game, even before Ohio State’s loss.

“We’re the SEC champ — I believe we’ve won the last seven years,” Malzahn said. “We play the toughest schedule of any of the teams there. And we’re playing our best football.”

Auburn’s best football was too much for a Missouri defense that prepared itself all week to control gaps and not let Auburn’s offense control the pace. Missouri had some hope early when defensive end Kony Ealy knocked the ball away from Auburn quarterback Nick Marshall for a fumble.

Missouri succeeded in taking Marshall out of the game and making him hand the ball off, but Mason was not a bad alternative. He averaged 6.6 yards a carry and put himself in the Heisman Trophy conversation.

“It was some of the biggest holes I’ve ever seen, I’ve ever run through,” Mason said.

Malzahn crossed up the Missouri defense play after play as Auburn scored on four of its seven possessions in the first half to take a 28-27 lead into intermission. When Missouri went to a three-man front, Auburn ran plays outside. When Missouri went to a four-man front, with its ends set at the edge to prevent runners from getting outside, Malzahn called plays to go inside.

Over and over, Auburn’s offense thinned out the Missouri defense, and Mason sprinted through holes. He had 195 rushing yards in the first half, just 6 yards short of the SEC championship game record.

Missouri stayed close because of its offense, which was averaging 38 points a game. Missouri trailed, 45-42, at the end of three quarters because it could run and pass, amassing 534 yards of total offense in the game. Running back Henry Josey rushed for 123 yards, and James Franklin threw for 303 yards, but that was not enough to overcome Auburn’s relentlessness with the ball.

“We talked all week about not giving up a gap and playing our assignments,” Missouri cornerback E. J. Gaines said. “Then we gave up gaps.”

Auburn simply had too much variety on offense. If Mason was not gashing Missouri inside, Cory Grant was dashing outside for 65 yards. Marshall, the quarterback, who started his college career at Georgia as a defensive back before transferring to Auburn last spring, revved up in the second half as the defense bore in on Mason, and he finished with 101 rushing yards. He also completed 9 of 11 passes for 132 yards.

“It’s been one of the more unique experiences I have ever been a part of,” Malzahn said. “We strained the dog out of our players in the spring. In the fall camp, we were very physical, and folks came together.”
177 2013-12-08 “What people can get away with has changed,” said Ted Henken, a professor at the City University of New York.

Much of this comes down to President Raúl Castro’s style, said Carlos Alberto Pérez, a self-described “revolutionary” blogger. Since Mr. Castro took over from his ailing brother in 2006, he has invited Cubans to give their opinions on the economy and called on the state-run news media to be more incisive.

“People in Cuba want to debate, argue, listen and be listened to,” said Mr. Pérez, whose website covers issues ranging from the difficulty of getting a body cremated to public transport.

Overhauls allowing limited private-sector activity and more freedom to travel have loosened the state’s grip on Cubans’ lives and led them to question more openly a political system that has kept the same people in power for more than five decades.

In September, the Catholic Bishops’ Conference made a bold, if oblique, bid for a more democratic system, calling in a pastoral letter for an “updating” of the political model and saying Cuba should be a “plural” society.

Meanwhile, the Internet — despite being out of reach for most Cubans — has broken the state’s monopoly on information and allowed for a spectrum of opinion, bloggers and analysts say. Bloggers, including many who support the Communist system, have written about economic mismanagement, the timidity of changes, corruption, bureaucracy, the lack of Internet connectivity and the passivity of the state-run news media. Blogs and Facebook posts often spur streams of blunt online comment.

“It’s revealing that people who are supposedly on the inside are making the same criticisms as people on the outside,” Professor Henken said.

There are still limits. While the government preaches frankness, it continues to crush opposition, and those who step over the fickle line between loyal criticism and dissent risk ostracism, loss of employment, harassment or jail.

The Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation, an independent group that tracks treatment of activists, said there were 761 short-term arrests of dissidents in November, one of the highest figures in the past two years. And in October, five independent journalists were detained for several days, according to Reporters Without Borders.

“It’s ambiguous,” said Mr. Chaguaceda, the political scientist. “It depends who you are, how you say things, where you say them.”

In the middle of a nationally televised concert in September, the jazz singer Robertico Carcassés surprised the nation by calling for the right to elect the president, the legalization of marijuana and freedom of information. Even more shocking was the authorities’ reaction: After barring Mr. Carcassés from performing in state-owned venues, meaning most of them, they backed down after Silvio Rodríguez, a famous revolutionary singer, stuck up for his colleague’s right to speak out.

The state-run media, which comprises virtually all press, television and radio in Cuba, has publicly embraced what it calls the “battle against secretiveness” and made efforts, however tepid, to shake up its coverage. In September, the state-run television news introduced a segment, “Cuba Dice,” or Cuba Says, in which Cubans on the street are interviewed about issues including alcoholism, housing problems and the high price of fruit and vegetables.

In October, Col. Rolando Alfonso Borges, chief of ideology for the Communist Party, told a summit meeting of the Cuban Journalists’ Union that the party rejected secrecy. Last month, Miguel Díaz Canel Bermúdez, first vice president of the Council of State, met with journalists in the provinces to urge them to be more polemical.

In a highly unusual show of flexibility, Granma, the party’s official newspaper, wrote in November that public opinion seemed to be against a recent ban on private 3-D cinemas. Noting the “rich” online debate, the article said Cubans supported regulating and reopening the movie theaters and hinted that the decision might be reversed.

Indeed, blogs have won high-level readers. The reform-minded blog La Joven Cuba was blocked for several months last year after it published several critical articles. These days, however, “we bump into officials, and they tell us, ‘Oh, I was just reading your article,’ ” said Harold Cárdenas Lema, 28, one of the blog’s founders.

The Internet, coupled with greater traffic between the island and the Cuban diaspora, has smudged the divisions that have defined life in Cuba since Fidel Castro’s 1961 dictum, “Within the revolution, everything; against the revolution, nothing.”

“Cuba is a country where for years there was nothing but extremes,” Mr. Cárdenas Lema said. “But we’ve managed to achieve a more nuanced reality.”

Some dismiss the changes as window-dressing or a tactic to co-opt internal dissent.

Arturo López Levy, a former intelligence analyst with the Cuban government who lectures at the University of Denver, says the push for a more critical official news media is partly an attempt to control a debate that is already happening in social media and elsewhere.

“Faced with the challenge of a more open environment, the government would prefer to channel complaints and debates through its own mechanisms,” he said.

Mr. López Levy likened the task of pushing for change from within in Cuba to the punishment of Sisyphus, rolling a stone up a hill only to watch it roll to the bottom.

“But sometimes,” he acknowledged, “the stone comes to rest in a different position.”
178 2013-12-08 In years past, robbers would typically point guns at armored-car crews and order them to drop the money bags. This year, the culprits have been more aggressive, seemingly unafraid to pull the trigger.

“Some of these guys would pull up in a car or they’d approach on foot, and they just would immediately start shooting, with no verbal commands to ‘Drop the bag’ or ‘Give me the money’ or anything,” said Special Agent Mark Michalek, the supervisor of the F.B.I.'s bank robbery task force in Houston. “You’ve got cars going back and forth, people, women and children. There’s just this indiscriminate immediate firing.”

GardaWorld has been targeted four times this year — two guards were shot by robbers in January and October, and none were harmed in two other attacks. More than $150,000 was stolen in one GardaWorld heist in July. It was a rare score: Robbers succeeded in escaping with cash in 4 of the 11 robberies this year.

But the company guards have been shooting back. One shot and killed a gunman who tried to enter an armored truck outside a movie multiplex in January. Another who was shot near a drive-through A.T.M. in October fired several rounds, striking the getaway vehicle, while his partner shot a suspect in the shoulder. Yet another guard protected a money bag by dropping to the ground and opening fire at a group of armed robbers.

Many GardaWorld guards are former Marines or police officers.

“I really don’t understand the rationale for approaching a guy that I know is armed, I know is trained and I know will defend himself and shoot back, if not shoot first,” said Mr. Hatchett, one of two company executives who have been speaking to the news media. “Even if you get the bag, typically it’s a short-lived celebration.”

GardaWorld said it had been particularly outspoken about the Houston problem because of the frequency and violence of the robberies. Armored-truck companies typically refrain from commenting publicly after a robbery, leaving the police to take the lead. Other companies that were robbed in Houston have not granted interviews.

In addition to issuing the public threat to would-be robbers, GardaWorld has increased its security, surveillance and tactical-weapons training; added a third person to the usual two-person crews in some trucks; and put shotgun-wielding guards in so-called chase vehicles to follow the trucks on their routes or monitor their stops. The company has also started a public awareness campaign intended to tear down the stereotype of lackluster rent-a-cops and to reassure its clients and the public.

Jim McGuffey, who spent nearly 30 years in the industry and now runs a security consulting business in South Carolina, was skeptical of the effectiveness of GardaWorld’s campaign. “It’s unusual that a carrier would have a conversation with the press following a robbery,” Mr. McGuffey said. “If that is their style, to try to talk to the bad guys if you will, that’s not going to be as effective as working in collaboration with law enforcement in a proactive fashion.”

GardaWorld said it had been working closely with local and federal authorities, and had gotten a positive response from many in the industry to its campaign, which it said had focused attention on the robberies and helped put a spotlight on a business that is rarely in one.

The authorities have arrested three men so far, charging them with aggravated robbery after the shooting near the drive-through A.T.M. in October. But investigators said they were pursuing other leads and other suspects.

They said they believed that at least six of the robberies were carried out by a loosely organized group, adding that there was nothing particular about the region’s armored-transport companies or its criminal element that would explain the increase in robberies.

“It’s just merely that these particular people reside in Houston,” said Mr. Michalek of the F.B.I.

The group suspected in some of the robberies apparently began to focus on armored cars in an impromptu fashion, picking one out in July while at a parking lot looking for potential robbery victims.

“This was not some well-organized plan,” Mr. Michalek said. “They made the decision right there on the spot to give it a try.”

Armored-car thieves have a history of impulsiveness, and of overlapping, in Houston. In 1997, two gunmen held up a guard inside a building that happened to house a local organized-crime task force, which played a part in breaking up the heist.

And a few days after the $150,000 was stolen in July, a federal judge in Houston struck a note of warning by sentencing Walter Keitric Freeman, 24, to nearly 15 years in prison for his role in robbing and attempting to rob two armored trucks in 2009.

On a recent afternoon at the Galleria mall, Mr. Hatchett allowed a reporter to observe a typical GardaWorld stop. The company, based in Montreal, handles about $5 billion in currency daily in North America. Mr. Hatchett stood across the street as the truck pulled up, on alert for anything suspicious. “I’ve noticed there’s three people here, four people here, seven people here,” he said. “You cannot take any stop for granted.”

A 27-year guard on the passenger side exited slowly, checking the pedestrians around him and twisting the strap of a black bag tightly around his left hand. He kept his right hand free in case he needed to pull a gun from the holster on his right hip. No shoppers interacted with him as he entered the mall — a relief to Mr. Hatchett, who would like to see the public stop holding open doors for guards because of security concerns.

Within minutes, the guard was back in the truck, without incident.
179 2013-12-08 During our talk, Mr. Johnson, a Stanford graduate who went to Harvard Business School before starting his career at the Mervyns chain, mentioned Bonobos, a web company founded in 2007 by two Stanford business school students, Andy Dunn and Brian Spaly. Their idea was better fitting pants. He also brought up Warby Parker, the eyewear company started by four classmates at the Wharton School.

I sensed that the audience found Mr. Johnson’s words inspiring, especially about his years at Target, when he developed the line with Michael Graves — one of the very first of the high-low collaborations — and then opening Apple’s first stores. So much of Apple’s retail success, he said, had to do with the culture of creativity that Steve Jobs encouraged, which included seeking simple solutions.

And Mr. Johnson spoke candidly about his time at Penney’s, the first time he has done so publicly. In essence, he said he did too much too quickly.

Before our talk, he and I met informally with students, mainly from the Graduate School of Business. One thing that was on their minds was luxury. A group of students had just returned from Paris, where they met with Alber Elbaz of Lanvin, and executives at Chanel, Hermès and Kering, which owns brands like Saint Laurent and Gucci.

Considering the appeal of start-ups like Bonobos, I was curious to know what attracted them to the luxury business. After all, it’s old-school and, as several students noted, very reluctant to use e-commerce. Later, I exchanged email with two students, Hannah Hale, an organizer of the trip, and Kevin Kelleher.

“I loved the consistent message from all these brands that you are only as strong as the quality of your product,” wrote Mr. Kelleher, who worked at Bonobos before enrolling at Stanford. “I think many nonluxury brands believe they can heighten the perceived quality through messaging, while a brand like Hermès is very clear that the quality can never be compromised.”

I wondered how interested French companies are in recruiting American M.B.A.’s. Ms. Hale replied: “I believe it depends on the type of company and ownership structure. For example, holding companies such as Kering seem to understand the importance of business acumen to the success of their portfolio companies. However, if you look more broadly at the luxury apparel category, there is less of a desire to recruit M.B.A.’s. I believe the onus is on M.B.A.’s who are self-motivated and willing to start in more junior positions and move their way through the ranks.” That was Mr. Johnson’s advice, too.

Both Mr. Kelleher and Ms. Hale, a former investment banker, seem motivated to challenge conventional thinking. As Ms. Hale noted, there is, except for Ralph Lauren, a lack of luxury companies based in the United States, though North America contributes to luxury growth.

“My take is that there’s a sentiment in Europe that Americans are too ‘rational’ or lack the creativity for luxury, and I don’t agree with this notion,” she wrote. “In light of the growing demand for upscale casual clothing in the U.S., I believe there’s an opportunity for M.B.A. students who are creatively inclined to start luxury companies in this space.” Obviously, she added, it’s an undertaking of many years.

But note her emphasis on creative thinking, not to mention “upscale casual.” That’s what the industry needs more of, not just clever designs.
180 2013-12-08 The 337 images in “Taxidermy” are artful and immaculate — everything that a taxidermy workshop, with its dust, fumes, stench, viscera and decay, is not. This book is eye candy (the frontispiece is, in fact, a surprisingly delectable array of glass eyes), which makes sense because Alexis Turner is the founder of London Taxidermy, a business that supplies natural history artifacts to the fashion and film industries, among other clients. You can see his stuffed and pickled props in the “Harry Potter” films, “Sherlock ­Holmes,” “Pirates of the Caribbean,” “Les ­Misérables,” “Anna Karenina,” “Skyfall” — and now in this book.

Turner’s stated intent is to celebrate taxidermy in the 21st century as “a product with marketing potential” that attracts “media attention and commercial success.” Taxidermy “is fashionable once more,” he declares, proving his premise with this lavish coffee-table book featuring a dazzling assortment of interiors, eccentric old museums and estates, advertisements, art and window displays.

The book’s Architectural Digest-ish aesthetic and one-word title imply that this is an authoritative and comprehensive volume. But it’s actually a catalog of Turner’s eclectic preferences — and a gorgeous selling tool. You won’t see a stretched skin or a brain spoon, though such items are essential to creating actual taxidermy. Nor will you find an explanation of the many cultural forces behind the current taxidermy craze; everything here appears in seamless, finished form. Like taxidermists themselves, Turner doesn’t want to expose the stuffing and ruin the illusion. That’s his book’s weakness as well as its strength.

Turner’s prejudices and predilections lead us to rarely seen gems: the Udaipur City Palace in India, where the maharajah’s cheetah stands guard; the Ipswich Natural History Museum’s stuffed menagerie; Deyrolle, the chic 182-year-old taxidermy emporium in Paris. He is hardly ignorant of the history of his subject and excels when showcasing treasures from taxidermy’s Victorian heyday.

Generally, his taste is as au courant as it is idiosyncratic. He hits the hottest taxidermic trends in home décor and art while avoiding the clichés — mantelpiece moose, trophy fish, jackalopes. This, he suggests, is no ugly-duckling art form, but a craft the mainstream can appreciate for its graceful, swanlike results.
181 2013-12-08 In the early 1980s, when my two daughters were 6 and 8, they jumped with the boys under their coach, Karl Eid, in Anchorage. Our older daughter outjumped the men on the larger hill and was featured on local TV. Finding small Nordic skis and gear was tough then, and both started jumping on their alpine skis. With no other girls joining them, they both moved on to soccer year-round and still enjoy recreational skiing. I knew the day would come when female ski jumpers would make the jump to the Olympics. I’m proud of this team. DICK OVENS, Brighton, Colo., posted on nytimes.com

It’s distressing to read that there is yet another sport that seems to encourage eating disorders — in men and women. I would like to see the sport attract more strong, muscled women like Lindsey Van (who overcame an eating disorder) and fewer “kites” (like the 94-pound Sarah Hendrickson) — especially because many young women will see them as role models. BARBARA CROOK, Ottawa, posted on nytimes.com

HOW IS HAMID KARZAI STILL STANDING?

Hamid Karzai’s longtime rival and critic, Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, was right about Karzai having “energy and tactical skill” and that “he is also one of the greatest actors Afghanistan has ever produced.” Karzai is cunning and clever. As a narcissist, he doesn’t want to go down in history as a modern day Shah Shuja. He’s fooling himself by denying the reality on the ground: nepotism and corruption. It’s not true that the Afghans want a “Karzai dynasty.” No doubt Hamid Karzai will not retire after he steps down. William Dalrymple can already start a new book: “The Return of a President.” JACQUELINE VON HETTLINGEN, Switzerland, posted on nytimes.com

Karzai has been consistent in his desire to end the terrorism of the Taliban and the Inter-Services Intelligence agency of Pakistan within his country. He also wants to see that Afghanistan becomes a relatively normal democracy. The problem is that American policy makers have been unreliable partners. Perhaps, unlike many American-appointed leaders around the world in the last five decades, Karzai is his own man. ANUP KUMAR, Cleveland, posted on nytimes.com

CASEY AFFLECK SHOULD BE MORE FAMOUS

Maybe Casey Affleck would be happier in theater than in film. If you love acting and experimentation but are resistant to the absurd elements of fame, theater is a natural place to go. Perhaps he should be following the model not of his brother but of Philip Seymour Hoffman, John Malkovich and Willem Dafoe. RACHEL CAREY, Cranford, N.J., posted on nytimes.com

I was 11 years old in 1956, living on Guam, where my father, a Navy doctor, was stationed. Guam had been the site of a terrible, monthlong battle in which more than one thousand American Marines and sailors and nearly 18,000 Japanese combatants died. The battle for Guam ended 12 years before my family arrived. But a short hike in any direction from where we lived gave evidence of the struggle: live ammunition, abandoned fortifications, skulls, femurs, vertebrae, ribs. We left them all where they lay. So I wonder what motivates a man like Mark Noah. The dead haven’t summoned him. Is he motivated by compassion? If so, for whom? While survivors may be comforted when some remnant of a lost family member is found and returned, it seems to me that that relief comes at a price paid by the fallen who are covered by the tropical undergrowth of remote Pacific islands. Uninvited men sever a final reconciliation of enemies in death. They have been at peace with each other for more than 70 years. TERRANCE A. MEADOR, San Diego

WHAT DOES CANCER SMELL LIKE?

For more than 5,000 years Chinese medicine and many other “alternative” approaches have used smell as a diagnostic tool. This is more of a “catch-up” for modern medicine than a discovery. PHILLIP ELTON COLLINS, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
182 2013-12-08 River House, the majestic 1931 co-op tower at the north corner of the East River and 52nd Street, is taking the unusual step of offering the River Club complex on its lower floors as a $130 million apartment, which would close one of the most luxurious clubs in New York.

Few who pause in front of the building’s sumptuous drive-in courtyard think to turn around to see River House’s older and shorter sibling, the 1927 Campanile, at the south corner of 52nd Street. It, too, took the painful step of closing its riverfront club — decades ago.

The East River was bubbling with unusual projects in the 1920s, especially after the redevelopment of Sutton Place with townhouses brought attention to what had been industrial waterfront. The Campanile was built by the developer Joseph B. Thomas, a star polo player at Yale; in 1925 he had built the riverside Beekman Terrace at 455 East 51st Street, the first of the swank apartment houses on the East River. Renderings show a garden and a yacht landing directly on the river, apparently for common use by the residents.

The following year Thomas began the Campanile, just north of Beekman Terrace, facing 52nd Street. It is one of New York’s most remarkable co-ops. His architects, Van Wart & Wein, gave him a 14-story co-op apartment house with medieval styling, a rocky base of irregular rust-colored stones, multipaned steel casement windows, picturesque brickwork and a lofty central tower.

A 1926 advertisement in described the Campanile as “architecturally reminiscent of and its Grand Canal.” There were to be only eight apartments, each a duplex of 12 to 15 rooms, some with 19-foot-high living rooms of 35 feet by 21 feet providing “palatial entertaining possibilities.” Prices ranged from $50,000 to $72,000, and the building sold out.

Early shareholders were people like Joshua Cosden, described by The Associated Press at his death in 1940 as the “ ‘rubber ball’ of the ” because he made and lost two fortunes, his net worth once as high as $50 million. Another was Alice Duer Miller, a member of an old and distinguished New York family. A writer and critic, she came out in 1915 with a book of poems, “Are Women People?” that mocked The Times’s editorial attacking female suffrage as flouting “the admonitions of common sense.” Her opening verse runs: Oh, that ’twere possible/After those words inane/For me to read The Times/Ever again!
183 2013-12-08 Credit: Karsten Moran for The New York Times
184 2013-12-08 “It sounds like a Hollywood ploy: ‘40 years in the making,’ ” Mr. Breuer said. “But, yeah, aspects of this piece were around then, so technically, I’ve been screwing with it for that long. The story keeps evolving as I evolve.”

Jessica Scott, the puppetry director on “La Divina Caricatura,” has seen a few iterations in this evolution since she began working for Mr. Breuer as a puppeteer in 2005. “In his mind, it was always part of this grand story,” Ms. Scott said. “He was only able to shine a light on one part of it at a time.”

Illuminating the entirety of Mr. Breuer’s vivid, Rabelaisian mythscape would require a transfer to a space as large as Madison Square Garden; “La Divina Caricatura” is the first piece in a planned trilogy. Notwithstanding the occasional uptown effort — the Tony Award-nominated “Gospel at Colonus,” a “Tempest” for Shakespeare in the Park — Mr. Breuer has devoted much of his (and Mabou Mines’s) energy to an endlessly running, endlessly overlapping, endlessly evolving tale of pigs, ants, karma, dogs, love and loss.

Actually, given Mr. Breuer’s penchant for puns and lowbrow humor, endlessly devolving might be more accurate. As he describes his recipe for theater, “I like to put three pounds of Hegel on one side of the scale and two pounds of Disney on the other side, and then I see if they balance.”

By far his biggest commercial success was “Colonus,” a reimagining of Sophocles’s “Oedipus at Colonus” in which a Baptist gospel choir played the Greek chorus; it transferred to Broadway in 1988 and has toured the world more or less nonstop ever since. When the playwright Richard Maxwell was studying acting at Illinois State University, he watched a recording of it in preparation for a workshop that Mr. Breuer gave at the school.

“We sat in a circle on the floor,” Mr. Maxwell recalled in a telephone interview, “and he plopped down all these magazines. There was a copy of The New York Times and a copy of Penthouse and a hip-hop magazine. And he said, ‘Pick up any piece of text in here, and we’ll start to make a theater piece out of it.’ I found that very exciting.”

The theater world has come around to Mr. Breuer’s way of thinking on at least one front. “Lee was one of the very first Westerners to use bunraku puppetry, way back in the 1970s,” Ms. Scott said, referring to the intricate form of rod-based puppets that was created in Japan in the 17th century. Since then, “War Horse” and the works of Julie Taymor and Basil Twist (a frequent collaborator with Mr. Breuer) are just a few examples of the inroads that such puppetry has made into Western theater.

And to this day, the dog Rose — who has returned as the central character in “La Divina Caricatura” — is the only puppet to win an Obie Award for performance.

Mr. Breuer said this timeless form is uniquely suited to the current moment. “If you look at all these avant-garde narratives right now, human behavior is becoming more and more mechanized,” he said, citing Mr. Maxwell, Robert Wilson and the Wooster Group as examples. “The system is causing us to become more ants in an anthill rather than humans, and they’re all saying it by restricting performance in some way.”

By contrast, he said, he is choosing to give life to inhuman objects like masks and puppets.

The puppets in “La Divina Caricatura” have plenty of life (and lives) to get through, and there are still two more parts to go. What begins as a love story between John, a filmmaker, and Rose, his dog, undergoes a complicated series of transmogrifications as each is reincarnated. This allows Mr. Breuer to revisit the title characters from such earlier Mabou Mines works as “The Warrior Ant” and “Ecco Porco,” but with the addition of Lincoln Schleifer’s wall-to-wall, genre-hopping musical score (which incorporates a bit of older material by Bob Telson and John Margolis).

Mr. Breuer estimates that only three or four festivals in the world could possibly stage the entire trilogy. “This is a life work,” he said bluntly. “I don’t know how much energy I got after this.”

Energy has been on his mind of late. His former wife, the Mabou Mines co-founder Ruth Maleczech, died in October. (Maleczech was the original Rose back in 1978 and was to play a bovine guru named Sri Moo Parahamsa at La MaMa; Karen Kandel has stepped in to play the role.) And Mr. Breuer has grappled with his own health issues in recent years.

But no matter how much ground he has covered, both literally and thematically, he maintains that you can only go as far as your imagination permits. “The whole concept of this piece is that you are where your head is,” he said. “You create where you are. Whether you’re in hell or heaven is up to you.”
185 2013-12-08 In my wife’s eyes, though, he could do little wrong. Once, she was right.

One morning, Harley began barking around 5:30, with an especially purposeful retort. I ignored it as long as I could, then thundered downstairs.

As I strode into the living room, our eyes locked. I was about to yell, when a tickle of smoke reached my nose. Later, I would come to understand that when I had restained our dining room table the previous day, it was not the best idea to leave highly flammable, oil-stained cloths in our garage. In that instant when Harley’s gaze was fixed on me, I could see he was judging me. “You ... idiot,” I heard him say, telepathically.

As I doused the smoldering rags, Lassie was engulfed in my wife’s arms. There was no parting with him after that.

So it was that a few months later, when considering the trans-Atlantic journey, my wife seized on what a friend referred to as the “Naval Option”: the Queen Mary 2, the luxury flagship of the Cunard fleet. The Queen Mary’s kennel boasts a play area and a kennel master who will walk your pooch daily, as well as special doggie-shaped life jackets. There’s even a YouTube video of seven or eight dogs milling around placidly on the deck.

My wife suggested that I ask my company if they would pay to transport us on the Queen Mary. Now, if you haven’t heard, the newspaper industry is in a bit of a tailspin, so I considered this with trepidation.

Soon afterward, I found myself in a meeting with the administrators, talking over various details of my move. I made some jokes. They fell flat.

The meeting wrapped up. I got up to leave.

“What if,” I began, “what if we were to go ... on a ship?”

Finally, I got a laugh. “What,” came the reply, “like the Queen Mary?”

As it happened, it turned out that the Queen Mary’s kennel was booked out more than a year in advance. So that option fell off the table.

Next, we began considering what are known as dog wranglers. These full-service pet transportation services will pick up your pet at your door in the United States, choose a flight on a suitably pet-friendly airline, and deliver the pooch to you overseas, handling all the voluminous red tape in between. Great! Wait ... it costs what?! (The door-to-door cost can be more than $4,000.) I realized it would cost as much to wrangle Harley as it would to transport a family of four.

Suffice it to say, we ended up opting for the do-it-yourself approach: flying your pet on a plane.

My wife was soon awash in paperwork, poring over European Union Regulation 998/2003, which applied to the transport of dogs, cats and ferrets.

Before Harley had his rabies shot, we had to get a special international microchip inserted into his neck, joining an American one that had been there since he was a puppy. Now both the N.S.A. and MI5 are no doubt fully briefed on his activities.

Hours were spent online, researching a crate that would pass muster. Not only did the airline dictate things like “Ears must not touch the top of the kennel in animal’s natural standing position,” they also offered helpful algebra. The length of the kennel had to be at least “A + ½ B,” according to the shipping requirements, with “A” being the length “from the tip of the nose to the root of the tail” and “B” the length “from the elbow measurement to the ground.” Harley gnawed on my hand as I tried to measure his elbow.

Trips and calls to the vet the week before he flew out became nearly daily. There were examinations and tapeworm treatments and a visit to the United States Department of Agriculture office in Albany to stamp documents.

The big day approached. For my wife, the idea of delivering Harley to Logan Airport was unfathomable — the tears would flood Boston Harbor. So she and the kids left a day early. I rented a Chevrolet Tahoe big enough to fit Harley’s crate, if I removed the third row of seats.

Together, we began our trek east. He was sprawled across the passenger seat, buckled, drooling languidly on the leather.

We arrived at the cargo area, and I walked him on a small strip of grass outside it as I reviewed my strategy for getting him in the crate. I had brought a French-made “Dog Appeasing Pheromone” spray the vet recommended, whose box featured a canine silhouette set against gentle clouds and a blue sky, and the words “Bien-être” and “Apaisement.” I would spray liberally.

Then I would smear the back of the crate with peanut butter.

This seemed foolproof, until a forklift appeared in the cargo loading area. Harley, who heretofore had been intimidated only by vacuum cleaners, found the forklift mortifying. He sprawled in front of his crate, requiring me to heave him, limb by limb, inside. He watched me as I stood outside the crate, for once seeming to crave my presence. I stuck the tips of my fingers through his crate, touching his nose as he softly whimpered. His baleful eyes stared out at me.

Dry your tears, O.K.? He was fine.

I was in far worse shape when it was all over, staggering off our red-eye flight and beginning a vain search for luggage from New York, before a kindly clerk pointed out that I had flown in from Boston.

Harley was ferried home, and after hugs from the family — yes, even me — he was as frolicsome as ever. All that time in a crate in the sky hadn’t affected his personality: In the coming weeks, he ate raw bacon wrapped in plastic and threw it up on two rugs; he stole my shoe and tossed it around our postage stamp backyard; he discovered the joy of chasing pigeons.

And he had his measure of revenge. The day after we arrived, my credit card stopped working. I learned that the airline had accidentally charged me nearly $19,000 for Harley’s voyage, adding an extra zero to the bill.

As I explained this to airline clerks from London to Boston and beyond, I strained to hear what they were saying.

There was a newly minted Londoner barking in the background.

Roughly 13 million pets traveled with either owners or handlers in the United States last year, Phillip Grant, the executive vice president of the website PetTravel.com, said in a phone interview — up from 10 million just three years ago. Here is a sampling of an owner’s options.

On the Road ($50 to $300 for a carrying crate). Crates are recommended by many pet travel websites for the animal’s safety.

On the Plane ($75 to $2,000). Most major airlines offer three options for pet transport: in the cabin, checked as luggage, or shipped as cargo. Where a pet will go is determined by its size, weight, the air temperature along the route and, for dogs, the breed. Many airlines have banned snub-nosed breeds, like bulldogs and pugs, because high altitudes can affect their breathing.

Animals must be contained in a crate that meets the International Air Transport Association’s requirements, as well as the airline’s. The crates must be leakproof, have ventilation, be large enough for the animal to stand up and move around in and have metal locking mechanisms.

For international travel, pet regulations vary by country. Owners should research which, if any, customs regulations, pet passports and vaccinations are required.

Under the Seat ($75 to $150 one-way). Pets 20 pounds or less (including crate weight) may travel in the cabin as long as the crate fits under the seat in front of the passenger (typically around 17 inches in length, 12 in width and eight in height). Contact airlines early to book space, as most allow only up to four animals in a cabin at one time.

Baggage (around $200 a crate). A preferable option for larger pets, traveling as checked baggage, unlike flying in cargo, affords temperature regulation. Owners can also drop off and pick up at the same place they would their luggage.

Cargo ($300 to $2,000, depending on size and destination). For most international travel, or for larger animals traveling domestically, cargo is the only option. Animals aren’t crowded in with luggage that can shift during the flight, but airlines can require check-in at cargo up to four hours before the flight.

Advice and Assistance (fees start at around $200, for domestic travel, and $400 for international). Pet consultants advise on anything and everything including customs forms, researching and booking airline tickets and pet-friendly accommodations at your destination.

Courier Services ($1,000 to $4,000 or more, including travel expenses for both the animal and handler). Private courier services will take a pet door to door. The International Pet and Animal Transportation Association offers a list of recommended handlers.
186 2013-12-08 I had an old boyfriend who now and then, late weekend mornings, would pose that steamy, love in the age of Viagra question: “Should I take a pill?”

I am generally a game girl, but sometimes we’d be looking at a full day and I’d find myself running it through the old life/sex calculator, familiar to anyone past the first six weeks of a relationship or not staying in a five star hotel in Bali:

We’ve got people coming over for dinner and have to go food shopping and stop in at the hardware store so we can get that thing to fix the stove. We could make it a quickie, but at $35 a pill should we waste it on a quickie? Thirty-five dollars is the cost of two movie tickets, popcorn and a package of Junior Mints. And Junior Mints last a while. More to the point, am I in the right mood to deliver an eye rolling, toe stiffening trip to the stars? I know it takes two to tango, but will I be able to compete with a pretty good movie, particularly one set in Bangkok?

You see what I’m saying? I’m a sexually confident woman, but the cost of these pills was giving me performance anxiety. I knew it was supposed to be about love and connection, but when sex pills came on the scene I started to wonder if “Was it good for you?” was going to be replaced by, “Was it worth the 35 bucks?”

What could any decent guy say to that?

“Are you kidding? Five chaste minutes with you, my post-menopausal love machine, would be worth a million dollars, such is your wit and warmth and kindness. The feelings I have when you tell me one of your My Day stories, especially that one this week about why you thought that ache in your neck was spinal meningitis and whether you should go to the emergency room was worth $800, easy. Seriously, how could you even think of putting a dollar value on these things? And if you did, $35? That’s not even dinner for two. Although New York Magazine’s Cheap Eats issue did have a story on this great new barbecue joint in Brooklyn where dinner for two is $35. Too bad we didn’t think of that sooner.”

Awful, right? The pressure was killing me. I didn’t want to put a price on love but once you know what the pills cost, it was like telling someone not to think about a pink, sexually aroused elephant — you couldn’t not do it. Then things changed and it was no longer an issue.
187 2013-12-08 Shrugging, Mr. Qui replied, “I just sear it a la plancha.” Understand: in Texas, one grills, not sears, quail. But clearly one would do well to reconsider.

Qui, 1600 East Sixth Street; quiaustin.com. Dinner for two without drinks or tips, about $90.

This small south Austin restaurant opened in December 2010, and all that time I had zealously avoided paying a visit despite its vaunted reputation. Why? Because (a) Barley Swine takes no reservations after 6:30 and (b) it offers only “communal” seating. On this trip, however, I bit the bullet and snagged a 6:30 reservation with a friend. We eyed the menu, which read at the bottom, “Menu by: Bryce, Carlos, Sam, Kyle, Jon, Kevin, Mark, Bradley, Parker, Charles.” A sly rebuke to celebrity culture, a paean to Austin weirdness.

So is Barley Swine’s location, in a former ramshackle shopping center in downscale baja Austin. Its shotgun-shack layout, tatted-up servers, indie-rock soundtrack and beverage list’s focus on beers rather than wines foretold a dining exercise in reverse snobbery. At the same time, the restaurant’s compulsory $60-per-person tasting menu puts you firmly in the hands of its multiple chefs. As the moniker suggests, Barley Swine principally celebrates the union of ale and pig. We therefore began our order with a couple of IPAs, which we wedded with the green chile bacon mousse. What impressed me about this and other plates was the distinct but nonaggressive flavors, a Gregorian chant rather than a diva competition. The presence of fiery secondary flavors came off as resourceful rather than the obligatory nod to Southwestern roots. Only the smoky and colorful rabbit nachos with chorizo struck me as being somewhat forced, insofar as one can’t go around calling just anything that tastes good a nacho, even if the two are often one and the same.

Throughout our communal meal, my Austin friend and I shared details of our personal lives, unbothered by the couple seated adjacent to us. Only when our dessert of blue cheese and Fig Newtons arrived did their dialogue cease and their eyes turn our way. “Hey, get your own!” I told them. They laughed, and did.

Barley Swine, 2024 South Lamar Boulevard; barleyswine.com. Tasting-menu dinner for two without drinks or tips, $120.

You know you’re in Austin when you pull into a restaurant’s valet lane and the attendant points and exclaims, “Dude, there’s one free parking space right over there!” This was my introduction one Saturday night to Austin’s famed sushi-centric restaurant Uchi.

It was exactly a decade ago when Tyson Cole turned Texas audaciousness on its Stetson by opening the state’s first cutting-edge restaurant primarily dedicated to raw fish, and doing so in an unprepossessing south Austin bungalow. At 7 p.m., Uchi was filled with sake-slurping and incorrigibly T-shirt-clad locals. Reliance on exquisite ingredients (23 different fish when I visited) is paramount, and service is stellar but not showy. Twice I’ve enjoyed Uchi’s sassy kid sister Uchiko, but the experience there of having seven or eight servers explaining and presenting and whisking away your plates can feel a little like standing onstage in the center of a ballet performance. One other sign of maturity: Uchi takes reservations at all hours, confident that only an idiot would fail to show up at the appointed time for one of its hard-to-get tables.

Mr. Cole must have concluded early on that if you’re going to stake your claim as an Anglo sushi master in central Texas, you might as well keep rolling the dice. Hence the magical heresy of maguro sashimi and goat cheese with pumpkin seed oil and Fuji apple, and the sly borderland riff of applewood-smoked yellowtail with a yucca crisp. My dining companion was a Texas political journalist who is fearless when it comes to skewering legislators but less so when urged to try the frogs’ leg with tomatillo and cucumber. As it turned out, she was wise to beg off: the amphibian was the lone bland exception among the 11 outstanding dishes we tried.

We had not saved room for dessert, but that didn’t stop us. The peanut butter semifreddo was automatic. At the insistence of the Uchi staff, we added on a jizake crème caramel with brown butter sorbet and ginger. I can’t say whether it was the sake that made the latter sizzle on my tongue. I only know that I woke the next morning regretting that I hadn’t booked one more dinner at Uchi.

Uchi, 801 South Lamar Boulevard; uchiaustin.com. Dinner for two without drinks or tips, about $90.

It didn’t sound promising: a buzzy new restaurant that (at the time) limited reservations for only parties of five to eight. Still, I wanted to try Arro, not only because it was among the newest of hot Austin dining spots, but also because it was French and situated just west of downtown rather than in the city’s east- and southside yupster enclaves. So three of us convened there on a Sunday, precisely at its opening time of 5 p.m., and were glad to see the large, airy restaurant mostly empty.

Arro is an agreeably retro place where (unlike Qui, Barley Swine and Uchi) the kitchen is out of sight and the tables are amply separated. To optimize the acoustics, actual mailbags are lacquered onto the ceiling. Some of the banquettes are composed of bicycle tubes, a design flourish that may or may not catch on elsewhere. Regardless, it was a pleasure to experience a hip Austin restaurant where you can actually stretch out and hear yourself think.

We began with a simple charcuterie board consisting of duck rillette, chabrin cheese, duck sausage and bread baked down the street. Noticing that frogs’ legs were also on the menu here and recalling the disappointing pair at Uchi, I decided to re-up. This time, the dish — served with garlic, cherry tomatoes, herbs and golden purslane — was a roundhouse punch of flavors. The style of the chef and owner Andrew Curren leaves no smudged thumbprints. His food is unwaveringly wood-grilled French country cuisine with a smart all-French wine list to match. The flightiest dish we ordered was grilled antelope with blackberries, balsamic, cherries, faro, pistachios — and even that seemed informed by a place, and that place surely wasn’t the Southwest.

At the end of the meal, Mr. Curren made the rounds and eventually came to us. When I told him that we were just relieved to have procured seats, he grimaced a little, and said that there had been recent discussion about changing the no-reservations policy: “I think we’re going to revise it — at least offer up a few tables for people who want to reserve.”

Recently, Arro did precisely that, as did Qui. I take this as a welcome sign that Austin is learning on the fly how to be a grown-up city. Still, there remains in town a cluster of critically heralded, ever-crowded dining spots that do not accept reservations at all hours. To them I say, as a fellow Texan: come on, y’all. Service is a technique, but hospitality is a tradition. Don’t forget who brung you.

Arro, 601 West Sixth Street. Dinner for two without drinks or tips, about $85.
188 2013-12-09 BAYLISS--Ann Palmer, died November 20, 2013, in Chapel Hill, NC. She was born October 16, 1924, in Orange, NJ, to Theodore and Margaret Ochs Palmer. She was a granddaughter of Milton Ochs, publisher of The Chattanooga Times, and a grandniece of Ad...
189 2013-12-09 Steve Stockman’s challenge of John Cornyn, the second-ranking Senate Republican, offers the potential for yet another ideological showdown in the 2014 Republican Senate primaries....
190 2013-12-09 Nelson Mandela’s extraordinary legacy of freedom overshadowed his complicated journey to support free markets and a free economy....
191 2013-12-09 Howard Chen, a senior analyst at Credit Suisse who followed exchanges, brokerages and other institutions, will become an investment banker advising clients in the sector he once covered....
192 2013-12-09 Five years after the financial crisis, regulators are poised to approve a tougher-than-expected version of the so-called Volcker Rule, according to a copy reviewed by The New York Times....
193 2013-12-09 The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.
194 2013-12-09 Charles I. Plosser, head of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, who has opposed the Fed’s stimulus efforts, explains how he thinks the bond-buying effort should be wound down....
195 2013-12-09 Hamilton Reinsurance Group reached a tentative deal to buy SAC Re Ltd., a reinsurance firm Steven A. Cohen formed in 2012, for an undisclosed sum....
196 2013-12-09 Taxpayers recouped about $39 billion on the investment, the Treasury Department said, having spent about $50 billion bailing out the automaker....
197 2013-12-09 Michael Fassbender, Amy Poehler and Nick Offerman are all part of the Premieres section of the newly unveiled Sundance lineup....
198 2013-12-09 The American Film Institute released its list of the year’s 10 best, and it often is considered a predictor of what will make the cut for the Academy....
199 2013-12-09 The campaign is being created pro bono by an agency in New York named the Terri & Sandy Solution. The campaign includes print ads, online ads, brochures and posters. There are also materials that will be used internally at Bridges Academy, like content for emails and signs to be posted on hallway walls.

The total budget for the campaign through next year is estimated at more than $1.5 million.

“For a lot of schools, teachers, the system of education, learning is based on a deficit model: ‘What’s wrong with you? Let’s try to fix that,'” says Carl Sabatino, headmaster of Bridges Academy.

He estimates that about 2 percent of all students “suffer operating under a deficit model” because they are “capable of creating, producing, thinking” but that goes unrecognized.

“Yes, they have these learning disabilities,” Mr. Sabatino says, “but they also have this potential that must be tapped.”

“We have to make sure we help all of them,” he adds.

The historical figures are meant to “personify the potential of these children,” Mr. Sabatino says, and help the campaign as it seeks to reach “a larger audience.”

Each famous face “takes you from a label to a person to an icon,” he adds.

How did a New York agency end up creating work for a school in Los Angeles? As is often the case in advertising, a personal connection figures in, in this instance involving the vice chairwoman of the board of Bridges Academy, Lori Lepler, who is a parent of a seventh grader at the school, her son, Eli.

Ms. Lepler is a former New Yorker now living in the Los Angeles area who worked at New York agencies that included JWT, then J. Walter Thompson; Frankfurt Gips Balkind; and Ogilvy & Mather. When Ms. Lepler worked as a senior vice president and management director at Thompson, her counterparts on the creative side were the women who eventually founded the Terri & Sandy Solution, Terri Meyer and Sandy Greenberg.

“Two years ago, when my son joined the school, I realized it was a small school with a huge idea of an education model,” Ms. Lepler says, adding that after she joined the Bridges Academy board, “as a board we developed, with Carl’s stewardship, brand positioning and strategy.”

“And then I appealed to Terri and Sandy, whom I’ve known for 20 years, with whom I worked side by side,” to work on a campaign, Ms. Lepler says. She praises Ms. Meyer and Ms. Greenberg for what she calls “their strategic horsepower to problem-solve and their creative prowess.”

After the agency came back with the campaign, Ms. Lepler says, “we immediately recognized, ‘Wow, this is us, and this is big.'”

The strong point is that the ads are focused “on the end benefit” of an education at Bridges Academy, she adds, which is “to unlock the potential of each student. These kids are so full of potential, but you can’t fulfill it till you find it.”

Ms. Greenberg says that she and Ms. Meyer, as they began to work on the campaign, decided to focus on how “Bridges is an environment that builds on strengths to help students overcome their challenges.”

“There was this term on the website, ‘twice exceptional,’ which I’d never heard of,” Ms. Greenberg says, “and we started looking into it” as a way to convey the mission of the school along with featuring the historical figures who may “today be diagnosed as twice exceptional.”

Ms. Meyer takes issue with a suggestion that the phrase will be dismissed as a euphemism, an attempt to soft-pedal a problem or an example of marketing jargon.

“We didn’t make it up; we were not coining a phrase,” Ms. Meyer says. Rather, “it’s a term accepted in that community” of educators, she adds, which makes it “a term that’s acceptable.”

“There are no universal words to explain how these children are,” Ms. Meyer says. “Something meaningful, something uplifting could make kids and parents feel better about themselves,” she adds, compared with what she deems “negative terminology” like “learning challenged” or “learning disabled.”

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that appears Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.
200 2013-12-09 David Adelman, executive director of Mindshare New York, part of the Mindshare division of GroupM, was named Chicago office lead. He succeeds Mary Carpenter, who takes a new role, overseeing a new performance marketing practice for Mindshare in North America. GroupM is owned by WPP.

Bolt Public Relations, Irvine, Calif., is opening an office in the Dallas-Fort Worth area; the agency also has an office in Raleigh, N.C. Shawn Paul Wood was hired to be the general manager of the new office; he has worked for agencies that include Burson-Marsteller and HCK2 Partners.

CBS Radio, part of the CBS Corporation, hired an executive and promoted another. Alan Blum joined CBS Radio in a new post, vice president for branded content solutions; he had been running his own New York agency, Re: Vision, where he was president and executive creative director. Also, Jennifer Morelli, director of integrated marketing and events at CBS Radio Chicago, becomes vice president for integrated marketing at CBS Radio.

David DeRobbio joined Condé Nast, New York, part of Advance Publications, in a new post, senior executive director of digital sales. He had most recently been vice president for digital sales at NBC News, New York, part of the NBCUniversal division of Comcast.

El Rey Network, a new cable channel from the filmmaker Robert Rodriguez, chose agencies to handle various assignments. Billings were not disclosed. Campfire, New York, was hired as branding agency of record. TheAudience, Los Angeles, was named to help lead the channel’s initiatives in social media. Also, Fons PR, Austin, Tex., will create digital elements for online marketing. El Rey is a joint venture of Mr. Rodriguez and FactoryMade Ventures, with a minority stake held by Univision Communications.
201 2013-12-09 John Ellison Conlee and David Costabile in a scene from "The (curious case of the) Watson Intelligence," a new play by Madeleine George at Playwrights Horizons.
202 2013-12-09 Investing in mobile apps. Using social media to catch a shoplifter. How to reduce the cost of cloud computing....
203 2013-12-09 Comparisons of the real value of today’s minimum wage with what prevailed decades ago fail to account for the rise of the earned-income tax credit as a primary vehicle for helping low-income families, an economist writes....
204 2013-12-09 Many contend that if a financial institution needs to borrow some money on a short-term basis from the government, but the institution is otherwise solvent, that lending is not a bailout. But is that right? Stephen J. Lubben explores the issue in ...
205 2013-12-09 Another Lenin effigy is dismantled, in Kiev, but can Ukraine do better than Russia at shedding the Soviet legacy?...
206 2013-12-09 Doing urbanization as the Romans did — or not....
207 2013-12-09 Verizon announced on Monday that it had agreed to acquire EdgeCast, a fast-growing content delivery network start-up....
208 2013-12-09 Investors see the Bharatiya Janata Party and its prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, as more likely to back policies that favor businesses and investors than the Congress Party....
209 2013-12-09 Lara Gut of Switzerland won a super-G in Lake Louise, Alberta, by three-hundredths of a second for her fourth victory in a World Cup season that is only eight races old. Gut was timed in 1 minute 22.86 seconds, edging Tina Weirather of Liechtenstein by 0.03 of a second to reclaim the lead in the overall World Cup standings.

The Olympic downhill champion Lindsey Vonn was fifth in 1:23.71, showing more progress in her comeback from major knee surgery after coming in 40th on Friday and 11th on Saturday. Another American, Leanne Smith, was sixth in the super-G.
210 2013-12-09 In Santa Cruz, Calif., where the exchange is run by the state, Robert Aaron, a self-employed 56-year-old engineer, said he was looking for a low-cost plan. The best one he could find had a premium of $488 a month. But the annual deductible was $5,000, and that, he said, “sounds really high.”

By contrast, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, the average deductible in employer-sponsored health plans is $1,135.

“Deductibles for many plans in the insurance exchanges are pretty high,” said Stan Dorn, a health policy expert at the Urban Institute. “These plans are more generous than what’s prevalent in the current individual insurance market, but significantly less generous than most employer-sponsored insurance.”

Caroline F. Pearson, a vice president of Avalere Health, a consulting company that has analyzed hundreds of plans, said: “The premiums are lower than expected, but consumers on the exchange will often face high deductibles and high co-payments for medical services and prescription drugs before they reach the cap on out-of-pocket costs,” $6,350 for an individual and $12,700 for a family.

Those limits provide significant protection, even though those sums are substantial for most consumers. In addition, the federal website, HealthCare.gov, informs people that they may qualify for subsidies to reduce their out-of-pocket costs if their household income is below 250 percent of the federal poverty level, meaning that it is less than $28,725 for an individual or $48,825 for a family of three.

These “cost-sharing reductions” are available for a specific kind of midlevel plan known as a silver plan. People with lower incomes can get more help with out-of-pocket costs, but only if they choose silver plans.

Mr. Dorn said the government had not done much to inform people of these potential savings. “Consumers are giving up cost-sharing reductions of enormous value if they enroll in a bronze plan because it has the lowest premium,” he said.

Plans in the marketplace are separated into four categories — bronze, silver, gold and platinum — indicating the generosity of coverage, or the share of costs paid by insurance for an average enrollee.

Many people buying insurance on the federal and state exchanges are expected to qualify for subsidies. But in the first month, for reasons that are not clear, only 30 percent qualified. The others must pay the full premium and will be subject to the full deductible.

Most people shopping in the exchanges are expected to choose bronze or silver plans, which provide less generous coverage than most employer-sponsored plans.

A study by Jon R. Gabel and colleagues at NORC, a research organization affiliated with the University of Chicago, found that 65 percent of employees in group health plans had higher-value coverage that would be classified as gold or platinum under the Affordable Care Act.

At the same time, most policies in the exchanges are more generous than what people have been buying for themselves in the individual insurance market. Mr. Gabel found that 84 percent of policyholders in the individual market had coverage that was less than or equivalent to the bronze level.

James T. O’Connor, an actuary at Milliman, an employee benefit consulting firm, said: “Larger employers generally have more generous coverage than small employers, and small group plans, on average, are richer than what people can typically buy with their own money in the new health insurance exchanges.”

Mark A. York, a 60-year-old freelance writer in Hailey, Idaho, said he began shopping after he received a letter saying that his current insurance policy would be canceled because it did not meet the requirements of the health care law. In the exchange, he said, he found policies with premiums similar to what he is now paying, $440 a month, but “the deductibles were so high — $4,000 to $6,000 a year — that it defeats the purpose of having insurance.”

Brian H. Snoddy, 35, of Palmyra, Va., said his wife and two children had a policy with a $330 premium and a $2,500 deductible, but it is being canceled. For new plans with comparable coverage on the federal exchange, he said, “the deductibles are way higher, $5,000 or $6,000.”

For visits to a medical specialist, many plans on the federal exchange require co-payments of $50 to $75 or more.

Federal officials often point to premiums as evidence that the health care law has made insurance affordable. “Nearly six in 10 uninsured Americans can pay less than $100 a month for coverage in the health insurance marketplace,” Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, has said.

Higher deductibles are one tool that insurers can use to hold down premiums. Many have also held down premiums on the exchanges by limiting the choices of doctors and hospitals available to consumers in their provider networks.

Kellye Norris, 53, of Dallas said that after trying for more than a month, she completed an application on the federal exchange and enrolled in a Cigna plan with a premium of about $500 a month and no subsidies.

“My deductible is nearly $3,000, which is ridiculously high, in my opinion,” Ms. Norris said. “But as someone with pre-existing conditions, I’m grateful to be able to buy insurance at all.”
211 2013-12-09 The Silicon Valley giant is embracing the notion that different types of business computing systems are merging into one tightly integrated computing engine....
212 2013-12-09 Eight major companies, led by Google and Microsoft, are calling for tighter controls on surveillance of their customers’ data by governments worldwide....
213 2013-12-09 Mike Moser scored 23 of his 25 points in the second half and overtime to lead No. 13 Oregon past host Mississippi, 115-105, on Sunday.

Johnathan Loyd added 25 points, and Joseph Young had 19, including an important 3-pointer in overtime to push the Ducks (8-0) ahead, 100-93, with 1 minute 59 seconds remaining.

Six Oregon players scored in double figures during an entertaining game that stayed close throughout. The Ducks shot 38 of 65 (58.5 percent) from the field.

Marshall Henderson had a career-high 39 points for Ole Miss (6-2). A 6-foot-2 guard, he made 11 of 27 shots from the field, including 10 of 23 from 3-point range.

S.D. STATE 70, WASHINGTON 63 Xavier Thames scored 19 points, and No. 24 San Diego State rallied from a 9-point halftime deficit to beat visiting Washington.
214 2013-12-09 ■ Chick Foxgrover, senior vice president and chief technology officer at the American Association of Advertising Agencies, New York, was named chief digital officer, a new post with an expanded role.

■ Bass Phillips, a creative director at nFusion, Austin, Tex., was promoted to a new post, serving as the agency’s executive creative director.

■ Bob LaPointe, president of Inc. magazine, New York, part of Mansueto Ventures, stepped down, the company said, and will take on a new role, executive vice president for new business development, based in the Inc. Boston office. Eric Schurenberg, editor in chief of Inc., will succeed Mr. LaPointe as president, assuming responsibility for the magazine’s business operation, while remaining editor in chief.

■ Three major media agencies known for predicting trends in advertising spending have revised their forecasts for 2014; two were revised upward and one was revised downward. GroupM, part of WPP, revised its prediction downward and is now forecasting a gain of 4.6 percent in worldwide ad spending next year compared with 2013; the previous GroupM forecast called for a gain of 5.1 percent. Still, the GroupM prediction projects growth next year at a stronger rate than this year when, GroupM says, ad spending will increase 3.3 percent compared with 2012. Magna Global, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, revised its prediction upward. It is now forecasting a gain of 6.5 percent in worldwide ad spending next year compared with 2013; the previous Magna Global forecast called for an increase of 6.1 percent. The Magna Global prediction for growth next year is also at a faster pace than its prediction for this year, which calls for an increase of 3.2 percent compared with 2012. Finally, ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, revised its prediction upward and is now forecasting a gain of 5.3 percent in worldwide ad spending next year compared with this year; the previous ZenithOptimedia forecast called for an increase of 5.1 percent. The ZenithOptimedia prediction for growth next year is also more robust than its forecast for this year, which calls for a gain of 3.6 percent compared with 2012. ZenithOptimedia is, in addition, making forecasts for 2015, an increase of 5.8 percent from 2014, and 2016, up 5.8 percent from 2015. The three agencies are to discuss details of their forecasts on Monday morning during the opening day of the 41st annual UBS Global Media and Communications Conference in New York.

■ Billups Worldwide, Portland, Ore., and Strategic Outdoor Shop, New York and San Francisco, which both specialize in out-of-home advertising, have merged, the companies said. Financial terms were not disclosed. The merged company will operate in the three cities under the Billups name.

■ Advertising revenue for out-of-home media rose 3.5 percent in the third quarter compared with the same period a year ago, according to the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Washington. For the first three quarters, ad revenue increased 4.4 percent compared with the same period of 2012.

■ Synergize, a digital search marketing agency in Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa, was acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris. Financial terms were not disclosed.
215 2013-12-09 Arindrajit Dube’s recent article in the “Great Divide” series (“The Minimum We Can Do,” Sunday Review, Dec. 1) does not, in our view, provide a balanced assessment of what the evidence says about minimum wages.

In particular, Mr. Dube dismisses a large body of research that finds disemployment effects from the minimum wage. He bases his conclusions largely on his own work, without noting that we and other researchers strongly contest his research methodology and conclusions. We find negative employment effects from minimum wages using a variety of methods, including ones that address his contention that different employment trajectories between high- and low-minimum-wage states skew the evidence toward finding disemployment effects.

Further, Mr. Dube cites only his own research in asserting that a higher minimum wage in the United States reduces poverty. He makes no mention of contradictory research by Richard V. Burkhauser, Joseph J. Sabia and us, which finds that minimum wage increases have not had a measurable effect on poverty.

The debate on these issues is still playing out, and future research will help sort out the answers.

Mr. Dube also argues, incorrectly in our view, that the minimum wage should be higher simply because it is lower in real terms than it used to be. The United States has adopted the earned-income tax credit as an alternative policy to increase incomes of low-wage workers, a policy that better targets those benefits to low-income families.

Mr. Neumark is a professor of economics at the University of California, Irvine. Mr. Wascher is deputy director, Division of Research and Statistics, at the Federal Reserve Board, but the views expressed here do not necessarily represent those of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
216 2013-12-09 Edouard Molinaro, who received an Oscar nomination for directing the 1978 French film “La Cage aux Folles,” which was remade in the United States as “The Birdcage” and as a Broadway musical, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 85.

His death was confirmed in a statement by President François Hollande of France.

Mr. Molinaro was a successful screenwriter and director with credits for many French films and television shows, but he is best known for “Cage,” which at the time was the highest-grossing foreign-language film ever in the United States.

The film is about a gay couple, Renato and Albin, who run a nightclub in the South of France that features drag shows. When Renato’s son gets engaged and brings his girlfriend’s conservative parents to meet them, Renato and Albin (a drag star) pretend to be husband and wife.

Mr. Molinaro said he wanted to make a comedy with gay characters because they had previously been represented only in dramas. He hoped the audience would “laugh with, not at, homosexuals — the way one would with other people,” he told The New York Times in 1981.

President Hollande praised Mr. Molinaro for working with some of the best French actors and having a rich and varied career.
217 2013-12-09 The job could not be more politically fraught. Mr. Orr’s harshest critics call him a “dictator” (his authority trumps that of the city’s elected leaders), an “Uncle Tom” (he is black and was sent to run this mostly black city by a white governor) and a “pension killer” (he has said the city can no longer afford the pensions it promised retirees). But Mr. Orr, who was a partner at the law firm Jones Day until his wife and a mentor helped talk him into taking the Detroit job, seems unfazed by the storm around him. He is full of smiles and quips, coolly pressing on.

“If we don’t do something to address the unfunded liability that we have, the 700,000 residents — some of them schoolchildren, some of them sort of skinny, dorky kids like I was, who got beaten up every day at the bus stop by the toughs, who have to walk home in the dark — don’t they deserve better services?” said Mr. Orr, who grew up in Florida and visited Detroit as a youth. “There has to be some balance here. This is our chance.”

This year, with Detroit’s financial troubles becoming desperately apparent, Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican, called on Mr. Orr, who had worked on Chrysler’s bankruptcy and at the Resolution Trust Corporation, to be sent as an emergency manager with sweeping powers.

At first, Mr. Orr said, he resisted. The salary, $275,000 a year, from the state, would be a pay cut. His wife, who is a physician, would be caring for their two children, 6 and 7, at home in Chevy Chase, Md., when he was in Detroit. And the circumstances were certain to be volatile in a city that was hardly asking for an outsider to step in. Ultimately, Mr. Orr said, he became convinced that it was a call to action.

In the nearly nine months since, Mr. Orr has been continually on the move, meeting with community groups, issuing reports, filing for bankruptcy, firing and hiring people at City Hall.

His supporters say he is astute and charming, but also direct. “The thing is, his stock is as high today as it was when he walked in the door,” said Sandy K. Baruah, the president of the Detroit Regional Chamber.

But he has also been a target during protests. Detroiters groaned at the attitude they perceived in a comment he made to The Wall Street Journal: “For a long time the city was dumb, lazy, happy and rich.” Mr. Orr has said it was in no way meant as an insult against contemporary Detroiters, but an observation about circumstances 100 years ago.

And Detroit’s mayor, Dave Bing, who is leaving office at the end of the year, has said Mr. Orr arrived in the municipal building (where Mr. Orr has a second office, not far from Mr. Bing’s) with a slew of outside consultants and personnel changes, but precious little expertise in running a city.

“Kevyn has tried to take on way too much,” Mr. Bing said in an interview, adding that he doubted speculation that the incoming mayor, Mike Duggan, might get some larger role. “Whoever the mayor is and the City Council are, they won’t have a say in how to run the city.”

Some critics bristle at the suggestion that Mr. Orr — rather than Governor Snyder and the Republican majority in the state capital, Lansing — is running this city, where tensions over race and class have long simmered. Mr. Orr and Governor Snyder both attended law school, in overlapping years, at the University of Michigan, where Mr. Orr had also gotten his undergraduate degree. The two meet and talk regularly, the governor’s spokeswoman said. Mr. Orr stays in a condominium at the Westin Book Cadillac that has been paid for by a tax-exempt fund the governor created.

“They pull the levers, and he reads the script at the press conferences,” said the Rev. Charles Williams II of the National Action Network. “In our community, we call that window dressing.”

Mr. Orr has heard it all before; mainly he dismisses it. He says that he is a Democrat and has never voted for a Republican and that Governor Snyder was a “fleeting acquaintance” in law school.

And however his life may appear to others — the classic suits and the state police security detail — Mr. Orr says simply that he sees himself as a part of Detroit. In the city’s churches, he says, he smells the Florida church his grandfather led, the old Bibles and the organs. Both his grandmothers had studied to the eighth grade and worked as maids.

“When I say, ‘I’m them,’ ” Mr. Orr said of Detroiters, “I want people to understand, don’t look at who I am now. I have by no means forgotten.”

On the most contentious issues, Mr. Orr has held hard lines. He refuses to promise that works at the Detroit Institute of Arts will go untouched in bankruptcy. He says city pensions for retirees are unaffordable as they are now, despite state constitutional protections.

Not long ago, Mr. Orr’s mother, a retired school administrator from Florida who receives a pension, met a Detroit retiree at a conference. “They were crying together,” Mr. Orr said. “She said, ‘Kevyn, do you have to do this?’ ”

“If we don’t do something in the next 10 or 12 years,” Mr. Orr said, “there won’t be pensions for the 30-, 40- and 50-year olds. Is that fair?”

Mr. Orr has cleared one of his biggest hurdles: getting approval for bankruptcy. Though he is more accustomed to asking questions in courtrooms, he spent days testifying about Detroit’s dismal conditions, providing a pivotal basis for the judge’s determination.

But the trial also shed light on his tactics in filing for bankruptcy. Judge Steven W. Rhodes found that Mr. Orr and his team had not bargained in good faith before heading to court (though the judge also found that bargaining would have been impracticable given the some 100,000 creditors). In one testy exchange, the judge asked Mr. Orr about a statement he had made at a town-hall-style meeting in June that pensions were “sacrosanct.”

“What would you say to that retiree now?” the judge asked.

“I would say his rights are subject to the supremacy clause in the U.S. Constitution,” Mr. Orr said.

“That’s a little bit different than sacrosanct, isn’t it?”

By next October — when, under state law, Detroit’s elected leaders can remove Mr. Orr — he hopes the city will have emerged from court with eased debts and reinvestment in services, from streetlights to garbage pickup.

It is a tall order. He expects a new agency to put thousands of streetlights on key roads and near bus stops. He wants a remade police department — he has already hired a new chief — to drive down crime. He wants a “supercharged” effort to remove tens of thousands of abandoned buildings.

“In three years, hopefully the blight is gone,” Mr. Orr said. “That would be my dream.”
218 2013-12-09 The opposition in Thailand has been deeply frustrated by its inability to win elections against the powerful political machine backed by the billionaire tycoon Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister who now lives in exile. Ms. Yingluck is Mr. Thaksin’s sister.

On Sunday, the Democrat Party, Thailand’s oldest and the main force behind the country’s political opposition, announced that its members would resign from Parliament and join antigovernment street demonstrations.

“We cannot beat them,” said Theptai Seanapong, one of the members of Parliament who resigned on Sunday. “It doesn’t matter if we raise our hands and feet in parliamentary votes, we will never win.”

Sathit Wongnongtoey, one of the protest leaders and a former member of Parliament for the Democrat Party, said on Monday that he feared there would be “cheating” in the election if the government carried on as caretakers, as the Constitution stipulates.

“And they will return to power,” Mr. Sathit said. “We cannot allow that to happen.”

The mistrust of electoral politics has echoes across the region — in Malaysia, where the governing party has heavily gerrymandered the electoral map, and in Cambodia, where the authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen, has used the machinery of the state and military to bolster his power. The Cambodian opposition continues to boycott Parliament over allegations of widespread electoral fraud in July elections.

One major difference in Thailand, however, is that there is little dispute that Mr. Thaksin’s party has won the hearts of the majority of voters. By tailoring its policies to voters in the provinces, especially in northern Thailand, scholars say, the governing Pheu Thai Party has convincingly won every election since 2001.

Though the opposition has repeatedly said that Mr. Thaksin has maintained his power through vote buying, two of Thailand’s leading political researchers wrote a widely circulated article last week that said the allegation was “dangerous nonsense” because it was policies, not vote buying, that have cemented the loyalty of many voters in the provinces toward Mr. Thaksin.

As Thailand’s peak tourism season gets underway, embassies have advised their citizens to avoid the protest areas.

The Democrat Party has many grievances with Mr. Thaksin’s party, including what it considers the railroading of some spending bills, voting procedures in Parliament that a court has called illegal and the furtive passage of important laws in the early hours of the morning.

Yet for a party that has long cultivated a genteel and intellectual image and advocated resolving differences inside Parliament, the decision to take to the streets was contentious within its own ranks. A number of key members were not present at the meeting on Sunday.

Still, the party’s move has parallels — and worrying similarities, some observers believe — to a move the party made seven years ago. Amid a campaign of street protests against Mr. Thaksin, then the prime minister, the Democrat Party boycotted elections in April 2006. Five months later, Mr. Thaksin was deposed in a military coup.

During the current round of demonstrations, protest leaders have courted the military, and many protesters have openly called for another coup. But until now, the army chief, Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, has appeared wary of intervening in the crisis. A Thai newspaper, The Post Today, reported on Sunday that General Prayuth had said a coup would not solve the country’s problems. “We must be patient and seek a peaceful solution,” the paper quoted him as saying.

The protesters’ hope for royal intervention has also not had results. King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who has intervened in political standoffs in the past but is now ailing, did not specifically address the protests in a speech given on his 86th birthday on Thursday.

Mr. Thaksin also appears to be going out of his way to patch up any perceived differences with the royal family. After several weeks of public silence, he posted a comment on his Facebook page on Saturday denying claims that he had ever been disloyal to the family.

“I would like to insist here that I’ve never even thought to reproach any member of the royal family because I received their royal graces all along,” Mr. Thaksin said.

Ms. Yingluck has earned plaudits from foreign governments for her administration’s handling of the crisis in the face of aggressive moves by the protesters, who have taken over the Finance Ministry, occupied a large government complex on the outskirts of the city and temporarily cut power to a number of state-owned buildings, including the police headquarters.

The police say that the five deaths that occurred were caused by shootings among competing groups of protesters. At the height of the violent confrontations between protesters and the riot police last week, the European Union said the authorities’ actions had been “restrained and proportionate.”
219 2013-12-09 His words echoed across Tahrir Square in Cairo during the 2011 uprising against President Hosni Mubarak “as if they were specifically written for that moment,” his friend Mr. Enaba said. Lines from his poem “Who Are They, and Who Are We?” became a chanted slogan in the square, marking Egypt’s perennial struggles and sharpening the lines of the battle at hand.

They were “the sultans,” and the people were “the war: its kindling, its fire,” the poem read.

“They wear the latest fashions,” the protesters shouted, “and we live seven to a room.”

Mr. Negm started writing in the late 1950s, during a three-year prison sentence on a forgery charge. After he was released in 1962, he published his first book, “Images From Life and Prison.”

In the 1960s he teamed up with Sheikh Imam Eissa, a composer and oud player, who put music to Mr. Negm’s verse. Their collaboration made both men famous and established them among Egypt’s foremost dissidents. They were roommates for a spell, and were locked up together, too. The partnership lasted for more than 20 years.

One composition, which criticized President Gamal Abdel Nasser after Egypt’s defeat in the 1967 war with Israel, landed Mr. Negm and Sheikh Imam in jail. Sadat, who succeeded Nasser as president, released them, but sent Mr. Negm back to prison a few years later for mocking his speaking style.

Little was sacred in Mr. Negm’s world: He skewered Islamists, government functionaries, Richard M. Nixon and even Egypt’s most famous singer, Umm Kulthum, in poems that spread beyond Egypt.

Sinan Antoon, an Iraqi poet who teaches literature at New York University, first came across one of Mr. Negm’s books, “Egypt, Wake Up!” as a teenager in Baghdad.

“When you read, or hear, his poetry, you are struck by the power of his language and its intricate rhythms and registers,” Mr. Antoon wrote in an email. “At times, it’s almost incantational.”

In Mr. Negm’s poems, Mr. Antoon said, “the aesthetic and the political went hand in hand.”

Egypt’s chronic inequality and decades of political stasis gave Mr. Negm’s work a timeless quality. Words he wrote in 1967, about official attempts to pacify ordinary Egyptians, never lost their resonance:

in the work of politics

Ahmed Fouad Negm was born on May 22, 1929, in the village of Kafr Abu Negm, north of Cairo. His father, a police officer, died when he was 6, and his mother, unable to provide for Mr. Negm and his siblings, placed him in an orphanage in the city of Zagazig.

After leaving the orphanage, he worked as a laborer on a British military base, as a farmhand and as a street vendor before his first imprisonment, in 1959.

Mr. Negm was married at least five times and as many as eight; friends who had known him for decades were not sure. In 1972, he married the journalist and literary critic Safinaz Kazem. Their daughter, Nawara Negm, is a prominent Egyptian activist. In addition to her and his last wife, Omaima Abdel-Wahab, survivors include two other daughters, Afaf and Zeinab Negm.

A few days before he died, with Egypt once again mired in civil conflict and tilting toward authoritarian rule, Mr. Negm fretted about the country’s path.

But his beloved revolutionaries were still in the streets. “The youth we have are devils,” he said affectionately. “Nobody can fool them.”
220 2013-12-10 Two-thirds of those who have signed up are seeking the private plans being offered, the officials say....
221 2013-12-10 The Royal Bank of Scotland said Tuesday that Nathan Bostock resigned as chief financial officer to join Banco Santander’s British unit as deputy chief executive and chief risk officer....
222 2013-12-10 Were Fort Lee’s access lanes to the George Washington Bridge shut down as part of a political dispute?...
223 2013-12-10 First, we have to agree on precisely what constitutes a small business....
224 2013-12-10 The power of Pinterest. The promise of a trade agreement. How bike lanes increase small-business revenue....
225 2013-12-10 Val Haller, a music-obsessed baby boomer and the founder of the website Valslist.com, matches tracks from her generation to those of her 20-something sons’ generation.

Were you at Woodstock? Joni Mitchell was not; she opted for a guest spot on the “Dick Cavett Show” instead. And yet her song “Woodstock” — “We are stardust/We are golden” — may be marked in history as the boomers’ theme song.

I hosted a house concert last month featuring a singer-songwriter from Massachusetts, Heather Maloney, and if I’d closed my eyes it could have been Joni Mitchell in my living room. She performed with an indie folk quartet, Darlingside, four a cappella singers who met at Williams College and have built on their voices with violin, cello, mandolin, guitar and other instruments. As they were packing up, I made the Joni Mitchell comparison and suggested that Darlingside could have fun with the harmonies of the Crosby Stills Nash and Young version of “Woodstock.” Then the day after Thanksgiving I got a gift in my email: Heather and the band had covered Joni Mitchell’s song — harmonies and all.
226 2013-12-10 The director Peter Berg insisted Emile Hirsch go to the gym six days a week, for three months, before he could even be given a role in the film “Lone Survivor.”...
227 2013-12-10 Microsoft announced updates to Photosynth that create fully immersive, videolike panoramas. The updates will be available on a first-come first-serve basis Tuesday....
228 2013-12-10 Elliott Management, which has an interest of more than 25 percent in Celesio, says that McKesson’s $8.3 billion offer undervalues the company....
229 2013-12-10 Valiant Bank, a small Swiss bank, became the first in the country to say that it would sign a deal with the United States aimed at ending a three-year tax evasion dispute with Switzerland....
230 2013-12-10 The Volvo Group, the Swedish truck and equipment maker, has agreed to sell its construction machinery rental business to the private equity firm Platinum Equity....
231 2013-12-10 Sometimes the scientists who study animal behavior solve puzzles and other times they uncover new ones. The war between mockingbirds and cowbirds is a case in point.

Cowbirds are brood parasites, meaning they lay their eggs in the nests of other bird species, thus unloading the messy and demanding business of chick-rearing. They also peck holes in the eggs of the host birds, destroying as many as they can.

Mockingbirds are a favorite target of this plan, and it seems to make perfect sense for them to viciously attack cowbirds when they catch them in the nest.

But when Ros Gloag, then a doctoral student at Oxford, and her colleagues in Argentina looked closely at the war between chalk-browed mockingbirds and shiny cowbirds, they found something unexpected, as they reported in the November issue of Animal Behaviour.

They stationed small video cameras near the nests of 40 pairs of chalk-browed mockingbirds. Over two breeding seasons they recorded more than 200 attacks on intruding cowbirds.
232 2013-12-10 A defense bill before the United States Congress may undercut Turkey’s agreement to buy air-defense missile systems from China....
233 2013-12-10 Chen Guangcheng, a human rights advocate from China who fled to the United States, did not have his smartphone and tablet compromised by spyware, New York University said more than a year after making the assertion....
234 2013-12-10 Josh McCown threw for a career-high four touchdowns, and the Chicago Bears scored on their first eight possessions to grab a share of the N.F.C. North lead with a 45-28 victory over the visiting Dallas Cowboys on Monday night.

McCown was 27 for 36 passing for 348 yards and ran for a touchdown on a night when the wind chill factor was below zero. The Bears improved to 7-6 and moved into a tie with the Detroit Lions for first place in the N.F.C. North. Tony Romo was 11 for 20 passing with 3 touchdowns, but the Cowboys (7-6) slipped a game behind the Philadelphia Eagles in the N.F.C. East.

At halftime, the Bears retired the No. 89 of Hall of Famer Mike Ditka, who won championships with Chicago as a player and a head coach.

GRONKOWSKI SIDELINED The New England Patriots placed tight end Rob Gronkowski on injured reserve with a damaged right knee.

Gronkowski was hurt midway through the third quarter of the Patriots’ 27-26 win over the Browns when he was hit by Cleveland safety T. J. Ward after a 21-yard reception. He sustained an anterior cruciate ligament tear and medial collateral ligament damage.
235 2013-12-10 Host Russia, the United States, Canada and Japan qualified for the team figure skating event, which is making its Olympic debut in Sochi. Italy, France, China, Germany, Ukraine and Britain also qualified. The event includes men’s, women’s, pairs and ice dance for each country.
236 2013-12-10 The leader of the global monitoring group that is helping oversee the eradication of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal raised the strong possibility on Monday of a delay in the timetable, saying it would be “quite difficult” to meet a deadline three weeks from now for transporting the most dangerous materials out of the country by sea.

Such a delay, broached by Ahmet Uzumcu, the director general of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, would be the first in the timetable of the eradication program, which began more than two months ago and is considered so far to be an extraordinary and conspicuous success in a country at war.

Mr. Uzumcu spoke less than a week after the United Nations official in charge of coordinating the eradication program, Sigrid Kaag, told the Security Council that transporting the most dangerous cargo overland to the Syrian port of Latakia for export and destruction, as envisioned in the plan, would be quite dangerous because the roads were unsafe. Ms. Kaag said Syrian military forces were trying to secure them.

Chemical weapons experts have determined that the Syrian arsenal, which includes more than 1,000 tons of munitions like sarin, mustard gas and other toxic substances, must be transported using roads linking Damascus and other areas to Latakia, a Mediterranean port that is a government stronghold. But the roads traverse rebel-controlled areas.

“In view of the circumstances in this country, it will be quite difficult to meet this timeline,” Mr. Uzumcu was quoted by news services as saying at a news conference in Oslo. He was in Norway to accept the 2013 Nobel Peace Prize on behalf of his organization at a ceremony on Tuesday.

Under the timeline for destruction of the weapons and the materials used to create them, the “most critical” chemicals are to be transported out of Syria by Dec. 31, other chemical substances and precursors must be removed by Feb. 5, all chemical weapons facilities must be destroyed by March 2014, and the entire arsenal must be destroyed “in the safest and soonest manner” no later than June 30.
237 2013-12-10 The technical errors that had bedeviled visitors to the site for weeks seemed to have been tamed, and applicants were finally selecting health care plans under the Affordable Care Act....
238 2013-12-10 and President of both spent time last weekend trying to sell the Iran nuclear deal to skeptics among their constituents. In Mr. Obama’s case, that meant addressing pro- supporters at the Saban Center for Policy, a Washington think tank. Mr. Rouhani’s speech to a university audience in Tehran was televised nationally. While either side could undermine the November interim agreement, and with it the best chance in 30 years for a genuine thaw in Iranian-American relations, the more serious threat seems to be on the American side.

In the agreement, Iran committed to freezing or rolling back parts of its and allowing daily inspections for six months in exchange for modest sanctions relief. In the meantime, negotiators for both sides will work toward a more lasting agreement. While not perfect, the six-month hiatus is unquestionably a good deal and would put the first meaningful curbs on Iran’s program in a decade. It certainly beats military action, which Mr. Obama holds out as an option if negotiations fail.

In recent days, however, reports have circulated in Washington that two members of the Senate — , a Democrat, and Mark Kirk, a Republican — are preparing legislation that would impose new sanctions on Iran’s remaining exports and strategic industries if, at the end of six months, the interim agreement goes nowhere. Both Iran and the White House have warned that such legislation could be fatal to the agreement. Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister, told Time and in an interview in Tehran on Saturday that “the entire deal is dead” even if the penalties do not take effect for six months.

Similar mischief is afoot in the House. The reported that Steny Hoyer of , the Democratic minority whip, was working with , the Republican majority leader, on a resolution that could sharply limit the outlines of a final agreement or call for imposing new sanctions.

Mr. Hoyer’s office described as “preposterous” the notion that he would sign on to any resolution that would undermine the White House. But even a hint that he and other House Democrats might join with hard-line Republicans against Mr. Obama on what amounts to a diplomatic breakthrough is alarming.

The outcome of these efforts is unclear. What is clear is that they are not only unproductive but unnecessary because Congress could, at any point in the future, order tougher sanctions if any deal falls apart. Equally clear is that they will almost certainly enrage the Iranians. The interim deal stated that no further sanctions should be imposed while it was in force. New penalties would betray that agreement, feed Iranians’ deep mistrust of Americans, deny Mr. Obama negotiating flexibility and, most likely, crush any hope that a diplomatic solution is possible.
239 2013-12-10 The document, to be displayed by Macy’s, Barneys New York and other major stores in the city, outlines rights drawn from existing store policies prohibiting racial profiling.
240 2013-12-10 Shoppers will find an unusual addition to the traditional decorations at Macy’s, Barneys New York and other major stores this holiday season: a “Customers’ Bill of Rights” that addresses racial profiling.

The one-page document, released on Monday by retailers after meetings with the Rev. Al Sharpton and other civil rights advocates, is the latest and most public effort by stores in New York City to respond to accusations of profiling of black shoppers. Three customers have sued in recent months, and many others have informally shared their tales of unpleasant encounters while shopping in the city.

“Profiling is an unacceptable practice and will not be tolerated,” reads the document, to be posted in coming days in stores like Bloomingdale’s, Lord & Taylor and Saks Fifth Avenue. “Employees who violate the company’s prohibition on profiling will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.”

The document, which draws from existing store policies prohibiting racial profiling, amounts to a promise from retailers to abide by those strictures and a recognition of the deep resonance that reports of profiling have had with a large number of minority shoppers.

“If there was not a problem, there would be no reason to post it,” Mr. Sharpton said in a telephone interview. “The added pressure is that they’ve acknowledged specific rights.”
241 2013-12-10 Eleanor Parker, who was nominated three times for a best-actress Oscar but whose best-known role was a supporting one, as the marriage-minded baroness in “The Sound of Music,” died on Monday in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 91.

A family friend, Richard Gale, told The Associated Press that the cause was complications of pneumonia.

Ms. Parker was an elegant, ladylike yet sensual film actress. Still, her most recognizable role, as the Baroness who loves Christopher Plummer’s character, Captain von Trapp, in “The Sound of Music” (1965), called for an icy demeanor. Uninterested in his houseful of children, she loses him to the governess, played memorably by Julie Andrews. (Laura Benanti played the part in the recent version on NBC.)

The highest accolades of Ms. Parker’s career came a decade before.

She was nominated for an Oscar for dramatic roles as a wrongly convicted young prisoner in “Caged” (1950), a police officer’s neglected wife in “Detective Story” (1951) and an opera star with polio in “Interrupted Melody” (1955), a biography of the Australian soprano Marjorie Lawrence. She also received an Emmy Award nomination in 1963 for an episode of “The Eleventh Hour,” an NBC series about psychiatric cases.

If she never became a star, admirers contended, it was because of her versatility. Sometimes a blonde, sometimes a brunette, often a redhead, Ms. Parker made indelible impressions but submerged herself in a wide range of characters, from a war hero’s noble fiancée in “Pride of the Marines” (1945) to W. Somerset Maugham’s vicious waitress-prostitute in a remake of “Of Human Bondage” (1946).
242 2013-12-10 “You could argue it both ways,” said Dr. Carmelo A. Milano, a cardiac surgeon at Duke University, which has decided not to participate, as has the Cleveland Clinic. “It certainly would be better if we didn’t have this problem.

The HeartMate II is a small pump that continuously pushes blood through the heart. Patients who get the device now are those facing imminent death from heart failure. Even the researchers who put together the new report said they would continue to use the pump in those cases.

The trial, called Revive-It, is intended to determine whether a HeartMate II can also benefit patients who have not quite reached that stage of heart failure. Such patients, who take drugs for their condition, typically struggle to perform physical activities, like walking short distances.

Because heart failure is a progressive condition, the new blood clot study has complicated the question of how to weigh the device’s risks and benefits to less sick patients.

“I would not embark on a clinical study until this problem is understood and mitigated,” said Dr. Robert G. Hauser of the Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation, who is not involved in the trial.

In the new study, three big hospitals, the Cleveland Clinic, Duke and Washington University in St. Louis, jointly reported that the rate of HeartMate II-related blood clots had increased by nearly fourfold in devices implanted after early 2011.

Some patients died and others underwent emergency operations to get new pumps or transplanted hearts, according to a report in The New England Journal of Medicine.

Experts have yet to find a reason for the increase. But they say it most likely involves factors like changes in the device and changes in how doctors use anti-clotting drugs with such patients.

Long before the new report, however, word of a growing problem with the HeartMate II had been circulating among device experts. And researchers involved with Revive-It had already begun scrambling to understand its potential impact on the trial.

The issue began to take shape in March, when the Cleveland Clinic reported to the Food and Drug Administration and Thoratec that it was seeing a rise in pump-related clots. Physicians at other hospitals were also seeing an increase and were discussing the problem with colleagues at medical meetings or privately.

“There is an incestuous nature to our field,” said Dr. Scott Silvestry, a cardiac surgeon at Washington University.

In May, the principal investigators leading the trial — Dr. Keith Aaronson and Dr. Frank D. Pagani of the University of Michigan and Dr. Robert Kormos of the University of Pittsburgh — decided to delay the start of patient recruitment to examine the problem.

At that time, doctors at the Cleveland Clinic were keeping their findings confidential because they hoped to publish them in a medical journal.

But another source of data was available. In recent years, a federally funded registry at the University of Alabama at Birmingham has been tracking the safety of heart pumps like the HeartMate II. Known as Intermacs, the registry was showing that pump-related blood clots associated with the HeartMate II had risen to about 5 percent since early 2011, compared with about 2 percent in previous years.

But the registry also showed a variation in clot rates at differing hospitals, raising the possibility that facilities such as the Cleveland Clinic were outliers.

The trial’s lead investigators, Dr. Aronson, Dr. Pagani and Dr. Kormos, declined to be interviewed. But in a statement, they said the added risk detected by Intermacs was “small” and did not alter the trial’s balance of benefits and risks.

Based on the Intermacs data, officials at the F.D.A. and the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute and a panel of experts appointed by the institute to monitor the study’s safety came to the same conclusion.

“F.D.A. reviewed the Intermacs data and supported the Revive-It team’s decision to move forward,” the three researchers said a statement.

As a result, about 18 major hospitals nationwide again prepared to enroll patients. But now, the recent New England Journal of Medicine study published late last month has raised questions about which blood clot data is more reliable.

In their study, the Cleveland Clinic, Duke and Washington University reported a pump-related clot rate of 8.4 percent, compared with 2.2 percent in earlier years. The increase was significantly higher than the 5 percent rate reported by Intermacs.

Dr. Randall Starling of the Cleveland Clinic said he thought that Intermacs’ data was understating the problem’s scope.

“We believe our data is more accurate,” Dr. Starling said.

However, the import of new report was quickly disputed by the three investigators heading Revive-It. In a statement, they described the hospitals as outliers and said the Intermacs data was more reliable.

Dr. Milano, a cardiac surgeon at Duke, said he thought that the reaction of researchers, who have spent years setting up the Revive-It study, was understandable.

“They are more apt to look at the data that suggests there is less of a problem,” Dr. Milano said. Still, at this point, he cannot see asking less-sick patients to get a device. “Knowing what I know, I probably won’t sign up,” he said. The three researchers leading the trial said it was imperative, given the shortage of donor hearts to know whether the device worked in earlier stage patients.

Whatever the case, the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute said in a statement that the study’s safety panel would soon review the new journal report and its implication, if any, for the trial.

In the meantime, specialists are going their separate ways. For example, while Dr. Hauser, the device expert in Minneapolis, says he thinks that the trial should be delayed, cardiologists at the hospital where he works are going forward. And unlike Duke and the Cleveland Clinic, Dr. Silvestry said Washington University hospital was also staying in the trial because it thought that the device’s potential benefits still outweighed its risks.

“We feel our patients will be served by a possibility of enrollment,” Dr. Silvestry said.
243 2013-12-10 WASHINGTON — The wealth of Americans reached a nominal record high during the summer, buoyed by surging stock prices and a healthy recovery in home values.

The Federal Reserve said on Monday that household net worth in the United States rose 2.6 percent, to $77.3 trillion, from July through September. Net worth reflects the value of homes, stocks, bank accounts and other assets minus mortgages, credit cards and other debts.

Rising stock prices increased the overall net worth of Americans by $917 billion. Higher home values added $428 billion.

The increase in net worth is an encouraging sign for the economy. As Americans gain wealth, they typically spend more, and that drives faster growth.

The report also showed that Americans were willing to borrow more in the third quarter. That suggests many are growing more confident in their jobs and the broader economy.
244 2013-12-10 I’VE been fortunate when it comes to travel. I’ve seen so much of the world and have met many interesting people. But like all frequent travelers, I have had my share of strange encounters. I once had a seatmate who would remove a small wad of tissue paper from his mouth, fastidiously wipe his fingernails, and then pop the tissue back into his mouth. He did it for the flight’s duration, and it was really quite unnerving.

There was also the time I secured one of the last two seats. I was seated in the last row and watched a rather large man head down the aisle and take the last seat available, which was to my left. It was all fine until we both fell asleep. I awoke hours later to find that his body had somehow migrated my way and was covering at least half of my torso. I cannot forget the contortions I went through to extricate myself.

But I do like talking to my seatmates. As the C.E.O. of the Born Free Foundation and Born Free USA, I’m very fortunate in that many people like hearing about our work with animals and conservation. We may not all get to Africa to see elephants and lions, but I think people want to know these species have a future in the wild.

Some seatmates remember the 1966 movie “Born Free” and its story about Joy and George Adamson, who raised Elsa the orphaned lion cub, and then released her into the wild when she matured. In that movie, my dad, Bill, played George Adamson and my mother played Joy. It will soon be 50 years since we traveled to Kenya as a family to meet the Adamsons. I have had seatmates start humming the “Born Free” theme song to me, and one time, while at a lounge in Washington, D.C., I listened to three women start belting out the tune. They were very good.

I’ve had few security problems, but recently when leaving Africa I made a rookie mistake, forgetting to put a multitool Leatherman in my checked baggage. I pleaded with the security officer, who allowed me to go back to the check-in area to see if I could get the tool into my checked bag. I wasn’t hopeful, figuring my bag was already on the plane. Miraculously, a gentleman found my case. I was very grateful since the Leatherman was a gift from my colleagues.

Traveling with animals is always an exercise in logistics and, of course, the animal’s welfare is of utmost importance. We always try to make the flight as short as possible.
245 2013-12-10 He is blessed with a professional’s sense of comedic timing.

“I’ve told you that you are far more insignificant than you ever thought,” he tells an audience, after explaining that the universe can spring from nothing, with no recourse to a God or a miracle. “And that’s what I want you to celebrate,” he continues, to laughter. Instead of being depressed or looking to God to give your life meaning, “You create your own meaning and enjoy your moment in the sun,” he says. Gus Holwerda, the movie’s director and co-writer with his brother Luke and Dr. Krauss, said he got the idea after attending a symposium in 2009 on the subject of origins, organized by Dr. Krauss. The university auditorium was packed and sold out for 12 hours of talks by scientists like Dr. Dawkins and Stephen Hawking.

“I was like a fan boy, ranting and raving,” Mr. Holwerda recalled. “We’ve been in bands. It felt very rock ‘n’ roll in a way.” He pestered Dr. Krauss to make what he called a rock-tour film about science.

As it happened, Dr. Krauss had just arranged a book tour of Australia with Dr. Dawkins. Dr. Krauss found funding for the film, which made him a producer.

So off they went for six months, Australia to England and points in between. This is a road warrior movie. True to its intended genre, there are many airports and hotels, lugging of laptops and scenes in quiet backstage rooms that end with the passage into warm thunderous applause by the audience. A few quips and we’re off again on another airplane, helped along by a lively soundtrack, gazing out the window at another set of clouds and landscapes.

You don’t need to know much about biology or physics to follow what amounts to highlight reels of the speeches the scientists gave, although an explanation by Dr. Dawkins about why there was no “first man” or “first rabbit” could be worth the price of your ticket.

Evolutionary change is simply too slow and imperceptible for humans to notice, he says, adding, “Nobody ever goes to bed middle-aged and wakes up and says, oh no I’m old.”

Nor should you expect to hear much about the other side of the culture wars, either from the religious establishment or from scientists and thinkers who argue that the new atheists are too abrasive or naïve about theology and philosophy.

Dr. Krauss’s last book received a rocky reception from some philosophers, who said it left unanswered where the laws of physics themselves came from.

George V. Coyne — an astronomer, Jesuit priest and former director of the Vatican Observatory, now a professor of religion at Le Moyne College in Syracuse — wrote in a 2000 book on religion and the evolution of life, for example, that the success of modern science has trapped many of us into thinking of God as explanation, thus the notion of finding the “mind of God” as the ultimate goal.

But he wrote, “We know from Scripture and from tradition that God revealed himself as one who pours out himself in love and not as one who explains things.” God, he goes on, is primarily love: “Even if we discover the ‘Mind of God,’ we will not have necessarily found God.”

In the lectures presented here, however, Dr. Krauss and Dr. Dawkins are preaching mostly to the converted — or if you like, the unconverted — people hungry for plain, honest talk about the universe and the plight of humans in it.

The movie ends at the Reason Rally in Washington, billed as the largest convention of atheists in history. Dr. Dawkins looks out at the crowd standing in a light rain and pronounces it “the most incredible sight I can remember ever seeing.”

Dr. Dawkins, who we have seen earlier speculating on which recent American presidents were secret atheists, declares that too many people have been cowed out of coming out as atheists, secularists or agnostics. “We are far more numerous than anybody realizes,” he said.
246 2013-12-10 MILAN — When Alfredo, bearing flowers and a gift, arrives at the dying Violetta’s bedroom for a reunion with his lover, he doesn’t immediately rush into her arms. Rather, he pauses timidly — he is slightly fearful of how he will be received. That is one of the many details that lift Dmitri Tcherniakov’s captivating staging of “La Traviata,” which on Saturday initiated a new season at Teatro alla Scala before an audience that included Italy’s president, Giorgio Napolitano, and other representatives of the country’s elite.

A Scala opening remains one of Europe’s premier cultural events, but what makes it so isn’t the opening night glitter, but a long commitment to artistry. With “La Traviata,” the house is placating Italian traditionalists by returning to Verdi after having opened last year with Wagner’s “Lohengrin” (2013 is the bicentennial of both composers), and it does so with honor. Mr. Tcherniakov plays down the stuffy moral dimension of “La Traviata” by setting the opera in the present and making the lovers feel contemporary.

First seen looking pensively into a gilded full-length mirror, the celebrated courtesan Violetta — Diana Damrau in superb form — still knows how to throw a great party, but her languorous body language tells you her heart is no longer in it. And so do her surroundings, designed by Mr. Tcherniakov — an elegant but barren green-gray room in which guests, smartly dressed in costumes by Yelena Zaytseva that range from the provocatively casual to black tie, delight in her hospitality.

Only when Alfredo declares that he has loved her for a whole year does Violetta stir with animation. Reverting to party demeanor, Ms. Damrau delivers “Sempre libera” with tonal and technical brilliance, while Annina — more a confidante than a maid in the veteran soprano Mara Zampieri’s portrayal — watches, smoking a cigar.

Violetta finds happiness in the rambling kitchen of the country house she shares with Alfredo, which is as chock full with stuff and warmth as her Paris home is empty. Violetta’s care for Alfredo runs so deep that you can’t believe she would give him up, yielding to his father, Giorgio Germont, who sees their relationship as besmirching family honor.
247 2013-12-10 The two agencies will be absorbed into a new state media organization known as Rossiya Sevodnya, or Russia Today. In a separate decree, Mr. Putin appointed Dmitry K. Kiselyov as executive director of the organization. Mr. Kiselyov, a television executive and host, is an avowed pro-Kremlin figure who has provoked controversy with starkly homophobic remarks and virulent commentary suggesting foreign conspiracies are threatening Russia.

The decrees caught the agencies’ employees, its executives and even some government officials by surprise. Mr. Putin made the changes without prior notice or public debate, as is often the case here. His decree said that the new agency would focus on providing news about Russia to an international audience; the agency’s directors will be directly appointed by the president’s office.

The reasons behind the timing were unclear and, to many, puzzling. RIA Novosti is one of the official sponsors of the Winter Olympics to be held in the Russian resort of Sochi in February, and its employees have been deeply involved in organizing preparations for news coverage there. There have been some calls for boycotting the Games, citing Russian policies, including a new law prohibiting advocacy of nontraditional sexual relationships, that have prompted harsh criticism from rights organizations.

“Russia has its own independent politics and strongly defends its national interests,” Mr. Ivanov, a close ally of Mr. Putin’s, said in remarks to reporters, according to RIA Novosti. “It’s difficult to explain this to the world, but we can do this and we must do this.”

He suggested that Russia had had some difficulties in successfully explaining its views abroad. “We must tell the truth, make it accessible to the most people possible, and use modern language and the best available technologies in doing so,” he added.

RIA Novosti’s roots extend to World War II, when it was founded as the Soviet Information Bureau two days after the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. According to the agency, it has correspondents in 45 countries and provides reports in Russian and 13 other languages.

It was renamed after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, and while it continued to serve as an official news agency, its reporting earned greater respect for its balance and diversity of viewpoints.

That troubled at least some here. Maxim L. Shevchenko, a prominent television personality, called the reorganization “a sensible step” in a post on Twitter. “The nest of anti-Russian media forces has been destroyed,” he wrote.

That an official news agency could be considered hostile to its own government reflected some deep divisions within Russia’s political elite. The new agency’s name, Rossiya Sevodnya, is the original name of the Kremlin’s international television network, now re-branded simply as RT and known for its jaundiced view of the United States and other Western countries. The decree, which takes effect immediately, did not link the two organizations.

Aleksei A. Navalny, the anticorruption blogger and opposition leader, lamented the demise of a “strong Soviet brand” in his own posting on Twitter and said Russia Today, as a brand, was “something repulsive.”

Andrei Miroshnichenko, an independent media critic here, said RIA Novosti and the other state news agency, Itar-Tass, had in effect competed for resources and influence.

He said RIA Novosti had become the most respected news agency in the former Soviet Union, one he associated closely with the presidency of Dmitri A. Medvedev, who has served as prime minister since Mr. Putin returned to the presidency last year. In that way, dismantling the news service is another step by Mr. Putin to erase any legacy of Mr. Medvedev’s presidency, and his “modernization initiative.”

The new agency, Mr. Miroshnichenko said, would now revert to its mission before the dawn of “the post-Soviet era” as an arm of “foreign propaganda,” while Itar-Tass would focus on domestic news.

The most pointed criticism of Mr. Putin’s decrees focused on the choice of Mr. Kiselyov as the new agency’s director. He is known for sharp commentaries in defense of Mr. Putin’s Russia that often reflect his belief that there are foreign conspiracies aimed at weakening the nation. He has described the current protests in Ukraine as a provocation by a coalition of Sweden, Poland and Lithuania like the one that Peter the Great defeated in 1709 in the Battle of Poltava in what is modern Ukraine.

“This week the coalition has shown its full strength,” Mr. Kiselyov said on his weekly talk show, “Vesti Nedeli,” or “News of the Week,” on the state television network, Rossiya. “It looked like a thirst for revenge for Poltava.”

Remarks he made last year resurfaced during the recent debate over the new prohibitions on “propaganda” of nontraditional sexual relationships. “I think it is too little to fine gays for homosexual propaganda,” he said. “They should be forbidden from donating blood, sperm. And in the case of an automobile accident, their hearts should be buried in the ground or burned.”

There were calls for a criminal inquiry for his remarks, but none were undertaken. Mr. Kiselyov denied that he or the remarks he made were homophobic.

His views on journalism, he acknowledged in a recent interview with the online news organization Lenta.ru, had evolved significantly, particularly after he worked in Ukraine during the previous political protests there that became known as the Orange Revolution.

“I understood that objective journalism, distilled, is absolutely not in demand,” he said in the interview. “The basic difference between post-Soviet and Western journalism is that for us it is necessary to create values and not to renew them, to produce values and not to reproduce them, as is basically done in the West.”
248 2013-12-10 PARIS — Output at German factories, mines and power plants declined in October for a second straight month, official data showed on Monday, the latest sign that the economy at the heart of the euro zone recovery might not be growing as quickly as had been hoped.

Industrial production, adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, fell 1.2 percent in October from September, when it fell a revised 0.7 percent, the Economy Ministry reported from Berlin. The latest data represented a significant disappointment, as economists surveyed by Reuters had been expecting an increase of 0.8 percent.

But financial markets took the news in stride, with the euro little changed and the main European stock indexes flat in afternoon trading.

The production data followed an Economy Ministry report Friday that showed a 2.2 percent decline in German factory orders in October from September, more than twice market expectations.

With the biggest economy in Europe, Germany has been the locomotive of the 17-nation euro zone, and signs of weakness there could bode poorly for its neighbors and the millions of unemployed people across the Continent. The euro bloc, still under pressure from the sovereign debt crisis and the austerity measures adopted for addressing it, grew just 0.1 percent in the third quarter from the previous three months, with Germany growing a larger, but still anemic, 0.3 percent.
249 2013-12-11 KLIPSTEIN--Emil Gone one year. Thinking of you all day, every day. Miss you and love you so very much. To-Quyen and Family...
250 2013-12-11 Aramark, the big food services company, priced its initial public offering on Wednesday at $20 a share, the low end of its expected range....
251 2013-12-11 The price gave the global hotel chain, one of the largest companies to go public this year, an equity value of about $19.7 billion; its owner, the Blackstone Group, will have an initial paper profit of $8.5 billion....
252 2013-12-11 The Detroit Symphony Orchestra said Wednesday that it ended the 2013 fiscal year with a small surplus after raising $18.9 million in contributions....
253 2013-12-11 Mr. Brooks’s 8-disc collection sold 146,000 copies, beating out the latest by One Direction, Kelly Clarkson and Britney Spears....
254 2013-12-11 Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, said Dodd-Frank made the financial system safer, but simply asserting it does not make it so, Jesse Eisinger of ProPublica writes....
255 2013-12-11 The Italian designer of luxury winter jackets is set to raise $938.8 million in its initial public offering, which was heavily oversubscribed....
256 2013-12-11 A tough year for Lululemon. How to “repurpose” employees. Did Marissa Mayer buy a funeral home?...
257 2013-12-11 Both Microsoft and Sony have sold more than two million consoles in recent weeks, but Sony appears to have a slight edge....
258 2013-12-11 WNET will record the Richard Nelson cycle for broadcast at a future date....
259 2013-12-11 To get her bilingual school off the ground in Austin, Tex., Adriana Rodriguez had to sell her house.
260 2013-12-11 SAN ANTONIO — Sam Barshop, who with his brother used $45,000 in borrowed money to begin the La Quinta Inns & Suites hotel chain, died on Monday. He was 84.

His death was announced by his family. Mr. Barshop and his brother, Philip, who died in 1998, opened their first two La Quinta Inns in time for San Antonio’s 1968 HemisFair. The chain, one of the first to appeal to corporate travelers, has grown to more than 800 hotels across North America.

Sam Barshop was born on Sept. 11, 1929, in Waco, Texas. He is survived by his wife, Ann; a son, Bruce; a daughter, Jamie Barshop; a sister, Doris Barshop Spector; and two grandchildren. Mr. Barshop supported a variety of causes in education, medicine and Jewish-related organizations.

He served on a number of corporate boards, including that of Southwest Airlines.
261 2013-12-11 This word has appeared in 121 New York Times articles in the past year....
262 2013-12-11 Two adults and four children who were stranded in subzero temperatures in the Seven Troughs mountain range for nearly 48 hours were found alive and well on Tuesday, the authorities said. “We are thrilled beyond words,” said Col. Tim Hahn of the Civil Air Patrol. The family was discovered near its hometown, Lovelock, after a signal from the missing woman’s cellphone was picked up. The group, including James Glanton, 34, and his girlfriend, Christina McIntee, 25, had gone into the wilderness to play in the snow, the authorities said, but their Jeep rolled over. Their decision to stay with it probably saved their lives, said Paul Burke, search and rescue coordinator. “They did some pretty unusual things, heating up rocks and things,” he said.
263 2013-12-11 The company has grown through technology, Mr. Creighton said. “We started with desktop publishing,” he said, then “when we got into video we took advantage of the democratization of broadband and video production tools.” Two years ago, Mr. Creighton said, less than 10 percent of those who watched Vice videos were on phones. Now the number is escalating fast, and will most likely hit more than 50 percent in coming years.

“We’re growing into multiple new verticals,” said Mr. Creighton, pointing to news, fashion and sports efforts that will start next year. “We have a solid website, but we were focusing on content rather than tech, and now both go hand in hand.”

The acquisition of Carrot, said Mr. Creighton, will add to Vice’s technological capacity.

For example, Carrot has found that viewers take in and share material from either media companies or brands differently on different devices.

“The smaller the screen gets, the smaller the audience gets,” said Mike Germano, the chief executive of Carrot Creative. A smartphone has an audience of one, a tablet perhaps two and the TV many more.

He added that technology and content, brands and media companies, were no longer separate. Mr. Germano, who has worked with brands such as Ford, Jaguar and Red Bull, compares what he does to “Mutual of Omaha’s Wild Kingdom,” the animal-themed TV show that began in the 1960s.

“That was how people saw giraffes and lions for the first time, and that’s what we’re getting back to now,” he said. “When you don’t feel like you’re watching an ad, when they’re providing a service, that’s when you build a relationship with people.”

The changing nature of the industry, though, is also raising concerns. The Federal Trade Commission recently expressed concern that so-called native advertising or sponsored advertising could mislead consumers. “By presenting ads that resemble editorial content,” said Edith Ramirez, the chairwoman of the F.T.C., at a conference last week, “an advertiser risks implying, deceptively, that the information comes from a nonbiased source.”

Vice says it clearly delineates between editorial and branded content.

Such digital advertising has been on the rise as media companies look to bolster ad numbers.

Trade commission officials, citing recent surveys of online publishers, said that 73 percent offered native advertising and an additional 17 percent were considering it this year. About 41 percent of brands and one-third of advertising agencies use such methods, the officials said. (The New York Times is among the publications that will begin the practice in 2014.)

Mr. Germano noted that the proliferation of digital devices would change how people consume information, just as the Internet has changed how people buy things. And consumers, he said, can enjoy those just the same.

He cited a recent experiment in which a basketball player, Victor Oladipo, wore Google Glass to the N.B.A. draft, giving users of the website the Verge a player’s-eye view of proceedings.

“That’s not something that might make ESPN happy,” Mr. Germano said, “but it’s an example of how media is really changing.”
264 2013-12-11 Apple declined to comment on Tuesday on the deaths at Pegatron. But the company has gone to great lengths in the last few years to improve conditions at the manufacturing facilities that produce Apple products in China. It has stepped up audits, insisted on new safety measures, and supported higher wages and tighter restrictions on working hours.

Apple has even diversified its mix of suppliers with companies like Pegatron, which helps assemble Apple’s iPhones and iPads in China, according to people familiar with its operations.

While Pegatron says it strictly forbids its factories from hiring workers under 16, the legal working age in China, Mr. Shi was able to work using a falsified identity card. In his only month at Pegatron, he worked nearly 280 hours, often 12 hours a day, six days a week, according to work documents his family kept.

Apple’s supplier responsibility statement bars employees of supplier companies in China from working more than 60 hours a week; so does Chinese law. But Mr. Shi worked 79 hours in his first week, 77 in his second and 75 in his third, all apparently in violation of the law, according to documents provided by his family.

Pegatron said that the work logs the family kept are records of when the young man clocked in and out, and may not include breaks. The company said his hours did not exceed the legal limit.

“This is not related to the workplace environment,” Ming Tsai, a Pegatron spokeswoman, said Tuesday, referring to the young man’s death.

In late July, China Labor Watch released a report claiming that Pegatron was violating Chinese laws and Apple’s own social responsibility code of conduct. Among other things, the group said that Pegatron was forcing employees to work unpaid overtime.

Executives at Pegatron, which has 100,000 workers in Shanghai, said they were taking the accusations seriously.

The company spokeswoman said that Pegatron was deeply distraught by the deaths of the workers but that an investigation of the working conditions in the Shanghai factory found nothing unusual, no toxic chemicals or other hazards.

The company tried to resolve the case of Shi Zhaokun by paying his family compensation of about 90,000 renminbi, or about $15,000, according to Shi Zhaokun’s uncle, Yang Sen.

But on Tuesday, Mr. Yang insisted the matter was still not resolved. He said something must have gone wrong at the Pegatron workplace. On Sept. 4, he said, his nephew passed a pre-employment physical and was declared healthy.
265 2013-12-11 Too many girls and minorities are being held back from success in science, technology and engineering fields....
266 2013-12-11 WASHINGTON — Wholesale businesses increased their inventories in October by the most in two years as their sales rose sharply, encouraging signs for economic growth in the final three months of 2013.

Wholesale inventories grew 1.4 percent in October, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday. That is nearly triple the 0.5 percent gain in September and the biggest monthly gain since October 2011. Sales at the wholesale level increased 1 percent in October, the most in five months. Sales rose 0.8 percent in September.

Rising inventories spur growth because they mean factories have produced more goods. Robust restocking drove roughly half of the 3.6 percent annualized economic growth in the July-September quarter.

Some economists had predicted that inventory growth would slow in the October-December quarter to an annual rate of 2 percent or less as companies reduced their inventory building in response to slowing demand. But the strong increase in October suggests businesses expect to see solid sales in the coming months.

The gain could prompt some to rethink their forecasts. But if sales falter, companies could be left with large stockpiles of unwanted goods. That could ultimately slow restocking and weigh on overall growth, if not in the fourth quarter, then at the start of 2014.
267 2013-12-11 The handsome bar at Laurent Manrique’s seafood brasserie, Millesime, is now dedicated exclusively to Bordeaux wines, dry and sweet whites, as well as reds by the glass and the bottle. There’s even a sparkler, Jaillance Crémant de Bordeaux, and several comparison flights by the glass. It was set up with the Bordeaux Wine Council, a trade group, with the idea of introducing or reintroducing wine lovers to the region, especially beyond the marquee names. Prices by the bottle top out at $250 (1978 Léoville Poyferré); a number of choices are less than $50. Small plates of oysters with sausage, foie gras, mussels in snail butter, and cheeses can accompany the wines. (Opens Wednesday): 92 Madison Avenue (29th Street), 212-889-7100, millesimerestaurant.com.

CHINA BLUE Yiming Wang and Xian Zhang, who own Café China in Midtown, took over the former Capsouto Frères space. They have expanded it and given it a 1930s Shanghai look, serving Shanghai specialties like typical dim sum and shredded bean curd with chicken and ham. Dong Fa Chen is the chef. (Thursday): 135 Watts Street (Washington Street), 212-431-0111.

FISH AND ROSE This pop-up in the old Bowery Street subway station through Dec. 30 is the work of Chris Fischer, the chef at the Beach Plum Inn & Restaurant on Martha’s Vineyard, with ingredients from Mr. Fischer’s farm: 10 Kenmare Street (Bowery), 508-645-4384, fishandrose.com.

LITTLE ELM At an eight-seat counter facing the Elm’s kitchen, Paul Liebrandt’s executive chef, Mazen Mustafa, offers seasonal tasting menus starting at $135: King & Grove Williamsburg hotel, 160 North 12th Street (Bedford Avenue), Williamsburg, Brooklyn; 718-218-1088; theelmnyc.com.

OCABANON The three French owners (Armel Joly, Alexandre Mur and the chef Michael Faure) call this a “cave à manger,” a cellar in a meandering space dominated by zinc, copper and steel. The menu is French with global touches: 245 West 29th Street, 646-669-7879, ocabanon.com.

RASA Tommy Lai and his sister, Camie Lai, formerly of Laut near Union Square, offer Malaysian dishes like rendang beef, Penang Assam laksa and curried wings: 25 West Eighth Street (Fifth Avenue), 212-253-9888, rasanyc.com.

ALISON 18 It will close Dec. 19. Jesse Schenker of Recette will take it over to open a casual place next year: 15 West 18th Street.
268 2013-12-11 Two weeks after naming a new chief executive, Walmart announced on Tuesday that David Cheesewright, president of several overseas divisions,would soon take on all of the company’s international operations.

In a statement, Doug McMillon, who is leaving the international post to become the top executive, said of Mr. Cheesewright: “We have strengthened our business and gained market share in the majority of our international markets, and he had a key role in that success.”

Like Mr. McMillon, Mr. Cheesewright has been with the company for many years. He began his career at Walmart in 1999.

“He does seem like a very natural candidate,” said Faye Landes, an analyst at Cowen and Company. “He’s their one-man SWAT team. He’s been sent to work on a lot of very important international missions and he’s been successful.”

Walmart has already begun to adjust its international strategy.

In October, the company announced it would close about 50 underperforming stores in China and Brazil, delay indefinitely its plan to open hundreds of superstores across India, and reduce by a third the 20 to 22 million square feet of retail space it had wanted to add internationally.
269 2013-12-11 President Obama’s gesture to President Raúl Castro of Cuba at the memorial for Nelson Mandela instantly raised questions about its deeper meaning....
270 2013-12-11 State legislators in Missouri last week delivered a $1.7 billion Christmas gift should Boeing come their way. Economic development officials in Alabama, Kansas, North Carolina and Utah — Boeing has declined to provide a full list of suitors — were putting together bids, too, and bragging about their respective environments of can-do optimism.

“It’s our job to sell them our area and tell a story,” said Thomas M. Battle Jr., the mayor of Huntsville, Ala., one of the places Boeing contacted as a possible new partner. “They’ve asked for a good community, one that works with you, one that has a high level of education, that supports their work force and makes it easy for them to recruit.”

Spokesmen for Boeing and the machinists’ union both said that no talks were underway to reopen negotiations or reconsider last month’s contract vote.

But state officials said they believed the region had aces in the hole that would ultimately prevail: experience in producing airplanes under deadline conditions and closer proximity than most of the competition to Asian suppliers and customers, an important consideration for ocean-borne freight shipment.

Boeing has $95 billion in orders and commitments for 777Xs, and has pledged its first deliveries by 2020, which does not leave the company enough time, state officials said, to consider any place not ready for prime time. Boeing has not said how many jobs the 777X program would produce, but it employs about 20,000 people here in Washington now building wide-body 777s — a production line that will be phased out as the 777X takes over.

“The one place in the world that knows how to build a plane like this is Washington,” said Alex Pietsch, the director of the office of aerospace for Gov. Jay Inslee, a Democrat. “This is where the company can build with the least risk.”

Corporate shopping for the best deal, the lowest taxes and the sweetest incentives is a multibillion-dollar enterprise in America — often with outcomes that do not fully materialize or cannot be accurately measured even for the winning contenders. An investigation by The New York Times last year found that more than $80 billion a year in incentives are given by states, cities and counties to companies that often pit local officials against one another to get the most lucrative packages.

Boeing’s courtesan dance has also spurred worried analogies between the Seattle region and another city that suffered dearly from industrial flight: Detroit.

Industry experts say that like the dispersal of automobile manufacturing from Michigan, aircraft making is becoming less and less an assembly-line business of the sort Seattle workers thrived at, and more like a symphony where highly technical components — a wing, a floor assembly — are fabricated in far-flung places, often by lesser-trained and lower-paid workers, and by lots of robots.

A spokesman for the machinists’ union, Bryan Corliss, said that the union was open to further discussions, but that members “have spoken pretty loudly and clearly that they’re not interested in tearing down our current contract — so anything going forward would be building on what we have.”

Boeing has already moved thousands of jobs away from Washington in recent years and has said that diversification is a long-term corporate strategy. Its new 787 Dreamliners are built in South Carolina, and the company, in 2001, moved its corporate headquarters to Chicago.

“Puget Sound is probably going to face a reality not unlike what Michigan faces: ‘You guys have to come in at a reasonable price, because we can move our stuff to other places,’ ” said David Gillen, a professor of economics and the director of the Center for Transportation Studies at the University of British Columbia.

But in other important ways, Seattle is no Detroit — if it ever was. Technology companies like Microsoft and Amazon have staked a major claim on the culture and the job base in recent years. Those companies have created new diversity in the economy that is likely to keep the region stable even if Boeing moves its assembly line elsewhere. But they have also created fears that blue-collar workers could be squeezed by the high-rent, high-wage technopolis that increasingly dominates life in Seattle and its suburbs to the east.

In Everett, a low-rise waterfront city of brick and wood 25 miles north of Seattle, the ups and downs of aviation history dictate for many people a practical attitude toward Boeing and its future. Older people like Art Taft, 70, remember well hard times like the 1970s when nothing went right and layoffs by the thousands struck fears that Boeing might not survive at all. Like many other people here, he seems to be taking the threats of departure in stride.

Mr. Taft, a retired machine repairer for a company that sold components to Boeing, said the constellation of contractors that cluster now in proximity to the factory — the world he worked in — needed Boeing to survive. Even if it means moving production-line jobs to other states. And if the 777X plant is somewhere else, it just means suppliers will “ship somewhere else,” he said. Simple as that.

As long as suppliers have Boeing as a customer, he said, “I don’t think it will affect them.”
271 2013-12-11 “It’s very important that we do what we think is necessary to bring home the point that they broke the rules,” said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. “They have basically violated everything I’ve known of as a member of the United States Senate. For us to say that’s fine, business as usual, is not something that we could possibly do.”

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said flatly, “If the majority can’t be expected to follow the rules, then there aren’t any rules.”

Republicans have employed several tactics already, including one on Tuesday that forced the abrupt adjournment of the confirmation hearing for President Obama’s choice to lead the Internal Revenue Service, John A. Koskinen. They also forced the Senate to burn through all four hours of mandatory debate time on the nomination of Representative Melvin Watt, the North Carolina Democrat picked to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Often senators will reach an agreement to yield that time.

Mr. Watt’s nomination was ultimately confirmed Tuesday by a vote of 57 to 41. The nomination of Patricia Ann Millett to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit also cleared the Senate, 56 to 38.

Democrats said they saw Republican efforts to slow down the confirmation process as an exercise in venting frustration. “It’s retaliatory,” said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. “It’s revenge,” he added, noting that Democrats had a way of making things unpleasant themselves: by forcing Republicans to be on the Senate floor while they draw things out.

“They’re going to have to keep speaking for four hours or eight hours at a time,” Mr. Harkin said. “And I don’t think they’ll have the stomach to do that on Fridays and Saturdays.”

Some Republicans are reluctant to dwell on nominations too long out of fear that it will distract from their efforts to focus attention on the problems with the Affordable Care Act.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, has vowed to keep the Senate in session right up until Christmas if he needs to. But Republicans have shown no signs that they are bluffing. Many of them are still in shock that Mr. Reid resorted to the rule change — so divisive it is known as the nuclear option — when he used a parliamentary tactic to alter the filibuster rules with a simple majority vote. Ordinarily, Senate rules changes require a two-thirds majority, or 67 votes.

“I don’t think I’ve ever felt any worse about the institution as I do today,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who said Republicans should make their displeasure as clear as they could. “I don’t know where this all ends,” he added.
272 2013-12-11 An Iraqi journalist, Yasser Faisal, was fatally shot last Wednesday after being abducted by the Qaeda affiliate while reporting on dissatisfaction with the group, according to colleagues. They said Mr. Faisal had wanted to document Syrians’ struggles with extremists in part because they reflected those of his hometown, Falluja, which during the American occupation of Iraq was for a time dominated by the group Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the organization that gave rise to some of the jihadist factions now in Syria.

Antigovernment activists say the figures on missing journalists are dwarfed by the number of Syrian civilians being held by the government, which they place in the tens or even hundreds of thousands.

The abduction of Ms. Zeitouneh, a secular advocate of nonviolence who has received numerous international human rights awards, was heavily symbolic for activists who feel as if they are increasingly fighting on two fronts: against the government and against Islamist extremists. Taken with her were her husband, Wael Hamadeh; Samira Khalil, the wife of a prominent activist, Yassin al-Haj Saleh, who recently fled the country after extremists took over his hometown, Raqqa; and Nazem Hamadeh, who was running relief activities in the Damascus suburbs, according to the Local Coordinating Committees, a constellation of civilian councils that administer rebel-held areas, and other activists.

Mr. Hamadeh is considered “one of the first people who joined the revolution,” said Fares Mohamed, an activist in the town of Douma, the rebel-held suburb where the rights advocates had worked.

Activists said the Army of Islam, a rebel group that has come to dominate the area, had been hostile to Ms. Zeitouneh because of her secular views.

Invoking the memorial service on Tuesday for Nelson Mandela, the Local Coordinating Committees issued a statement calling on international leaders to push for her release.

“These activists were inspired and informed by Mr. Mandela’s work, and were promoting concepts of nonviolence and civil resistance in Syria even at a time when the regime is violating every possible tenet of human rights,” the committees said in a statement.

The families and friends of Ms. Zeitouneh, Mr. Espinosa and Ricardo García Vilanova, the photographer abducted alongside him, issued anguished pleas for their captors to remember that they had aimed to help Syrians.

“Javier and Ricardo are not your enemy,” Monica G. Prieto, Mr. Espinosa’s wife and a freelance journalist, said at a news conference in Beirut. “Please, honor the revolution they protected, and set them free.”

She wore a head scarf, apparently to make her speech more likely to be viewed by Islamist jihadists. Ms. Prieto, who, like her husband, reported from Homs during government bombardments there, said they both felt a responsibility to Syrians, and hoped that Syrians would now feel a responsibility toward them.

“I reminded him that our children needed him alive,” she said of Mr. Espinosa, “and he replied by telling me that the children of Syria needed the world’s attention.”

Ms. Prieto said that after many weeks of trying to mediate with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, efforts had reached an impasse. Mr. Espinosa, 49, and Mr. García Vilanova, 42, are believed to be alive and well, and the kidnappers have made no requests for ransom or other demands, advocates said. The journalists were abducted at a checkpoint near Tal Abyad in northern Syria on Sept. 16 along with four fighters from the rebel Free Syrian Army and taken to facilities of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria in the province of Raqqa.

Rebel factions have continued to clash with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria in recent days, accusing the group of killing two officers from the loose-knit, relatively secular Free Syrian Army. The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria also executed a father of three in the northern Syrian town of Saraqeb for blasphemy, activists said, after he was asked why the diesel fuel he was selling was not pure and he answered: “How would I know? Am I the god of diesel?”

In a rare breakthrough in attempts to deliver humanitarian aid to hard-to-reach areas in Syria, the United Nations refugee agency said Tuesday that it was preparing to make its first deliveries from Iraq to Syria this week, but it remains unclear whether this will prove to be a regular channel of assistance.

An airlift of 12 flights is to start on Thursday and last until Sunday, delivering food and other assistance to Kurdish areas of Syria’s northeastern Hasakah Province, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

Relief agencies believe that 50,000 to 60,000 people are in need of assistance in Hasakah, where conflict, primarily in recent months between Islamist and Kurdish fighters, has obstructed access.

In addition to the security challenges in delivering assistance, international aid agencies have complained of bureaucratic obstacles and delays from the government in obtaining approval for relief convoys destined for populations trapped by fighting, and the agencies have pushed for more cross-border access from neighboring countries.
273 2013-12-11 At the heart of the opposition’s protests is its skepticism about some of the fundamentals of Thai democracy. The protesters are especially disenchanted with the country’s winner-takes-all parliamentary system that has allowed Mr. Thaksin’s party to dominate for two decades.

The policies of the governing party, including universal health care and guaranteed high prices for rice farmers, have cemented strong support in the populous northern and northeastern parts of the country but created great resentment in Bangkok and other areas where the opposition has traditionally been strong.

The protest leaders say they have little faith that Ms. Yingluck will not abuse the power of her incumbency in the run-up to the Feb. 2 elections. They cite the appointment of senior civil servants friendly to the government and the tacit sympathy of the police toward the government.

Yet in recent years two of the most powerful institutions in the country — the courts and the military — have often been hostile to Mr. Thaksin and his allies. Mr. Thaksin was removed from office in a military coup in 2006 and his party has twice been dissolved by the courts. It re-registered under new names, all with the guidance of Mr. Thaksin, who has been in exile but remains its main inspiration.

Mr. Thaksin’s party returned to power in 2011 largely because of overwhelming electoral support in the north and northeast.

The proposal by protesters to bypass the Constitution and set up an unelected council to run the country has been widely interpreted in Thailand as an effort to avoid another stinging loss in the February elections. The opposition Democrat Party, which has not stated whether it would contest the elections, has not won a national election since the 1990s.

With thousands of protesters still camping out near the prime minister’s office on Tuesday, the way forward is unclear.

Although Thailand’s king issued a decree on Monday making the election date official, one of the country’s five election commissioners, Sodsri Satayathum, expressed some doubt.

“The election commission is ready to hold elections, but I’m not sure whether the political groups want to hold it or not,” Ms. Sodsri said. “If the political groups are not ready for an election, there’s no use for the election commission to do it.”
274 2013-12-11 The cocktail party season is upon us, and with it a barrage of cheese and crackers in place of dinner. Not that there’s anything wrong with cheese and crackers. It’s just that after the third party or so, my enthusiasm for even the ripest artisanal cave-aged wedge starts to wane.

Consider this savory apple tart an antidote. It hits all the requisite cheesy, alcohol-sopping notes, but it’s more sophisticated and a lot more substantial.

In order to make this tart particularly hearty, I fortified the chewy pizza-like crust with three kinds of flour. There’s all-purpose for lightness, whole wheat for heft and nuttiness, and cornmeal for sweetness and a slight crunch. The downside is that you need to make the yeasted dough ahead so that it can rise. But that’s also the upside if you like to do things in advance, and the dough does very well rising overnight in the refrigerator. Just make sure to bring it to room temperature before trying to flatten it out, or you won’t get very far.

As for the topping, it’s a comforting, mellow jumble of sweet roasted apples and shallots that’s scented with thyme and zipped up with pungent blue cheese. Blue-cheese haters fear not; you can substitute another variety just as long as it’s pronouncedly stinky. All those gentle, caramelized flavors need something strident to perk them up.

Although this tart is best served warm within an hour or two of baking, you can make it in the morning and serve it the same night (reheat it in a 325-degree oven for about 20 minutes). But don’t leave it longer than that. By the next morning, both the apples and the crust will have wilted into a sad and rather tired state. Or freeze the unbaked tart, then pop it into the oven while it’s still frozen (it will need an extra 20 to 30 minutes).

To serve this at a big party, cut the tart into bite-size squares for easy consumption. For a smaller group, serve it like focaccia alongside grilled sausages or baked ham. Its amenable nature means it will fit in well with practically any holiday meal in an elegant and unexpected way. Which is a lot more than you can say about cheese and crackers.
275 2013-12-11 Are you ever still famished when you get home from a holiday party?

Here’s an idea for you when it’s your turn to host: Set out a pile of little sandwiches. They are easy and good, and substantial. When I was growing up, it was mini rye bread rounds or tiny bagels with chopped liver or creamed herring or smoked salmon — still a very good solution. (Not exactly what Santa’s elves might want, but hey, you never know.)

However, when I conjure my inner Southerner, a diminutive warm biscuit filled with thinly sliced ham is what I crave, and it is always a crowd-pleaser.

My version exposes me as a Yankee impostor, since it’s not made with real country ham. Instead, I use a brine-cured pork tenderloin, which is like a very small ham. Sometimes I even skip the tenderloin and use prosciutto or Spanish jamón.

It takes planning, but brining the meat is no trouble. As easy as it is to cure a larger cut (a picnic ham from the shoulder or a real ham from the leg), it is even easier to cure pork tenderloin, which conveniently has the same diameter as a biscuit.

The only trick with pork tenderloin, since it is very lean, is to take care not to overcook it so it stays moist. Baking it in a covered dish on a bed of onions with a splash of white wine helps. You get a lot of servings from one tenderloin, but you may as well make several. That way you’ll have plenty for the party and leftovers for the following week.

Biscuits are easy to make, as long as you follow two basic rules: don’t overwork the dough, and have the oven hot. I use a recipe for buttermilk biscuits from an early mentor of mine, Mrs. Jo Rooney, a wonderful home cook I met years ago in Bakersfield, Calif.
276 2013-12-12 It was written in 1841 when a Protestant poet, Leonhard Widmer, asked a Roman Catholic monk, Father Alberich Zwyssig, to set one of his efforts to music. It opens with, “When the morning skies grow red. … Thou, O Lord, appeareth in the sky,” and then riffs on such subjects as Swiss thunderstorms and God for four verses.

Mr. Gerber insisted such subject matter is not suitable today, when at least a fifth of Swiss are atheists, according to the 2010 census.

“The newspaper the Süddeutsche Zeitung recently said it’s more like a biblical weather forecast than an anthem and that is the best description I have heard,” he said.

The last major political push for a new anthem came in 2004, when the socialist politician Margret Kiener Nellen proposed a motion calling for a new anthem, but without enough support it was withdrawn in 2006. A few years before, in 1998, the cigar company Villiger & Sons held a competition for a new anthem because its head, Heinrich Villiger, thought the Psalm was too old fashioned.

Those efforts both failed, but Mr. Gerber hopes to be the one who finally succeeds. His effort started on Aug. 1, 2011, a national holiday celebrated at the Rütli, a meadow overlooking Lake Lucerne that many view as the cradle of Switzerland, where the nation was formed. He had asked everyone at the ceremony to stand for the anthem.

“Let’s say I was happy no one sung the second verse,” he recalled. “I just thought, ‘My God, isn’t it possible to change this?”’

He has been devising the competition ever since.

Switzerland is not the first Western country to try to make its anthem more modern and inclusive. In 2012, Austria changed its anthem to mention its “great daughters” as well as its sons. This year, a “Restore Our Anthem” campaign was started in Toronto to try and make the Canadian anthem, “O Canada,” gender neutral.

But Mr. Gerber is trying to achieve perhaps one of the biggest overhauls of an anthem ever attempted without a war being involved. (“If we waited for such an event in Switzerland, we’d be waiting forever,” he said.)

It’s an unusual project for Mr. Gerber, a former executive director of the World Bank and former head of Switzerland’s State Secretariat for Economic Affairs who is now a board member of the bank Credit Suisse. But issues of Swiss identity are vital for him and he is a music lover.

The society he leads, which was formed in 1810 to promote Swiss values and today does everything from govern the Rütli meadow to help the working poor, has set up a website to promote the contest. There is a prize of 10,000 Swiss francs, or $10,745, for the winner, who is to be announced in 2015. The Society has also established a 34-member jury, featuring politicians, musicians and critics, and it includes the president of the Swiss choirs association and the classical music specialist at Radio Télévision Suisse, a public broadcasting organization that still plays the anthem every day.

Among the jurors is Oskar Freysinger, one of the country’s most controversial politicians. Mr. Freysinger, a member of the populist Swiss People’s Party, was instrumental in the success of a 2009 referendum leading to a ban on the construction of minarets in the country. But despite his traditionalist views, he said the Psalm is “a catastrophe.”

“It’s so difficult, no one can get all the way through,” he said in a telephone interview. “And the tune, it’s not dynamic or original.”

The issue of the new anthem’s content has stirred controversy on the jury.

“I will fight against it if they try to make a new anthem politically correct,” Mr. Freysinger said. “It shouldn’t be a song talking about global warming or calling for the free passage of people. It’s not meant to be a New Age manifesto. I know they want a modern anthem, but anthems are above time.”

But not all the jury members want a change. Philipp Wagner, a commander of military music in the Swiss Army, said the current anthem had been increasing in popularity lately thanks to the Swiss national soccer team’s success in international competitions and he could not understand why it needed to change.

“It’s so simple — like the Swiss, I think,” he said. “We are four cultures and it’s really good to have something that’s easy to memorize by everyone.”

He insisted that he still wanted to be involved and help choose a winner, though. “We’re the people who are most working with the anthem, so it’s important to be in the discussion,” he said.

Although the competition does not open until Jan. 1, entries have already started to come in, including one from a 90-year-old former town clerk, one from a criminal lawyer, and one from a puppeteer and children’s songwriter who goes by the name Mister Dan.

“The current anthem’s very poetic,” Mister Dan, whose real name is Pierre-Alain Hofmann, said by telelphone from his hometown of Granois. “But it’s like a dusty picture in a museum. It’s not going to get young people interested in the values of the land.”

His entry promotes Switzerland as being “far from conflicts and wars,” and a “paradise” that its “proud and courageous” people will guard for eternity. He says he wrote it because he liked the challenge of fitting new words to an old tune. But is he really in it for fame? He laughed. “People can’t tell you who wrote the Psalm,” he said. “His name’s just in history books, not very important. But yes, I think I’d be happy if that happened to me, too.”
277 2013-12-12 In the new documentary “The Carrier,” the first-time director Maggie Betts cuts to the heart of the problem by getting to know the people affected by it....
278 2013-12-12 The company has taken an aggressive stance against a proposed shareholder resolution that investors submitted in November....
279 2013-12-12 GLG Partners has agreed to pay almost $9 million to settle charges that it overvalued its investment in a Siberian company, and in turn, inflated client fees....
280 2013-12-12 A look behind the scenes at the food in Richard Nelson’s Apple Family cycle of plays....
281 2013-12-12 Up Next in Video
282 2013-12-12 David B. Massey, a federal prosecutor who played a significant role in government’s sweeping investigation into insider trading in the hedge fund industry, is joining the white-collar defense firm Richards, Kibbe & Orbe....
283 2013-12-12 General Motors sold the 8.5 percent stake in its onetime financing arm through a private placement of shares for $900 million....
284 2013-12-12 The misery index hits a four-year low. How the proposed budget deal would affect Americans. The most watched commercial on YouTube....
285 2013-12-12 The people who cheered a Delhi High Court ruling in 2009 that decriminalized homosexuality mourned the reversal of that landmark decision....
286 2013-12-12 Perella Weinberg Partners sells its Chicago-based rail car leasing business, once owned by A.I.G., to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation of Japan....
287 2013-12-12 Most Americans wouldn’t willingly wear a blindfold while shopping in a department store, and they are slowly recognizing that their eyes should be wide open when shopping for health care, an economist writes....
288 2013-12-12 “We’re trying to be a boutique agency that will manage just a small stable of iconic athletes,” Godsick said in a telephone interview from the firm’s new offices in Pepper Pike, Ohio, in Cleveland’s eastern suburbs. “We’re really going to try to be selective here. Some of the other groups, they look to sign as many players as they can and hope a few of them stick and make it, and they really go after the juniors. We’re not going to.”

Godsick said that Team8 was also interested in acquiring or creating events and in representing athletes in sports other than tennis, as well as entertainers. He said that Federer, who is training hard and testing new rackets in Dubai after a difficult season in which he dropped to No. 7 in the rankings, would be a client and not an active partner for now. But Godsick said the agency had been created in part to give Federer a platform when he retires.

“I can sell Roger Federer really well, but nobody sells Roger better than Roger,” Godsick said. “I always joke with him, ‘Look, you’ve been really successful on the tennis court, but I promise you, you’ll be more successful when you’re done playing tennis.’ ”

Max Eisenbud, a leading agent with IMG whose clients include Maria Sharapova and Li Na, said that a big agency had significant advantages in representing global stars because of global resources and manpower.

“I just don’t think I could manage my global clients on my own,” Eisenbud said.

Godsick said that he was particularly interested in signing a leading golfer in the near term.

“I think small is the new big,” he said. “We’re for more of a personalized approach, and you’ve seen it now with so many different athletes.”

The other investors are Ian McKinnon and the billionaire financier Dirk Ziff, the eldest of the three brothers who started Ziff Brothers Investments in 1992 after their father, William, sold his publishing interests.

Godsick, 42, began working with the former No. 1 player Monica Seles when he was at IMG on a summer internship. He later represented Lindsay Davenport, Anna Kournikova and Tommy Haas.

Godsick is married to Mary Joe Fernandez, a former French Open and Australian Open finalist with whom he has two young children. Godsick began working with Federer in 2005 when Federer returned to IMG after managing many of his own business interests for a brief stretch.

Other leading agents expressed surprise that Godsick and Federer had decided to include other athletes in their project.

“Roger is going to have a legacy and a business that is going to live on well past his playing days, similar to a guy like Arnold Palmer in golf,” said John Tobias, president of Lagardère Unlimited Tennis. “I figured that would be enough, and I had to figure those figures post-career would be so solid that Tony would be just fine financially. Why he wants to take on additional responsibility, I’m not sure. I’m guessing it’s because Tony is a pretty competitive guy.”

Godsick said he had felt the desire to build something new, not just to manage Federer’s existing business, however lucrative. Forbes reported that Federer was the second-highest-paid athlete last year, at $71.5 million, behind Tiger Woods. Godsick and Federer’s move comes as IMG is on the verge of being sold. It also comes as Federer’s longtime rival Rafael Nadal has left IMG with his agent, Carlos Costa, and as Costa has reportedly expressed interest in signing a promising 17-year-old Chilean player, Christian Garin, to a management contract.

“Certainly with Carlos Costa and Tony Godsick, those are two big-name agents moving out on their own,” Tobias said. “I get a lot of questions — ‘Is this the trend?’ I really don’t think so. I think this is a case of just two employees not entirely happy in their situation with two incredible athletes to build around. Not everyone has that luxury. I don’t see that as a trend. If they didn’t have Federer and Nadal, I don’t think they’ve have taken the risk. Carlos and Tony are both very good agents, but the margins are very tough in athlete representation.”
289 2013-12-12 For most of this year, the brutal cuts to federal spending known as the sequester have wreaked havoc on important programs, cutting off hundreds of thousands from Head Start and low-income housing assistance, setting back scientific research and environmental protection, and costing more than a million jobs. Getting rid of the sequester for domestic programs was a high priority for Congressional Democrats, and they achieved much of what they wanted in a budget deal reached on Tuesday that in other important respects was disappointing.

The deal will cancel 61 percent of the sequester cuts for nondefense discretionary domestic programs this fiscal year, adding back $31.5 billion over the next two years to be divided among departments like transportation, education, and health and human services. That’s a significant achievement, considering that many Republicans want those cuts to continue in perpetuity.

, the House negotiator, ignored the ’s insistence that the sequester was untouchable, agreeing to raise discretionary spending in 2014 by $77 billion above his own budget proposal. , the Senate negotiator, resisted Republican demands for new cuts to safety-net programs. As a result, money will soon start flowing to programs that have been starved all year.

But the details of the agreement show that Republican loathing of and domestic spending continue to dominate the budget debate. The full domestic and military sequester should have been eliminated, not just part of it. Even more important, a balanced and fair agreement would have compensated for the new domestic spending with tax increases on the wealthiest Americans by closing unnecessary loopholes. But Mr. Ryan entered the talks with an immovable position that new tax revenue was off the table, forcing negotiators to cobble together more than a dozen other cuts or higher fees to offset new spending.

To save money for those at the very top, new federal workers will have to pay more for their pension plan. The cost-of-living increase on pensions for military retirees younger than 62 will be reduced. And the security fee built into every airline ticket will rise by as much as $5 a ticket, making travel more expensive for all passengers.

The deal is too small to affect long-term growth because Republicans wouldn’t consider big investments needed to improve education and training. It will not provide enough for cities and states to undertake major infrastructure repair, putting people back to work. And because it does not provide for the extension of jobless benefits that expire on Jan. 1 for 1.3 million people, it fails to fulfill a basic responsibility to the long-term unemployed.
290 2013-12-12 India’s Supreme Court issued a disgraceful ruling against human rights in reinstating a law that bans gay sex. On Wednesday, the court reversed a landmark 2009 decision by the Delhi High Court that decriminalized sex between consenting adults regardless of their gender.

At issue is Section 377 of India’s Penal Code barring “carnal intercourse against the order of nature,” a holdover from British colonial law dating back to 1861. In practice, this law had largely been used by police to threaten and blackmail gays, lesbians and transgender people.

Following the ruling, India’s crimes bureau stated ominously that it will begin compiling crime statistics under Section 377 as early as next year. Violation of the law is punishable by a fine and up to 10 years imprisonment.

Gay-rights supporters took to the streets in New Delhi in protest, vowing to continue their fight for equal rights and dignity under the law. Human rights groups, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, roundly condemned the Supreme Court decision.

In its 2009 ruling, the Delhi High Court said Section 377 violated the guarantees of equality and privacy in the country’s Constitution. The Supreme Court disagreed. Writing for the court, Justice Ganpat Singh Singhvi threw the issue to lawmakers, stating that Parliament was “free to consider the desirability and propriety of deleting Section 377 I.P.C. from the statute book or amend the same as per the suggestion made by the attorney general.”

The court’s statement inviting the Legislature to amend the law is disingenuous. Given the fractious nature of India’s Parliament, the conservative views of many of its members, and the political stakes in the run-up to general elections next spring, the Legislature is unlikely to take up this issue on its own.
291 2013-12-12 Knee joint replacements at one-tenth the next cheapest price statewide! Baby deliveries below what they cost the hospital! At such discounts, one could imagine New Yorkers trekking three hours from Times Square to a small upstate hospital to fix an aching joint or to give birth, considering that some Americans fly overseas for surgery to escape high costs.

The upstate bargains, which seemed to jump from an interactive website posted this week by the New York State Health Department, sounded too good to be true. And, in fact, they were. Mark Wright, the chief financial officer at the hospital, A. O. Fox in Oneonta, said administrators were still trying to figure out on Wednesday how its charges came to be so seriously underreported to the state.

Anyone looking for the $1,376 knee joint replacement listed in the state’s database would be disappointed, he said, because A. O. Fox’s median charge for the operation in 2011 actually averaged $21,263, and it cost the hospital $14,454, not $1,057. That made it more expensive than 50 other hospitals in the state, including New York City medical centers like Bellevue and Kings County.

Likewise, A. O. Fox’s 232 nonsurgical baby deliveries in 2011 were billed at an average of $3,490, not $1,998. Dozens of hospitals statewide charged less, according to the database, based on billings from 2009 through 2011.

The lower charges reported at A. O. Fox, Mr. Wright said, did not include major items like the cost of using the operating room. All the charges showed up on patient bills, but did not make it into the state’s main hospital data collection system, known as Sparcs, which was the major source of the cost figures in the Health Department’s database.

Mr. Wright noted that, like most hospitals, Fox does not collect what it charges, and is losing more than $3 million a year on a budget of $80 million.
292 2013-12-12 The hiring of Mr. Kay is emblematic of moves made as each year draws to a close and firms seek to prepare for the challenges of the next year. Along with adding or rearranging chairs in executive suites —which has also taken place this week at agencies like Arnold Worldwide, Crispin Porter & Bogusky and Erwin Penland — agencies and consultancies are forming divisions and making deals.

“We recognize fully that we haven’t and can’t make the kind of impact we want to in one place, with one office,” said Adrian Ho, a second founding partner of Zeus Jones. “Hiring Gareth gives us the benefit of launching immediately with credibility” in the competitive San Francisco market, he added. Since Zeus Jones opened in 2007, many of its marketer clients have been based in the Midwest, among them Nestlé Purina and 3M. Like others seeking growth by coming to San Francisco, the principals of Zeus Jones are attracted by an opportunity to land assignments from marketers based in the West.

“We want to test our beliefs against different brands, different clients,” said Christian Erickson, a third founding partner, adding that because “our process is heavily collaborative,” it is “extremely beneficial” for Zeus Jones and its clients to be close geographically.

Also appealing is the creative ferment permeating the Bay Area as a result of Silicon Valley. “San Francisco is where businesses are being created faster than anywhere in the world,” Mr. Ho said.

Mr. White said that had Mr. Kay “been in New York or Austin, it might have been interesting” to join with him, “but not as interesting” as being in San Francisco.

“It’s a combination of Gareth and the Bay Area,” Mr. White said. “It doesn’t mean we’re not interested in other markets, but we felt, ‘Let’s do this one right.’ We want to make sure San Francisco is strong before we consider any other markets.”

Mr. Kay’s entry point to Zeus Jones was Mr. Ho. “For a decade, we had conversations about our futures,” Mr. Kay said, that recently turned into more concrete discussions centered on a philosophy that the Zeus Jones founders call building “modern brands” through methods that go beyond traditional advertising efforts like commercials into realms that include designing packaging and solving marketing problems.

“Our beliefs are so aligned, it made sense to do this together,” Mr. Kay said.

Mr. Ho said, “We tried to recruit Gareth before,” to join Zeus Jones in Minneapolis, “and he told us, ‘No, no,’ very clearly; he didn’t want to be here.”

Mr. Ho resumed: “This came about by sitting down over the course of a month and realizing there was a way for us to help Gareth do what we wants to do, and for Gareth to help us do more of what we want to do.”

However, before Mr. Kay opens Zeus Jones San Francisco, he will spend a couple of months in Minneapolis.

“I thought I’d go for the frozen treatment,” he said, laughing. (What else could he expect at an agency where a founding partner is named Eric Frost?)

Plans call for Zeus Jones San Francisco to open with three or four employees in addition to Mr. Kay and help from what he called “reinforcements from Minneapolis,” where Zeus Jones has about 45 full-time employees. The San Francisco office is opening with a clean slate. “We think it’s good discipline to start with absolutely no clients,” Mr. Ho said. “It builds character” — not unlike a Minneapolis winter.

The founding partners of Zeus Jones are also promoting three executives in Minneapolis to partners. Two of them — David Annis, head of production, and Brad Surcey, head of design — are partners with responsibilities for both Minneapolis and San Francisco. The third new partner, Peter Petrulo, a designer, becomes a member of the management team in Minneapolis.
293 2013-12-12 It is certainly unwise to criticize him personally: Last month, a 23-year-old man was convicted in court of insulting the royal family on Facebook (he got an eight-day suspended sentence). In 2011, a 50-year-old resident was sentenced to six days in prison for “dishonoring the monarchy” after drunkenly making unflattering remarks about the prince in a bar.

In few areas is the state’s authority felt more than in matters of development, a crucial issue in an overcrowded place where the only way to expand is up and the only way to build something new is to replace something old. Construction has been booming in Monaco over the last 20 years, with traditional structures — from the Sporting d’Hiver to single-family villas — being dismantled and replaced by the opulent high-rises beloved of Russian oligarchs.

Many big projects here are connected to the Société des Bains de Mer de Monaco, the principality’s dominant force in entertainment, tourism and recreation. S.B.M., as it is called, owns many of Monaco’s big-ticket properties — 33 restaurants, five casinos, four hotels and the Sporting d’Hiver, for starters. It in turn is 69 percent owned by Albert and his family.

S.B.M., whose 3,700 workers make it by far Monaco’s largest employer, has already begun tearing down the Sporting d’Hiver — once the site of the principality’s most glittering charity balls. It is to be replaced by a sprawling complex of offices, luxury apartments and high-end boutiques designed by the British architect Richard Rogers.

When news of the plan came out — “It was suddenly announced by S.B.M. that this is what they were going to do,” said Molly Brown, a longtime resident who opposes the project — critics tried to block it.

At the nearby Hôtel de Paris, which is also owned by S.B.M. and is to be closed and partly refurbished, workers walked off their jobs for a one-hour strike this summer. Preservationists lobbied lawmakers at the National Council, as the legislature is known; wrote angry editorials; held public meetings; and signed an online petition that eventually drew 1,000 signatures.

“We know there’s only one boss,” said Eric Elena, a member of the National Council, speaking of the prince. Despite Mr. Elena’s job as a supervisor at Monaco’s main casino, also owned by S.B.M., he spoke out earlier this year against the Sporting d’Hiver redevelopment, one of only three lawmakers to do so.

But even if all of his legislative colleagues had objected, there was little they could have done in what is the world’s second smallest independent state, behind the Vatican. For one thing, the legislature is elected only by native Monegasques, about a third of the population. For another, it does not serve as a check on power per se, but merely offers take-it-or-leave-it advice to the prince and to the government (which is appointed by the prince).

But even when residents chafe at the lack of democratic niceties, they extol Monaco’s many virtues — sparkling streets, high salaries, generous health care, negligible crime and a stringent policy of barring residency to people whose bank accounts, for example, do not meet the authorities’ approval.

Many residents believe that “they are suffocating here” and that they “don’t have any liberties,” Mr. Elena said. But, he added, “in terms of living standards, Monaco surpasses all other countries.”

Roger-Louis Bianchini, a retired journalist who worked at the newspaper Nice Matin and who has written extensively about Monaco, put it this way: “It isn’t a dictatorship, but at the same time people are afraid to seize power. They don’t seize it because they fear losing their benefits.”

S.B.M.’s director of real estate, Daniel Lambrecht, in an interview in his office, which is decorated with an oversized photograph of Albert and his wife, Princess Charlene, on their wedding day, said he sympathized with the protesters, to a point. But he also said that the new project made economic sense. “I respect their emotions, but these are subjective, not objective,” he said.

In Monaco, it does not do much good to remain mad at S.B.M. for too long. Last summer, the company held a 150th-birthday banquet for 500 people “all loyal to the principality,” according to the website of the chef Alain Ducasse, who catered the event as a “Diner Sur L’Herbe” — a reinterpretation (and renaming) of the famous work by Édouard Manet, which was painted the same year the company was founded.

Everyone who was anyone was there, even people who privately criticize the prince — who appeared, waving to the crowds. It was as clear an illustration as any of how Monaco can seem like one big family, with all the compromise that entails.

“The joke is that if you get drunk and lose your keys and don’t want to have to go home in the middle of the night, all you have to do is go up to a police officer and swear about Prince Albert,” said an English fashion photographer here, who did not want his name used. “They’ll put you in the cells for the night.”
294 2013-12-12 Ms. Gibson said that in addition to her fire pit, which she put in seven years ago, she was designing one for a friend and client in Ditmas Park. “Gentrifying Brooklyn is gaining them daily,” she said. The allure is self-evident. “It makes you feel like you are in the country,” she said. “The smell and the crackling, it’s all romantic.”

For some urban homeowners, fire pits evoke a feeling of California in the 1970s, bonfires on beaches and the roasting of s’mores. Notwithstanding the reality that fire pits are standard issue in suburban manses (Lisa Vanderpump of “The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills” has one, according to a recent episode), the New York fire pit has more in common, philosophically and aesthetically, with do-it-yourself versions built by high schoolers with bricks in their parents’ backyard and frat boys on Big Ten campuses.

Body Actualized Center, a home for yoga, music and moon ceremonies in Bushwick, sent an email blast for a Halloween weekend, promising a fog machine, lasers and a backyard “fire pit (enclosed).” It also promised: “Special Vibeys.”

Anna Fitzgerald, a founder of Body Actualized, described in an email the joy of sitting in the backyard enjoying the fire as people settled into conversations sitting in the couch and chairs, sometimes playing instruments or consulting tarot cards and astrological charts. Ms. Fitzgerald wrote of the serenity of their outdoor space: “All summer and into October we had a beautiful overgrowth of vines — some variety of squash from our neighbor’s garden climbed over the fence and the tendrils curled around the rusty remnants of the roof’s earlier infrastructure, creating this industrial arbor over the whole backyard.”

Body Actualized bought their chiminea, a kind of free-standing fireplace, from a friend who used it for parties and smaller music shows in a Bushwick space called Club Plantation. “I think they used it every night, right out by their chicken coop and gardens,” she wrote.

Brooklyn is not the only borough whose denizens indulge in fire pits. Adam Rapoport, the editor in chief of Bon Appétit, recently wrote an editor’s letter on “How Not to Build a Fire Pit.” His fire pit involved taking the legs off a charcoal grill and embedding it in a strip of yard behind his apartment in Manhattan.

By telephone, Mr. Rapoport extolled the hypnotic charms of fire pits. “If you are just sitting around a living room you would be bored, but if you are sitting around a fire pit having a drink it all makes sense,” he said. “Every now and then you get up and put some logs on it so you feel like you are actually doing something but you are just sitting there. You are sitting there and seeing the fire pop and hiss and smoke. It draws you in. I just love it.”

But Mr. Rapoport’s enjoyment of his fire pit was cut short by a group of firefighters who told him to put out the fire. “Everything is legal in New York until someone complains,” he said. “That’s the reality.” For those seeking the human primal experience of gazing into flames, there is a chance Dec. 12 to 22 at the Dumbo Firepit in the Pearl Street Triangle. A large high-tech wood burning contraption will generate power to light a Christmas tree. The device was built by BioLite, based in Dumbo, which makes a recreational camp stove and a home stove for emerging markets that also generates electricity from the heat of the fire.

Erica Rosen, the director of marketing at BioLite, said the company set up in Lower Manhattan after Hurricane Sandy to allow people to charge their cellphones. The police, although sympathetic, told them to pack it up. The holiday experience will be different. BioLite shared its work with the city and local Dumbo Improvement District to make sure the designs were up to code. “We will also have fire wardens on site who received a lot of special training,” said Ms. Rosen, who added they passed a certification exam issued by the city.

The Dumbo community fire-pit installation, which will also charge cellphones, is designed in a way that makes it nearly smoke free, Ms. Rosen said. “Maybe we will help usher in a new era in urban fire pits,” she said.
295 2013-12-12 in which some 1,800 singers competed for six $15,000 prizes and a chance to catch the ears of the opera world. So where are they now? With the heartbreaking exception of Ryan Smith, a well-liked tenor who won but died of lymphoma before the film’s release, the winning singers are all performing at the Metropolitan Opera and other major opera houses. (If you plan to watch the film and want to preserve the suspense of who won, read no more.) — MICHAEL COOPER

By journalistic tradition, where-are-they-now stories tell of people whose 15 minutes of fame are up. But the reshowing of “The Audition,” Susan Froemke’s documentary about a competition for young opera singers, on Sunday at noon on “Great Performances at the Met” on Channel 13, offers an opportunity for a different kind of update. Ms. Froemke’s 2009 film chronicled the grueling final rounds of the 2007 Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions,

Ms. Meade is currently starring as Alice Ford in the Metropolitan Opera’s new production of Verdi’s “Falstaff.” Ms. Meade — who sang “Casta Diva” from Bellini’s “Norma” in the competition’s grand finals concert in 2007 — enjoyed big success as Norma this season at the Met, opposite the Adalgisa of Jamie Barton, another 2007 National Council winner. She has gone on to win other prestigious prizes, including the 2011 Richard Tucker Award, and to sing at houses around the world, among them the Vienna State Opera, where she sang Elena in Verdi’s “I Vespri Siciliani,” and the Deutsche Oper Berlin, as Lucrezia in a concert version of Verdi’s “I Due Foscari.”

Ms. Barton won the BBC Cardiff Singer of the World competition in June and has been getting strong reviews as she has taken on larger roles in big opera houses. Her Adalgisa in “Norma” this fall at the Met, opposite Ms. Meade, was called “a revelation” in a review by Zachary Woolfe in The New York Times. She will sing on Jan. 16 at the Marilyn Horne Song Celebration at Zankel Hall and in March in Benjamin Britten’s “Spring Symphony” with the Cleveland Orchestra. In April she will sing Fricka in “Das Rheingold” at Houston Grand Opera.

Mr. Fabiano will sing the role of Alfred in the Metropolitan Opera’s new production of Johann Strauss’s “Die Fledermaus” beginning on Dec. 31. The San Francisco Opera recently released a DVD of a 2011 production of Donizetti’s “Lucrezia Borgia,” in which he performed opposite Renée Fleming. This fall he won praise for his Edgardo in Donizetti’s “Lucia di Lammermoor” at the Opéra National de Paris, and next year he will make his Glyndebourne debut as Alfredo in Verdi’s “La Traviata.” When he sang at a concert version of Verdi’s “I Lombardi Alla Prima Crociata” with the Opera Orchestra of New York last spring at Avery Fisher Hall, Steve Smith of The Times praised his “soaring, thrilling singing.”

Mr. Shrader, who won the National Council auditions singing the high C’s in Donizetti’s “Ah! mes amis,” from “The Daughter of the Regiment,” made his Met debut in 2012 as Ferdinand in Thomas Adès’s “Tempest.” This month he will sing Tamino in the Met’s abbreviated holiday presentation of Mozart’s “The Magic Flute.” He has sung Nemorino in Donizetti’s “L’Elisir d’Amore” at the San Francisco Opera and the title role in Britten’s “Albert Herring” with the Los Angeles Opera, as well as roles at European houses and festivals.

Ms. Wagner sang Amelia at the Met in a new production of Verdi’s “Un Ballo in Maschera” in 2012 and sang Leonora in a new staging of Verdi’s “Forza del Destino” this year at Washington National Opera. She stepped in to sing the title role in Strauss’s “Ariadne auf Naxos” at Lyric Opera of Chicago in 2011, replacing Deborah Voigt, and won critical praise. She has been singing Wagner as well, taking on the role of Elsa in “Lohengrin” at Lyric Opera in 2011 and Sieglinde in “Die Walküre” in Frankfurt in 2012.
296 2013-12-12 What about his earlier hints of presidential aspirations? In an August visit to the Iowa State Fair, a checkpoint on the circuit for presidential hopefuls, he told The Des Moines Register that he wanted to see “whether there’s an interest in my brand of leadership and Republicanism.” His talk of challenging Ms. Shaheen here, home of the first-in-the-nation presidential primary, could be a fig leaf for higher ambitions.

Mr. Brown backpedaled on that last week while maintaining that his options were still wide open.

“I don’t think I ever said I was thinking about running for president,” he said, “but I don’t think anything’s off the table at this point.”

It is this random approach to office-seeking that suggests to some Democrats that Mr. Brown is more interested in keeping up his public profile than in gearing up for an intense campaign against Ms. Shaheen, a popular former three-term governor.

“Scott Brown has always been in love with himself, and this is just a vanity tour,” said Matt Canter, deputy executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.

But that has not stopped strategists on both sides from speculating how such a race might go.

Republicans here are obviously pleased to have a celebrity like Mr. Brown at their disposal. Although he lost his Senate seat last year to Elizabeth Warren by 8 percentage points, he maintained high favorability ratings, and he was among his party’s top fund-raisers nationwide. The state party has booked him as its featured guest for its holiday reception Dec. 19, and smaller groups are bringing him in to help raise money.

“We don’t mind living off his popularity right now,” said Gregory Carson, chairman of the Londonderry Republican Committee, who said he invited Mr. Brown here to attract attention.

But if Mr. Brown wants to take on Ms. Shaheen, he must first win the primary, which is usually dominated by conservative voters. Two other Republicans — former State Senator Jim Rubens and Karen Testerman, a conservative activist — are already in the race, and a third, the former United States senator Bob Smith, is set to join.

At the gathering here, State Representative Daniel Tamburello said he liked Mr. Brown personally but hesitated when asked whether he would support him.

“I’m a pretty strong pro-life guy, and that’s usually a sticking point for me in the primaries,” Mr. Tamburello said. When campaigning in Massachusetts, Mr. Brown said he favored abortion rights, although activists disputed the claim, saying his was not a reliable vote. Nonetheless, the perception here is that he supports abortion rights.

Others said a bigger problem here would be his support for the federal ban on assault weapons, which he declared last year after the shootings at a school in Newtown, Conn.

“Certainly in New Hampshire, Second Amendment issues are a really big deal,” said Mr. Carson, the chairman. “He’d have to really address what his reasoning was for that.”

State Senator Sharon Carson, a Republican who represents Londonderry and is married to Mr. Carson, said that even before voters considered the gun question, they would have to consider the matter of carpetbagging.

“The biggest obstacle that he would face is, people would see him as someone coming from outside the state of New Hampshire,” she said.

Moments later, Mr. Brown unwittingly highlighted the problem. While speaking outside to reporters, and brushing off the suggestion that party leaders wanted guidance from him about his plans, he said, “What I’ve heard from the Republicans up here is they’re thankful that I’ve been around for a year helping them raise money, helping them raise awareness as to the issues that are affecting not only people here in Massachuss — in New Hampshire — but also in Massachusetts” and throughout New England.

A video of the slip-up, recorded by a tracker from American Bridge, a liberal group that bird-dogs Republican candidates, instantly sailed around the Web. (It received such saturation coverage that a backlash, even if tongue-in-cheek, soon developed, with Vanity Fair defending Mr. Brown and challenging the reader: “You try telling the difference between Massachusetts and New Hampshire.”)

In any case, Mr. Brown tried to focus on Ms. Shaheen and linked her to what he said were fundamental problems with President Obama’s health care plan. “What’s really at issue is that she really needs to start explaining to people why she was the deciding vote to pass Obamacare,” he said, reviving the issue that helped propel him to the United States Senate in 2010.

“Up until it blew up, she was still one of the No. 1 supporters,” he said, adding darkly: “So there are going to be consequences, not only for her but for everybody.”

Billy Shaheen, the senator’s husband and one of the state’s most prominent Democratic operatives, said it was “hard to say” right now how much his wife’s support for Mr. Obama’s health care plan might be hurting her. But residents are angry.

“She said she makes no apologies for trying to help people get affordable health insurance,” he said. And she has called for the White House to extend the enrollment period, saying citizens should not be penalized for the government’s botched sign-up process.

Mr. Shaheen also noted that Mr. Brown might face questions about health care himself. As a state senator in 2006, he supported Gov. Mitt Romney’s health care overhaul in Massachusetts, which was the model for the Obama plan. Mr. Brown later argued that the two plans were very different, but enough similarities exist that New Hampshire’s conservative voters could question whether he shares their values.

Mr. Brown’s heavy donations last year from the financial services industry could also come into play. The New Hampshire Democratic Party began an online campaign Wednesday calling on Mr. Brown to release the names of the clients he represents for Nixon Peabody, the Boston-based law firm he joined after losing his Senate seat.

But perhaps the Democrats’ strongest argument against Mr. Brown will be what they say is his failure so far to demonstrate a serious commitment to the state.

“You can’t be cavalier about this,” Mr. Shaheen said. “You’ve got to earn your support here. This is not a beauty contest.”
297 2013-12-12 Health officials have warned since the 1970s that overuse of antibiotics in animals was leading to the development of infections resistant to treatment in humans. For years, modest efforts by federal officials to reduce the use of antibiotics in animals were thwarted by the powerful food industry and its substantial lobbying power in Congress. Pressure for federal action has mounted as the effectiveness of drugs important for human health has declined, and deaths from bugs resistant to antibiotics have soared.

Under the new policy, the agency is asking drug makers to change the labels that detail how a drug can be used so they would bar farmers from using the medicines to promote growth.

The changes, originally proposed in 2012, are voluntary for drug companies. But F.D.A. officials said they believed that the companies would comply, based on discussions during the public comment period. The two drug makers that represent a majority of such antibiotic products — Zoetis and Elanco — have already stated their intent to participate, F.D.A. officials said. Companies will have three months to tell the agency whether they will change the labels, and three years to carry out the new rules.

Additionally, the agency is requiring that licensed veterinarians supervise the use of antibiotics, effectively requiring farmers and ranchers to obtain prescriptions to use the drugs for their animals.

“It’s a big shift from the current situation, in which animal producers can go to a local feed store and buy these medicines over the counter and there is no oversight at all,” said Michael Taylor, the F.D.A.’s deputy commissioner for foods and veterinary medicine.

Some consumer health advocates were skeptical that the new rules would reduce the amount of antibiotics consumed by animals. They say that a loophole will allow animal producers to keep using the same low doses of antibiotics by contending they are needed to keep animals from getting sick, and evading the new ban on use for growth promotion.

More meaningful, said Dr. Keeve Nachman, a scientist at the Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future, would be to ban the use of antibiotics for the prevention of disease, a step the F.D.A. so far has not taken. That would limit antibiotic uses to treatment of a specific sickness diagnosed by a veterinarian, a much narrower category, he said.

Another skeptic, Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a Democrat from New York, said that when the European Union tried to stop companies from using antibiotics to make farm animals bigger, companies continued to use antibiotics for disease prevention. She said antibiotic use only declined in countries like the Netherlands that instituted limits on total use and fines for noncompliance.

But another longtime critic of the F.D.A. on antibiotics, Dr. Stuart B. Levy, a professor of microbiology at Tufts University and the president of the Alliance for the Prudent Use of Antibiotics, praised the new rules. He was among the first to identify the problem in the 1970s. “I’m kind of happy,” he said. “For all of us who’ve been struggling with this issue, this is the biggest step that’s been taken in the last 30 years.”

Mr. Taylor, the agency official, said the F.D.A. had detailed what veterinarians needed to consider when they prescribed such drugs. For example, use has to be for animals at risk for developing a specific disease, with no reasonable alternatives to prevent it.

“It’s far from being a just-trust-them system,” he said. “Given the history of the issue, it’s not surprising that there are people who are skeptical.”

He added that some food producers had already curbed antibiotic use.

A spokeswoman for Zoetis, a major drug producer that said it would abide by the new rules, said the new policy was not expected to have a big effect on the revenues of the company because many of its drug products were also approved for therapeutic uses. (Dr. Nachman said that was an indication that overall use might not decline under the new rules.)

The Animal Health Institute, an association of pharmaceutical companies that make drugs for animals, said that it supported the policy and “will continue to work with the F.D.A. on its implementation.”

The National Pork Producers Council was less enthusiastic, saying, “We expect that hog farmers, and the federally inspected feed mills they purchase feed from, will follow the law.”

“It is part of our ethical responsibility to utilize antibiotics responsibly and part of our commitment to public health and animal health,” the council said in a statement.

The National Chicken Council said in a statement that its producers already worked closely with veterinarians, and that much of the antibiotics used in raising chickens were not used in human medicine.
298 2013-12-12 Even in its architecture, the library sets a hopeful tone. Designed by Anna Torriani and Lorenzo Pagnamenta of the firm Atelier Pagnamenta Torriani, in Manhattan, the library has glass walls, front and back, skylights overhead and a clerestory along the roof’s spine. The space felt bright, even on a darkly overcast day last week.

Both sides of the library’s asymmetrical roof appear as if they are in the process of opening. Mr. Pagnamenta said the shape and color — gray zinc on the outside, white plaster on the inside — were meant to evoke an oyster shell, recalling the area’s 19th-century heritage of oyster cultivation.

The pearls within are 19 Apple computers for public use. Mariners Harbor is only the second branch to have them, after the Mulberry Street Library in Manhattan.

“Every New Yorker should have a branch library within a few blocks of where they live,” said Anthony W. Marx, the president of the New York Public Library. “We are also mindful of neighborhoods where the communities are particularly in need of access to books and computers they can’t afford.”

It took a long time to develop Mariners Harbor Library, some of it waiting for financing from the mayor, the borough president, the City Council and New York State. The total cost was $12.5 million, including books and equipment, according to Joanna Pestka, the vice president of capital planning and construction for the New York Public Library.

Ground was broken by the New York City’s Department of Design and Construction in September 2009. Construction was postponed by the installation of an underground drainage system and delayed further as the concrete slab was built and the glass curtain walls were erected. “The most important thing is to get it right,” the agency said in a statement. “We’re confident that these design changes improved the building and that the new Mariners Harbor Library will be worth the wait.”

The countdown sign in the front window proclaimed “11 Days Til Opening!” when a reporter visited last week.

Rows of manga comic books, including a 61-volume run of Masashi Kishimoto’s “Naruto,” sat on the shelves of the teen section, spines not yet creased. In the adjoining adult section were five copies each of Zane’s “Succulent: Chocolate Flava 2” and “Z-Rated: Chocolate Flava 3” erotic anthologies. A few shelves farther came the test preparation handbooks. Mariners Harbor Library will offer about 17,000 books, DVDs, CDs, audiobooks and periodicals for circulation.

Except for a conference room and staff offices, the 10,000-square-foot space is entirely open, with no partitions higher than the 3-foot-6-inch bookshelves that help demarcate the children’s, teen and adult areas.

If that sounds noisy to you, so be it. “We encourage noise,” said Elizabete Pata, the library manager. “I’m not the typical librarian, shushing people.”

“We’re not going to be a traditional library,” she said. “This is going to be more like a community center.”

Tranquillity may be found just out the back door, however. Mariners Harbor has an open-air deck, under a couple of maple and tupelo trees. It contributes, Mr. Pagnamenta said, to the “idea of a library as an extension of your living room.”

In a neighborly gesture, Ms. Pata headed out to the streets with an armful of opening day invitations. Her trip took her along a fence that protects the large building supply yard that is the library’s immediate neighbor to the south, then past single-family houses like Mr. Iddrisu’s, over the old North Shore Railroad tracks and into the brick realm of Mariner’s Harbor Houses.

“Free Wi-Fi?” asked a young man on Lockman Avenue. “Free Wi-Fi,” Ms. Pata said, earning his smile.

On Brabant Street, another young man gently rebuffed her offer of a leaflet. “I know,” he said. “Eleven days.”

Clearly, word is getting around.
299 2013-12-12 The stock market posted its largest drop in more than a month on Wednesday as traders locked in recent gains as the end of the year approaches.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index is up 25 percent so far this year, putting it on track to close out its strongest year in more than a decade.

“People are more concerned about locking in profits in positions that have had big gains this year,” said Michael James, managing director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities.

“The fact we couldn’t hold 1,800 put people in ‘hit-the-sell-button mode’ as well,” Mr. James said, referring to the S.&P. 500’s recent run above that level.

On Wednesday, the S.&P. 500 fell 20.40 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 1,782.22. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 129.60 points, or 0.8 percent, to end at 15,843.53. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 56.68 points, or 1.4 percent, to finish at 4,003.81.
300 2013-12-12 Apple released a statement Wednesday saying the company was saddened by the deaths and had sent independent medical experts from the United States and China to investigate the deaths.

“While they have found no evidence of any link to working conditions there, we realize that is of little comfort to the families who have lost their loved ones. Apple has a long-standing commitment to providing a safe and healthy workplace for every worker in our supply chain, and we have a team working with Pegatron at their facility to ensure that conditions meet our high standards," the company said in a statement.

Apple has gone to great lengths over the past few years to improve conditions at the facilities that produce Apple products in China. It has insisted on new safety measures and supported higher wages and tighter restrictions on working hours.

While Pegatron says it strictly forbids its factories from hiring workers younger than 16, the legal working age in China, Mr. Shi was able to work using a falsified identity card. In his only month at Pegatron, he worked nearly 280 hours, often 12 hours a day, six days a week, according to work documents his family kept.

Apple’s supplier responsibility statement bars employees of supplier companies in China from working more than 60 hours a week; so does Chinese law. But Mr. Shi worked 79 hours in his first week, 77 in his second and 75 in his third, according to documents provided by his family.

The company said that the work logs the family kept were records of when the young man clocked in and out, and might not include breaks. The company said his hours did not exceed the legal limit.

In late July, China Labor Watch released a report claiming that Pegatron was violating Chinese laws and Apple’s own social responsibility code of conduct. Among other things, the group said that Pegatron was forcing employees to work unpaid overtime.

Executives at Pegatron, which has 100,000 workers in Shanghai, said they were taking the accusations seriously.

The company spokeswoman said that Pegatron was deeply distraught by the deaths of the workers but that an investigation of the working conditions in the Shanghai factory found nothing unusual.

The company tried to resolve the case of Shi Zhaokun by paying his family compensation of about 90,000 renminbi, or about $15,000, according to Shi Zhaokun’s uncle, Yang Sen.

But on Tuesday, Mr. Yang insisted the matter was still not resolved. He said something must have gone wrong at Pegatron. On Sept. 4, he said, his nephew passed a pre-employment physical and was declared healthy.
301 2013-12-12 Credit: Elizabeth D. Herman for The New York Times
302 2013-12-13 LISSER--Morton S.,(91) died December 10 in Bethesda, MD., formerly of Riverdale and East Hampton. Beloved husband of the late Martha, devoted father of Justine (Stephen Klitzman) and Amy (Matthew Frosch), adored grandfather of Zachary and Jeremy a...
303 2013-12-13 The prefall collection included maxi dresses and furry details....
304 2013-12-13 Mexico’s Oil May Be Opened to Outsiders
305 2013-12-13 The ruling on behalf of nearly 300 investors — the first of its kind in Hong Kong — is a big victory for regulators. Insider trading wasn’t even a criminal offense there before 2003....
306 2013-12-13 A one-time assessment for holiday bonuses; tipping a grouchy doorman; and dealing with a smoking super....
307 2013-12-13 Competing with Amazon. Overcoming toxic employee behaviors. How to teach your children to be entrepreneurs....
308 2013-12-13 How overshooting protected us from the cultists....
309 2013-12-13 The filmmaker Rithy Panh explains that he made “The Missing Picture” to restore to life the family he lost along with 1.8 million others in the Khmer Rouge genocide....
310 2013-12-13 The Simon Property Group, the Indianapolis-based owner and operator of shopping malls, plans to spin off its strip centers and smaller enclosed malls into a real estate investment trust....
311 2013-12-13 The evidence is clear that a higher minimum wage would reduce poverty, increase consumer spending and have scant impact on employment, an economist writes....
312 2013-12-13 Oxford beat Cambridge, 33-15, to clinch a fourth successive Varsity Match, but its win was overshadowed by the first red card in the 141-year history of the game. Oxford had to play most of the second half with 14 men after scrum-half Sam Egerton was sent off in the 51st minute.
313 2013-12-13 Suthep Thaugsuban, the main leader of the current demonstrations, has also been charged with murder in the same case, but he failed to appear in court on Thursday. He was deputy prime minister during the crackdown.

Both men would probably have had charges dismissed against them had a broad amnesty bill proposed by the current government moved forward. But the amnesty would also have allowed Mr. Thaksin to return home, and both Mr. Abhisit and Mr. Suthep said they did not support the bill for that reason.

The murder cases against the two men, which started months ago, have increased the pressure on the Democrat Party, which has not won a national election since 1992.

The cases are based on an investigation by Thailand’s Department of Special Investigation, which concluded last year that Mr. Abhisit and Mr. Suthep were guilty of “ordering the military to use live ammunition against protesters.” Dozens were killed when troops dislodged protesters from central Bangkok. Both men say they are innocent.

The charges against Mr. Abhisit specifically relate to two protesters who were killed and one who was injured.

In the current protests, Mr. Suthep and his followers’ demands include that the country’s Parliament be replaced by an unelected “people’s council,” among other ideas deemed quixotic.

The Democrat Party this week announced that its members were resigning from Parliament to join the various groups protesting in Bangkok against the government. Farmers from southern Thailand, members of the Bangkok elite and ultraroyalists have joined forces to oppose Ms. Yingluck’s government. Her call for fresh elections has not quelled the protests.

After more than two weeks in which protesters seized government buildings and surrounded the prime minister’s office, both the government and the military supreme command said they would try to meet separately with protest leaders over the weekend to seek a solution to the political deadlock.

Mr. Suthep characterized the meeting with the military as a high-level negotiation, but the military supreme command, in a statement, described it as a “public forum” that would include scholars and civic groups.
314 2013-12-13 They were French winemakers of the highest caliber, from a narrow strip in Burgundy, France, from families who for generations have produced some of the world’s most sought-after wine.

They took the witness stand in Federal District Court in Manhattan on Thursday, holding aloft purportedly rare bottles, decades old, from their vineyards that fetched tens of thousands of dollars at auction and in private sales. And then they described how the wines were counterfeits.

This was the testimony in the fraud trial of Rudy Kurniawan, a mysterious man from Indonesia who prosecutors say worked his way into the most rarefied circles of the superrich and made millions selling them counterfeit wine. The trial, which opened this week, has been a crash course in fine wine, a display in how people assign value to things they do not even understand, and a how-to, as in how to make fake wines.

Mr. Kurniawan, described by his lawyers as the son of a wealthy Chinese family, burst onto the fine wine scene in the early 2000s. He quickly developed a reputation as a wealthy prodigy with an unmatched palate, able to blindly identify the vintage and provenance of some of the world’s finest wines. He showed up at auctions in Beverly Hills, Calif., and in New York and helped drive the prices of many wines skyward.

On Thursday, Laurent Ponsot testified that he had learned that wines supposedly from his village, Domaine Ponsot in Burgundy, were to be auctioned in New York. He said he knew them to be fake, so he flew to New York and stopped the auction. In court he held up some of the bottles and identified the flaws.

“It’s very close,” he said. “It’s a good copy. But it’s not authentic.”

More than a dozen bottles in question sat on a table in the middle of the courtroom. As the bottles were handed to the jury, at least one juror gasped audibly upon hearing the cost of some of them, and shook her head.
315 2013-12-13 Murray, 33, said he believed that the next great American tennis champion could emerge from this unlikely place, adding that his mission was to expand his program so that the next Young or Townsend would not have to leave Chicago to achieve similar success.

“Kids are hungry and tough here — they can thrive right here on the South Side,” said Murray, a lean, tall bundle of energy and salesmanship who played tennis at Florida A&M and who also works in sales for a pharmaceutical company. The United States Tennis Association, he said, “wants to extract kids from their comfort zone, their homes, and send them to Florida or California.”

The athletic center, which will be in the Washington Park neighborhood, will initially feature 27 tennis courts, along with a basketball court and a place for track and field and soccer. XS Tennis hired the former tennis pro Zina Garrison, who recently joined Townsend’s team, to oversee the tennis program. The retired N.B.A. player and South Side native Quentin Richardson and the three-time Olympic gold medalist Jackie Joyner-Kersee will direct new basketball and track and field programs.

According to a Chicago Tribune analysis of police statistics, Washington Park has one of the highest rates of violent crime of any neighborhood in the city. Joyner-Kersee, who grew up in East St. Louis, Ill., another struggling community, said the new complex would be a safe place for children to grow and thrive.

“We know when there are vacant spaces, bad things can happen,” she said. “The community will finally see something positive happening in this space. We might not be able to alleviate all the crime and violence, but we can decrease it and give kids hope.”

Murray said his organization would provide nearly $2 million in scholarships for children who live in Chicago public housing. An existing mentoring and tutoring partnership with the University of Chicago will be expanded, and Murray hopes to host a women’s professional tournament there.

Murray said he hoped to break ground on the new complex in the spring and open it in the fall, but the plan still needs formal approval from the Chicago Housing Authority, which owns the site and will vote on the plan in the coming months. XS Tennis is seeking $2 million in tax increment financing, a special funding tool used by the city government to revitalize underdeveloped districts, to pay for the complex, along with $4 million to $5 million in private financing.

Matthew Aguilar, a spokesman for the housing authority, said the proposal would “encourage job growth and reuse of vacant land for community building purposes.” One sector of the land where the Taylor Homes stood has been developed into affordable housing, and the authority said that it had latitude to use XS Tennis’s proposed site, which has been vacant for more than 10 years, for any initiative that would help “strengthen its housing mission and create vibrant communities.”

Pat Dowell, the alderman for Chicago’s Third Ward, which includes Washington Park, said she strongly supported the proposal. Several people who live nearby said the athletic complex would be good for neighborhood children.

“This is where the projects were, so who wants to pile more people down here on top of each other without giving anyone outlets for them to do something?” said Nicole Bunkley, a single mother who said she would like to get her 8-year-old son into the program.

Murray acknowledged that some of the parents whose children were currently in the program had expressed reservations about the new location but said that none had indicated that they would withdraw from the club.

While the move from Hyde Park to Washington Park might present challenges for some of XS’s current students, it may open up opportunities for others. Jeremiah Kimble, 12, lives in the Legends South development, on land where another section of the Taylor Homes once stood. Murray took him with a group of students from Washington Park to the United States Open in New York in August.

After seeing Townsend and Serena Williams play in person, Jeremiah took an interest in tennis. XS Tennis offered him a scholarship to take lessons at the club in Hyde Park, but his mother, Bertie, an unemployed single parent, said that they had to take two buses to get there.

“That’s $9 for the two of us to go round trip, every time,” she said. “That adds up. When they move over here, he can walk.”

Aside from offering tennis lessons and on-site tutoring and mentoring, Murray also conducts clinics at schools around the South Side to expose children to the sport. When he spots children who show promise, he invites them to join his program. One such student is Lauren Hatfield, an 8-year-old girl. Her mother, Paula, said that if XS Tennis were not around, she would have steered her daughter into a cheaper sport.

“Lots of parents have to worry about their kids getting into whatever bad stuff on the Internet, but I have to coax Lauren away from looking up her ranking all the time and what tournaments she wants to travel to,” she said.

Patrick McEnroe, the general manager of player development at the United States Tennis Association, said that the best thing about programs like XS Tennis was taking children who ordinarily would not be exposed to tennis and turning them onto it.

“We need more kids in the inner cities with tennis rackets in their hands,” he said. “The U.S.T.A. would love nothing more than to see a great program grow and thrive in the inner city of Chicago.”

But he said he was less certain that an elite junior could reach the top of the pro game while staying in a city like Chicago, which has a long winter and no ATP or WTA tournament, except for a challenger-level men’s event in suburban Winnetka that draws players ranked outside the top 100.

“It’s possible, but it really comes down to economics,” he said. “The better a player gets, the more resources it takes to get them to the next level, and court space is at a premium in big cities.”

Young, 24, the youngest person and the first African-American to reach the top world junior ranking in 2005, and Townsend, 17, who reached that ranking last year, left Chicago to pursue their tennis dreams. Young, accompanied by his family, moved to Atlanta to train at age 14 and persuaded Townsend, a family friend, to follow a year later when she was 8.

Six years later, Townsend moved to Boca Raton, Fla., to train at the U.S.T.A.’s National Training Center. Townsend, who severed ties with the U.S.T.A. in September after turning pro, will spend at least part of the year training in Chicago.

Townsend is considered one of the next great American hopes. Although the No. 93-ranked Young has fought with the U.S.T.A. and not lived up to expectations, Townsend said that their success was proof that the South Side was a hotbed for undiscovered talent.

“People don’t have the resources or the opportunities to develop their games, and that’s what XS Tennis is trying to address,” she said during a recent visit to her grandmother, who lives in Englewood, the troubled South Side neighborhood where Townsend grew up.

McEnroe said that the U.S.T.A. did not require juniors to move to a national training facility to qualify for support, but he said it made sense to try to bring the best players together in one place. “Absolutely, kids can stay in colder climates and become pros,” he said. “A guy named Roger Federer has done O.K. for himself. Djokovic does O.K.”

The tennis coach Nick Bollettieri, who is on the board of XS Tennis and conducts clinics there, said that it was possible, but not very likely, for an elite junior to advance in the pros while remaining in a city like Chicago.

“Nothing is impossible,” he said. “But eventually you need intense daily competition with your peers. If you don’t have the competition to push you, you won’t get there.”

But Murray said his primary goal was to nurture young athletes, have an effect on their lives and help them get college scholarships.

“We’d be lucky if we found another Taylor Townsend, but that’s not our goal,” he said. “We’re going to change tennis, and we’re going to change kids’ lives.”
316 2013-12-13 Raymond Felton has posted career-low numbers as the Knicks’ point guard this season, and his situation went from bad to worse Thursday when the team announced that he would miss the next two to three weeks with a strained left hamstring.

The Knicks, whose roster is already depleted because of the continued absence of Tyson Chandler (right leg), are now particularly thin in the backcourt. Iman Shumpert, their starting shooting guard, bruised his surgically repaired left knee in Wednesday’s victory over the Chicago Bulls. With the team listing him as day to day, his status for Friday’s game against the Boston Celtics was unclear.

Given the circumstances, as well as their 6-15 record, the Knicks once again appear to be pursuing help. One target, according to multiple reports, was the Toronto Raptors’ Kyle Lowry, 27, a point guard who is averaging 14.6 points, 6.7 assists and 1.8 steals per game, each mark a career best. A deal for him would most likely include Felton, among other pieces provided by the Knicks.

Last week, the Raptors boldly signaled that they were in full rebuilding mode by trading Rudy Gay to the Sacramento Kings as part of a seven-player deal. The Raptors received point guard Greivis Vasquez from the Kings, which made Lowry expendable. Toronto would most likely want future assets as part of any deal for Lowry.

The problem for the Knicks — one of them, anyway — is their lack of future assets. In fact, the Raptors already own a bunch of them. The Knicks gave up three draft picks (a first-round selection in the 2016 draft and second-round selections in 2014 and 2017) when they acquired Andrea Bargnani from the Raptors over the summer.
317 2013-12-13 But some privacy specialists, industry executives and district officials say that federal education privacy rules and local district policies are not keeping up with advances like learning apps that can record a child’s every keystroke or algorithms that classify academic performance. Without explicit prohibitions on the nonacademic use of the information, specialists warn that unflattering data could hypothetically be shared with colleges or employers, to the detriment of the student.

The Fordham study suggested that some districts might not fully grasp the implications of outsourcing data handling or may lack the negotiating power to insist on contracts that restrict information use.

“The report raises the possibility that abuses could happen with student data if contracting practices don’t come up to snuff,” said Kathleen Styles, the chief privacy officer of the Department of Education. Although the agency had no evidence of such abuses, she said, it is developing best practices for schools to use in “contracting out for web services and for transparency with parents.”

Under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, schools that receive federal funding must generally obtain written permission from parents before sharing students’ educational records. An exception allows school districts to share student information with companies, like those providing student information systems, without parental consent. The exception requires school districts to have direct control over such contractors’ use of student information; if contractors misuse the data, regulators may ban districts from sharing further data with those companies.

In a statement, the Software and Information Industry Association faulted the Fordham study for examining school contracts and policies, but not actual industry practices. The group said the law had created a business culture that respected student privacy.

The Fordham researchers examined how schools approached student data privacy by first calling officials at a cross-section of small, medium and large school districts in different parts of the country; then they used open-records laws to request copies of each district’s Web services contracts and policies for staff technology use. Microsoft provided an unrestricted grant for the research.

The study reported that districts hire online services to monitor individual student progress, analyze aggregate performances of classes and schools, host school data and manage school transportation.

Although the school systems were required to respond to the request for information, only 20 of 54 districts provided full documentation by the deadline, the study said. Researchers said they encountered “significant difficulty reaching any district personnel who were familiar with the district’s outsourcing practices.”

“When you talk about transparency, the fact that we had to be persistent, I think, is a public policy problem,” Dr. Reidenberg said.

Among the districts that did provide documents, less than a quarter of the contracts specified the purpose for which student information would be disclosed, the study said; and less than 7 percent restricted companies from selling student data or using it for marketing. Several districts lacked policies governing staff members’ computer use — meaning that teachers would potentially be able to sign up for free apps or sites that collected information about students without school officials vetting the programs.

The study suggests that school districts have wildly varying degrees of legal expertise and resources to devote to data protection.

Certainly, many districts make an effort to be vigilant. The South Orangetown Central School District in Blauvelt, N.Y., for example, is conducting an audit to examine how its contracts cover sharing or reuse of student data.

“The kinds of applications, software and online resources have changed so much in such a short period of time that it’s hard for districts to keep pace,” said the district superintendent, Ken Mitchell. “There are so many questions about the data sharing between primary and secondary vendors that, until we have that fully understood, we need to slow this thing down.”

The Fordham study urged that contracts specify the type of services a company provides, list the types of information collected and limit the redisclosure of students’ details. The researchers also recommended that education officials notify parents about the nature of information disclosed to third parties and post information about privacy protections on district websites.

Steve Mutkoski, the government policy director for Microsoft’s worldwide public sector business, recommended that the technology industry voluntarily agree not to use student data for advertising, marketing or profiling students, as his company has done for schools that use certain Microsoft software.

“At a bare minimum, if that is not going to reach an industry consensus,” Mr. Mutkoski said, “there should at least be greater transparency about the use that vendors plan to make of the data.”
318 2013-12-13 “The United Nations Mission concludes that chemical weapons have been used in the ongoing conflict between the parties in the Syrian Arab Republic,” the final United Nations report stated.

Secretary General Ban Ki-moon received the final version on Thursday and made it public about half an hour later.

The authors, members of a panel led by the Swedish scientist Ake Sellstrom, studiously avoided saying who was responsible in any of the attacks, saying it was their mandate only to ascertain whether they had taken place.

In the preliminary report on the Aug. 21 attack, findings implicated Mr. Assad’s military by documenting the shape of the munitions and the precise direction from which two had been fired. But in the other attacks investigated by the panel in the final report, it is much less clear who was responsible.

In some, the panel said it could not establish a link between the actual attack and the victims, either because the investigators could not travel to the site or because they could not directly collect chemical or medical samples.

The report said the panel had corroborated “credible allegations” that chemical weapons were used in the first reported attack — a March 19 episode involving soldiers and civilians in Khan al-Assal in the country’s north. The investigators could not travel there, though, so verification was impossible.

United Nations officials had been locked in an argument with the Syrian government for months over access to that site. It became inaccessible later because of heavy fighting. The United Nations disarmament chief, Angela Kane, said in an interview this fall that the failure to investigate that first chemical attack had haunted her.

Each side in the conflict accused the other in that attack. The Syrian government pressed the United Nations to investigate that site alone, but the United Nations insisted on investigating other sites as well, which Syria refused. In the following months, the Khan al-Assal area was seized by insurgents linked to Al Qaeda, rendering travel there by the weapons inspectors too risky.

And so, the panel of experts said, they interviewed medical and military personnel involved in the rescue operations at Khan al-Assal. The report said, “None of the parties in the Syrian Arab Republic denied the use of chemical weapons” in Khan al-Assal.

Syria also insisted that chemical weapons had been used against its soldiers after the Aug. 21 attack. The report said there was evidence supporting “the probable use of chemical weapons” in two episodes in the Damascus area — in Jobar on Aug. 24 and Ashrafiah Sahnaya on Aug. 25. In both cases, the report said, chemical weapons may have been used on “a relatively small scale against soldiers.”

The report also concluded that chemical weapons had been used in the northwest town of Saraqeb on April 29, based on evidence that included interviews with medical clinicians, medical records and organ samples of a deceased victim.
319 2013-12-13 The mission of the Food and Drug Administration has grown over time. When it was established in 1906, its mission was only to certify safety. In 1962, that was expanded to safety and efficacy. Now the concern is broadened again, to preserve the usefulness of our antibiotics against the relentless evolution of resistance in pathogens. But throughout, the F.D.A. has been a regulatory agency.

As long as the new restrictions are voluntary for the drug makers, they are not regulations; they are a cop-out. This is a retreat from the agency’s mission at a time when it needs to be pressing forward.
320 2013-12-13 Cambodian officials said they were elated by the settlement. “We are very pleased with the help from the American government because so many of our statues are stolen and missing and we want them for the Cambodian people,” said Chan Tani, the country’s secretary of state.

The case has placed a renewed focus on Cambodian sculptures from the Koh Ker region, a once-thriving Khmer metropolis, in American museum collections. Earlier this year the Metropolitan Museum of Art returned two statues that had been prominently displayed in its Southeast Asia gallery after federal investigators showed the museum evidence that the statues, known as the Kneeling Attendants, had probably been illicitly removed from the same temple setting as the statue in the Sotheby’s dispute, known as the Duryodhana.

With the return of those three statues, Cambodia’s quest will now turn to the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif., where a twin statue to the Duryodhana, known as the Bhima, has been in the collection since 1980. Mr. Tani said officials from the museum plan to visit Cambodia early next year to explore the Bhima’s original site and hold talks about its possible return.

The settlement, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, declared that all sides agreed that additional litigation “would be burdensome and would require resolution of disputed factual issues and issues of U.S., Cambodian, French Colonial, and other law.”

In a statement, the United States attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, said, “Today’s settlement reunites a priceless artifact with its rightful owners, the people of Cambodia.”

“The United States is not a market for antiquities stolen from other nations,” he added, “and we will continue to track down and return any that are brought here illegally.”

Mr. Bharara’s office had taken an intense interest in the case, at one point sending two prosecutors to the Prasat Chen temple site at Koh Ker, the original location of the statues at issue. The Koh Ker temple complex is in northern Cambodia, some 75 miles from Angkor Wat, and was extensively looted in the 1970s and 1980s.

The Duryodhana, part of a group of sculptures depicting Hindu epics, had stood at Prasat Chen for a millennium before it was broken from its feet and pedestal and spirited abroad, an act of pillage that archaeological experts say took place in the early ’70s.

The dispute over the statue began in 2011 when the Cambodian government asked Sotheby’s to remove it from sale on the very morning it was to be auctioned in Manhattan.

Featured on the cover of the auction house’s catalog for that month, the Duryodhana was described as an unrivaled masterwork. “If one could choose only one sculpture to represent the glory of Khmer art, this figure could fulfill such a challenge,” the catalog said.

While the auction house agreed to pull the statue from the sale, it rejected Cambodia’s request to return it as stolen property. Instead, the auction house told Cambodian officials that it viewed the statue as the lawful property of its consignor, Ms. Ruspoli, and that Cambodia should consider purchasing it directly through Sotheby’s.

United States officials entered the dispute on Cambodia’s side last year, filing court papers that asserted that the statue constituted stolen property under Cambodian law and had entered the United States illegally as a result. In the filing, federal lawyers accused Sotheby’s of trafficking in stolen property and trying to concoct a false ownership trail that would legitimize the statue’s presence at auction.

Sotheby’s vehemently denied the charges and challenged the government’s case, arguing that evidence of when the statue may have been taken was thin and that the Cambodian laws the government was relying on were moot because they were adopted in the early 1900s when Cambodia was still a French colony.

The settlement signed on Thursday specifically said that the federal authorities no longer contend that Sotheby’s or the consignor had done anything to mislead anyone about the statue’s provenance.

Although the Department of Homeland Security’s immigration and customs enforcement branch moved to seize the statue at one point, a court ruled that it should remain under Sotheby’s care until a final resolution in the case.
321 2013-12-13 In a country where oil is often equated with sovereignty and national pride, the plan has set off furious debate. But while demonstrations helped thwart a more tepid attempt to open the industry in 2008, they were not effective this time — though there were some colorful moments.

As the lower chamber of the legislature argued over the change, one leftist lawmaker stripped down to his black underwear to suggest that the country was giving away its most treasured resources. The change must be ratified by just over half of Mexico’s states in order to become law. Mr. Peña Nieto’s party controls a majority of the states.

The goal, Mr. Peña Nieto’s aides say, is to stimulate Mexico’s sliding oil production and vault the country into the developed world by tapping vast pockets of oil and natural gas deep under the earth and sea. Foreign oil companies have quietly lobbied the government to open up for years. Pemex, short for Petróleos Mexicanos, is known for inefficiency at best and corruption at worst.

The energy overhaul is the centerpiece of a series of changes Mr. Peña Nieto has pushed through this year with mixed results, including an effort to break up telecommunications monopolies, raise taxes and weaken the teachers union’s hold on faltering schools. His Institutional Revolutionary Party — which nationalized the oil industry in the first place, setting Mexico on its course toward industrialization — joined with conservatives who have long wanted the changes, casting off a weakened left.

Opinion polls suggest that Mexicans are growing impatient with Mr. Peña Nieto’s agenda and do not feel the benefits, as economic growth has slowed and the violence he promised to tackle persists largely unchecked.

Mr. Peña Nieto is banking that the energy changes will inject new life into the economy. Other presidents have failed in taking on the oil monopoly, a lifeblood to government coffers and a touchstone for the left.

“Oil has symbolic power in Mexico that it does not have in every oil country,” said Noel Maurer, a political economist at Harvard Business School. “Mexico has built up national mythologies that ‘the oil is ours.’ It’s like a flag-burning issue.”

Polls show that a majority of Mexicans generally oppose foreign investment in oil, but the passions may be fading. While schoolchildren are still taught about the nationalization of the industry, it is covered in just one page in the standard fifth-grade history textbook.

Even here in Ciudad del Carmen, where the discovery of one of the world’s largest oil fields at the end of the 1970s propelled the country to the top ranks of oil producers and turned this fishing village into a prominent oil town, the “it’s ours” passion has dwindled.

Foreign-run contracting companies are already ubiquitous here, providing a variety of services to offshore platforms and nearby wells. A common complaint is that the benefits of sovereign oil have been oversold.

“I laugh when I hear those arguments, ‘it’s our oil,’ ” said Enrique Sánchez, an engineer for a Pemex contractor. “I am still waiting for my payment.”

New malls, housing developments and big-box stores speak to the boom that oil exploration has provided, but many of the jobs have come from service contractors that pay less than Pemex, where a powerful union controls jobs and many speak of having to pay off leaders for entree.

The contractors’ orange jumpsuits and hard hats, in contrast to the yellow worn by Pemex workers, are far more visible on the streets, and skepticism about the new law runs deep.

“The rich will get richer,” said José Luis Gutiérrez, an oil platform welder preparing for a 14-day shift at sea. “It is our pride, our heritage, but up to now, the poor are still poor.”

Two decades after Mexico sold off banks and the telephone monopoly, Mexicans pay more for credit and phone service than other Latin Americans, and they suspect they will pay more for gas under the new law, too.

The government and oil industry analysts say Pemex cannot go it alone any longer. The urgency stems in part from the energy revolution in the United States, where cheap energy is helping American businesses.

Mexico’s oil production has declined by 25 percent from its 2004 peak, to just over 2.5 million barrels a day. Pemex is spending more to pump less: Investment has more than doubled in the same period, to more than $20 billion a year.

Mexico has abundant oil and natural gas reserves, but they are increasingly difficult and expensive to reach, far below the waters of the Gulf of Mexico and trapped in shale deposits deep below the earth. New technology has unlocked those sources of oil and gas around the world, particularly in the United States, but Pemex has not kept pace.

It is an appendage of the Mexican government, heavily taxed to fund as much as 40 percent of the national budget. To keep that money flowing, almost all of its investments have gone to pumping crude for export. It is also an enormous source of patronage, creating fortunes for contractors with political connections, including the union.

The union leader, Carlos Romero Deschamps, is a senator and a rich man whose spending extravagances and those of his children regularly make headlines here. The legislation ejects the union from the Pemex governing board but maintains other privileges.

Some on the left worry that as more efficient foreign companies move in, Pemex may ultimately lose control over a growing share of Mexico’s oil and gas reserves.

“Pemex needs major surgery, not euthanasia,” said Graco Ramírez, the leftist governor of the state of Morelos.

This city is already creaking under the growth, but a gold-rush mentality in anticipation of the new law is setting in.

“They’re already building three hotels, and many more people from other countries will be coming in,” said Nelson de Ganzer, who owns three Brazilian restaurants in town and has seen a surge of foreign workers among his customers. “This will be big for Mexico.”
322 2013-12-13 The stock market fell on Thursday to its lowest level in a month as investors worried that the end may be near for the Federal Reserve’s support for the economy.

The Fed’s stimulus efforts have been a driver of the bull market, which has pushed the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index up almost 25 percent this year. Investors know it will end sooner or later, but the timing, and the fallout, are uncertain.

Until this month, stocks had risen for eight weeks straight. But on Wednesday they posted their biggest declines since Nov. 7, and dropped further on Thursday. Now they are on the verge of their second weekly loss in a row.

The S.&P. 500 fell 6.72 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,775.50. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 104.10 points, or 0.7 percent, at 15,739.43. The Nasdaq composite dropped 5.41 points, or 0.1 percent, to 3,998.40. The Dow is still up 20 percent this year, and the Nasdaq has risen 32 percent.

“We don’t think we’re in a bubble, however we do know we’re in an expensive market,” said Marty Leclerc, chief investment officer at Barrack Yard Advisors.
323 2013-12-13 MUMBAI, India — The Delhi High Court ruled on Thursday that Nokia would be allowed to transfer a phone factory to Microsoft, clearing a major obstacle to Nokia’s $7.4 billion sale of its mobile phone business to Microsoft after the court ordered Nokia to set aside $365 million for potential tax liabilities.

The factory, in the southern city of Chennai, is one of Nokia’s largest handset manufacturing plants and was seized along with its other Indian assets in September by the Indian tax authorities because of a tax dispute with the government.

Nokia’s tax battle with India continues, however. In March, the Indian government presented the local unit of Nokia with a bill of about $340 million in back taxes over five fiscal years.

“It is a positive move forward that Nokia has been allowed to go through with its asset sale,” said Dinesh Kanabar, the deputy chief executive of KPMG India. “It was worrisome that a hypothetical demand from the Indian tax office was becoming a barrier to a global transaction.”

He added that it was unclear what Nokia’s ultimate tax liability would be, and that the matter would be decided by tax tribunals and the Indian courts.
324 2013-12-13 TOKYO — A court in South Korea on Thursday dismissed a lawsuit from Samsung Electronics in which the company had sought to block sales of certain Apple phones and tablet computers in South Korea.

The ruling, by the Seoul Central District Court, is the latest twist in a global patent fight between the two companies, which dominate the smartphone and tablet businesses. For Samsung, the setback on its home turf follows a legal victory last year, when the court in Seoul, the South Korean capital, ruled that Apple had infringed on other Samsung patents.

In the decision Thursday, the court said Apple had not infringed on Samsung patents relating to mobile messaging technology. It rejected Samsung’s claim for 100 million won, or $95,000, in damages and a ban on sales in South Korea of older iPhone and iPad models.

“We are glad the Korean court joined others around the world in standing up for real innovation and rejecting Samsung’s ridiculous claims,” Apple said in a statement.

Samsung said it would not back down in its disputes with Apple.

“We are disappointed by the court’s decision,” Samsung said in a statement. “As Apple has continued to infringe our patented mobile technologies, we will continue to take the measures necessary to protect our intellectual property rights.”

In a patent case in the United States, a jury in San Jose, California, ruled last month that Samsung should pay Apple an additional $290 million in damages, on top of previous awards.

But Samsung has also scored legal victories in some countries, like Germany, where a court in the city of Mannheim dismissed an Apple patent claim against Samsung on Wednesday.
325 2013-12-13 A healthy dish inspired by a favorite Middle Eastern spinach recipe....
326 2013-12-14 NISSENSON--Hugh. 80, died suddenly at home in Manhattan on December 13. He is survived by his wife, Marilyn, daughter Kate and son-in-law Alan Scott, daughter Kore and son-in-law Allen Glied, and grandchildren Lily and Charlie Scott, and Kyle and ...
327 2013-12-14 In a world where everything seems to be click-based, small niche media outlets are struggling to find ways to make money from their mobile applications....
328 2013-12-14 Every day from now until Christmas, the editors of T are sharing their personal gift suggestions. Today’s pick: something for the beer and soda pop drinkers....
329 2013-12-14 But to spend time in Newtown is to see, a year later, a sort of building process well underway, one with no end in sight. Someone who never heard of Sandy Hook Elementary School or what happened there, when 20 children and six staff members were shot to death by Adam Lanza, could pass through the town a year later and immediately sense that this place is different from the outside world. The wound remains too raw to tell how the scar will turn out. The school has been razed, the memorials concluded. But reminders of what Newtown has become known for, to the dismay of everyone in it, remain everywhere.

Those reminders are perhaps most strikingly apparent in the way the people interact with the mothers and fathers of those slain first graders.

“People come up and get nervous,” Ms. Lewis said. “They start talking a mile a minute,” almost babbling to fill the air, even talking about their own problems. Or they try to ignore her: “You see them glance furtively at you and not want to engage, which is totally fine, too.”

Another parent, David Wheeler, wrote about life after his son Ben’s death that day in an essay published recently in the magazine The Newtowner.

“I’ve heard it called ‘The Newtown Handshake,’ ” he wrote. “After a moment it becomes clear that shaking hands is not nearly enough and a hug is inevitable. Women, men, people I’ve never met, it doesn’t seem to matter.”

A new local vocabulary has grown around the day. No one refers to the shooting by that word, but rather, as 12/14, the way one might say 9/11. The phrase, “She’s a mom,” is understood to mean the mother of a victim. Two women once entered the diner, strangers to the owner, and when 12/14 came up, one of them said quietly, “We’re moms.” The six women killed in the school that day are often called “the guardians.”

One woman recently complimented another on a pin she was wearing, and the wearer explained it was for her daughter, a teacher killed at Sandy Hook. The first woman told a friend later that she went off and cried.

“There’s a deference,” said one resident who, like others, asked not to be quoted by name, describing the atmosphere when a parent enters the room. “There’s a little bit of a hush, a sad, electric charge that just happens. Maybe voices will lower. Then things continue.”

Another resident described life in Newtown this way: “It’s in the back of everybody’s mind all the time. It’s like a gray day in November, always.”

Gray, and also green. Green, one of the school’s colors, became the color of that day, with green ribbons tied to trees and magnets stuck to cars, and signs taped in store windows. An orthodontist’s office replaced its annual display of hay bales in the front yard with a big hay teddy bear holding a green ribbon. The office tied green and white balloons out front on the birthdays of each of the 20 children.

“My kids now associate anything green with Sandy Hook,” said Stephanie Cinque, executive director of the Newtown Resiliency Center, which offers counseling and other services in the wake of the shooting, and a mother of children who attend a different school. One of the children, with a birthday approaching, announced, “I want a Sandy Hook cake.” Ms. Cinque gently suggested a princess cake instead.

Ms. Lewis, Jesse’s mother, begins every day by pulling on three or four or five of her Jesse bracelets before heading out. The bracelets read, “Nurturing, Healing, Love” — three words her son had written on their kitchen chalkboard shortly before 12/14.

The phrase became the title of her book about her son and the aftermath of the shooting, published in October.

“Anyone who needs a pick-me-up or seems nice, I always offer a bracelet,” she said.

Of course, outside Newtown, no one hands you a bracelet or says “12/14.” It is just “Newtown.” The word immediately changes the tenor of business-travel small talk, brings halting condolences to mundane transactions, like when a clerk asks for a ZIP code and the computer spits out the name of the place.

Msgr. Robert Weiss of St. Rose of Lima Catholic Church in Newtown, said he had known people to lie when asked where they were from, just to skip the obligatory next phase of the conversation. Or to at least try to “be creative” in answering, hoping the subject will change.

“You know, ‘I’m from New England,’ ” he said. “ ‘Where in New England?’ ‘Well, Connecticut.’ ”

And so on.

“It becomes an ‘Aha’ moment when you say, ‘I’m from Newtown or Sandy Hook,’” Monsignor Weiss said. “There’s a pause and then a question: ‘Well, how’s everyone doing? We’re still thinking about you.’ ”

Ms. Cinque recalled a family trip to Florida in April. “We were at a farmer’s market,” she said. “We put down our ZIP code, Sandy Hook, and they asked, ‘Oh, do you really live there?’ Then they gave my son a bunch of free stuff.”

Sarah Ferris, a student at George Washington University in Washington, grew up in Newtown, but sometimes she keeps that to herself when meeting people.

“I’ve never said it and had anyone not say anything,” she said. “You get the sympathetic looks. You can see them kind of wrestling with, ‘Should I ask them how they are?’ ” This was even the case with a barroom bouncer who checked her driver’s license and noticed the address. “The guy tried to start this conversation, asked me if I knew anyone,” she said. “It’s, like, 11 p.m. and all loud.”

In Newtown, there is no lie to tell. John M. Ruffe Jr., a retired businessman, said he, like others, did not know how to proceed after the shooting.

“The first few weeks were terrible, because you couldn’t smile,” Mr. Ruffe said. “You didn’t know if the guy selling you salami lost a child.” He had no idea what to say in that situation, so he wrote a poem and printed copies and carries them around with him in his car in case he meets a parent.

“Now’s the time to swear and curse, about the world to think the worst,” the poem reads. It ends imagining the dead children whispering to the living: “Promise me this if you can/ That you will feel the dew beneath your feet/ And watch the sun as it lifts its head and hope/ For better things.”

Months passed. He recently sat down with his lawyer to review his will. She mentioned that one of the girls killed on 12/14 was her granddaughter. He went out to the car and got a poem and brought it to her and told her to read it later.
330 2013-12-14 Thomas R. Suozzi, a Democrat who lost his bid for re-election to the county executive’s office, said in a separate statement: “There is simply no way the police commissioner and others would have taken these politically explosive steps without the direct knowledge of Mangano.”

At the same time, Kevan Abrahams, the minority leader of the Republican-dominated County Legislature, urged the chamber to hold hearings into the matter, asserting that the police had detained Mr. White “as if he was Public Enemy No. 1.”

In response, Mr. Mangano’s office pointed out that the district attorney had cleared Mr. Mangano in a letter that said: “Our investigation has uncovered nothing to suggest that either you or members of your administration were involved in the case against Mr. White.”

Whatever Mr. White may have done with bootleg DVD’s, he became an essential figure because of his ability to derail a standard ploy of county politics — the fielding of a third-party candidate to draw votes from a Republican or Democratic competitor. Mr. White had collected signatures for the candidacy of Andrew Hardwick, a former mayor of Freeport, N.Y., a longtime Democrat who wanted to run against Mr. Mangano and Mr. Suozzi on the Independence Party line.

Mr. Mangano’s supporters had been gleeful because Mr. Hardwick is black and could be expected to siphon off black votes from Mr. Suozzi. But the courts eventually barred Mr. Hardwick from the ballot because of irregularities in his nominating petitions.

One of those irregularities was exposed by Mr. White. In an election-law proceeding, he said that he had been paid per signature — illegal under state law — not per hour while collecting signatures.

After Mr. White made that statement, according to Ms. Rice, the developer Gary Melius, a major patron of Long Island Republicans and Democrats, called the police commissioner and told him that the Hardwick campaign wanted a perjury charge filed against Mr. White. Mr. Melius said in an interview that he had urged the commissioner to act promptly because Mr. Hardwick’s candidacy was at risk.

Mr. Melius is the owner of Oheka Castle, once the nation’s second-largest private home and now a setting for weddings, where people like Anthony Weiner have married. Former Senator Alfonse D’Amato and many police and political officials play cards in a Monday night game at Oheka. Mr. Melius gave $23,000 to Mr. Hardwick’s campaign, virtually his entire war chest, as well as $14,000 to Mr. Mangano.

According to the district attorney’s letter, Mr. Dale followed up the Melius call by asking his chief of detectives, Mr. Capece, to investigate the perjury complaint. In doing so, investigators learned of Mr. White’s warrant, and then top officials, including Mr. Dale, ordered his arrest.

“Given the case’s political overtones and given the motivations of the complainant — to gain ballot access for a candidate running in a race that involved the re-election effort of an administration that serves as Commissioner Dale’s direct supervisor — this was a judgment potentially fraught with peril,” Ms. Rice said.

Robert Nardoza, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District, said the agency’s policy did not give him the “liberty to confirm, deny or comment” on investigations.

In an interview, Mr. Melius admitted that he had called his friend Mr. Dale because he regarded Mr. White’s lying in a time-sensitive election case as “very serious.” He said that arresting Mr. White on a misdemeanor warrant was no more illogical than arresting Charles Manson, convicted in a 1969 killing spree, on a warrant for a parking ticket.
331 2013-12-14 WASHINGTON — The National Guard will distribute identification cards to the gay spouses of its personnel, overriding the resistance of several states that opposed a new military policy permitting such cards to all spouses and partners regardless of sexual orientation.

After the Supreme Court overturned the Defense of Marriage Act this summer, the Defense Department announced it would give the same general benefits to all eligible spouses, including ID cards.

But nine states — Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas and West Virginia — said the issuing of ID cards violated their state constitutions, and would not provide them at National Guard facilities, which are under state control.

The states’ actions rankled Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who said in a speech to the Anti-Defamation League this fall: “Everyone who serves our country in uniform, everyone in this country, should receive all the benefits they deserve, and they’ve earned, and in accordance with the law. Everyone’s rights must be protected.”

Mr. Hagel said Friday that all states were now in compliance with the law. West Virginia and Indiana voluntarily changed their policies to conform with the Defense Department’s, and some of the other states chose to have the ID cards issued by staff workers who were put under federal authority. Florida, Oklahoma and South Carolina moved their ID card machines into nearby federal facilities.

“All military spouses and families sacrifice on behalf of our country,” Mr. Hagel said in a statement. “They deserve our respect and the benefits they are entitled to under the law. All of DoD is committed to pursuing equal opportunities for all who serve this nation, and I will continue to work to ensure our men and women in uniform as well as their families have full and equal access to the benefits they deserve.”

Earlier this year, while awaiting the Supreme Court’s decision, the Defense Department moved to extend benefits to same-sex military partners and spouses, including base access and day care and health care benefits that were denied under the Defense Of Marriage Act.After the Supreme Court overturned that act, those benefits were expanded to include medical and dental coverage and housing allowances.
332 2013-12-14 That is one reason the going rate for air rights has taken off like Mary Poppins.

It has been two decades since the city relaxed the rules to give the theaters more leeway to sell their unused development rights.

Protected by landmark designation, the theaters were constrained from making full use of their rights to build on their lots. City officials decided to allow them to sell their air rights not only to owners of neighboring properties, but to any site within the theater district, on the West Side of Manhattan from 40th to 57th Street.

At first, Mr. Shapiro said, “nobody was buying them” and they could be acquired for less than $100 a square foot. Then, when the city’s economy boomed in the mid-2000s, builders started snapping up the theaters’ air rights.

Just before the financial crisis staggered the city, the Shubert Organization sold some rights from the Majestic Theater on West 44th Street for $12.2 million to the builder of the InterContinental hotel at the corner of Eighth Avenue, according to city property records.

Demand for the rights cooled during the recession, but now “there is a feeding frenzy going on in development in New York,” Mr. Shapiro said. So, once again, theater owners are fielding offers from developers who want to go higher.

Some air rights have sold for $225 a square foot but the current price is much higher, Mr. Shapiro said. In some pending transactions, they are priced well above $300 a square foot, said people who had been briefed on the deals.

Officials of the Shubert Organization, which owns 17 Broadway theaters, declined to discuss details of any of the company’s sales of air rights. But property records indicate that the company has already collected more than $50 million from the sales it has completed.

The transactions also have an altruistic component: In exchange for the chance to buy air rights from theaters several blocks away from their development sites, the buyers must contribute to a fund intended to foster the creation of new theatrical work and develop audiences.

For every square foot of development rights they buy from the theaters, the buyers must contribute $17.60 to the fund, which is overseen by the Theater Subdistrict Council, a body made up of four city officials and four members named by the mayor and the City Council speaker. The appointed members of the council meet regularly to decide how to disperse the money to theater companies and other organizations.

So far, the council has handed out about $5 million. The pending sales would yield an additional $1.8 million for the fund, said Robin Kramer of Kramer Levin, a law firm in Manhattan.

Ms. Kramer briefed the community board last week on the two developments that would use the theaters’ air rights.

She said that about 45,000 square feet of development rights would be transferred from the Schoenfeld and Booth Theaters to a site at the northeast corner of West 47th Street and Seventh Avenue.

Paul Boardman, a development executive with Maefield Development, a partner in the joint venture that owns the site with the Witkoff Organization, said they planned to erect a 452-room hotel that would be 500 feet tall and have a large ground-level retail space. The hotel would be one of the first American locations for a new Marriott brand called Edition, Mr. Boardman said.

The second set of transactions involves the site of the Roseland.

The owners of the music hall have announced that they plan to shut it in April, knock it down and build an apartment tower with 426 units on its lot, west of Broadway from 52nd to 53rd Street.

To do that, they have obtained air rights from the theater next door, the August Wilson, and plan to buy an additional 58,392 square feet of development rights from the Majestic and Broadhurst Theaters, Ms. Kramer said.

Members of the community board committee hearing the proposals generally approved of the plans, but only after expressing wistfulness about the pending demise of the Roseland to make way for another high-priced high-rise.

“I can’t help but feel a little bit saddened that the Roseland Ballroom is going away,” said Raju Mann, the acting chairman of the committee. “We have a lot of expensive apartments in New York.”
333 2013-12-14 Boeing has released more details of its $1 billion expansion in South Carolina, announcing it has acquired more land. The company said it would begin construction in the second half of 2014 on a 230,000-square-foot building to paint the 787 Dreamliners it builds at its North Charleston assembly plant. Now, 787s built in South Carolina are flown to Fort Worth to be painted and then are returned to South Carolina for delivery to customers. The company also said it had reached agreement with Palmetto Railways, a division of the state Commerce Department, for a long-term lease of about 470 additional acres in North Charleston.
334 2013-12-14 STUDENT LOAN PAYMENTS There are a few ways to help graduates chip at debt. Anyone can make a payment on behalf of a borrower by check, though you need to know the loan servicer, the borrower’s account number and the monthly payment amount, according to student loan experts.

A more effective method: Send a letter with your check that states the money should be used to prepay or reduce the principal of the loan, and not for a future loan payment. Also request that the money be applied to the loan with the highest interest rate, if the lender has multiple loans for the borrower, said Mark Kantrowitz, a senior vice president and publisher of Edvisors, an informational website about paying for college.

A new service, through Tuition.io, makes this easier since it requires only that you know the gift recipient’s email address. After the gift-giver pays by credit card, the recipient receives a plain or holiday-themed email telling her about the gift, and then directs the recipient to the Tuition.io website, where she enters personal information. Tuition.io, which also offers loan budgeting information, then shuttles the payment to the loan servicer.

There are caveats: The gift, limited to a maximum of $500, will apply to future loan payments only (though the company said it’s working on ways to make principal payments). The gift-maker will also be charged a credit card processing fee of 2.9 percent (plus 30 cents), and a 3.5 percent transaction fee. So a $100 gift would amount to $106.70.

TUITION HELP Anybody can pay for some or all of a student’s tuition directly, whether it’s a credit hour at a community college or a year at a pricey private school. There are no gift tax implications, as long as the payment is made directly to the institution. The same goes for medical debts.

But if you pay a big chunk of college tuition, or even provide a large cash gift, it could hurt the student’s ability to get financial aid. One workaround is to give the cash to the parent, since cash support to parents isn’t reported as untaxed income on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or Fafsa, and generally has a minimal impact on federal aid, he explained.

529 CONTRIBUTIONS All contributions to these state-run, college-savings accounts grow tax-free. And the money can be withdrawn without paying capital gains taxes as long as the proceeds are used for education expenses. A majority of states provide state income tax deductions for contributions, but the rules vary.

If you want to make a contribution to an existing account, start by calling the plan for instructions, though you’ll need an account number. That might be easy enough for a grandparent or a close relative to obtain, but it can be a hassle for everyone else.

Services like GiftofCollege and GradSave try to make this easier: They allow you to contribute to anyone’s account through a college gift registry. At GiftofCollege, the prospective student needs to be registered on the site to receive a contribution. (It’s currently waiving the 5 percent service fee charged to givers). At GradSave, you can buy a gift card even if the recipient doesn’t yet have a 529 account or a registry on the company’s website. The service passes on a 2.9 percent credit card processing fee, though transfers from a checking account are free.

If the gift recipient has a 529 plan administered by Upromise Investments, you can make a contribution through its Ugift program, which doesn’t charge any fees, and is available in 31 plans in 17 states. The account owners will first need to send family and friends an email invitation to contribute.

If you’re a friend or relative who wants to open an account on a child’s behalf, keep in mind that it’s better for the parent to be the account owner with the child named beneficiary — particularly if the student may be eligible for need-based financial aid.

“Grandparents should not set up a 529 with themselves as the account owner,” said Mr. Kantrowitz. “Such a 529 plan will have a harsh impact on eligibility,” he added. Money withdrawn from a grandparent’s account — or any other friend or relative who is not a parent — would be treated as untaxed income to the student.

RETIREMENT MONEY Anyone can open a Roth individual retirement account — where contributions are made with money that’s been taxed, and withdrawals come out tax-free — for another person. Adults can also open custodial accounts for children at brokerages like Vanguard or Charles Schwab. But if the account owner is over 18, they will need to sign the authorization documents.

You can also simply make a gift to an existing account. But the gift recipient will need to have earned income at least equal to the amount of any contributions to the account, said Mark Luscombe, a principal analyst at CCH Tax & Accounting, and singles must earn less than $127,000. This year, the maximum total contribution to a Roth (or traditional) I.R.A. is $5,500.

APPRECIATED STOCK Given the stock market’s ascent over the last few years, you may be sitting on stock that has also risen appreciably. If you give those shares to a relative or friend in a lower tax bracket, he can sell them for cash and may pay far less in capital gains taxes than you would. The gift recipient could also use the proceeds to reinvest in broad-based index fund within that new Roth I.R.A. you helped set up.

But parents who give stock to younger children may not achieve the same sort of tax savings: The kiddie tax may apply if the child is under age 19, and in some cases up until age 24 if he is a full-time student and still receiving parental support. In that case, the child would still pay capital gains taxes at the parents’ rate, Mr. Luscombe explained.

FINANCIAL ADVICE Maybe a parent has an adult child who needs assistance organizing his financial life because he just experienced a big life event like a marriage or the birth of a child. Or maybe someone wants to send a parent to a certified financial planner as he contemplates the hard questions of retirement. Some advisers offer gift certificates, including planners through the Garrett Planning Network.

LearnVest, an online financial advisory, offers gift certificates via email. The gift giver can either pay for the setup fee ($399), or an entire package, which includes the fee and an entire year of support.

CONSUMER DEBT Helping pay down a loved one’s credit card debt can help ease some stress at the start of the new year.

“If someone has $5,000 or less in credit card debt and can add a mere $50 a month to a minimum payment every month until the debt is paid off, depending on the interest rate, you can literally shave off a decade or more from the paydown period and wipe out thousands in extra interest,” said Manisha Thakor, who runs MoneyZen Wealth Management. The same goes for gifting a lump sum. All you need to do is provide a check written to the name of the credit card company with the amount you’d like to give.
335 2013-12-14 Best Buy stock has gained nearly 240 percent so far this year, putting it among the top three performing stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Now every struggling chain, from J. C. Penney to Barnes & Noble, is scrutinizing Best Buy to figure out how the company did it.

Hardly anyone on Wall Street knew Hubert Joly when he was installed as Best Buy’s chief executive in August 2012. A French-born graduate of the prestigious École des Hautes Études Commerciales and the Institut d’Etudes Politiques in Paris, Mr. Joly was chief executive of Carlson, which owns the travel service Carlson Wagonlit, the Radisson Hotel chain and T.G.I. Fridays restaurants.

Because Carlson, based in Minneapolis, is privately held, Mr. Joly wasn’t known in the investment community. And given the length of the search that resulted in his selection at Best Buy — nine months — many investors assumed that numerous others had rejected the job.

“Everyone assumed they had to scrape the bottom of the barrel,” Mr. Strasser said. “But my brother’s in the hotel business and he knew this guy. He said, ‘He’s the smartest guy in the room, even if he does speak with a French accent.’ ”

Best Buy at the time was in turmoil, its staff demoralized from declining same-store sales, its stock price falling, the previous chief executive ousted in a sex scandal and a leveraged buyout attempt underway by the founder, Richard M. Schulze. That effort later collapsed.

In his first major presentation to analysts, Mr. Joly coolly analyzed Best Buy’s strengths and weaknesses — which included the perception that Best Buy was not the low-price leader. In one survey, only 23 percent of respondents thought Best Buy’s prices were “lower than others,” far behind Walmart (71 percent), Amazon (56 percent) and Target (38 percent). The result was that many shoppers were browsing in a Best Buy store, using their phones to compare prices and then ordering online from a competitor.

Like many ideas that seem brilliant in hindsight, “the strategy is very simple,” Mr. Joly said in 2012, soon after he took the job. “We believe that price-competitiveness is table stakes. The way we want to win is around the advice, convenience, service.”

By matching the lowest price and enhancing service, he was determined to make sure that a customer who came to Best Buy as a showroom had no reason to buy anywhere else.

Mr. Strasser attended a conference where Mr. Joly spoke. “It jumped out at me,” Mr. Strasser said, “that the most important thing they said was, ‘If we get someone in the store and they don’t buy, then shame on us. If we get them in the store, they’re going to buy.’ ”

A few other analysts also took note.

“Embracing the showroom — that was brilliant,” said Anthony Chukumba, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets, and the first analyst to upgrade Best Buy to buy, which he did in January of this year. “Customer traffic was never the problem. It was conversion. Best Buy said it would match any price. The knee-jerk reaction was that that would kill the margins. But Best Buy took out a lot of costs, and it can make back the margins on volume.”

But the strategy wasn’t premised just on price-competitiveness.

“Our goal is not to be lower than the competition,” Mr. Joly said. It’s to offer “a very compelling set of customer promises with the assortment, the advice, the convenience, the service. So our goal is simply to eliminate price as an obstacle to buying.”

As it happens, I’ve been in the market for a new television since the debut of “House of Cards,” the original Netflix series that I couldn’t get on my still-functioning television with its giant tube in the back.

After doing some research online, I settled on what the reviews called a “low-end” Panasonic Viera model (the 50-inch X60 series plasma), which seemed perfect for my modest needs. These TVs once sold for thousands of dollars, but (even before I had the idea for this column) I found it on the Best Buy website for $399.99, with free delivery. This week, it had jumped to $499.99.

Amazon had it for $610. Walmart didn’t have it. Sears offered it for $499.99, but wouldn’t deliver to my Manhattan neighborhood. On Google shopping, the lowest price was $399 with free shipping at ElectronicMegaSale.com.

I scheduled delivery online, and the night before, Best Buy called with a two-hour window. The TV arrived just a half-hour into the designated period, which is virtually unheard-of in my experience in New York City. And the deliveryman took away the huge old TV, all at no charge.

When it came time to set it up, I realized I needed a Blu-ray Disc player for DVDs and streaming from the Internet. So I walked a few blocks to the Best Buy store, which was recently renovated to feature Best Buy’s new “store within a store” concept featuring showrooms by brand, including Apple and Samsung. (In this, it’s mimicking department stores.) I was in the store only a few moments when a salesman materialized offering help. He quickly steered me to a Sony Blu-ray player that was $69.99.

At that price, I didn’t bother to comparison shop, but when I later checked online, Amazon had it for $78, as did Walmart. The salesman seemed to know what he was talking about and made no effort to move me to a more expensive model or talk me into any kind of service contract. I was out of the store in about five minutes.

As far as I am concerned, Best Buy seems to be delivering on its promises. And that seems to be showing up in the operating results. Best Buy announced a few weeks ago that the decline in same-store sales had been reversed in the most recent quarter, and had advanced 1.7 percent. Online sales jumped 15 percent. And earnings beat expectations.

“Our focus on delivering our unique customer promises is starting to pay off,” Mr. Joly said last month, as are “our efforts to control cost and to bring greater efficiency to our operations by improving our profitability.”

The lessons for other retailers may be fairly obvious: “Embrace your customer, don’t alienate them,” said Mr. Chukumba. “They want the lowest price? They’ll get it. Better service? Give it to them.”

By contrast, he said, J. C. Penney seemed to go out of its way to reject its customers. “The sales you always counted on? They’re over. The brands you love? Gone,” he said.

No one expects Best Buy stock to gain another 250 percent next year, but both Mr. Strasser and Mr. Chukumba are still recommending it. Fourteen analysts now rate it a buy or strong buy, and no one has downgraded the stock this year. But not everyone loves the Best Buy story: Michael Pachter of Wedbush Securities has had a sell recommendation all through this year’s run-up, and is now the only analyst who rates Best Buy a sell.

“The negative case is simple,” he told me. “It’s Amazon. The misperception about Best Buy is that, because they’re successful at intercepting the customer in the store and getting them to buy a television — and they’re doing a great job at that — they can do that with everything. That’s not even close to being true.”

He pointed to Sony lithium-ion batteries. He said they were $4.99 each at Best Buy, and $8.99 at Amazon — for 20.

“That’s 45 cents each!” he said. “Yes, Best Buy will match it, but who’s ever going to buy batteries there once you see that?”

Amazon doesn’t care if people buy televisions at Best Buy, he said, dismissing my shopping experience.

“That’s a low-margin product,” he said. “And Best Buy’s margins are eroding.”

The verdict is still out on this year’s holiday season, which will be an important test for Mr. Joly and his strategy. Mr. Strasser isn’t breaking out the champagne just yet.

“It was phenomenal, and it’s been a fun ride,” he said. “But the reality of this business is, you’re always right or wrong. You get humbled every day because something goes wrong. You’re only as good as your last call.”
336 2013-12-14 Acura will recall about 19,000 of its 2014 MDX utility vehicles in the United States because of a powertrain problem, the automaker said in a report posted on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration website. The automaker said it was possible that one or two of the four bolts securing the propeller shaft could be loose. If the propeller shaft detached the all-wheel-drive system could be damaged and the vehicle would lose power.

“If a propeller shaft detached, the vehicle would still operate in front-wheel drive, but Honda recommends stopping the vehicle as soon as it is safe to do so,” Chris Naughton, a spokesman for Acura, wrote in an email.

The problem was detected at the automaker’s assembly plant in Lincoln, Ala., and Acura said it was not aware of any accidents or injuries related to the defect.

■ Harley-Davidson will recall nearly 19,600 of its 2014 Touring motorcycles because clutch master cylinder can prevent the rider from disengaging the transmission, making it difficult to slow or stop the motorcycle, the manufacturer informed N.H.T.S.A. in a report. Harley-Davidson said it was aware of two crashes related to the problem, including one involving injuries.

■ Suzuki will recall about 142 of its 2013 SX4 models because a problem with the continuously variable transmission can cause the engine to stall, the automaker said in a report to the safety agency.

Acura, Harley-Davidson and Suzuki each described their recalls as voluntary, however, once a manufacturer is aware of a safety problem it must – within five business days – inform the agency of its plan for a recall or face civil penalties.
337 2013-12-14 His arrest in August came amid a far-reaching crackdown on a movement that featured street rallies calling on Chinese leaders to publicly disclose their wealth. Most of the protests were short-lived and small, but the authorities were unnerved by the group’s ability to harness public disgust over corruption and growing social inequality.

In recent months, at least 18 people associated with the group have been detained; last week three of them stood trial in Jiangxi Province, in the southeast, in a proceeding said that legal advocates say was rife with irregularities, including allegations of torture. On Friday night, lawyers for two other activists, Li Wei and Yuan Dong, said they, too, had been indicted on similar charges for gathering on a Beijing street with banners calling on government officials to reveal their hidden wealth. The lawyers said they had yet to receive the indictments.

Mr. Xu has maintained his defiance behind bars, and Mr. Zhang said his client welcomed the opportunity to stand trial, even if his chances for acquittal were almost nil.

“Xu doesn’t think his behavior is a crime and believes it constitutes a citizen’s rational push for social improvement,” Mr. Zhang said in an interview. “He told me, ‘If you insist on bringing my trial to the nation’s consciousness, then I’ll calmly accept the honor.’ ”

Officials at the Beijing Municipal No. 1 People’s Procuratorate did not respond Friday to a faxed request for comment. It is the same office that successfully pursued the conviction of Liu Xiaobo, the political reformer and Nobel laureate who is serving an 11-year sentence for subversion.

Human rights advocates have been dispirited by the continuing crackdown, which has netted veteran activists but also mainstream pragmatists like Wang Gongquan, a liberal businessman who provided financial support to the New Citizens Movement and who was arrested in October.

Maya Wang, a researcher at Human Rights Watch in Hong Kong, said the prosecution of Mr. Xu and his associates was a barometer of just how far the Chinese leadership under President Xi Jinping will go to quash dissent. Mr. Xu, she noted, did not explicitly call for the overthrow of the Communist Party, but focused on building broad support for political and legal reforms.

“What he was trying to do was both innovative and moderate,” she said. “He attracted the participation of a lot of middle-class people drawn to his vision and campaigns focusing on education and corruption.”

In their report recommending Mr. Xu’s indictment, the police cited seven protests in Beijing last year and this year that demanded that officials disclose their assets and others that called on the government to rescind rules barring the children of rural migrants from urban public schools. The document said one rally in front of the Ministry of Education attracted more than 100 people who “insulted education officials.”

Mr. Zhang expressed frustration with the way the authorities have handled the case so far. In comments he posted online Friday evening, he noted the unusual speed with which prosecutors issued the indictment, which was based on 129 case files that they had received from the police a week earlier. He questioned how officials could have read all the documents given that his office was still having them photocopied. “Why don’t you at least have some decency?” he wrote.
338 2013-12-14 SEATTLE — The highest municipal minimum wage in the nation, approved by voters last month in the small city of SeaTac, Wash., at $15 an hour, survived a narrow election and a recount. Now, just weeks before its scheduled Jan. 1 start date – raising the pay of thousands of SeaTac residents and workers at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, which is within the city limits — opponents are sending in the lawyers.

At a hearing scheduled for Friday in King County Superior Court in Seattle, Judge Andrea Darvas is expected to rule on whether to affirm the statute, strike it down or perhaps hold it in abeyance. Supporters of the measure said they were braced for a loss, and were preparing an emergency appeal to the state’s highest court.

The statute, which is being closely watched around the nation by labor and business groups as a barometer of the nation’s working wage debate, specifically exempts airlines and small businesses, including restaurants with fewer than 10 employees, but could raise pay for about 6,500 workers on and off airport property and give paid sick days to many of those workers for the first time.

Alaska Airlines and the Washington Restaurant Association are leading the legal challenge, contending that the measure, known as Proposition 1, was too broadly and vaguely written, and that the city has no authority to regulate economic activity at the airport, which is operated by the Port of Seattle.

Although Alaska Airlines employees would not be covered by the law, the company said that higher costs borne by its contractors would be passed on to the airlines and travelers.
339 2013-12-15 NISSENSON--Hugh. 80, died suddenly at home in Manhattan on December 13. He is survived by his wife, Marilyn, daughter Kate and son-in-law Alan Scott, daughter Kore and son-in-law Allen Glied, and grandchildren Lily and Charlie Scott, and Kyle and ...
340 2013-12-15 Blaise Agüera y Arcas, who recently oversaw Photosynth, a service for creating immersive panoramas, will work on machine learning at Google....
341 2013-12-15 But this installment, “The Desolation of Smaug,” fell 13 percent below the opening amount collected last year by “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey.”...
342 2013-12-15 First, I couldn’t carry my daughter up the stairs. Then I couldn’t carry her from the door of her bedroom to the bed. Now she’s 3, and I can’t even pick her up....
343 2013-12-15 Eva Shafer Schildhause, a daughter of Stephanie A. Shieldhouse and Richard G. Shieldhouse of Jacksonville, Fla., was married Monday to Adam David Weissmann, a son of Jill and Jeffrey Weissmann of White Plains. Wilma Brier, the branch manager of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia Marriage Bureau, officiated.

On Sunday evening, the couple will take part in a traditional Jewish ceremony before family and friends at the Cummer Museum of Art and Gardens in Jacksonville. Cantor David Perper will officiate with Cantor Faith Steinsnyder taking part.

Mrs. Weissmann, 25, is the compliance specialist at C. T. Hellmuth & Associates, an insurance brokerage in Chevy Chase, Md. She graduated from the University of Florida. Her father is an executive consultant with InterVistas, an aviation and tourism consultancy in Washington. Her mother owns Highway Press, a printing business in Jacksonville. She is also an adjunct instructor of drawing at the University of North Florida.

Mr. Weissmann, 30, works in Washington as a speechwriter in the House of Representatives for the Democratic whip, Steny H. Hoyer. The groom graduated from the University of Chicago and received a master’s degree in political science from Columbia. His mother retired as an English teacher and dean of students at the Solomon Schechter School of Westchester, a Jewish day school in White Plains. His father is a founding partner in the White Plains law firm Weissmann Abruzzo.
344 2013-12-15 “If he was healthy, tonight might’ve been a no-go for me,” Stoudemire said of Martin. “But when a man’s down, then that’s when another man steps up.”

Still, for a second straight night, the Knicks got practically nothing from Smith, who scored 2 points while going 1 of 8 from the field in 24 minutes. He spent most of the final three quarters seated on the bench.

On Friday, Smith attempted just one shot in more than 26 minutes, an uncharacteristic performance for a volume shooter like him. It seemed to perturb Woodson, who reiterated Saturday that the Knicks relied on him to score.

Smith took five shots in the first quarter against Atlanta, making one, but was otherwise quiet again. The play of Tim Hardaway Jr. (13 points) off the bench helped Smith’s disappearing act become an afterthought.

Hardaway gave the Knicks a lift late in the second quarter, scoring 7 straight points to push their lead to 49-41.

The Knicks still could not gain much separation until they opened the third quarter by hitting five of their first six field-goal attempts. The lead grew to 14, 68-54, before the Hawks clawed back, hitting six 3-pointers in the third quarter.

Atlanta closed the gap to 4 early in the fourth quarter, but unlike previous games, the Knicks managed to hit shots and get stops when it counted, going on a 15-4 run to deaden the Hawks’ momentum. Anthony scored 15 of his game-high 35 points in the fourth quarter.

“That was a big conversation in the huddles — just to close the game out,” Anthony said. “There’s time in the past we’ve let games slip away in the fourth quarter. Tonight we did a great job closing it out.”

The Hawks cannot blame the loss on anything aesthetic. The Knicks wore white on Saturday, avoiding a dark-colored uniform flap like the one from the last time the Hawks visited. In that game, the Hawks wore red jerseys while the Knicks wore orange, the result being a confusing clash of colors that made it difficult to discern between players.

But with things settled in the uniform department, and some offensive cohesion on display, the Knicks shot 50.6 percent from the floor and forced 27 turnovers, which they converted into 36 points.

Speculation remains that the Knicks could trade Metta World Peace, who could not be involved in a transaction until Sunday under N.B.A. bylaws because he was signed as a free agent over the summer. But the win, for the moment, calmed the clouds surrounding Woodson’s tenure with the Knicks, who earned their third victory in their last four home games.

Still, the team remains far from where it would like to be. The clearest indication of its standing involved Stoudemire, who finished with 9 points and 5 rebounds in 19 minutes.

After the game in Boston, Stoudemire told reporters that he expected to rest Saturday, as is customary for him during a back-to-back following another knee surgery this summer, his third in a one-year period. But he apparently changed his mind, saying after the win over the Hawks: “It was my decision. I knew we’re a few guys down. We needed a lift. I was able to give it a go out there.”

Stoudemire, 31, had not played in four games in five days since last season, when he wound up needing a debridement procedure in March that cost him the remainder of the regular season and the first round of the playoffs.

When asked essentially what made this situation different from the one the Knicks were in less than a year ago, Woodson could not answer. He said he was well aware of Stoudemire’s delicate medical history.

“We’ve taken baby steps to get him to this point,” Woodson said. “We’ve got to be careful.”

Care and caution, however, are luxuries that Woodson and the Knicks do not have at their disposal right now.
345 2013-12-15 “The big issue is having some transparency,” said Bruce Baker, a Rutgers University professor who studies public school finance. “Then we can better evaluate the quality given the cost.”

Private companies operate in four of Texas’ six full-time virtual schools and enroll all but a fraction of the state’s more than 8,000 students who take online courses full time, which they can begin doing in the third grade.

Mr. Baker recently released a report completed with the National Education Policy Center, which is housed at the University of Colorado at Boulder, on the financing of virtual learning. It found that “little, if any, credible peer-reviewed analysis” existed on the costs and benefits of online schools. Ambiguous disclosure requirements for privately managed public schools, Mr. Baker said, are an obstacle.

When The Texas Tribune made an open-records request for employee salary records and marketing expenses at the state’s full-time virtual schools, it received responses from all but one of those connected with for-profit entities indicating either that the records were not available or were not subject to public information laws.

The Huntsville Independent School District, which went into partnership with K12 Inc. to open a virtual academy this year, said the district did not have documents responding to the request at the virtual campus as “it contracts with a private company to handle all employment of personnel and staffing-related data.”

In other instances, The Tribune was directed to make a request to the private company. A lawyer for Responsive Ed Solutions, a charter school that also contracts with K12 Inc., wrote that most employees of its virtual school were hired by the company and provided the email address of a K12 lawyer. A K12 Inc. spokesman then told The Tribune that “confidential information about K12’s employees” could not be disclosed.

An administrator at a virtual school overseen by the Houston Independent School District said that because the school bought “teaching and administrative services” through Pearson’s Connections Education, those records did not belong to district employees and were therefore not public information. The Tribune obtained information through its initial request only from Red Oak I.S.D., which buys its virtual curriculum through Connections but manages its school in-house.

Mr. Baker said such obstacles were common and would not change until legislators or local officials demanded detailed disclosure.

Cassie Fulton, the principal of Red Oak’s online academy, said that was a reason her district had chosen to have its own employees in the school. But she said the state’s approach to financing virtual courses was a mechanism for ensuring accountability.

“In a regular school, you claim attendance for funding,” she said. “In a virtual school, courses are only awarded credit if they are completed. Funding is based on course completion.”
346 2013-12-15 “We never expected the overall stock market to do as well as it has,” said Jonathan Golub, who wrote the report when he was still chief United States equity strategist at UBS.

Mr. Golub is now the chief United States market strategist at RBC Capital Markets, and he had forgotten about those election projections until I called him about them last week. “In hindsight, it’s clear that we were wrong on some points but we got a lot of things right,” Mr. Golub said.

Why has the Obama portfolio performed so well? It contained 14 stocks, and the logic for some of them was straightforward.

One was First Solar, the manufacturer of photovoltaic modules, chosen for Mr. Obama’s tilt toward alternative energy. HCA, the hospital company, and Alkermes, a pharmaceutical firm, were on the list because of the Affordable Care Act. The health care law was expected to bolster those stocks by increasing the number of people with health insurance — a result that may eventually occur, but hasn’t been obvious so far, given the initial problems with the new federal website.

The group of stocks included Aflac because of Mr. Obama’s economic policies. Its insurance goes after “middle- to lower-income individuals,” who were expected to have more discretionary spending under the president than under Mr. Romney.

Those were some of the obvious choices. But the portfolio also included Alliant Techsystems, a military supplier that claimed a berth because of the perverse logic of Wall Street.

Alliant is a leading manufacturer of bullets. “Gun control concerns could lead to people stockpiling bullets,” the report said. In the Obama portfolio, Alliant shares rose 131.4 percent, second only to First Solar shares, which gained 155.5 percent.

The Romney portfolio has done better than expected, even in the absence of a President Romney.

That wasn’t predicted by the UBS team, nor was the extraordinary performance of the overall market.

“I don’t think it’s anything that President Obama has done,” Mr. Golub said. “It’s mainly the Federal Reserve.”

By keeping interest rates low — even now, despite an increase in long-term rates — the Fed and other central banks have kept the bull market roaring, Mr. Golub said.

That has helped the market over all, and it has fueled financial stocks like Goldman Sachs, American International Group, State Street and U.S. Bancorp, included in the Romney portfolio because the UBS analysts believed Mr. Romney might roll back financial regulations. These include the Dodd-Frank Act and the Volcker Rule, which was finally approved last week and was intended to bar regulated banks from using customer money to trade for their own gain.

Under Mr. Romney, financial institutions would presumably have had more flexibility. Yet market returns suggest that the banks have no trouble enticing investors, even with Dodd-Frank.

The analysts had so many attractive alternatives for the Romney portfolio that they included 28 stocks in their selection, double the amount in the Obama portfolio. “The list reflects what investors were really thinking about then,” Mr. Golub said. “The perception was that Romney would be better for the market, that there were many stocks that would be winners under Romney, and not so many under Obama.”

Military suppliers like General Dynamics and Lockheed Martin were on the Romney list. So was a mining company, Joy Global, which was expected to flourish with fewer environmental restrictions on coal; and tobacco companies like Altria, Lorillard and Reynolds American, which pay high dividends. The analysts were concerned that taxes on them might rise under Mr. Obama. A Romney victory could set off an immediate market rally, they projected.

Instead, taxes on dividends have not risen, and while the market fell the day after Mr. Obama’s election, it has rallied extravagantly since then.

Why has the market boomed? The Fed, declining deficits and corporate profits are the usual answers.

Would the market really have done better under Mr. Romney? That was the consensus on Wall Street but it’s difficult to make that case today.

Calculations by the Bespoke Investment Group through Friday show that in President Obama’s first 1,788 days in office, the Dow Jones industrial average has gained 15 percent, annualized.

That’s the fourth best for an equivalent period among all American presidents since 1900, behind Bill Clinton, a Democrat; with 19.8 percent; Franklin D. Roosevelt, a Democrat, with 19.4 percent; and Calvin Coolidge, a Republican, with 18.6 percent.

What’s more, under Democrats, the market has gained 7.1 percent, annualized; under Republicans, only 3 percent.

“Wall Street always seems to favor the Republicans but it’s done considerably better under the Democrats,” said Paul T. Hickey, Bespoke’s co-founder. “That’s a big disparity. People always argue about the reasons, but they can’t argue with those numbers.”
347 2013-12-15 Mr. Orton died in 1986; Mrs. Orton in 2010. Today the enterprise is owned and run by their son Lyman and his sons Cabot, Gardner and Eliot — who, if I’m not mistaken, occasionally stands in as a model. At least I think that’s Eliot in a pair of Hunter Green Men’s Jersey Knit 100% Cotton Ski Pajamas ($34.95).

The catalog has 100-odd pages of 1,000-odd products, an any-era-goes museum of Yankee consumerism holding everything from personal-remedy potions with names like Old Goat and Vim & Vigor to slip-on ice cleats for boots or sneakers to flannel any way you like it. Who doesn’t need an Adjustable Nail Polish Holder — Helps You Paint Your Nails With Ease ($9.95)? Who doesn’t want to chomp their way through a tin of Boston’s beloved Necco Wafers ($11.95), a sack of Baltimore’s Goetze’s Caramel Creams ($14.95), a box of freshly made Vermont Cider Doughnuts ($21.95 for 12)?

The manufacturing team has resuscitated more than a few long-gone items, now sold as Vermont Country Store exclusives. Tangee Lipstick ($14.95), which changes color to complement your skin tone, was gracing pouts in 1928, went out of production in the 1960s, and came back from the dead in 2002. From the 1960s: the Original Mood-Changing Lipstick Is Back at Your Request ($19.95 for a set of six). Remember Gee, Your Hair Smells Terrific ($14.95) shampoo? Now your hair can smell like the 1970s.

It’s a trip down memory lane so masterfully paved I don’t even care whose memories I’m remembering. I get as much pleasure reading the blessedly straightforward, jargon-free copy as I do the use of hand-drawn illustrations to depict, for instance, a psoriasis-ravaged forearm before and after an application of Medicated Coal Tar Ointment ($19.95). Surely by merely exposing myself to such thrifty practicality I’m saving money.

Last March, for a surf vacation to Costa Rica, I needed a sturdy swimsuit that could withstand repeated wipeouts without riding up in unseemly places. I had a hunch the store’s grandmotherly offerings would deliver in ways trendy retro cuts only appear to. In the spirit of contemporaneity (and travel-panic-induced expediency), I went to its website, typed in “swimsuit,” and was met with a Rockettes line of maximum seat coverage.

I chose the Shirred Front Swimsuit ($74.95) with “modest girl-leg styling” and “added curve appeal” in a fetching floral pattern that reminded me of something Elizabeth Taylor may have worn. She would have definitely worn the Cotton Mediterranean Mood Lounger ($39.95), a voluminous cotton chambray caftan with blue detailing, and so into my online shopping bag both went. As did the snowy cotton lawn Victorian One-Piece PJs ($49.95), a cross between a sleeveless jumper and pantaloons with pockets (to “keep lace hankies close at hand,” a touch more Elizabeth Barrett Browning than Elizabeth Taylor) I had long forbidden myself to buy, but could no longer resist. In for a penny, in for a pound! (All purchases are guaranteed forever.)

When the package arrived, there was a tag on the swimsuit that read, “We know you’ve still got it and we’re going to help you flaunt it!”

It was after this spree I hatched the plan to go north to the source. It’s said that 1880s button-up ladies’ shoes hang from the rafters. I would plunge my hands into wooden barrels brimming with foil-wrapped penny candies, sit on the front stoop sipping hot cider, spritz my wrists with Evening in Paris Eau de Parfum ($49.00), touted in the 1950s as “the fragrance more women wear than any other in the world.”

But after even leaf-peeping season couldn’t lure me away from Brooklyn, it became clear that I didn’t actually want to make the pilgrimage.

In her new book “The Power of Glamour,” Virginia Postrel distills glamour into three essential elements: the promise of escape, grace and mystery. She also explains that one reason it continually reappears in new forms is that “the process of projection, yearning, and pursuit is itself pleasurable.” She cites the sociologist Colin Campbell’s theory of a “modern, self-illusory hedonism” that is less about the sensation-seeking of food, drink and sex than it is the emotional pleasure derived from anticipating new experiences.

That is, by actually visiting the Vermont Country Store, I would ruin its promise of escape. I’d much rather stay in the city and flip through the catalog, dreaming of a quiet, snowy place where time never stops, and wondering if I should get the Mohair-Blend Ear Warmer Wool Bonnet ($15.95) in blue, black or violet.
348 2013-12-15 In spite of their brevity, these vignettes, as Janusz Kaminski himself describes them, convey a delightful sense of his filmmaking expertise while stimulating the viewer’s imagination to construct the full story arcs that are only hinted at. There’s great variety in genre — from Robert Redford’s comedically over-the-top breakfast preparation to Forest Whitaker’s poignant case of writer’s block, we’re taken on a whirlwind tour of the finest traditions of cinematography. VLAD SAVOV, on theverge.com

A tremendous piece of interactive content. These shorts are also something the Academy would do well to study. Each one is more entertaining and celebratory than just about any of those tiresome Dolby Theater introductions of the year’s Best Picture nominees. RICHARD HORGAN, Mediabistro’s FishbowlNY

These scenes, while shot with exquisite detail, underscore the problem with solipsism in “indie” films, which A. O. Scott writes about in his essay, “The Big Picture Strikes Back.” The importance of the spoken word in movies is to provide cohesion, not to supply noirish throwaway lines à la the Brad Pitt Chanel No. 5 ads. A lot of money spent in search of what? Fun? Art? Self-indulgence. CHARLIE SITZER, Sherman Oaks, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

A. O. Scott’s closing line is perfect: “What is cinema? You know it when you see it.” Movies have a definitive quality that a “cinematic” TV show or video game does not. The idea of a narrative stretching over many seasons has become a common one in TV, but it’s hard to imagine that working for stories like “All Is Lost” or “Gravity” or “Upstream Color.” And yet filmmakers like Christopher Nolan, J. J. Abrams and Joss Whedon are bringing those TV qualities to the big screen. My fear is that movies have become less “cool.” I’m as invested in the art and complexity of cinema as Scott is, but the reason that I got into cinephilia is not nostalgia. I’ve grown up in this age of digital media and converging platforms. Film is becoming more of a specialized niche for people who have buried their noses in history lessons, obscure movies and blog posts. The thought that the unique qualities that still exist between film and television might just fade together into a blur of homogeneous content and moving images is a depressing one. BRIAN WELK, Addison, Ill., posted on nytimes.com

A. O. Scott makes an impassioned defense of the auteur theory of cinema, by pointing to films like “Gravity” and “All Is Lost.” “Gravity” was a melodrama that depended on serious plot flaws to gin up the stakes. And even if “All Is Lost” is better, it still doesn’t prove that cinema is more the product of an individual heroic artist than any other medium. How is “Breaking Bad” not the vision of Vince Gilligan? Because it is a huge ensemble piece? Is Jean Renoir not an auteur then, because his films are episodic and filled with people? The auteur theory is just an art-critic version of history by Great Men. Soderbergh is right about the “a film by” credit: It is a narcissistic lie. Scott wants to save the auteur theory to keep the Critic safe from the crowd-sourced opinions of the consuming masses. A.G., Bronx, New York, posted on nytimes.com

The essay by A. O. Scott is thoughtful. Another thing worth mentioning that only happens at the movies: You enter a room filled with strangers. The lights dim. Then, in a moment that never ceases to thrill me after 50 years of going to the movies, the lights go out and the movie starts. It’s like you have gone to sleep and you find yourself in a dream. Nothing close to that happens, at least not to me, on any other so-called screen. MARK SIEGEL, Atlanta, posted on nytimes.com
349 2013-12-15 Comics can tell certain kinds of stories that prose, photographs and films can’t. They can also tell familiar stories in drastically different ways. The artists of some of this season’s graphic novels transform history into broad comedy or rollicking adventure. Others show us worlds frighteningly different from our own, or aestheticize the realities we know with something as simple as a set of squiggly lines or a canny splash of color.

Thanks to the imminent 50th anniversary of the British Invasion, we’re seeing a small wave of comics inspired by the Beatles, none more inventive than Eric Stephenson and Nate Bellegarde’s NOWHERE MEN, VOL. 1: Fates Worse Than Death (Image, paper, $9.99). Its shuffled chronology requires multiple readings to puzzle out, but essentially: It’s set in a world where a long-disbanded team of four brilliant scientists had the earthshaking effect on culture that the Beatles had on ours. The story, interspersed with fictional magazine clippings and book excerpts, is liberally sprinkled with sly allusions to the rock mythos.

Julie Maroh’s first graphic novel, BLUE IS THE WARMEST COLOR (Arsenal Pulp Press, paper, $19.95), was published in France in 2010 and adapted by Abdellatif Kechiche into this year’s Palme d’Or-winning film of the same title. The story begins with a woman named Emma inheriting her lover Clementine’s diaries, which trace their relationship over the course of about a dozen years, beginning when Clementine was an uncertain teenager and Emma a confident, slightly older lesbian with a shock of blue hair. Maroh’s text is as melodramatic as any youthful fantasy of romantic torment (“Today everything changed,” one diary entry begins. “Today innocence died”), but her delicate linework and ink-wash effects illuminate the story’s quiet pauses and the characters’ fraught silences and wordless longing. In the book’s flashback sequences, everything is gray except for the blue that lingers in Clementine’s memory.

Peter Bagge’s comics, notably his ‘90s-era “Hate” series, are built on broad satire and slapstick, his characters rubbery dolls who rage, fume and fret. WOMAN REBEL: The Margaret Sanger Story (Drawn & Quarterly, $21.95), a biography of the birth-control activist who defied the Comstock laws in the first half of the 20th century, is an unlikely but inspired pairing of author and subject. A more or less historically accurate biography, it’s played for boffo yocks on almost every page. Bagge throws in cameo appearances by the likes of the labor leader Big Bill Haywood and the sexologist Havelock Ellis, and brashly squeezes black humor out of even the savageries Sanger was trying to mitigate. He treats her capacity for vain self-delusion as grist for comedy but reserves his funniest blasts of contempt for the sanctimonious moralists she perpetually reduced to fits of frustration.

Since early last year, Ed Piskor’s HIP HOP FAMILY TREE has been lovingly documenting the early days of hip-hop music and culture. The online strip’s first collection (Fantagraphics, paper, $24.99), printed on mock-yellowed newsprint to give it the look of battered old comics, follows the story from Kool Herc’s and DJ Hollywood’s 1970s parties to the 1981 showdown between Kool Moe Dee and Busy Bee. Piskor has an aficionado’s eye for details and connections — his portraits illustrating how the Funky Four Plus One dressed before and after they signed to Sugar Hill Records say a lot about hip-hop’s rapidly shifting image — and a caricaturist’s knack for cramming in visual information while ribbing nearly everyone he draws. (Russell Simmons and Rick Rubin come in for particularly irreverent treatment.) When Casanova Fly or Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five rock the house, their sheer volume seems to blow the printing off-register.

The writer Alex de Campi’s acclaimed comics series “Smoke,” drawn by the Croatian artist Igor Kordey (panel below) and initially published in 2005, was a quirky but relatively straightforward political thriller, involving a plucky young journalist, an albino assassin, vicious aristocrats and a grossly obese terrorist cell called the Right to Beauty Brigade. It’s now been paired with a longer, stranger sequel, as SMOKE/ASHES (Dark Horse, paper, $29.99). “Ashes,” a crowdfunded project illustrated by 14 different artists, begins with the lives of survivors from “Smoke” already in ruins. As they’re pursued by a malevolent digital ghost, the story goes from spy-style noir to sci-fi horror (a factory holds “five square miles of genetically engineered stem-cell bones growing pig meat”), and its art makes whiplash shifts — a section that looks like a scribbled-on Beatrix Potter book is followed by a pastiche of medieval illuminated manuscripts. By the final chapters, de Campi and her collaborators shoot out the support beams of typical plot resolution, and the closing sequence, painted by Bill Sienkiewicz, abandons even the comforts of visual realism.
350 2013-12-15 The Ministry of Crab combines two grand Sri Lankan traditions: cricket and crab. A joint project between two famous local cricketers and a top restaurateur, Dharshan Munidasa, this elegant restaurant serves up top-notch fresh crabs in garlic, chile, butter and pepper variations (dinner for two, around 10,000 rupees). The Ministry is in the much-lauded Old Dutch Hospital, a 17th-century building of thick walls and red-tiled roofs, converted after the war into a beautiful structure that houses the city’s trendiest cafes and restaurants, set around courtyards. For postdinner cocktails, go to Colombo Fort Café or Heladiv Tea Club (around 600 rupees).

Start the day the local way with “string hoppers,” discs of rice flour noodles commonly eaten (by hand) for breakfast. Servers at the bare-bones but popular Amirthaa bring a plate to the table, then ladle on yellow dal and pol sambal (a sort of Sri Lankan salsa, based on grated coconut) from metal buckets. Add a steaming glass of chai and you have a satisfying breakfast for less than 200 rupees.

Stroll around algae-laden Beira Lake in the city center, once used to transport goods within the city and now patronized by couples in swan-shaped paddleboats. Then visit the Seema Malaka temple, a meditation center designed by Geoffrey Bawa, Sri Lanka’s best-known architect, known for his signature tropical modernism style. The temple (100 rupees) extends from the bank into the lake, an elegant construction of wood and stone with a surfeit of Buddha statues. It’s a peaceful haven in a city filled with honking tuk-tuks and buses blasting Indian pop tunes. An abundance of pelicans and storks call the lake home, and it’s not uncommon to see a yard-long monitor lizard pulling itself onto the banks.

Dutch Burghers (the descendants of Dutch colonists in Sri Lanka, most of mixed race) once played a prominent local role, and while their numbers are much diminished, the Dutch Burgher Union remains their century-old club, brimming with Old World nostalgia. Its casual ground-floor cafe serves the best lamprais (490 rupees) in the city. Lamprais is a Dutch-influenced Sri Lankan original, a banana-leaf package of rice, meat curry, eggplant, frikkadel (a kind of meatball) and shrimp paste. Order in advance; ask your hotel to call.

Ceylon tea may be famous, but in the 1860s Sri Lanka (Ceylon, until it changed its name in 1972) was the world’s biggest coffee producer. It was only after blight struck that the British converted their acreage to tea. Good coffee is still hard to find, but for a pick-me-up, head to Hansa Coffee. This relaxed bohemian cafe with colorful cushions and wall hangings seats only about 10 people, which facilitates conversation with other customers and the friendly baristas. Its Seattle-born owner Laurence Goldberg has been working to revive Sri Lanka’s coffee culture since 1996. The excellent beans are shade-grown and roasted in the highlands, which means that profits remain in the country. A 200-gram bag is about 550 rupees.

Colombo’s antiquated yet meltingly romantic trains (with bare-bones interiors and often with surplus passengers clinging to the side) run straight down the coast. Buy a ticket (10 rupees) from any of the colonial-era train stations; then hop aboard. Stand in the open doorway and watch the waves of the warm sea break just feet away. Arrive 15 minutes later in Mount Lavinia, a relaxed southern neighborhood that’s home to the city’s best beach — a clean, wide stretch of yellow sand. Stop in any of the numerous seaside restaurants for a cold Lion beer (200 to 400 rupees) and watch the families and couples frolic in the waves as the sun goes down — some fully clothed for modesty, but having the time of their lives.

Head back into the city center in a tuk-tuk (around 400 rupees) and coast up Galle Road, past temples, mosques, churches, shopping malls, hole-in-the-wall “pure veg” restaurants, and vendors of Bombay sweets while breathing in Colombo’s unique aroma of exhaust, curry and ocean breeze. Disembark at the Gallery Café, the favorite haunt of Colombo’s smart set. This stylish courtyard restaurant is housed in Geoffrey Bawa’s former office, and serves up elegant fusion food like black pork curry (1,095 rupees), best accompanied by a tamarind chile martini (945 rupees). Finish up with the jaggery crème brûlée (695 rupees), which incorporates the local unrefined palm sugar (jaggery) into a French classic. Note the scrap metal sculptures by Prageeth Manohansa, one of Sri Lanka’s most significant up-and-coming artists.

Join Colombo’s young nabobs at QBaa (entry, 1,000 rupees, deducted from your bar bill), home to the city’s best live music. Rub elbows with the beautiful people — a mix of resident foreigners and local trendsetters educated overseas — who gather to schmooze, down sangria (980 rupees) and Champagne cocktails (880 rupees) and get in the groove to consistently excellent groups like Glory, a boy band that performs energetic cover versions of everything from Stevie Wonder to Jason Mraz.

The ideal place to while away a leisurely Sunday, Barefoot is a Colombo landmark. This frangipani-scented compound is a combination art gallery, restaurant, cafe and shop, and is the best place to pick up colorful hand-loomed textiles, books on Sri Lanka, handmade stuffed toys and other gifts. The garden restaurant, studded with palm trees, has live jazz on Sundays and lunch items like spinach quiche (900 rupees) or deviled prawns, a spicy concoction of shrimp sautéed with chile, garlic and ginger, with rice (1,050 rupees).

4. The Ministry of Crab, Old Dutch Hospital; ministryofcrab.com.

Casa Colombo (231 Galle Road, Colombo 4; casacolombo.com) is a quirky yet sumptuous small hotel off bustling Galle Road. The eye-catching design by the hotel’s founder, Lalin Jinasena, includes super king beds and LCD TVs, housed in high-ceilinged rooms that retain hints of the Moorish style in which they were built 200 years ago. Rooms start at $250, including breakfast for two.

Tintagel (65 Rosmead Place, Colombo 7; paradiseroadhotels.com), now a luxury boutique hotel, is where Sri Lanka’s political history was made. The building was home to the country’s most prominent political family, including Premier Solomon Bandaranaike, who was shot on the building’s veranda, and his wife, Sirimavo Bandaranaike, who became the world’s first female elected head of state. Today, the 10 spacious modern suites feature wooden floors, mosaic tile bathrooms and rain shower heads. Rooms start at $311 including breakfast.
351 2013-12-16 The popular fashion series hits the streets across the world to capture looks that are the hallmarks of a neighborhood’s style.
352 2013-12-16 The case against the portfolio manager Michael S. Steinberg, who is accused of trading tech stocks on insider information, goes to the jury on Tuesday....
353 2013-12-16 The principal of Trumbull High School in Trumbull, Conn., said he was reversing his decision to cancel a student production of “Rent.”...
354 2013-12-16 It’s not just the dumb politicos....
355 2013-12-16 A campaign to win support for Egypt’s new constitution got off to a rocky start when bloggers noticed that a banner promoting the document misspelled the word for “Egyptians” in Arabic and used stock images of foreigners....
356 2013-12-16 The nutritional supplements maker discloses that it has finished re-auditing its books for its last three fiscal years, as well as for the current year — and made no material changes to the statements....
357 2013-12-16 The brand’s exclusive capsule collection for the new Dover Street Market New York is, appropriately, all black, with a heavy dose of leather....
358 2013-12-16 Darren Herman joined Mozilla as vice president for content services, leading a new content services division. He had been chief digital media officer at Media Kitchen, New York, part of the Maxxcom Global Media division of MDC Partners.

Myles Kellam joined LevLane, Philadelphia, as director for client development, a new post. He had been director for brand solutions at DiMassimo Goldstein, New York.

Leah Kondes joined Preston Kelly, Minneapolis, as a public relations supervisor. She had most recently been marketing director at HLB Tautges Redpath, White Bear Lake, Minn.

Peter Mayer Advertising, New Orleans, hired three employees. They are: Kim Koelling, an associate art specialist; Jessyca Sulfsted, an analyst; and Mason Viera, an art director.

Matt Monahan joined Science Inc., Los Angeles, in a new post, vice president for social media marketing. Mr. Monahan is an entrepreneur who has helped to found companies that included AlphaBoost and the Comotion Group.

Kim Myers rejoined Brainerd Communications, New York, in a new post, senior director, based in Baltimore, heading the agency’s presence in the metropolitan Washington market. She has worked for companies that included Nielsen Audio, IAC/InterActiveCorp and Comedy Central.

The New York Times made appointments in its advertising department involving four executives. Jean-Christophe DeMarta, vice president for advertising, becomes vice president for global advertising. Lou Fabrizio, vice president, was named senior vice president for advertising. Andy Wright, group vice president, was named senior vice president for advertising. And Michael Zimbalist, vice president for research and development operations, was named to an advertising post, senior vice president for ad products and research and development.

Sean O’Neal joined Adaptly, New York, in a new post, president. He had most recently been global chief marketing officer at The Daily Mail Online, part of The Daily Mail and General Trust.

Tal Perry joined MassiveImpact, Tel Aviv, Israel, in a new post, chief business officer, assuming some duties from Daniel Zelkind, vice president for monetization, who left to start his own company, Zeek.me. Mr. Perry had been vice president for business development at AppNext, Tel Aviv.

Ben Phillips joined MediaCom, part of the GroupM division of WPP, as its first global head of mobile. Mr. Phillips, who will be based in London, had been commercial director at Adloqi.

Publicis Worldwide, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, is forming a regional operation, Publicis North America, to be composed of two units, Publicis USA (also known as Publicis in the USA) and Publicis Canada. Susan Gianinno, who had been chairwoman and chief executive at Publicis USA, becomes chairwoman at Publicis North America. Andrew Bruce, who had been president and chief executive at Publicis Canada, becomes chief executive at Publicis North America and will move to New York from Toronto next month.

Danielle Reardon joined 360i, New York, part of Dentsu, in a new post, vice president and group account director. She had most recently been vice president and group account director at Digitas, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Stephen Strong joined the Zócalo Group, Chicago, part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, executive vice president and executive director, joining the agency’s leadership team and overseeing the research and analytics, digital and creative groups. He had most recently been vice president for marketing at ParkWhiz, Chicago.

Todd Taplin joined Celtra, Cambridge, Mass., in a new post, executive vice president for global sales, strategy and services. He had been vice president for the advertising group at Adobe Systems.

Leo Tarkovsky joined McCann HumanCare, New York, as president, a post being created as part of an expansion. He had most recently been director for business strategy at JWT New York, part of the JWT unit of WPP. McCann HumanCare is part of the McCann Health unit of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Valspar Corporation, Minneapolis, chose the Chicago office of Critical Mass, part of the Omnicom Group, as the first digital agency of record for its Guardsman professional furniture care division. Billings were not disclosed.

Tamsen Webster joined SME Digital, Baltimore, in a new post, vice president for strategy. She had been senior vice president for content activation and strategy at Allen & Gerritsen, Boston.

Milt Weinstock joined Tofutti Brands, Cranford, N.J., in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had most recently been president of KMN and before that his experience includes serving as executive vice president and global account director at Grey Worldwide, New York.
359 2013-12-16 Cheaper gasoline. The impact of ending unemployment benefits. How to handle difficult customers....
360 2013-12-16 Transferring subsidiaries for no consideration seems curious at best, writes Stephen J. Lubben in the In Debt column....
361 2013-12-16 It was a challenge to understand it and an even bigger challenge to explain it....
362 2013-12-16 Proposed new state regulations will increase the exploitation of wild animals for commercial use and in circuses, animal rights advocates and academics say....
363 2013-12-16 The bargaining practices are more commonplace for home and sporting goods or electronics, but even higher-end retailers like Nordstrom have price-matching guidelines — though they usually do not broadcast the terms.

Joe Marrapodi, one of the founders and the chief executive of Greentoe.com, a new name-your-own price website, walked into Nordstrom and Bloomingdale’s the other day in Santa Monica, Calif., and without identifying himself or his occupation, casually asked employees if they were open to bargaining. Both the sales representatives and the managers said yes without hesitation, he said, and cited specific price-matching policies.

“I think they kind of keep it low key,” he said. “They don’t want it to be a thing.”

A spokeswoman for Nordstrom said in a statement, “For as long as we’ve been in business we’ve been committed to offering our customers the best possible prices, including meeting competitor pricing on similar items.”

There was recognition among guests at a private round-table dinner with retail executives in Dallas that their stores had better accept regular give-and-take with customers, according to Alison Kenny Paul, vice chairwoman and leader of United States retail and distribution at Deloitte. “Some talked about their epiphanies and said the world has changed, we really have to do this,” she said.

As a result, Ms. Paul said, some retailers are training employees on the rules of bargaining. Instead of price discounts, those deals may be add-ons, like an extended warranty, free delivery or free installation.

While it is mainly department or floor managers who are given the authority to make deals, other employees are now being coached to “recognize when a consumer needs to negotiate,” and to “spot the consumer” getting ready to walk out the door, she said.

When a sales clerk at Kohl’s in Kennewick, Wash., recently asked Siobhan Shaw, who was buying an armload of items from the sale rack, if she would like to open a store credit card, Ms. Shaw recalled that she replied firmly: “No.”

“But,” she said she quickly asked, “can I get the same discount she got?” She was referring to the woman ahead of her in line, who had asked for a discount and received 15 percent off. The answer was yes.

Retailers panicked a few years ago when they realized that some consumers were using brick-and-mortar stores to view products, only to walk out and order them at a lower price online. Now, Ms. Paul said, they are trying to “turn lemons into lemonade” by using that model as an opportunity to work with customers and even cement their loyalty.

Marilyn Santiesteban of Newton, Mass., rarely makes a purchase without first asking a manager for a better deal, and as a result, she has won significant discounts on things as diverse as a dishwasher at Sears and boots for her daughter at Macy’s. The other day, she said, she went shopping at a Barnes & Noble outside Boston for a book-with-toy set for her 7-year-old nephew. Her smartphone told her the item was about $6 less at Amazon. She pointed this out politely to the store manager, and he instantly matched the price.

“You think I’m not going to buy everything from Barnes & Noble now?” she said.

Bargaining “is not adversarial,” she said, explaining that she considers it a service to tell a store she can get a better price elsewhere. “We would both like it if I would walk out of this store having purchased an item.”

Mr. Marrapodi’s company, Greentoe.com, which has Silicon Valley venture capital money behind it, opened this year. It lets consumers submit offers on merchandise listed in five categories, including cameras, baby equipment, household appliances and home theater. The company’s software determines whether the offer is reasonable and sends it to a network of retailers that encompasses both big-box stores and small dealers. (All are vendors that are authorized by the brands.) If the merchant accepts the offer, it makes the transaction directly with the consumer.

James Myers of Walton, Ky., went to Greentoe.com to make an offer on a Panasonic 60-inch plasma TV with voice control that was priced at over $2,000 at many retailers. He offered $1,539. After a little haggling, he was able to buy it from one of Greentoe’s retail partners for $1,749 (shipping included).

“I truly feel that the shopping landscape is going to change,” Mr. Marrapodi said. “It’s going to be much more driven by the consumer and ability to negotiate.”

In the coming year, Greentoe, which has more than 50 retail partners and 50,000 registered users, plans to add categories, including possibly exercise equipment, handbags and luggage.

Its ultimate aim is to make a negotiating app, Mr. Marrapodi said, so “you can do all this before you leave the store.”

There are several unwritten rules about negotiating with a retailer.

It has to be “consumer-initiated,” said Virginia Morris, vice president for consumer strategy and insights at Daymon Worldwide, a consulting firm. She said the customer must ask for a deal. Do not, she said, expect the retailer to offer it.

It has to be a reasonable offer, made politely — either a request to match a price or to offer a slim discount.

“The key is to be polite and confident,” said Kyle James of Redding, Calif., who writes a blog about personal finance and frugal living.

Mr. James has even found a way to bargain with e-commerce sites: live chat rooms. He will type a request, as he did recently with a landsend.com employee: Do you have a free-shipping coupon or another discount?

“Nine times out of 10 they have coupons sitting at their desk to give to you,” he said.

“They know you have things sitting in your cart, and they do not want to lose you.”
364 2013-12-16 ■ Rob Reilly, partner and worldwide chief creative officer at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, is leaving, the agency said, to pursue new ventures, along with his wife, Laura Bowles, partner and managing director. Mr. Reilly’s post will not be filled, according to Andrew Keller, chief executive of Crispin Porter, who said the agency’s individual offices — in Boulder, Colo.; Miami; Gothenburg, Sweden; London; and Los Angeles — would have increased creative autonomy. They will report to Mr. Keller, who until being named chief executive in 2010 was co-executive creative director of the agency with Mr. Reilly.

■ Pam Hamlin, president for the Boston headquarters of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas, was promoted to global president, assuming duties from Robert LePlae, global chief executive, who is leaving, the agency said, to pursue other interests. The announcement of Mr. LePlae’s departure came soon after Arnold lost its Volvo creative account to the Grey Group unit of WPP.

■ Alex Crowther joined the Detroit office of Carat, part of Aegis Media, as global client president for the General Motors account, succeeding Steven Feuling, who will assume a new role and move to the Carat office in San Francisco, the agency said. Mr. Crowther was chief executive for Asian-Pacific operations at MediaCom, part of the GroupM unit of WPP. Aegis Media is part of the Dentsu Aegis Network division of Dentsu.

■ Susan Duffy joined McCann Regan Campbell Ward, New York, as president, as part of an expansion of the agency in North America. She will take over day-to-day operational duties from Maureen Regan, who continues as chairwoman. Ms. Duffy most recently was a senior vice president at the Omnicom Group, New York, focused on the agency holding group’s worldwide health care businesses. McCann Regan Campbell Ward is part of the McCann Health division of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

■ Corey Sistrunk, a design principal at Rapt Studio, San Francisco, was promoted to president, a new post.

■ Marion O’Grady joined Animals Inc., Washington, a digital media company affiliated with the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, as chief revenue officer, a new post. She most recently was advertising director at The New York Times.

■ Stephen Quinn, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at Walmart, will serve as chairman of the Association of National Advertisers’ Alliance for Family Entertainment, a coalition that includes Walmart. The alliance previously was led by an executive committee or a rotating group of co-chairmen and co-chairwomen; Mr. Quinn is the first official chairman.

■ Advertising spending in the United States declined 1.9 percent in the third quarter compared with the same period last year, the Kantar Media unit of WPP reported, the first time there has been a quarterly decline since the fourth quarter of 2011, when American ad spending fell 1 percent compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. Kantar Media attributed the third-quarter decline to a difficult comparison with the third quarter of 2012, during which there was robust spending on ads related to the Summer Olympics and the November elections. For the first three quarters of 2013, Kantar Media said, American ad spending rose 0.7 percent from the year-earlier period. In the third quarter, some media categories grew despite the overall decline, according to Kantar Media. They included Internet display ads, up 14.5 percent; outdoor ads, up 5.5 percent; and magazine media, up 4.3 percent. Media categories that fell in the third quarter included television media, down 6.2 percent from the third quarter of 2012; radio media, 4.8 percent; and newspaper media, 3.5 percent.

■ There is additional information about some of the 43 advertisers that are buying commercial time during Super Bowl XLVIII on Feb. 2, 2014, which Fox Broadcasting said recently was already sold out. Two advertisers that sponsored previous Super Bowls said they would return for Super Bowl XLVIII: Audi, part of Volkswagen, which has bought a 60-second spot for the 2015 Audi A3, and the Axe line of men’s grooming products, sold by Unilever. They will be joined by Chobani yogurt, making its debut as a Super Bowl advertiser; Chobani will face off in a “Greek yogurt bowl” with Dannon Oikos yogurt, which advertised in 2012 and will return in 2014. Also, Hyundai, which previously disclosed that it would advertise during Super Bowl XLVIII, discussed some of its plans: The company is buying two 30-second spots in the game, one for the 2015 Genesis in the first quarter and one for the 2014 Elantra in the fourth quarter. Other commercials in the game have been bought by Anheuser-Busch InBev, Butterfinger, Cheerios, Chevrolet, Walt Disney Pictures, Doritos, GoDaddy, Intuit, Jaguar, Kia, Mars, Paramount Pictures, PepsiCo Americas Beverages, SodaStream, Sony Pictures and Wonderful pistachios.

■ YouTube, part of Google, said the top-trending ad at youtube.com in 2013, among those that were run as TrueView ads, was “Baby & Me,” for Evian, with 67.6 million views, followed by “Real Beauty Sketches,” for Dove, with 60.6 million, and “Child of the ’90s,” for Microsoft, with 48 million views. “Baby & Me” also finished fifth on the list of the top 10 trending videos of 2013 of any type; No. 1 on that list was the music video for “The Fox (What Does the Fox Say?)” by Ylvis, with 281.4 million views.

■ Verilogue, Horsham, Pa., an agency specializing in health care analytics, was acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris. Financial terms were not disclosed. Verilogue will operate autonomously as part of the Publicis Healthcare Communications Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

■ Genesis Media Holdings, New York, which owns companies in the media representation field, acquired Commercial Media Sales, Pittsburgh, which represents radio stations for ad sales in small and medium-size markets. Financial terms were not disclosed. Roger Rafson, who founded Commercial Media Sales, joined Genesis to oversee a new political ad sales effort.
365 2013-12-16 They figure their odds of winning next year are much better in a nonpresidential election without Mr. Obama at the top of the Democratic ticket.

Bobby Schilling, the owner of St. Giuseppe’s Heavenly Pizza in Moline, Ill., and a Republican former representative from a district rich with Democrats, is among those trying to make his way back East. He said that beyond the Tea Party faithful who will vote in the next election, “this time is going to be different, because the middle-class folks who are being affected by Obamacare are going to come out, lots of both Republicans and Democrats.”

Good luck with that, say the Democrats who disposed of four one-term House Republicans in the last election and fended off five other opponents, only to see them slide back into view a year later.

The 16-day government shutdown this year, in which none of the current Republican candidates played a role, was made possible by the Tea Party takeover of 2010, Democrats say, an argument they plan to make nonstop on the campaign trail.

“My opponent has a voting record that is very much in line with Tea Party thinking,” said Representative Cheri Bustos, who defeated Mr. Schilling last year.

As for the Republicans, their focus on the health care law has shifted from talk of a repeal to criticism over its rollout.

“The health care law is going to be enormous in this race,” said Nan Hayworth, a former representative who is trying to make a comeback in upstate New York. “But this is about people’s lives and the system not working. It is not a partisan issue.”

The candidates’ approach differs from that of Republican incumbents, who hope to fend off challengers in the primary by focusing on undoing the law and on investigating the role the administration had in its flaws.

“The regular Republican repeal language would not be an asset to former members trying to come back in competitive districts,” said Nathan Gonzales, deputy editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report.

Whether the health care law or the shutdown will help candidates remains to be seen.

While most voters blame Republicans more than Democrats for the shutdown, the scorn for all of Congress is historic in its depth. The health care law, while under fire, remains popular among Democratic voters, whom most of the returning candidates need in order to win. And even among the opponents of the law, there is a sense that dysfunctional politics underlie its problems.

“To me, the blame game is played by the whole Congress,” said Curt Snyder, a vice president of Numerical Precision, a component manufacturer in Wheeling, Ill. Mr. Dold’s opponent, Representative Brad Schneider, visited there recently to discuss the shutdown, which temporarily hobbled the company. “At least he is taking the initiative to stop by and say we can’t let this happen again.”

Mr. Dold and other Republicans trying to mount comebacks are careful to distance themselves from the shutdown and the attempt by House Republicans to defund the health care program that presaged it. “The shutdown was a stupid tactic, and I spoke out against it,” Ms. Hayworth said.

Mr. Dold took it one step further. “The shutdown certainly highlighted the dysfunction in Washington,” he said. “I think that’s an opportunity for me to tell people that this is why you want moderates like me.”

Ms. Hayworth, who during her 2010 campaign aligned with the ultraconservative group Tri-State Sons of Liberty (“What a fine-looking bunch of radicals you are!” she said at one of its meetings), now brags about other affiliations. “I was a co-founder of the Common Ground Caucus,” she said, referring to a group formed in the previous Congress to promote bipartisanship.

The Republicans who lost in 2012 say it will be harder to tie them to the Tea Party because they have seen this play before and can counter it, with more name recognition. In 2012, “I was being attacked right out of their national playbook,” said Martha McSally of Arizona, who is challenging Representative Ron Barber, a Democrat. He had won the seat held by Gabrielle Giffords and narrowly defeated Ms. McSally in 2012.

“They did all the typical attacks, ‘Martha is part of the war on women,’ and all that,” she said. “I am now a known entity. We have had a year to build on the momentum of the last race, and now Ron Barber has to stand on his own record, and there is a sense in the community that people are frustrated with incumbents.”

Whether people are thinking about the health care law, the shutdown, Mr. Obama or something else entirely is an unanswered question.

“The national political environment will help frame these races,” Mr. Gonzales said. “One of the biggest unknowns right now is what the political environment is going to be like next summer, and that’s still an open question.”
366 2013-12-16 As recently as this year, internal auditors faulted the agency for a lack of strategies to return apartments to the rent rolls more quickly. But housing officials say a lack of money is the main impediment to prompt repairs. The agency, which relies on federal housing funds, estimates it has a capital budget shortfall of $6 billion. Many vacant apartments are in limbo, and more are at risk, the officials said, because of the steady decline in federal subsidies.

“You really have to make choices,” said Cecil R. House, the authority’s general manager.

The capital crunch also poses a test for Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio, who has promised to increase the city’s affordable housing stock. Public housing advocates say the question is whether the city will step in with its own money to help preserve public housing buildings, some of them dating to the 1930s and 1940s, as federal funds continue to dry up.

“The city and state have capital they invest in stadiums and parks and museums and all sorts of public development,” said Victor Bach, a policy analyst with the Community Service Society of New York, an anti-poverty group. “It’s a matter of political will.”

The empty apartments wear the indignities of abandonment: broken windows, missing deadbolts, ripped plaster, graffiti on the walls. Some are further defiled by people and birds.

At Betances Houses in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx, a group of teenagers broke into Apartment 4B in one of the buildings from the roof two years ago, neighbors said. They moved in a mattress and television set, staying there for several months until they left a bathroom faucet running; water leaked into the apartment downstairs, and police were summoned.

“They were cooking, eating, having sex, using drugs,” said Joyse Ribera, 38, who lives next door, adding that her many complaints to the police and housing managers about the squatters went unheeded before the leak. “It looked like they weren’t going to school and came here.”

The apartment, a four-bedroom duplex empty since 2006, was just recently rented and the new tenants moved in this month. Housing officials said they have brought down the number of apartments vacant and awaiting major renovation to fewer than 800, from several thousand. Another 2,300 apartments are vacant as a result of routine turnover or relocation, the officials said.

But last year, Housing Authority internal auditors found that 319 of the vacant units had been empty for an average of more than seven years, awaiting major repairs like roof replacement. The auditors found that the work — and the return of the apartments to the rental pool — could be done more quickly. With the units off the rent rolls, the city has lost an estimated $1.4 million a year in rent, the auditors said.

Hurricane Sandy produced a new batch of empty apartments whose tenants needed to relocate because of flooding and damage from the storm. Housing officials said 110 ground-floor apartments remained empty a year later.

But more often a man-made problem has stymied efforts to bring apartments back on line. At West Brighton Houses on Staten Island, where 24 apartments were vacated between 2000 and 2006, the Housing Authority paid $391,445 on a $1.9 million renovation contract before halting the work, according to last year’s audit. Much more renovating was required than anticipated — including termite damage, rotting plumbing and the need to replace the roof — and the agency decided to cut its losses.

The apartments are still boarded up.

At Harlem River Houses, auditors have identified at least 42 apartments vacant for periods of four to 19 years. Housing officials said they have collected enough funds to bid $17 million worth of contracts this month for exterior brick and roof replacement and apartment repairs that were expected to start early next year.

Officials said the top-floor apartments there were vacant because of water leakage. But they could not explain why some have sat empty since the 1990s, even before the housing agency’s capital budget took a nose-dive.

Members of the New York congressional delegation have asked for a comprehensive audit of the authority’s operations, saying that the agency has to get its own house in order before it lobbies for more federal money.

Scott M. Stringer, the city’s comptroller-elect, said he would begin such an audit when he takes office in January. “When you have thousands of people waiting, there’s no excuse for having any apartment vacant for five to 10 years,” he said, alluding to the more than 220,000 names on the wait list for an apartment in the projects.

The work needed to bring some units back can be considerable.

At Betances Houses, a complex of low-rise buildings, 4B, the empty four-bedroom temporarily invaded by teenagers, needed structural upgrades, housing officials said. The money was eventually found to do $3.4 million worth of work in that and other units — a total of 124 apartments — which was completed by 2011, they said.

Housing officials said that some units at Betances remained vacant until now because they still needed minor work, although auditors found some to be in “good condition” last year. Another reason for delays, officials said, was the Bloomberg administration’s decision to hold off for several months on renting vacant public housing apartments so that families displaced by Hurricane Sandy could be accommodated.

Still, the vacancies left some neighbors shaking their heads.

Brazal Sway, 25, a hospital lab technician who said he lived in a city shelter with his family briefly when he was in his teens, before his mother got her place at Harlem River Houses, said: “That’s what’s messed up about it — for all these places to be open and there’s people in the shelters.”
367 2013-12-16 Gail Collins, in highlighting the Republican gender-gap problem, recalls that the Republican Party was among the first to champion the Equal Rights Amendment for women.

The campaign for ratification of the amendment from 1972 to 1982 came very close to success, with ratification by 35 of the 38 states needed before the deadline expired.

Much has changed since the last equal rights campaign. Women want the right to serve in combat and no longer believe that their rightful place is only in the home.

Representative Carolyn B. Maloney of New York has introduced a new Equal Rights Amendment to give women a constitutional guarantee of equal rights. Of the 156 co-sponsors of her bill, only four are Republican.

Now that Republicans and Democrats have broken the gridlock and come together on a budget, they should be able to come together on this basic statement of principle and pass the Equal Rights Amendment, which was originally drafted in 1923 by Alice Paul, a Republican.
368 2013-12-16 A growing campaign among American professors to isolate Israel reaches a milestone on Monday when a large group of scholars is expected to reveal whether its members endorsed an academic boycott of Israel to protest Israeli treatment of Palestinians.

The American Studies Association’s national council voted unanimously on Dec. 4 in favor of a boycott resolution, and put the matter to a vote of its almost 5,000 members, who had until Sunday night to cast their ballots online. The group’s stance has pitted scholars and organizations against one another in a heated debate about the ethics of academic boycotts, the motives behind the campaign and whether Israel is being singled out unfairly.

The movement to cut off relations with Israeli academic and cultural institutions dates back a decade, but organizers say it was not until April that an American academic group of any size, the Association for Asian American Studies, endorsed a boycott. The Modern Language Association’s annual meeting next month will include a discussion session on academic boycotts, and it will consider a motion critical of Israel for restricting professors’ freedom to visit Palestinian universities.

Boycott supporters concede that resolutions by professors’ groups are primarily symbolic, as long as no American college or university supports such an action. The proposed boycott calls on American schools and academic groups to ban collaboration with Israeli institutions, but individual Israeli scholars would still be able to attend conferences, lecture at American universities or do research with American colleagues, as long as they did not officially represent Israeli universities or the government.

The American Studies Association has never before called for an academic boycott of any nation’s universities, said Curtis Marez, the group’s president and an associate professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, San Diego. He did not dispute that many nations, including many of Israel’s neighbors, are generally judged to have human rights records that are worse than Israel’s, or comparable, but he said, “one has to start somewhere.”
369 2013-12-16 WineCare’s travails even have an international component. The government of Romania wants back the 556 bottles of Romanian wine held at WineCare. But it has gotten nothing but “radio silence” from Mr. Limbocker, according to Andrew T. Levine, president of Development Counselors International, a marketing firm working for Romania.

Mr. Limbocker, 73, seems bewildered by the turn of events that has brought his once-thriving business to its knees. He has had to endure accusations from ungrateful clients, he said, “that we’re thieves, that we sold the wine or threw it into the Hudson.”

“We’ve told nothing but the truth,” Mr. Limbocker added. “We’ve stored our clients’ wine safely and under the right conditions since the storm hit.”

That remains to be seen for many of Mr. Limbocker’s customers who have yet to get their wine. There’s no question that Hurricane Sandy drove the waters of the Hudson into the warehouse’s basement. How high water rose is unclear.

At the same time, a burst pipe flooded WineCare’s offices, destroying its computer system, which kept track of the locations of the 27,000 cases of wine in the cellars.

The natural disaster set in motion a huge undertaking, Mr. Limbocker said. The entire inventory had to be hand-carried up two flights of stairs in the dark to safety. Later, WineCare’s tiny staff had to move the cases back down to the cellars. In the summer, WineCare started transporting the wine to a new cellar in Jersey City.

Mr. Limbocker declined to say how much of his inventory is in New York or New Jersey, nor would he allow a visitor into the WineCare cellars on 28th Street.

Contrary to court filings, Mr. Limbocker insisted that “under 100 bottles” broke during transport and that “almost no bottle labels washed off.”

So why has it taken so long for WineCare, which once promised same-day service, to recover?

“The monumental size of this material-handling project and the silly interruptions from a small number — less than 20 — clients who wanted their wine back before anyone else,” he said. “I had to spend time on litigation, preventing us from doing what we do best: storing wine.”

Mr. Limbocker cannot wait to see the situation resolved. “I probably should have walked away,” he said.

Mr. Drapkin said in a court filing that he had “lost faith in Derek Limbocker’s judgment, his management ability, and, most importantly, his integrity.”

It was not always so. Mr. Limbocker, who is married to a member of the du Pont family and once owned a wine store on the Upper East Side, opened WineCare in 2005 in the warehouse where he kept his own collection. The company grew rapidly.

After the storm, he notified his customers that there were problems, but assured them “that at least 95 percent of the wine is fine.”

But in December, after Mr. Limbocker notified Mr. Waterman that he had “absolutely no idea” when he could get access to his wine, Mr. Waterman filed a lawsuit. So did Keith McNally, the owner of Minetta Tavern and Morandi, who had stored $2 million worth of wine at WineCare.

A day before Mr. Waterman was to make a court-ordered inspection of WineCare, Mr. Limbocker filed for bankruptcy protection. About 123 creditors, almost all of them clients, subsequently filed claims totaling more than $18 million.

The judge in the case seemed content to give Mr. Limbocker time to get WineCare in order.

But during the summer Mr. Limbocker’s bankruptcy lawyers, Schulte Roth & Zabel, withdrew from the case, citing “irreconcilable views.”

At the end of August, Mr. Limbocker notified his clients that they could file an application for their wine, triggering more than 200 requests. A fraction of the requests have been filled, Mr. Limbocker said.

“There hasn’t been a word of thanks for what we’ve done,” he said.

Despite Mr. Limbocker’s stated desire to be fair to all of his clients, some clients got favored treatment. One friend, Michael Goldstein, the owner of a liquor store on Madison Avenue, said that since last spring he has been able to get the bottles he needed from the 500 cases he stores at WineCare.

Mr. McNally, the restaurant owner who sued WineCare, has also had access to his wine.

The labels on some of the bottles are “stained, torn or faded as a result of Sandy,” according to a report by a court-appointed monitor. The wine may not have been affected but, according to wine experts, that kind of damage would reduce the value of the bottles.

In November, the trustee in the case filed a motion asking the judge to convert the case to Chapter 7 liquidation or to dismiss the case, which would probably trigger an avalanche of individual lawsuits. WineCare, the trustee said, could not pay its bills, was sinking into debt and had failed to file the required reorganization plan.

“What has Limbocker been trying to accomplish?” said Alan Ballinger, a real estate investor who has about $45,000 worth of wine at WineCare. “Did he really want to re-establish the business, or cover over a horrific thing that happened? It’s going to be a mess for those of us who have wine there.”
370 2013-12-16 As a pre-eminent dancer with American Ballet Theater in the 1970s and ’80s, Gelsey Kirkland was known for her storytelling. With her fabled vulnerability and big, sad eyes, she carried many a full-length ballet: “Giselle,” “Romeo and Juliet” and, perhaps most famously, “The Nutcracker.” In a 1978 review of Mikhail Baryshnikov’s version (the same one that lit up the nation’s living rooms via PBS), the critic Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Kirkland, as Clara, “has found one of her deepest roles.”

It’s appropriate, then, that for the inaugural production of the Gelsey Kirkland Ballet — the performing branch of Ms. Kirkland’s dance academy in TriBeCa, which opened in 2010 — she would bring us a new staging of the holiday classic. It also fits right in with her lofty pedagogical mission: “to foster a rebirth of dramatic storytelling in ballet.”

So far, so good, where drama is concerned. This “Nutcracker,” choreographed primarily by Ms. Kirkland’s husband and co-artistic director, Michael Chernov (she focuses more on coaching), is nothing revolutionary. But on Friday at Pace University’s Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts, it showcased the theatrical ardor and solid technique that Ms. Kirkland is passing on to a new generation.

Somewhere between students and professionals, the 20 core company members — joined by other trainees and graduates of the school — ranged from emotionally nuanced and technically precocious to endearingly awkward. In the role of Marie, as Clara is alternately known, Anastasia Barsukova radiated whatever the scene (and the Tchaikovsky score) called for: youthful awe as she cradled her new toy; dreamy exuberance as the wooden doll awoke in princely form.

That prince, the humble Anderson Souza, assisted his diaphanous soon-to-be princess in skimming runs and clean, albeit effortful lifts. With her imploring gaze and heart-shaped pout, Ms. Barsukova looked not unlike a young Ms. Kirkland; you could imagine her striving to be just like her teacher. By her final solo, you could tell she was working hard.

Strangely, Ms. Kirkland and Mr. Chernov have done away with the usual business of candy. In Act II, the Prince does not guide Marie to the Land of Sweets but rather to his celestial palace. While toys come to life, sugary snacks do not. There is no Sugar Plum Fairy.

Standout moments came from Erez Ben-Zion Milatin, a potent force in the “Spanish” section, and Galen Bolard and Marko Micov, the rosy-cheeked leaders of the “Russian” dance. But it was the youngest cast member, a bite-size, shaggy-haired Charles Klepner, who stole the show again and again.
371 2013-12-16 NEW YORK — Twenty years ago, when I was 21, I told my parents that I had fallen in love with another woman. At the time, it seemed incredibly rare for a daughter of Indian immigrants, in the suburbs of the American Midwest, to come out of the closet. “Had we stayed in ,” my mother said, “this never would have happened.”

In 2008, my mother proudly celebrated my marriage in , giving me her wedding sari for the occasion. Though she did not realize it then, she had been wrong about India. The movement for gay rights there has been brewing for centuries. Same-sex intimacy, which can be found in ancient texts in South , is now a common theme in talk shows and Bollywood movies.

The transformation in gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender rights in so much of the world underscores the shock and disappointment I felt on Wednesday when the Indian , against all predictions and international trends in jurisprudence, upheld India’s 1861 sodomy statute, which a lower court had largely overturned in 2009.

With few of its own words, the Supreme Court reversed the decision handed down four years earlier by the Delhi High Court, which ruled that the statute did not apply to consensual sex between adults. It ignored evidence that the sodomy law, known as Section 377, perpetrates harassment of sexual minorities and threatens their health and safety. It rejected evidence that the law actively discriminates against sexual minorities. The irony is that Section 377, which prohibits “carnal intercourse against the order of nature,” was not enacted by Indians, but by their colonial rulers from — which has repealed its own sodomy laws, starting with and in 1967. (Indeed, are scheduled to begin in England and Wales in March.)

The Indian Supreme Court, which has looked favorably on legal developments in other countries, rejected the applicability of such arguments to India.

“Though these judgments shed considerable light on various aspects of this right and are informative in relation to the plight of sexual minorities, we feel that they cannot be applied blindfolded for deciding the constitutionality of the law enacted by the Indian legislature,” the court ruled, declaring that only Parliament could repeal Section 377.
372 2013-12-16 A handful of hit singles gives a band some leeway, and MGMT used all it has at Barclays Center on Friday. MGMT — led by the singer Andrew VanWyngarden and Ben Goldwasser, who both play guitars and keyboards — strategically doled out the three hits from its 2008 debut album, “Oracular Spectacular”: “Time to Pretend” early in the set and “Electric Feel” and “Kids” near the end, each one drawing arena-wide squeals of recognition.

In between, MGMT plunged into the musical and verbal convolutions that make up far more of the band’s repertory. While the hits lean toward 1970s pop, most of MGMT’s other songs put new twists into the already labyrinthine legacy of psychedelic pop. It’s not bait and switch; MGMT’s albums have always revealed its woolier side. But the band — which has been mostly touring theaters with 2,000 to 3,000 seats, not arenas like Barclays — now has two different constituencies: those who know the happy-sounding hits and those who are willing to follow the band’s more abstruse ambitions.

On its second album, “Congratulations” in 2010, MGMT stepped away from writing choruses and keyboard hooks, choosing instead to build songs as a string of verses — often two or three contrasting ones — with arrangements that grow more elaborate each time around, like a theme and variations. Mr. VanWyngarden’s lyrics turned gloomier and were particularly skeptical about success and materialism. “Mass adulation not so funny/Poisoned honey,” he shrieked at the end of “Flash Delirium,” the set’s opening song. “Congratulations” also included a 12-minute suite, “Siberian Breaks,” that tested the crowd’s attention before MGMT regained it with “Electric Feel.”

“MGMT,” the band’s 2013 album, kept its songs shorter and somewhat less meandering, with more obvious refrains. But those refrains can be bleak — like that of “Mystery Disease” — and MGMT still isn’t courting a mass market. It unearthed “Introspection,” the title song from a 1968 album of psychedelic pop that had become a collector’s item, “Introspection: A Faine Jade Recital.” And on Friday, it brought out Faine Jade himself to play guitar and sing along on it while much of the audience wondered who he was.

The band performed calmly and meticulously, offering more musicianship than showmanship as it summoned echoes of the late-1960s Beach Boys, early Pink Floyd, the Byrds, the Beatles and considerably more obscure ’60s artifacts. Bright colors rippled and flashed across the video screen overhead. And when MGMT got to “Kids,” its poppy and arty missions converged. The song’s perky keyboard line and lyrics hinting at environmental consciousness for a young generation — “Control yourself/Take only what you need from it” — had the whole arena singing along; then, using the momentum of the bass line, MGMT went into a one-chord jam full of layered rhythms from staccato keyboards, hypnotic and propulsive in the zone where kraut-rock and disco overlap. It was something for everyone in the arena.
373 2013-12-17 She sounds like the girl next door — young, friendly, eager. For Theodore Twombly (Joaquin Phoenix), the poetically melancholic hero in “Her,” Spike Jonze’s exquisite new movie, that voice (Scarlett Johansson) is a lifeline to the world, which he has loosened his hold on since separating from his wife. The voice brightly greets him in the morning and, with a sexy huskiness, bids him good night in the evening. The voice organizes his files, gets him out of the house and, unlike some multitasking females, doesn’t complain about juggling her many roles as his assistant, comfort, turn-on, helpmate and savior — which makes her an ideal companion even if she’s also just software.

At once a brilliant conceptual gag and a deeply sincere romance, “Her” is the unlikely yet completely plausible love story about a man, who sometimes resembles a machine, and an operating system, who very much suggests a living woman. It’s set, somehow of course, in Los Angeles, that city of plastic fears and dreams, in an unspecified time in the future. The machines haven’t risen, as they have in dystopian tales like “The Terminator” series, but instead have been folded into everyday life. Theodore learns about the operating system from an advertisement and is soon running it on his home computer and phone. Before long, he and the software, which calls itself Samantha, are exchanging pleasantries, playing the roles of strangers fated to become lovers.

It’s a perfect tale for Mr. Jonze, a fabulist whose sense of the absurd informs his more broadly comic endeavors (notably his work on the “Jackass” movies, including “Bad Grandpa”) and the straighter if still kinked art-house films he’s directed, like “Being John Malkovich” and “Adaptation.” If it has taken time for the depth of Mr. Jonze’s talents to be recognized, it’s partly because of all the attention bestowed on Charlie Kaufman’s scripts for “Adaptation” and “John Malkovich,” which announce their auteurist aspirations on the page. It’s perhaps unsurprising that Mr. Jonze’s third feature, “Where the Wild Things Are,” an emotionally delicate live-action adaptation of that Maurice Sendak book, was a visual knockout with a minimalist story and relatively little dialogue.

Written by Mr. Jonze, “Her” features plenty of talk and comparably little action partly because it’s a neo-classic boy-meets-operating-system romance and only one of them has a body. This is a minor setback as far as the characters are concerned, although only Samantha frets about it. If this profound existential difference doesn’t worry Theodore, it’s because isolation is his default state. That’s both because of his own life-historical events, including his separation from his wife, Catherine (Rooney Mara), and because everyone around him seems more plugged in to their machines than to other people. He has one friend, Amy (Amy Adams), who lives nearby, and talks to only one colleague (Chris Pratt) in the office where he spends his days writing intimate letters for other people.

In “Her,” everything is simultaneously familiar and unfamiliar, like all the voice- and gesture-activated software that Theodore uses at work and at play, as if his era had caught up to today’s prototypes. Mr. Jonze and his superb production designer, K. K. Barrett, haven’t reinvented the world, only modestly embellished ours, as with their reimagining of Los Angeles (a role played by that city and Shanghai, with digital assistance). The city still sprawls to near-infinity, but it’s now as vertical as Manhattan, and everyone travels by train, not car. The trains are a low-key, witty touch (and true science fiction), but they also let you see early on how lonely Theodore is even in a crowd.

Samantha saves him from solitude, drawing him out of himself and then into life itself. The role was initially voiced by the British actor Samantha Morton, who, after the movie was shot, was replaced by Ms. Johansson and whose casting feels inevitable. Her voice isn’t an especially melodious instrument, but it’s a surprisingly expressive one (as Woody Allen has figured out) that slides from squeaky girlishness to a smoky womanliness suggestive of late nights and whiskeys. It’s crucial that each time you hear Ms. Johansson in “Her,” you can’t help but flash on her lush physicality, too, which helps fill in Samantha and give this ghostlike presence a vibrant, palpable form, something that would have been trickier to pull off with a lesser-known performer.
374 2013-12-17 The price, at the low end of the company’s estimated price range, values AMC Entertainment Holdings at roughly $1.7 billion....
375 2013-12-17 A combined IMG and William Morris Endeavor would significantly alter the balance of power in Hollywood’s business landscape, creating a mega-agency that would leap ahead of its primary rival, Creative Artists Agency....
376 2013-12-17 Everything — from the dog we’re dog-sitting pooping on the floor to that Argentine Coke commercial — makes me doubt whether we’re going to be good parents. But we don’t have the luxury of time to think about it....
377 2013-12-17 There had been speculation that the board was trying to find a replacement for Steven A. Ballmer by the end of the year, but the search committee’s chairman suggested that was not likely....
378 2013-12-17 Changes to Gmail are challenging e-commerce marketers this holiday shopping season, including by cloaking information about who opens retailers’ emails....
379 2013-12-17 The hiring credit is about to expire. A small company in North Carolina wants to be the Netflix of books. And a 9-year-old in New Jersey has a baking business....
380 2013-12-17 A new vistor center at Stonehenge is to open Wednesday....
381 2013-12-17 A downside for investors, writes Christopher Swann of Reuters Breakingviews, is that they cannot rely on Aubrey McClendon’s attention or loyalty....
382 2013-12-17 The Black List, an annual look at the best unproduced scripts in circulation, includes two retellings of the making of “Jaws” and two stories involving Mr. Rogers....
383 2013-12-17 In an 85-page presentation, Barington Capital explains how it would create the most value for the owner of Olive Garden and Red Lobster restaurants....
384 2013-12-17 Lawmakers on Tuesday demanded Asok Kumar Ganguly, a retired Supreme Court justice, step down from a West Bengal commission after he was accused of harassing a law intern....
385 2013-12-17 A start-up born in a Harvard Business School course about start-ups offers its consulting expertise....
386 2013-12-17 When have you tried to negotiate a price reduction while shopping? Were you successful?...
387 2013-12-17 China has about 350 million smokers, and despite efforts to reduce consumption, tobacco is still widely consumed with about half of adult males smoking regularly, according to surveys....
388 2013-12-17 Nirvana’s induction was widely expected, but for years Kiss’s absence been a rallying cry among the band’s fans....
389 2013-12-17 “I met Dick Leon under rather unusual circumstances,” Mr. Podesta, a former chief of staff to Mr. Clinton who also led frantic efforts to defend the president in an array of scandals, said in an email on Monday. “He was the Republican chief counsel investigating Whitewater. Yet, we have still formed a strong bond in the classroom because Judge Leon is an honorable guy and a straight shooter.”

For his part, Judge Leon once told a reporter for The Corporate Legal Times that lawyers who focused on congressional investigations did not get much repeat business. “We’re the oncologists of the legal profession,” he said.

Lawyers described Judge Leon as congenial and thoughtful. “I don’t think anyone could fairly characterize him remotely as a radical,” said Jameel Jaffer, deputy legal director at the American Civil Liberties Union, which has filed a lawsuit similar to the one on which Judge Leon ruled on Monday. Unlike Mr. Kerr, Mr. Jaffer said he found the judge’s legal reasoning sound and his colorful language compelling.

“His metaphors, I think, are quite devastating to the government,” Mr. Jaffer said.

In a 68-page ruling, Judge Leon said the N.S.A. program that systematically gathers records of Americans’ phone calls was most likely unconstitutional, rejecting the Obama administration’s argument that a 1979 case, Smith v. Maryland, was a controlling precedent. “People have an entirely different relationship with phones than they did 34 years ago,” he wrote.

In 2010, Judge Leon presided over a closely watched prosecution: an obscenity case against a California pornographic video producer, John A. Stagliano, known for filming scenes involving urination and bondage. The judge threw the charges out.

“I hope the government will learn a lesson from its experience,” he said then, calling the Justice Department’s prosecution “woefully insufficient.”

In a 2012 case brought on behalf of death row inmates in Arizona, California and Tennessee, Judge Leon barred the use of imported sodium thiopental in executions and rebuked the Food and Drug Administration, which had asserted that it had no jurisdiction over the drugs.

He wrote that the agency “appears to be simply wrapping itself in the flag of law enforcement discretion to justify its authority and masquerade an otherwise seemingly callous indifference to the health consequences of those imminently facing the executioner’s needle,” adding, “How utterly disappointing!”

But Judge Leon is perhaps best known for his cases involving Guantánamo detainees. In 2005, he first sided with the Bush administration in ruling that foreigners imprisoned at the detention camp could not be granted writs of habeas corpus and had no legal way to challenge their detentions in federal court.

But in 2008, he delivered a sharp setback to the Bush administration when he ruled that five Algerian men had been held unlawfully at Guantánamo for nearly seven years. In ordering their release, he said the government had developed a weak case in relying on “a classified document from an unnamed source” for its central claim against the men.

“To rest on so thin a reed would be inconsistent with this court’s obligation,” he said at the time. The detainees listened over a telephone line from Guantánamo as the judge urged the government not to appeal.

“Seven years of waiting for our legal system to give them an answer to a question so important is, in my judgment, more than plenty,” Judge Leon said.
390 2013-12-17 “This is a consequence of the N.S.A. matter, or affair,” she said, using the common reference in Germany to the reports on American intelligence activities. It is “a justified response to the new challenges we face.”

According to officials familiar with the advisory group’s report to Mr. Obama, it concluded that the White House must regularly review the N.S.A.’s surveillance programs to determine whether the intelligence gathered is worth the damage that would be done if a program were revealed — a process that C.I.A. operations go through annually. Officials said elements of that recommendation were already being adopted ahead of Mr. Obama’s broader announcement, expected in January, about the N.S.A. overhauls he plans to make.

But as Mr. Obama considers his options, the effort to repair the damage to the United States’ relationship with Germany appears to have stumbled. American officials have so far refused to pull back from electronic spying in the country, save for Ms. Merkel’s own communications, even though German officials argue that the United States is violating German law.

At the same time, Germany is equally reluctant to enter into a deeper cooperation agreement, at least on American terms.

Germany has for years participated in American counterterrorism operations, especially those tracking suspected Al Qaeda or other terrorist cells inside Germany, but it has refused to provide the United States with information that it believes could help provide targets for drone strikes. Now, officials are reluctant to join in some types of bulk collection of telephone data or preparations for offensive digital strikes against other countries.

“We simply don’t have the capability or the legal authorities,” said one senior German official involved in the talks, who, like other officials interviewed, spoke on the condition of anonymity because the negotiations are confidential.

The White House has tried to engage the German leadership quietly, hoping to avoid further public confrontations while Ms. Merkel formed her new government.

“At the president’s and chancellor’s direction, we continue to talk with our German partners about how we can strengthen our intelligence cooperation and address some of the concerns that have been raised,” Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said Saturday. “We’ve agreed that these talks are best held confidentially, so I’m not going to provide any details at this stage.”

Nonetheless, in interviews in the past week, American and German officials described a continued wariness in the countries’ relationship after documents that the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel received from Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, revealed the apparent tracking of Ms. Merkel’s personal cellphone and suggested that other surveillance operations had been run out of the United States Embassy here.

While Mr. Obama tried to make amends, several senior German officials expressed suspicions that the United States might be using its surveillance technology to strengthen its negotiating hand in trade talks with the European Union, in which Germany is the most important player.

The dispute also reflects very different views of how far the state should go in conducting surveillance, both at home and abroad.

In an angry conversation with Mr. Obama in October after the phone monitoring was revealed, Ms. Merkel said that the N.S.A.’s activities reminded her of growing up as the daughter of a Protestant minister in East Germany. “She told him, ‘This is like the Stasi,’ ” said one person who had discussed the conversation with the chancellor.

Another person familiar with the conversation said Ms. Merkel had told Mr. Obama that she was particularly angry that, based on the disclosures, “the N.S.A. clearly couldn’t be trusted with private information, because they let Snowden clean them out.”

American officials said that the German accounts accurately captured the spirit of the heated conversation, but that the quotations given by German officials were more direct and pointed than what was actually said. But the exchange set the tone for a dialogue between Washington and Berlin that has only underscored how differently the two countries see the issue. United States officials talk about conducting surveillance, whether of adversaries or allies, to protect American interests; German officials emphasize the importance of reaffirming the alliance. American officials are intent on gathering the data needed to quickly determine the whereabouts of terrorism suspects; the Germans start with privacy concerns.

The man Ms. Merkel tapped for the new post in her coalition government is a veteran of the German security apparatus. Klaus-Dieter Fritsche, 60, now a top Interior Ministry official, was previously deputy head of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, Germany’s domestic intelligence service.

The distaste within the German political establishment for the United States’ approach extends beyond former citizens of East Germany, like Ms. Merkel. Sigmar Gabriel, chairman of the Social Democratic Party and deputy chancellor in Ms. Merkel’s new government, took time in a speech last month to emphasize Germany’s dismay that the United States could engage in the kind of surveillance Mr. Snowden has disclosed.

“The United States, the country we Germans have so much to thank for,” Mr. Gabriel said at a party congress in Leipzig, “is at the moment endangering the most important foundation of our trans-Atlantic partnership.”
391 2013-12-17 Under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a five-member panel of three Democrats and two Republicans, has an all-important role in regulating the multitrillion-dollar market in derivatives.

Since the passage of Dodd-Frank in 2010, the C.F.T.C. has put in place dozens of generally sound new federal rules — on transparency and oversight — against nearly impossible odds, including relentless lobbying by big banks resisting regulation and severe Republican-driven budget shortfalls that have required tireless work from a skeletal staff. Though much work remains, credit for the progress that has been made largely goes to the commission’s chairman, Gary Gensler, a Wall Street derivatives expert-turned-reformer, chosen by President Obama in 2009, and Commissioner Bart Chilton, a Democrat and a firm reform advocate, chosen by President George W. Bush in 2007 and renominated by Mr. Obama in 2009.

Both commissioners are nearing the end of their terms and plan to leave their posts: Mr. Gensler at the end of this month, Mr. Chilton, sometime next year. Mr. Obama, however, has shown no interest in choosing replacements with similarly strong reform records and expert credentials. In November, he nominated Timothy Massad, a relatively unknown assistant Treasury secretary to be the next chairman. Mr. Massad, a former securities lawyer at a Wall Street law firm, has spent his time in the Obama administration overseeing the bank bailout program and the largely ineffectual foreclosure prevention effort. He has no deep expertise in derivatives or commodities.

Now, the administration is reportedly close to nominating Sharon Bowen, also a Wall Street securities lawyer, to replace Mr. Chilton. Ms. Bowen, an African-American, would bring much needed diversity to the commission, but she has no reform record and only a tangential connection to derivatives. She serves as the acting chairwoman of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, a federally chartered entity that works to return investor assets held by failed broker-dealers, like MF Global.

If Ms. Bowen is nominated and confirmed, that would leave the commission without a proven reformist or a technical derivatives expert. That situation would be unacceptable. The third Democratic commissioner, Mark Wetjen, has a reputation for second-guessing and watering down reforms. As for the two Republican seats on the commission, one is held by a foe of reform, and the second is vacant. For that seat, Mr. Obama nominated an industry lobbyist, J. Christopher Giancarlo, in August.

To make a difference, the new rules must be vigorously defended, monitored and enforced. The C.F.T.C. is sure to be barraged with demands for regulatory relief and subjected to political pressure to ease up. Only a deep understanding of the markets coupled with an unshakable commitment to reform will enable the new regulatory regime to survive. With his choice of nominees, Mr. Obama has to ensure, in a way that he has not yet demonstrated, that the C.F.T.C. will continue to make progress.
392 2013-12-17 WASHINGTON — USEC, the sole American company in the uranium enrichment business, said Monday that it would file for bankruptcy early next year, although it hopes to keep operating.

The company, which has received $257 million in Energy Department aid in the last two years, is a former government enterprise that the Reagan administration privatized. But like Amtrak and the Postal Service, other quasi-private entities created by the government, USEC has found life in the private sector rough going.

It plans to complete testing on prototype centrifuges and build more of them to offer enrichment on a commercial basis. USEC is aiming to compete with technologies developed in Western Europe and Russia.

But the market for enrichment has gone soft as many nuclear reactors have closed. Now, the company says that effort will cost $6.5 billion and will not be finished until 2017. Initially, it was supposed to cost $1.7 billion and be completed by 2005.

USEC, which formerly stood for the United States Enrichment Corporation and is based in Bethesda, Md., said that under the bankruptcy proceeding, holders of its secured debt would acquire 95 percent of the equity. Two companies that have been backing the centrifuge project, Toshiba and B&W, would become significant owners. The bankruptcy is “preplanned,” meaning that the company’s revised structure is in place.
393 2013-12-17 Beyoncé’s surprise album release last week was celebrated by some commentators as a herald of things to come in the music industry, and dismissed by others as a mere stunt. But by sheer sales numbers, it was an unqualified success.

The record, “Beyoncé” (Columbia), appeared on Apple’s iTunes store at midnight on Thursday with no warning. Yet Apple reported on Monday that it became the fastest-selling album in its history, with 828,773 around the world in its first three days, including 617,213 in the United States. It reached No. 1 on iTunes’s sales rankings in 104 countries.

In the United States, where albums are typically released on Tuesdays, “Beyoncé” had the fourth-biggest opening-week sales of any album this year, after Justin Timberlake’s “The 20/20 Experience” (with 968,000 sales), Eminem’s “The Marshall Mathers LP 2” (792,000) and Drake’s “Nothing Was the Same” (658,000). It also performed far better than Beyoncé’s last album, “4,” which sold 310,000 copies in its first week two years ago.

News of the release caught fire on social media. On Monday, Twitter published an animated heat map showing Beyoncé-themed tweets spreading across the planet, turning into a white-hot glow after a few hours in the United States, Britain and Turkey.

The surprise release defied most of the music industry’s standard marketing strategies, especially in how Beyoncé and Columbia did not supply a single to radio stations in advance. But radio programmers seized on it anyway, buying the album from iTunes and putting songs from it — particularly “Drunk in Love” and “Partition” — in rotation on multiple formats.

John Sykes, the president for entertainment enterprises at Clear Channel, which has about 850 stations, called the release “a great event for radio.” According to Mediabase, a radio tracking service, at least 14 million people in the United States were exposed to Beyoncé’s new songs over the radio by Sunday night.
394 2013-12-17 Ray Price, who was at the forefront of two revolutions in country music as one of its finest ballad singers and biggest hit makers, died on Monday at his home in Mount Pleasant, Tex. He was 87.

His death was announced by the veteran country disc jockey Bill Mack, a spokesman for Mr. Price’s family. Mr. Price had pancreatic cancer and had until recently been in hospice care.

Over a career that began in the 1940s, Mr. Price placed more than 100 singles on the country charts, including Top 10 hits like “City Lights,” “Heartaches by the Number” and “Make the World Go Away.” He hired future country stars to play in his band, notably Roger Miller, Willie Nelson and Johnny Paycheck. And Pamper Music, the publishing company that he owned with two partners, helped start the careers of hit songwriters like Harlan Howard, Hank Cochran and Mr. Nelson.

He was elected to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1996.

Mr. Price first helped change country music in the mid-1950s, when, hoping to distinguish his sound from that of his former roommate Hank Williams, he and his band transformed the gutbucket country shuffle of the postwar era into sleek, propulsive honky-tonk.

“We were having trouble getting a good, clean bass sound,” he said in an interview with The Washington Post in 1998, talking about the session that produced his breakthrough hit, “Crazy Arms,” a No. 1 country record for 20 weeks in 1956. “So instead of going with the standard 2/4 beat, I said, ‘Let’s try a 4/4 bass and a shuffle rhythm,’ and it cut. It cut clean through.”

Now a part of the American musical vernacular, the “Ray Price beat,” as it came to be known, not only achieved its desired sonic effect, but it also reclaimed the country charts for country music. “Crazy Arms” knocked Carl Perkins’s “Blue Suede Shoes” from the top spot at a time when teenage-friendly rockabilly acts like Perkins and Elvis Presley were crowding out more traditional singers like Hank Thompson and Hank Snow.
395 2013-12-17 “A Poor Apology of a Word,” by Henry Hitchings (Op-Ed, Dec. 14), had a very special appeal for me.

I remember that when I was a child, in the 1930s, my mother criticized male Londoners who habitually walked toward her without giving way, forcing her into the street. They always said, “Sorry.”

One day, she said to one of them, “Are you sorry?” And he said, “Not really.”

In lecturing neophyte residents and interns on the techniques of giving bad news to patients, I always suggested that they not use the word “sorry” because patients interpreted the word differently.

While the interns meant to express regret that the outcome wasn’t what was expected, the patient often interpreted it to include a degree of culpability.
396 2013-12-17 President Obama remarked in his eulogy to Nelson Mandela, “Reconciliation is not a matter of ignoring a cruel past, but a means of confronting it with inclusion and generosity and truth.”

The president should heed his own words and convene a federal truth commission examining our nation’s shameful and dangerous use of torture after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. When Senator Patrick Leahy proposed such a commission in 2009, the president opposed it. Therefore, much remains unknown about how our country systematically implemented torture and how to prevent it from happening again.

Nelson Mandela understood the danger of such ignorance. In 1994 he called for a truth commission on apartheid and not simply its dismantling. “What this issue raises,” he said, “is how we deal with a past that contained gross violations of human rights — a past which threatens to live with us as a festering sore.”

A comprehensive federal truth commission on American torture remains a moral and national security imperative. President Obama ignores Mr. Mandela’s cautionary words at our nation’s peril.

The writers are, respectively, director and policy coordinator of the Bellevue/N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture.
397 2013-12-17 This has been a year of notable 50th anniversaries, but time didn’t begin in 1963. A sorrowful PBS documentary on Tuesday night notes the 100th anniversary of an event forgotten by much of the country but not by the people of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula: a miners’ strike that led to a catastrophic stampede in which 73 people died, most of them children.

The program, “Red Metal: The Copper Country Strike of 1913,” is fairly generic as documentaries go, but in an age of battles over the minimum wage and concern about the distribution of wealth, it resonates. An organizing effort by the Western Federation of Miners led miners in and around Calumet to strike in July, and the companies (the Calumet and Hecla Mining Company was the biggest) were unyielding.

Wages — $3 a day — were an issue, and so was a new one-man drilling machine. Previously miners had worked in pairs, and they saw the new technology as both costing jobs and increasing risk in an already dangerous profession, since without a partner an injured miner could go without aid for hours.

At first the workers and their families plunged into the strike with an enthusiasm that is seldom seen in today’s more timid labor groups, and women took an uncharacteristically vocal role, partly in the hope that company enforcers wouldn’t beat them the way they were beating their husbands.

“These women would be out there shouting rude things that women shouldn’t be saying,” notes Alison K. Hoagland, a historian. “They would dip their brooms in the outhouse and smear the strikebreakers with it.”

On Christmas Eve an ugly strike turned far uglier when, at a party for miners’ children in a building known as the Italian Hall, someone — a prankster? a strikebreaker? — yelled fire. There was no fire, but there was a deadly stampede.
398 2013-12-17 In his unsettling new novel, Bruce Wagner exchanges his usual stomping ground of Hollywood for Big Sur and India, and at first glance this world of Buddhists, gurus and spiritual pilgrims might seem light-years removed from the Los Angeles of depravity, delusion and greed he depicted in his last book, “Dead Stars” (2012).

It quickly becomes apparent, however, that Mr. Wagner sees both worlds as petri dishes for narcissism, self-aggrandizement and the ravenous appetite for fame and renown.

Beneath their Zenlike garb of humility, many of the seekers and dispensers of salvation in “The Empty Chair” are as guilty of hubris and egomania as the Hollywood honchos and wannabes we have met in Mr. Wagner’s more salacious works; self-abnegation, it turns out, can be as much a form of self-absorption as self-promotion. Though this is an uneven book — with odd, icy patches of mannered prose and needlessly sensationalistic riffs — it demonstrates Mr. Wagner’s range as a writer, reminding us, after the embarrassing and willfully lurid “Dead Stars,” that he possesses a fluent ability to move back and forth between the satiric and the sympathetic, the scabrous and the tender. As he did in “Memorial” (2006) and the virtuosic “I’ll Let You Go” (2002), he demonstrates his talent here for creating characters far more complicated and conflicted than they first appear. They are susceptible to pride and silliness and self-delusion, but are also trying to grapple with loss, pain, grief and the abyss of mortality with every tool they have at hand, including desperate grasps after art and religion.

“The Empty Chair” consists of two dovetailing novellas, both told in the guise of confessional monologues, both served up to a fictional version of the author, called Bruce. Each monologue features an array of characters who are themselves given to confessional self-assessment, and the result is a narrative that resembles a set of Russian nesting dolls — the reliability of each character’s story framed and qualified by the telling of another’s.

The first novella concerns the 50-year-old Charley, whose beloved 12-year old son, Ryder, committed suicide — or accidentally hanged himself, perhaps in some misguided effort to achieve the sort of escape from the external world he’d heard his mother, Kelly, an ardent, even fanatical Buddhist, so often discuss. Kelly, Charley tells Bruce, received a contract for a spiritual memoir that she thought of calling “Nirvanarama” or “Impermanence Rocks.” And she got into a sort of competitive rivalry with her former mentor Dharmabud over spiritual territory — like teaching Buddhism to elementary school kids. She was particularly enthusiastic — at first, that is — about doing “mindfulness workshops” at San Quentin prison.
399 2013-12-17 Re “Considering the Humanity of Nonhumans” (News Analysis, Dec. 10): If animal species have legally enforceable “rights,” the ethical premise of reciprocity requires that they must have a corresponding duty to respect the rights of others. Only when the day comes when we humans are willing to hold animals morally and legally accountable for their actions toward us, and one another, can we regard our treatment of them as being a matter of “rights” and not simply a matter of humane compassion.

James Gorman reports that scientists are impressed by the actions of Santino, a chimp at a Swedish zoo. They were apparently most impressed by Santino’s stockpiling of rocks to throw at human visitors at a later time. Santino could apparently plan for the future.

To my mind, Santino’s humanity is convincingly demonstrated simply by his hurling rocks at human visitors to the zoo. His stockpiling is simply icing on the cake, a demonstration that he is more competent than many of his fellow humans.
400 2013-12-17 MOSCOW — Russia has deployed short-range ballistic missiles in the country’s west, a move that it contends does not violate international treaties, the Defense Ministry said Monday, though it conceivably would allow Russia to carry out a precise strike against the Baltic nations and Poland.

The deployment of the Iskander missiles, which have a maximum range of about 250 miles and are capable of carrying conventional or nuclear payloads, has often been threatened by Russia as a response to proposed extensions of an American missile defense shield in Eastern Europe. However, the announcement on Monday was the first official confirmation from the Russian government that the Iskander systems may already be deployed within striking distance of NATO countries in Europe.

“Iskander rocket complexes are indeed standing armed with the rocket and artillery divisions in the Western Military District,” a region that includes Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave between Lithuania and Poland, said Igor Konashenkov, a Defense Ministry spokesman.

Mr. Konashenkov was quoted by Russian state news agencies as saying that the locations of the missiles “do not contradict any international agreements or treaties.”

Iskander missiles, first used during Russia’s war with Georgia in 2008, have been a recurring threat during times of heightened tension between Russia and the West. When he was president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, now the prime minister, said in a 2011 address that the missiles could be placed in Kaliningrad to “secure the destruction of the European component of the U.S. missile defense system.”
401 2013-12-17 While those ministers would almost certainly be replaced by others loyal to Mr. Yanukovich, the changes could sap energy from the protest movement by making it seem as if the demonstrators had achieved their goal of ousting cabinet members, especially those responsible for recent police violence.

“The scenario is true,” said Viktoria Syumar, a civic activist and one of the organizers of the protest movement.

“So be it. The square will not disperse, but there will be less support in Kiev,” she said, referring to Independence Square, the site of protests. “The opposition will lose support.”

A senior economic aide to Mr. Putin, Andrei Belousov, also indicated on Monday that Russia was prepared to throw Ukraine a financial lifeline. Inevitably, that will raise questions about what the Kremlin ultimately expects in return.

“The situation in Ukraine right now is such that without the provision of some sort of loans from someone or other they simply won’t be able to maintain economic stability,” Mr. Belousov told the Interfax news agency in Moscow. “I don’t rule out that a loan will be extended if there is such a request,” he said.

Protest leaders in Ukraine have called for a major rally again in Kiev on Tuesday as a sort of vigil against Mr. Yanukovich cutting a secret deal with Russia.

Ever since Mr. Yanukovich balked at signing far-reaching political and free trade agreements with the European Union last month, demonstrators have expressed fear that he would join the customs union, increasing Russia’s leverage over Ukraine and precluding for the foreseeable future any possibility of reviving the accords with Europe.

In recent months, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia have committed to joining the customs union, which would allow goods to cross borders without clearing customs and permit citizens of a member country to work legally in the territory of any other member.

Armenia had been in negotiations with the European Union, but after a meeting with Mr. Putin in Moscow in September, the Armenian president, Serzh Sargsyan, abruptly announced that his country would join with Russia instead.

While Ukraine’s economic crisis has grown more severe, talks with the International Monetary Fund broke off weeks ago. And though Western officials have said they still hope to help Ukraine, Mr. Yanukovich has focused his efforts on seeking aid from Russia.

A meeting this month between Mr. Yanukovich and Mr. Putin in the Russian Black Sea resort city of Sochi, where the Winter Olympics will be held early in the new year, animated the protesters here with rumors of secret deals on joining the customs union.

Officials in each country denied those rumors, and on Monday, Russia’s minister of economic development issued yet another categorical denial that the customs union would be discussed on Tuesday.

Asked at a news conference if Ukraine’s possible entry into the customs union group would be discussed, the minister, Aleksei Ulyukayev, replied: “No. We have already said that is a big and difficult job.”

Any assistance from Russia, however, will inevitably raise questions and suspicious about what the Kremlin ultimately will receive in return.
402 2013-12-17 “That caused me to think about it more than I otherwise would have,” he said, “and I thought my views as a citizen might commend themselves to others.”

In his essay, Judge Rakoff is careful to say that he does not know if high-level executives committed crimes as they presided over the collapse of the market for mortgage-backed securities. That would seem to keep him out of judicial-ethics trouble and available to hear future cases. But he seems inclined to credit the conclusions of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which found rampant incompetence, mendacity and fraud.

Judge Rakoff is more direct in assessing the Justice Department’s principal reasons for failing to prosecute top executives. He acknowledges that it can be hard to prove criminal intent, particularly against people several levels removed from those who constructed and marketed the securities.

But the legal doctrine of “willful blindness” could be put to valuable use, he writes, adding that “the department’s claim that proving intent in the financial crisis is particularly difficult may strike some as doubtful.”

A second argument against prosecution is even weaker, the judge writes, singling out statements by Lanny A. Breuer, an assistant attorney general in charge of the department’s criminal division, in a 2012 interview with the PBS program “Frontline.” Mr. Breuer said that there were “very sophisticated counterparties on both sides” on many transactions and that proving fraud is hard if they did not accept what they were told at face value.

“I have to prove,” Mr. Breuer said, “not only that you made a false statement but that you intended to commit a crime, and also that the other side of the transaction relied on what you were saying.”

That last phrase, Judge Rakoff writes, “totally misstates the law.”

“In actuality, in a criminal fraud case the government is never required to prove — ever — that one party to a transaction relied on the word of another,” he writes.

Judge Rakoff also has no patience with Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.’s statement to Congress that some prosecutions should be approached with caution because they may “have a negative impact on the national economy, perhaps even the world economy.”

Judge Rakoff says that “this excuse — sometimes labeled the ‘too big to jail’ excuse — is disturbing, frankly, in what it says about the department’s apparent disregard for equality under the law.”

Brian Fallon, a Justice Department spokesman, said Judge Rakoff “does not identify a single case where a financial executive should have been charged, but wasn’t.”

“The department has criminally prosecuted thousands of defendants for financial fraud and other related crimes in the last five years, and there are a number of active investigations still ongoing,” he added. “Even in striking the nation’s largest-ever settlement with JPMorgan last month, the department preserved its ability to investigate and potentially charge individuals at the company if the evidence supports it.”

Having found the department’s rationales unconvincing or worse, Judge Rakoff asks: “What’s really going on here?”

Freely admitting that he is speculating, he offers three theories. One was that the department had other priorities, including terrorism, the Madoff scandal and insider trading cases. A second was that the government’s own role in the financial crisis complicated matters.

“This would give a prudent prosecutor pause in deciding whether to indict a C.E.O. who might, with some justice, claim that he was only doing what he fairly believed the government wanted him to do,” he writes.

The third reason is the most interesting: an institutional shift toward prosecuting companies rather than individuals. This has yielded some enormous monetary settlements but has, Judge Rakoff writes, “led to some lax and dubious behavior on the part of prosecutors, with deleterious results.”

The fear of prison concentrates the mind in a way the prospect of writing a check on a corporate account does not. “And from a moral standpoint,” Judge Rakoff writes, “punishing a company and its many innocent employees and shareholders for the crimes committed by some unprosecuted individuals seems contrary to elementary notions of moral responsibility.”
403 2013-12-17 Israel has strong trade ties with Western Europe, where the B.D.S. campaign has won some backing for economic measures, a particular concern for Israelis. Last week a Dutch company, Vitens, announced that it would not do business with Israel’s national water company, Mekorot, because of Israel’s policies in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.

Israel recently faced a potential crisis when it seemed its universities and companies would lose out on some $700 million for research from a European Union program after new guidelines prohibited investment in any institutions operating in territory Israel seized in the 1967 war. Israeli academics were reeling at the possibility that they would be punished over government policy toward the Palestinians, until Israeli and European officials struck a deal late last month to allow Israel to participate.

In April, the Teachers’ Union of Ireland endorsed an academic boycott of Israel, and several times in recent years there have been strong efforts within Britain’s largest professors’ group, the University and College Union, to do the same.

Israelis have long seen Europe as more hostile — even anti-Semitic in some pockets — but a slap from the United States has a particular sting.

“Rather than standing up for academic freedom and human rights by boycotting countries where professors are imprisoned for their views, the A.S.A. chooses as its first ever boycott to boycott Israel, the sole democracy in the Middle East, in which academics are free to say what they want, write what they want and research what they want,” Ron Dermer, Israel’s ambassador to the United States, said Monday.

America is viewed not only as Israel’s staunchest ally, but its best friend, and many analysts have fretted publicly in recent weeks that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s outspoken opposition to the interim Iran nuclear deal had damaged relations with Washington.

Next month, the Modern Language Association’s annual meeting will debate a resolution calling on the State Department to criticize Israel for barring American professors from going to Gaza and the West Bank when invited by Palestinian universities.

People on both sides of the issue acknowledged that despite the heat it generates, the requested boycott will have little practical effect, at least for now. The American Studies Association resolution bars official collaboration with Israeli institutions but not with Israeli scholars themselves; it has no binding power over members, and no American colleges have signed on.

In fact, the American Association of University Professors, the nation’s largest professors’ group, said it opposed the boycott. A number of American scholars, while angry at Israeli policies in the West Bank, say they oppose singling Israel out over other countries with far worse human rights records. Others say it makes little sense to focus on Israeli universities where government policy often comes under strong criticism.

“O.K., so a couple of Israeli researchers will not be invited by a couple of American researchers,” said Avraham Burg, a leftist former Labor Party lawmaker who was one of the founders of Molad, a research group that recently published a report on Israeli isolation. “That for me is awful, because the academic community is the last one with the freedom of thought and freedom of expression.”

But Omar Barghouti, a Palestinian activist and a founder of the B.D.S. movement, said the boycott vote shed light on the close collaboration between Israel’s universities and its government and military, and it put those universities on notice that they will become unwelcome in international academic circles.

“It is perhaps the strongest indicator yet that the B.D.S. movement is reaching a tipping point, even in the U.S., the last bastion of support for Israel’s unjust system,” he said.

President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority has publicly rejected a boycott of Israel. While pro-boycott forces draw parallels to the sanctions movement against South Africa during the apartheid era, Mr. Abbas, who was in South Africa last week for the funeral of Nelson Mandela, restated the Palestinian Authority’s longstanding position of supporting a boycott only against products made in West Bank settlements, but not institutions that operate within Israel’s 1948 lines.

“We are neighbors with Israel, we have agreements with Israel, we recognize Israel, we are not asking anyone to boycott products of Israel,” Majdi Khaldi, an adviser to Mr. Abbas, said in an interview on Monday. “The problem is two things: occupation, and the government of Israel continuing settlement activities.”

On Dec. 4, the 20-member national council of the American Studies Association voted unanimously for a boycott resolution, but decided to put the matter to a full membership vote. The group said that of 1,252 members who cast ballots, 66.05 percent voted in favor and 30.5 percent against, with the rest abstaining.

The American Association of University Professors, with 48,000 members repeated its position that while economic action against a nation might be warranted, academic boycotts stifle academic freedom and are likely to hurt people who are not the intended targets.

But the American Studies Association’s online forum filled with comments rejecting that logic, like this one from David Palumbo-Liu, a professor at Stanford: “People who truly believe in academic freedom would realize protesting the blatant and systemic denial of academic freedom to Palestinians, which is coupled with material deprivation of a staggering scale, far outweighs concerns we in the West might have about our own rather privileged academic freedoms.”
404 2013-12-17 Oil production in North Dakota and Texas is expanding so rapidly that a glut of certain higher grades of oil has already developed in the Midwest and Gulf States. That glut is beginning to stir a debate in Washington over whether the Obama administration should reverse a policy of banning most exports of oil that goes back to the 1970s.

Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz last week suggested to reporters at an energy conference in New York that the time may have come to reassess a policy that was enacted when the American economy was put in jeopardy by oil embargoes from Arab states.

Under current law, the Commerce Department grants licenses for exports, but Mr. Moniz said that the Energy Department, which normally directs energy policy, would be willing to conduct the technical analysis that would help shape a new policy.

Today, American dependence on imported oil is declining month by month because of the expanded domestic production. And its exports, which are sent mostly to Canada, have increased substantially over the last two years, though they remain small.

Oil companies have urged the administration to allow the exports of the higher-grade types of oil now being produced, saying that much American refining capacity is suited for lower-quality crudes imported from Mexico, Venezuela and the Middle East.

The report projects increased exports of natural gas over the next few years. This represents a drastic change from just a few years ago, when the United States was planning to import more natural gas.

The federal agency also concluded that natural gas would overtake coal as the most important source of domestic electric power generation in the years ahead. It predicted that by 2040, natural gas would account for 35 percent of total generation, while coal would account for 32 percent. At present, coal provides about 40 percent of electricity, while natural gas accounts for about 30 percent of electricity generation.

Energy experts say it is unlikely the United States will ever be totally self-sufficient for its oil supplies. But expanding imports from Canada and other Western Hemisphere producers, coupled with growing domestic production and increasingly fuel efficient transportation, should mean declining dependence on countries that are either unfriendly or unstable.

According to a separate report by the International Energy Agency, also released Monday, global consumption of coal, a major source of the greenhouse gases blamed for rising global temperatures and other pollutants, is likely to continue to grow at “a relentless pace” through 2018.

The report, released in Paris, underscored the problem facing the world with regard to coal. Because coal is relatively inexpensive and abundant, it remains the dominant fuel for the generation of electricity, especially in developing countries like China. Yet burning coal is also highly polluting, both in producing smog and greenhouse gases that have been linked by many scientists to climate change.

“Like it or not, coal is here to stay for a long time to come,” Maria van der Hoeven, the agency’s executive director, said in a conference call with reporters on Monday.

The agency said that the consumption of coal for electricity generation and heat accounted for more than three-fifths of the rise in global carbon dioxide emissions since 2000. Coal use increased by an average of 3.4 percent per year from 2007 to 2012, faster than the increase in either oil or natural gas. Consumption through 2018 is expected to increase by 2.3 percent a year, the I.E.A. said.

The agency, which represents 28 member countries, said that technology existed to make coal-fired power plants less polluting, but that a large proportion of the installations being built in emerging markets like India and Indonesia were inefficient. Using efficient technologies at these Asian plants would reduce carbon dioxide emissions by as much as all the wind turbines in Europe, the agency said.

In addition, progress has stalled on carbon capture and storage, a once-promising technology that strips out greenhouse gases from the emissions of power plants and other polluters and injects them into abandoned natural gas wells and other storage locations, the I.E.A. said.
405 2013-12-17 This chart looks ahead to the rest of the season and indicates what kind of fantasy matchup team’s top receiver, or WR1, will have, depending on how many standard fantasy points a particular defense has allowed to WR1’s heading into that week. Also included, for each player in the third row, is the actual fantasy performance for that week, so you can compare the performance to the matchup.
406 2013-12-17 This chart looks ahead to the rest of the season and indicates what kind of fantasy matchup a player will have, depending on how many fantasy points a particular defense has allowed to the position. Also included is the actual fantasy performance for past weeks, compared to that week’s matchup.
407 2013-12-17 This chart looks ahead to the rest of the season and indicates what kind of fantasy matchup a player will have, depending on how many fantasy points a particular defense has allowed to the position.

This chart looks ahead to the rest of the season and indicates what kind of fantasy matchup a player will have, depending on how many fantasy points a particular defense has allowed to the position.

Opposing teams that allowed 22 or more fantasy points per game to the position heading into that week.

 Opposing teams that allowed 20 to 21.9 fantasy points per game to the position heading into that week. 

 Opposing teams that allowed 15 to 16.9 fantasy points per game or less heading into that week.

 Opposing teams that allowed 14.9 fantasy points per game or less heading into that week.
408 2013-12-18 GABEL--Faye You are missed, loved, and remembered, Happy Birthday. Iris, Michele, Suzie, Monica, Randi and all your Great-Grandchildren...
409 2013-12-18 George Barany and Michael Shteyman compose a puzzle together separately....
410 2013-12-18 The new Center for Italian Modern Art in SoHo will showcase modern and contemporary Italian art....
411 2013-12-18 Michael S. Steinberg is the highest-ranking employee at SAC Capital Advisors to become ensnared in a sweeping insider trading investigation....
412 2013-12-18 Becky O'Neill of Alexandria, Va., started off walking one dog at a time. Today, her business posts $2.3 million in annual revenue.
413 2013-12-18 Video ads coming to Facebook. Learning from Beyonce. Should owners lend money to employees?...
414 2013-12-18 Intel said it would provide advanced technology for a new stadium being built for the 49ers in Santa Clara, a city 45 miles south of San Francisco that is also the company’s headquarters....
415 2013-12-18 Signs of progress on wasteful, warming flaring of natural gas in America’s Bakken oil patch....
416 2013-12-18 Mr. van Zwieten discussed the outlook for investor appetite in Indian private equity in the coming year....
417 2013-12-18 In its first official statement on the near collision of Chinese and American warships, the ministry refrained from alleging any improper conduct by the American side....
418 2013-12-18 Joe Pavelski scored the first of three straight goals by San Jose, and Antti Niemi stopped 20 shots to lead the visiting Sharks to a 4-2 win over the St. Louis Blues.
419 2013-12-18 A Nebraska nuclear plant that has been idle for nearly three years because of flooding and a series of safety concerns has been cleared to begin operations again. The federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission said Tuesday that the facility, the Omaha Public Power District’s Fort Calhoun nuclear plant, is safe to restart. Fort Calhoun, which is on the Missouri River about 20 miles north of Omaha, has been closed since April 2011.
420 2013-12-18 The Washington City Council on Tuesday unanimously approved raising the minimum wage to $11.50 an hour, one of the highest rates among American cities. The new rate, increased from $8.25, would take effect in 2016 and be indexed for inflation. Mayor Vincent Gray, a Democrat, opposed the measure, saying it was unclear how it would affect the labor market. He urged raising the minimum to $10 an hour instead. The unanimous vote means the Council could pass it over Mr. Gray’s veto. The Council coordinated the increase with lawmakers in Montgomery and Prince George’s Counties in Maryland, which approved similar measures last month.
421 2013-12-18 LOS ANGELES — Paul A. Ciancia, the man accused of killing an airport safety officer and shooting three others during a rampage at Los Angeles International Airport last month, has been indicted on 11 charges, including first-degree murder, the Department of Justice announced Tuesday.

Mr. Ciancia, 23, is charged with the murder of Gerardo I. Hernandez, a Transportation Security Administration officer, and the attempted murder of two other T.S.A. officers.

Mr. Ciancia seemed to be specifically out to harm federal workers, according to law enforcement officials. A handwritten note found at the scene singled out the T.S.A. as an emblem of problems with the federal government, and also mentioned Janet Napolitano, the former secretary of homeland security, according to a federal official.

Multiple witnesses said the gunman appeared to be targeting T.S.A. officials. The indictment alleges that Mr. Ciancia shot the three officers using a Smith & Wesson 5.56-millimeter M&P15 semiautomatic rifle. He also faces multiple weapons charges. If convicted on any of the three charges based on the killing of Mr. Hernandez, Mr. Ciancia could face the death penalty. The Justice Department has not yet made a decision about whether to seek capital punishment.

At the time of the Nov. 1 shooting, Mr. Ciancia was an out-of-work car mechanic, living in the Sun Valley neighborhood of Los Angeles, about 30 miles northeast of the airport. A family member called the Los Angeles police that morning, expressing concern for Mr. Ciancia’s well-being. Officers went to his apartment less than an hour after the attack at the airport had begun. But roommates assured them he was fine, according to police officials.

Earlier that day, according to legal documents, he walked into a roommate’s room and asked for a ride to the airport.
422 2013-12-18 Ms. Ayllón said there was no record that Mr. Ostreicher had crossed the border, adding that he had evaded border controls.

“Obviously for him it was easy,” she said, adding that Bolivia has a long border and many crossings. “We have some weaknesses like the lack of control at border crossings.”

She said that Mr. Ostreicher traveled on to Lima, where he appeared to have been using his own name and passport. She said that records in Lima showed he left Lima on an LAN airlines flight to the United States Sunday night. Mr. Ostreicher’s time in Bolivia received a lot of publicity after the actor Sean Penn publicly called for his release. Mr. Penn’s efforts were instrumental in obtaining Mr. Ostreicher’s transfer from prison to house arrest. Representative Christopher H. Smith of New Jersey, who has been active in efforts to obtain Mr. Ostreicher’s freedom, issued a brief statement that ended with his thanking “Sean Penn for his tireless work to free Jacob.” Aides to Mr. Smith said he would not say more. Mr. Penn’s publicist, Mara Buxbaum, did not return a call seeking his comment.

But Mr. Ostreicher’s daughter, Gitty Weinberger, told an entirely different story Tuesday. She said she had been told by her uncle, Aron Ostreicher, that her father was kidnapped from Santa Cruz. Her uncle, she said, made contact with the kidnappers and “negotiated a ransom.” She said she had not yet spoken with her father.

“He paid X amount of money and my father was dropped off in Pacific waters,” said Mrs. Weinberger, 31, the mother of five, in a phone call from her home in Lakewood, N.J. She did not know whether by Pacific waters her uncle meant a boat. “From there he was taken to an undisclosed location,” she said.

She said she received confirmation of her father’s escape when she received a phone call Monday afternoon from Mr. Smith telling her that the State Department had learned that Mr. Ostreicher was “safe in the United States in an undisclosed location.”

“He’s 100 percent in the United States,” said Mrs. Weinberger.

A State Department spokesman said “Mr. Ostreicher arrived in the United States Monday morning,” but would not give more details.

Aron Ostreicher did not return several calls asking for an account of the escape or the supposed kidnapping.

One American government official who has been fighting for Mr. Ostreicher’s freedom said he thought the kidnapping tale was “a cover story” to lessen Bolivia’s embarrassment and deter officials there from aggressively seeking his extradition.Some Bolivian political analysts said the nation might have been happy to see Mr. Ostreicher leave because his case had widened to include embarrassing corruption charges against government officials accused of trying to extort him and steal his assets. The American official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of concerns about the safety of those involved in the escape, said he learned from relatives involved in Mr. Ostreicher’s rescue that a team of “professionals” orchestrated and assisted Mr. Ostreicher’s escape to Peru and onward.

Mr. Penn, a leftist who is on good terms with Bolivian President Evo Morales, was contacted by an organization that aids Jewish prisoners and traveled to Bolivia last December, where he publicly called for Mr. Ostreicher’s release. Mr. Ostreicher was let out of prison and confined to his home in Santa Cruz. But the authorities would not let him leave the country.

Ms. Ayllón said that Mr. Ostreicher’s house arrest required him to be confined to his home from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m., after which he was free to carry out activities. He was asked to report to the authorities every 15 days. There were no guards, she said.

“The charges against him are still in effect and undoubtedly his escape shows us that this man took part in the crimes he is accused of,” she said, adding that the government would ask the United States to extradite Mr. Ostreicher.

Jimmy Montaño, a lawyer for Mr. Ostreicher in Santa Cruz, said that for the first three or four months of Mr. Ostreicher’s house arrest there was a round-the-clock police guard at his home but that it was eventually lifted.

Mr. Ostreicher’s daughter said she had not seen her father since August when she traveled there. She said her father, who has the tremors of Parkinson’s disease, did not look well.

Mr. Ostreicher’s wife, Miriam, said the two separated in September. She said she had not heard from him about his return.
423 2013-12-18 But so far, the companies have been losing ground, and will probably not reduce the amount of flaring to the level of other oil-producing states for at least another five years.

Statoil, the Norwegian oil giant, is teaming up with General Electric here in the wheat fields of McKenzie County, the heart of the Bakken field, on a low-cost prototype it hopes will be used as far away as Africa and Asia, where gas now flared could be gathered for cooking and other uses.

The first step of the process is to strip out of the gas valuable natural gas liquids like butane and propane, which can be used for petrochemical production. The liquids can then be put in pressurized tanks and delivered by truck to processing plants. The rest of the gas can be compressed and stored in what G.E. calls “C.N.G. in a box.”

The device was originally designed to be a mobile natural gas station to fill up cars, trucks and buses. But Statoil plans to use the boxes to fuel equipment, particularly drilling rigs that have already been converted to replace 40 percent of the diesel they burn with gas.

By Statoil’s calculations, if all the rigs in the Bakken were converted to run even partly on natural gas, more than 60 million cubic feet of natural gas — or roughly a fifth of the gas now being flared — could be saved every day.

Statoil is also bringing new equipment to the Bakken for fracking — the high-pressure injection of water, sand and chemicals that forces open the deep underground shale rock — that can also run on a mix of diesel and natural gas.

The costs of the program are modest. A General Electric compression box costs about $1.1 million, and the mobile processor costs about $500,000, according to Statoil executives. The company hopes to get the first pilot running by early January and have up to eight compression units running by the end of 2014.

“If we can show a successful pathway to adopting natural gas in high-horsepower applications — rigs, frack crews, heavy duty trucking, railways — that will increase demand,” said John Westerheide, the strategic marketing leader for unconventional resources at G.E. Oil and Gas. And if demand goes up, energy economists say, natural gas prices will also go up and further increase incentives to capture it.

Other companies already have their own plans to make the gas more of an economic asset.

The railroad giant BNSF, which now ships the majority of Bakken crude oil out of the state, is preparing to test North Dakota’s abundant and cheap natural gas as an alternative fuel to far more expensive diesel for its locomotives. And two companies have begun planning construction of two giant fertilizer plants, representing nearly $3 billion in investments in the state, which would use North Dakota’s natural gas as a feedstock and supply farmers in the Dakotas, Minnesota, Montana and Canada.

Michael Hosford, global general manager for unconventional resources at G.E. Oil and Gas, said he hoped to quickly work out the kinks in G.E.'s venture with Statoil and expand it globally. “It’s not North Dakota-bound; it is all over the world,” he said. “It’s China; it’s Nigeria. It’s very much an international concern.”

Natural gas flaring around the world results in emissions of 400 million tons of carbon dioxide a year, according to the World Bank. That is equivalent to the emissions of 77 million cars, and much of that wasted gas is produced in countries where natural gas could provide power to people who subsist without electricity.

But the problem here in North Dakota remains nettlesome.

The effort to stem flaring is complicated by the sheer size of the Bakken — which at more than 15,000 square miles is the most extensive oil field in the country — and the frenzy of drilling that has doubled oil production in the last two years to a million barrels a day.

So many wells are being drilled that energy experts expect an additional 40 percent increase in the gas produced in the field by the end of 2015.

Industry executives say they will eventually bring the flaring under control, though that might not happen until the 2020s. “By the end of 2015, you’ll see a significant decrease in flame volumes,” said Brad Borror, a spokesman for Oneok, the leading gas pipeline and gas processor company in the Bakken.

Justin Kringstad, director of the North Dakota Pipeline Authority, said the companies were building pipelines “at an incredibly fast rate.”

More than 2,400 miles of pipeline, most for natural gas gathering, were built in 2012, a pace that “has caught up to the pace of drilling and now is actually a little bit faster.”

At the same time, processing plant capacity has doubled since 2010 and six gas processing plants will be either built or expanded in North Dakota in the next few years, increasing processing capacity from a current 1.01 billion cubic feet of processing capacity to nearly 1.7 billion cubic feet of capacity by the end of 2015.

Nevertheless, producers are flaring three times as much gas as only two years ago, even as the percentage of produced gas flamed into the sky has decreased to 29 percent, from 36 percent.

“The production and development is outpacing the safeguards to the environment,” said Wayde Schafer, conservation organizer for the Sierra Club in North Dakota.

Under current North Dakota law, oil companies can flare gas for the first year of a well’s production, which is often the time when the most gas bubbles up. If they can show that it is not economically feasible to connect to a pipeline after the first year, they can get an extension and continue flaring.

“It will take a combination of entrepreneurship, the companies being embarrassed and tighter regulation,” said Connie Triplett, a Democratic state senator pressing for tighter controls. She characterized a recent move by the Legislature to offer tax incentives to companies that capture rather than flare gas as “a baby step” in the right direction.

“I always worry about regulations,” said Mr. Langford, Statoil’s vice president. “If we need to hyper-focus, then let’s really hyper-focus on flaring now and accelerate. We’ll end up with technologies that hopefully we can pass on.”
424 2013-12-18 The official poverty rate today is 15 percent. But by a newly deployed, more comprehensive Census Bureau definition, which provides a more realistic tab on people’s needs and takes into account the effect of government benefits, 16 percent of Americans are poor.

This is just 3 percentage points less than in 1967, the earliest year for which the data is available. It amounts to 50 million people.

Why so many still? Did the United States wage a war on poverty, lose and move on?

By the coarsest understanding of poverty the answer is no. Even the poor have made progress since the ‘60s as the nation’s living standards have risen. If poverty were defined based on what people bought in 1967, adjusted only for inflation, the poverty rate would have fallen to about 11 percent today, according to research by Jane Waldfogel and other researchers at Columbia University.

But poverty is best measured relative to the actual living standards of our own society. By the standards of the 19th century, for instance, practically no American is poor. In comparison with Bangladeshis, there are precious few poor in the United States.

A more nuanced analysis of the evolution of poverty and America’s efforts to combat it is not so consoling.

Recent research on poverty suggests that government programs have done, in fact, a much better job than the headline statistics suggest. The reason the poverty rate has budged so little is that the job of fixing it has gotten harder.

“The government is doing more to reduce poverty now than it did in the 1960s,” Professor Waldfogel said.

Without the panoply of government benefits — like food stamps, subsidized school lunches and the earned-income tax credit, which provides extra money to household heads earning low wages — the nation’s poverty rate last year would have reached almost 31 percent, up from 25 percent in 1967, according to the research at Columbia.

In 1967, government programs moved about 3 percent of children out of poverty. In 2012, they prevented 12 percent of children from dropping below the poverty line.

Hilary Hoynes of the University of California, Berkeley, explained why that has not made much of a dent in the numbers: “A flat poverty trend is better than we would have expected from the structural changes in the labor market.”

Think of it this way: Despite a half-century worth of technological progress and some fairly robust economic growth for much of that time, the labor market does a worse job lifting people out of poverty today than it did before Neil Armstrong set foot on the moon.

Government transfers in the United States are far more meager than antipoverty efforts in other advanced nations.

In 2010, government transfers reduced the Dutch poverty rate — defined as people with less than half the median income — from 25 percent to 7.5 percent, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Government programs in the United States, on the equivalent measure, trimmed it to 17 percent from 28 percent.

Unemployment insurance here — the main tool to shield workers from adverse turns of the economic cycle — is far stingier than it is elsewhere. At the same time, Washington offers very little for adults without children on the assumption that they can and should work. But during a recession and periods of slack demand, that is impossible for many otherwise employable people.

Welfare reform in the mid-1990s, to a large extent, replaced cash payments with food stamps and an expanded earned-income tax credit. But the tax credit is of no use to those without jobs. “It is not well suited to provide traditional income insurance,” Professor Hoynes said.

Importantly, government benefits can make it tough for people to leave poverty behind. “There’s a lot of action at the very bottom,” Professor Waldfogel said. “But once you hit the poverty line a lot goes away.”

For a two-parent family with children and a breadwinner earning $25,000, it makes little financial sense for the other spouse to get a job. After subtracting taxes, lost government benefits and the added cost of child care, the family would take in only some 30 cents of each additional dollar, according to calculations by Melissa Kearney and Lesley Turner of the University of Maryland.

“There are huge work disincentives here,” said Professor Kearney, who also runs the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution. “They should be allowed to keep more disposable income. They are doing — quote, unquote — what they are supposed to and they are not much better off than they were before.”

And yet for all the shortcomings of the government’s strategy, the main reason for America’s persistent poverty is the disappearance of jobs with decent pay that can take workers above the poverty line without the government’s help.

The war on poverty was not just about the poor. President Johnson saw it as a way to “prove the success of our system; to disprove those cynics and critics at home and abroad who question our purpose and our competence.”

Our system provides extraordinary rewards for the successful. But as long as so many are left so far behind, the success of our system remains in doubt.

America has not stopped fighting the war on poverty. President Obama’s health law should, when functioning properly, prevent medical expenses from dragging many families into bankruptcy.

Yet winning this war will require more than expanded government benefits. It will probably require a different sort of labor market that provides a better first line of defense. That is a much tougher war to win.
425 2013-12-18 WASHINGTON — Consumer prices were unchanged in November, held down by falling gasoline prices. Inflation remained low across the broader economy.

The flat reading of the Consumer Price Index last month came after a drop of 0.1 percent in October, the Labor Department said Tuesday.

Gasoline prices declined 1.6 percent in November to keep overall prices down. Over the last 12 months, consumer prices have risen just 1.2 percent. That is well below the Federal Reserve’s 2 percent inflation target.

Excluding volatile energy and food costs, the core Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent in November from October and just 1.7 percent over the last 12 months.

Relatively high unemployment and small wage increases have kept consumers from ramping up spending, making it difficult for businesses to raise prices since the recession ended. Still, recent economic reports, including those on industrial production and the job market, have pointed to a pickup in the economy.
426 2013-12-18 Critics called him a con man, a lunatic, a heretic and worse. But to his believers he was a throwback to the biblical prophets, spreading the word of Christ’s second coming, of a Judgment Day and a rapture, when the faithful would ascend into heaven and nonbelievers would be destroyed in a five-month worldwide cataclysm of earthquakes, fires and floods.

He was, in any case, a determined messenger. Starting in the 1970s, he predicted the world’s demise many times, drawing scant attention. His first widely noted doomsday was on May 21, 1988. He later published “1994?” — a 500-page book setting a range of dates that September. Despite the derision of mainstream Christian groups and scathing secular critics, Mr. Camping, having conceded errors in his earlier calculations, decided to try again in late 2008.

The end, he said, would come on May 21, 2011. The date was based on a complex formula involving the biblical flood survived by Noah in what Mr. Camping said was 4,990 B.C., a 7,000-year clock that began ticking from that moment, and the subtraction of one year because of a difference in the Old Testament and New Testament calendars.

Mr. Camping, a thin man with a craggy face and a resonant baritone radio voice, relentlessly promoted the date and its fateful consequences for more than two years on his listener-supported network, on 5,000 billboards and in countless books and pamphlets translated into 75 languages. To pay for it all, he raised tens of millions of dollars from listeners.

As the day closed in, there was an avalanche of publicity: newspaper and magazine articles, television forums and nonstop chatter on the Internet. Opinions ran from portentous credulity to merry mockery, with lots of clownish commentary and anguished hand-wringing. Mr. Camping estimated that seven billion would die, and followers spoke of settling their affairs and spending their final days with loved ones.

No one knows how many people rushed into marriages, scrambled to repent, ran up credit-card debts, threw last parties, quit their jobs or gave away their possessions. But the reaction was widespread and in some cases tragic, especially among people who feared being left behind to face an agonizing end.

With three days to go, a mother in Palmdale, Calif., stabbed her daughters, 11 and 14 years old, and cut her own throat with a box cutter, the police said, to avoid the calamity. All survived. A man in Taiwan, fearing that recent earthquakes and tsunamis signaled imminent doom, leapt to his death from a building. And in Antioch, Calif., a man who could not swim tried to reach God across a lake and drowned, the police said.

When nothing much happened on May 21, legions of crestfallen believers professed astonishment and disappointment. Many called Family Radio to denounce Mr. Camping as a false prophet. His Oakland station was vandalized, and there were threats against him, his family and station personnel.

Mr. Camping said he was “flabbergasted” that his predictions had not materialized. After a few days in seclusion to figure out what had gone wrong, he announced new conclusions — basically that God had quietly completed Judgment Day on May 21 and closed the books on heaven — and said he had recalibrated the end-of-times date for five months later, on Oct. 21. The new prediction was delivered in low key, without billboards or pamphlets. Mr. Camping said there was no need because the process of salvation was over.

The F.C.C. received complaints from around the nation demanding revocation of Family Radio’s broadcast licenses for having created a panic and deceived listeners into donating millions to perpetuate a falsehood. The F.C.C. rarely intervenes in religious disputes and was unlikely to act.

Weeks after the May 21 fiasco, Mr. Camping suffered a mild stroke and suspended his program. He returned in September, but spoke no more of earthquakes and fiery doom. He told listeners: “I really am beginning to think as I restudied these matters that there’s going to be no big display of any kind. The end is going to come very, very quietly.”

And nothing momentous happened on Oct. 21.

Five months later, in a letter to followers on his ministry’s website in March 2012, Mr. Camping not only apologized for getting it wrong, but acknowledged that he had “no new evidence pointing to another date for the end of the world” and “no interest in even considering another date.” But he found a silver lining in the confusion, noting that his “incorrect and sinful statement allowed God to get the attention of a great many people who otherwise would not have paid attention.”

Harold Egbert Camping was born in Boulder, Colo., on July 19, 1921, one of five brothers raised in Southern California by Dutch immigrants steeped in the Protestant doctrines of the Christian Reformed Church. He earned a degree in civil engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1942.

In 1943, he and Shirley Vander Schuur were married. They had six children and many grandchildren.

In 1946, he founded a construction company that prospered, and by 35, he was a millionaire. In the 1950s, he turned increasingly to Bible study, often devoting eight hours a day to the Scriptures.

He and two other men founded Family Stations Inc. in 1958 and, a year later, began broadcasting fundamentalist Christian programming on a San Francisco station. It was a rapid success. He later sold his construction company, became the expanding network’s unsalaried president and general manager, and in 1961 began hosting “Open Forum.” He also wrote some 30 books and pamphlets.

The network grew to at least 140 radio stations in America, Europe, Asia and Africa, two television outlets and a website. A 2009 financial disclosure published by the nonprofit news organization The Bay Citizen showed that the network had a budget of $36.7 million, $18.3 million in listener contributions, $34 million in investments, $56 million in assets and $29 million in liabilities.
427 2013-12-18 Repairing the damage from Sandy’s floods last year took longer than Buzzy O’Keeffe, the owner of the River Café, had anticipated. “I had hoped to reopen on the anniversary of the storm, and I missed that,” he said. “Then I wanted to be open for Thanksgiving, and I missed that one, too. You can’t rush these things.” Just before Christmas, the iconic waterfront restaurant will finally be ready to welcome diners again. The new $76,000 Steinway piano for the lounge has been delivered and tuned. The chef, Brad Steelman is back on board, and he will continue to serve the seasonal American fare for which the restaurant is known. New menu items include crisp oysters wrapped in smoked salmon with caviar and pheasant with chestnut stuffing. Mr. Steelman has a newly outfitted kitchen, about which he said: “If there was a silver lining to Sandy, this is it.” (Opens next week): 1 Water Street (Old Fulton Street), Dumbo, Brooklyn, 718-522-5200, rivercafe.com.

FOGO DE CHãO There is no such thing as an intimate churrascaria, and this one, an import from Brazil with branches in the United States, sprawls over three floors. Grilled meats are served tableside from skewers wielded by chef/waiters in gaucho garb. (Thursday): 40 West 53rd Street, 212-969-9980, fogo.com.

THE PEACOCK AND THE SHAKESPEARE These two restaurants in the William, a new boutique hotel, offer different takes on English food. The Shakespeare is a traditional pub. Beers on tap are English imports. The Peacock, upstairs in elegant parlor rooms, will offer dressed crab, roast chicken and sea scallops with curried cauliflower. Robert Aikens is the chef at both. (Wednesday): 24 East 39th Street. The Shakespeare: 646-837-6779, theshakespearenyc.com; the Peacock: 646-837-6776, thepeacocknyc.com.

RISTORANTE MORINI Michael White calls his latest an “upscale extension of Osteria Morini,” his bustling SoHo restaurant. “It’s a neighborhood restaurant, but a different neighborhood.” And how. On Madison Avenue, there’s white napery everywhere. Some of the food recalls dishes from Mr. White’s other places, but without repeating them line for line: 1167 Madison Avenue (86th Street), 212-249-0444, ristorantemorini.com.

WHOLE FOODS BROOKLYN Its first store in Brooklyn, a 56,000-square-foot market, includes a rooftop beer garden and restaurant, the Roof at Third on Third, and a permanent Yuji Ramen restaurant. The store will also stock about 150 Brooklyn products, salamis cured on the premises and, in the spring, produce from its 20,000-square-foot greenhouse. It will also offer knife sharpening. “Green” features include rainwater collected on the site for toilets, and no chemical refrigerants will be used: 214 Third Street (Third Avenue), Gowanus, Brooklyn; 718-907-3622, wholefoodsmarket.com.
428 2013-12-18 Re “Boycott by Academic Group Is a Symbolic Sting to Israel” (front page, Dec. 17):

The vote by the American Studies Association to boycott Israeli universities casts a long shadow on this academic community. After all, how else to explain the fact that no other country in the world — not Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Syria, Sudan or any other serial human rights violator — has been the object of such a boycott by the group?

Only Israel, which happens to be the one truly democratic state in the Middle East and which is engaged in an intensive and complex peace process with the Palestinians, after successful efforts with Egypt and Jordan.

Why the choice of Israel? The group’s president, Curtis Marez, explained that “one has to start somewhere.” But that hardly explains such a misguided action.

If Israel is so anathema to the majority of the association’s members, then presumably they will extend the boycott beyond Israeli universities to everything Israeli. If so, they may find themselves without computer laptops, cellphones and access to lifesaving medical technology and pharmaceuticals, among many Israeli contributions to advancing the frontiers of human knowledge and development. At least, let the association’s members show consistency in their regrettable behavior.

The American Studies Association’s resolution to boycott Israeli universities, which was approved by more than 66 percent of the 1,252 members who voted, is a shameful assault on academic freedom and one that is based on a one-dimensional and biased perspective on Israel and the conflict.
429 2013-12-18 As Cecil Williams moved dangerously close to the edge of the platform at a Harlem subway station on Tuesday morning, his guide dog’s training and instincts seemed to kick in. The dog, a black Labrador named Orlando, tried to pull Mr. Williams, who is blind, back from the edge.

But for reasons that are not completely clear, both Mr. Williams, 60, and his dog tumbled onto the track as horrified commuters looked on.

After moments of confusion, an employee from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority arrived and told Mr. Williams, who was sitting upright in the track bed, to lie down in the trench between the rails and not try to climb back on the platform, the agency said in a statement.

That is when bystanders heard a train approaching.

“Everyone started freaking out, waving to the train for it to stop, but it wouldn’t stop,” said Danya Gutierrez, 19, a student who witnessed the scene. “I turned around because I didn’t want to see what was going to happen.”

About one and a half cars of an uptown A train passed over Mr. Williams and Orlando before coming to a stop, said Marisa Baldeo, a spokeswoman for the transportation authority.
430 2013-12-18 LONDON — European food regulators said on Tuesday that a class of pesticides linked to the deaths of large numbers of honey bees might also harm human health, and they recommended that the European Commission further restrict their use.

The commission, which requested the review, has already taken a tougher stance than regulators in other parts of the world against neonicotinoids, a relatively new nicotine-derived class of pesticide. Earlier this year, some were temporarily banned for use on many flowering crops in Europe that attract honey bees, an action that the pesticides’ makers are opposing in court.

Now European Union regulators say the same class of pesticides “may affect the developing human nervous system” of children. They focused on two specific versions of the pesticide, acetamiprid and imidacloprid, saying they were safe to use only in smaller amounts than currently allowed. Imidacloprid was one of the pesticides placed under a two-year ban this year.

The review was prompted by a Japanese study that raised similar concerns last year.

Imidacloprid is one of the most popular insecticides, and is used in agricultural and consumer products. It was developed by Bayer, the German chemicals giant, and is the active ingredient in products like Bayer Advanced Fruit, Citrus & Vegetable Insect Control, which can be purchased at stores internationally, including Home Depot in the United States.

Acetamiprid is sold by Nisso Chemical, a German branch of a Japanese company, though it was developed with Bayer’s help. It is used in consumer products like Ortho Flower, Fruit & Vegetable Insect Killer.
431 2013-12-18 BMW will recall nearly 77,000 vehicles and Infiniti 23 of its new Q50 sedans, the automakers informed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

BMW will recall vehicles because an electronic sensing mat in the front passenger seat may fail, disabling the front air bag, according to a report the automaker sent to N.H.T.S.A. The models covered by the recall are some 2006 325i, 325xi, 330i and 330xi sedans and 325xi sport wagons, 2007 328i, 328xi, 335i and 335xi sedans and 328i and 328xi sport wagons, 2006-7 525i, 525xi, 530i, 530xi and 550i sedans and 530xi sport wagons, 2006 760i sedans, 2006-7 750i, 750Li, and 760Li sedans and 2006 X5 sport utility vehicles.

The action is related to a recall of about 200,000 vehicles that was issued in 2008 for a similar problem. That recall was prompted by an investigation by the safety agency, and while BMW refused to concede there was a safety problem, the automaker said it would recall the vehicles “to address N.H.T.S.A.'s concerns.” BMW said it did not recall the additional 77,000 vehicles recalled this week in 2008 because “they had significantly lower warranty claim rates.” But the automaker has since concluded the warranty claims were increasing, which justified a recall.

BMW said it was not aware of any injuries related to the issue.

In another action, Infiniti will recall 23 of its 2014 Q50 sedans in the United States because the new direct adaptive steering system may fail in cold weather, the automaker has informed the agency.

The optional direct adaptive steering system is the world’s first steer-by-wire system in a production car. It uses electronics rather than a physical connection between the steering wheel and the vehicle’s wheels. Should there be an electronic problem the system is designed to instantly switch over to a mechanical system.
432 2013-12-18 WASHINGTON — The House Ethics Committee has opened a formal investigation into Representative Trey Radel, Republican of Florida, who pleaded guilty last month to misdemeanor cocaine possession charges after being arrested in Washington for buying the drug.

Mr. Radel was sentenced to a year of probation, and he has taken a leave of absence from Congress to get “intensive inpatient treatment.”

The Ethics Committee announced on Monday that it had named a four-member special panel, led by Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania, to determine whether Mr. Radel broke House ethics rules as a result of his drug habit.

Gov. Rick Scott of Florida and other Republicans have called for Mr. Radel to resign. If he takes such a step, the ethics investigation will be closed.
433 2013-12-18 Next year may also determine whether the local authorities, which tend to be more skeptical than the national government of the potential value of shale gas, will allow a substantial amount of exploration work.

Shale gas operators say they are encouraged despite very little drilling activity currently. The British Geological Survey estimated this year that a large area in the middle of Britain had 1,300 trillion cubic feet, or 36.8 trillion cubic meters, of shale gas in place. If 10 percent of that amount could be produced, it would be enough for about 45 years of current consumption.

“Only a year since restrictions on hydraulic fracturing were lifted we have now got a complete suite of measures under which we can operate,” said Andrew Austin, the chief executive of Igas Energy, a shale gas company that is drilling at the Barton Moss site near Manchester, England.

What is particularly worrying to environmental groups is a government map indicating that a very large part of Britain — Greenpeace says two-thirds of the land area of England — is under consideration for shale gas licenses.

“There’s no public mandate for this industrialization of the English countryside and for digging up new forms of fossil fuels,” Anna Jones, a Greenpeace campaigner, said in a statement on Tuesday.

The British government stands out in Western Europe for pursuing potential gains from shale gas, which has transformed the energy market in the United States. Even though countries like France and Germany are big importers of natural gas and other fuels, their governments are nervous about taking the political heat that an approval of fracking would almost certainly generate.

The picture is different in Eastern Europe, with the Polish government courting shale developers in hopes of reducing its dependence on coal and gas imports from Russia. Ukraine and Romania have also made long-term shale gas deals with oil companies including Chevron.

The British government is trying to convince the public that shale gas will be an economic boon rather than an environmental headache. Mr. Fallon said that local communities would receive 100,000 pounds, or about $162,000, for each well that was hydraulically fractured and that almost £1 billion might eventually be paid out to communities across Britain as they receive 1 percent of the revenue from each producing well during its 20-year lifetime.

The government on Tuesday also published a series of booklets detailing the rules for obtaining drilling and fracking permits, and it released an environmental assessment prepared by an energy consulting firm, AMEC, that presented an optimistic picture of the effects of fracking.

The report, the “Strategic Environmental Assessment for Further Onshore Oil and Gas Licensing,” said that if a large number of licenses were awarded, oil and gas companies might produce in total more than twice the amount of gas consumed in Britain per year. It also estimated that shale gas exploration and production, if successful, could create 16,000 to 32,000 jobs.

But the AMEC report also noted some potential negatives, including large-scale water use and the possibility that fracking sites might require up to 51 truck visits per day for 145 weeks. But it said that tough planning restrictions and other regulation could ensure that such issues would not “be unacceptable in the local context.”

Mr. Fallon, the energy minister, said the government would consider comments on the report before going ahead with the licensing round.
434 2013-12-18 WASHINGTON — President Obama has chosen a former Microsoft executive, Kurt DelBene, to replace Jeffrey D. Zients as head of the effort to finish repairs on the government’s health insurance website, administration officials said on Tuesday.

Mr. DelBene, who will start on Wednesday and stay at least through the first half of 2014, was president of Microsoft’s Office division for nearly three years until a corporate reorganization in July. At the time, corporate representatives said that Mr. DelBene, a two-decade veteran of the technology giant, had chosen to retire and was not forced out.

Mr. DelBene’s wife, Suzan DelBene, who also was a Microsoft executive, was elected to Congress as a Democrat in 2012, representing the Washington State district where Microsoft has its headquarters.

“Kurt has proven expertise in heading large, complex technology teams and in product development,” Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said in a statement. “He will be a tremendous asset in our work.”

Ms. Sebelius said Mr. DelBene would work with her, as well as with the White House and the teams of administration officials now in place, “to see this project through its next important phase.” She added, “Because of the site’s progress, his responsibilities, while similar to Jeff’s, will reflect an evolution of focus” as officials seek to build capacity as well as reliability in the system, and allay privacy concerns.

For months, the president and Ms. Sebelius have been criticized for not anticipating the online complexities and potential problems, and for failing to assign responsibility for the project to a single person with experience running similar projects. In her statement, Ms. Sebelius reflected the change in thinking.
435 2013-12-18 Now Tachibana and the club owner and Internet magnate, Hiroshi Mikitani, who voted against the new $20 million cap on the compensatory posting fee, must decide whether to accept that $20 million even though Tanaka could have fetched $50 million or more under the old system, as Matsuzaka and Darvish did.

“I would like him to stay and help us win another championship,” Tachibana said of his conversation with Tanaka.

Clearly, if Tanaka stays, for at least another season, he can help the Eagles sell tickets in a market still reeling from the devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit in 2011. The Eagles have never drawn very well at the turnstiles, partly because they have spent seven of their nine years in Sendai in the bottom half of the six-team Pacific League. Tanaka would give them a legitimate shot at a second title in 2014.

Under the previous agreement between Japan and Major League Baseball, which began in 1998, there was no cap on bidding. Only the major league team with the highest bid could then negotiate a free-agent deal with the player in question. In the past, the posting fees for letting a player leave have helped Japanese teams — almost all of which lose money — balance their books. Now that there is a $20 million cap, the posting fee for an outstanding player will not be as much of a godsend.

Actually, Mikitani, a billionaire several times over, may care more about winning another Japanese title than a posting fee, which is why he might want to keep Tanaka. But now that Tanaka has announced his desire to play in the major leagues, Mikitani will have to consider whether he wants to hold on to an unhappy player against his will.

Major League Baseball had leverage in these negotiations because as it grew weary of its teams bidding against one another and driving up posting fees to $50 million and more, it could have decided not to go after Japanese players until they become full-fledged free agents after nine years in the Japanese leagues.

At that point, players can leave for the United States without a posting fee being required. So to some extent, the Japanese teams were faced with a take-it-or-leave-it situation: accept a new $20 million limit or maybe get nothing at all, with Japanese players saying goodbye for Major League Baseball after nine years of service. Still, clubs like the Eagles could hold their ground and refuse to post top players like Tanaka for as long as they think it is feasible to do so.

Meanwhile, the $20 million cap does make the posting system more democratic for Major League Baseball, since midmarket and even small-market teams can afford the refundable $20 million posting fee and then try their luck at signing the Japanese player to a free-agent deal. But at that point, such clubs would still have to offer more money than their richer brethren like the Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers if they actually want to sign the player. And that is unlikely to happen if someone like Tanaka is up for grabs.
436 2013-12-18 GEEKY Céline et Laurent Tripoz make a delicious Brut Nature Crémant de Bourgogne, for around $20.

WHITE INEXPENSIVE How about an assyrtiko from in the Greek islands? Argyros, Sigalas and Gaia all make good ones for about $20.

MIDRANGE Perhaps a lovely, lightly sweet yet tense spätlese riesling from ? Willi Schaefer, Joh. Jos. Christoffel, Günther Steinmetz, A.J. Adam all make excellent bottles for $30 to $40.

SPLURGE Great white is a secret weapon. Domaine de Chevalier is a favorite for around $125.

GEEKY Is chenin blanc geeky? Some think so. I think it’s beautiful. Try a great Vouvray from Vincent Carême for $20 to $30.

RED INEXPENSIVE The 2011 cru Beaujolais are great. Look for a Juliénas from Michel Tête’s Domaine du Clos du Fief for $20 or so.

MIDRANGE I love the lithe, graceful nerello mascaleses from Mount Etna in . Calabretta, Terre Nere, Benanti are all around $30.

SPLURGE This is the place for Burgundy or Barolo with a few years of age. For Burgundies, look for good premier crus from 2000, 2001 or 2006. For Barolo, look for ’99, ’98 and, if you’re lucky, ’95 or ’93.

Usually, the kids are in school or away at college and you’re working and lucky if you can get something hot and nutritious on the table for the 20 minutes that people will hold still. Now it slows down, the perfect opportunity to take a more rewarding emotionally and culinary approach to dinner. Fine wine for the grown-ups, a taste for the kids, hot mulled cider for afterward.

WHITE INEXPENSIVE Savory Etna biancos can be as good as the reds. Benanti’s is around $20.

MIDRANGE German rieslings are great dry, too. Look for Karthäuserhof, Von Racknitz, Knebel and Dönnhoff, $25 to $40.

SPLURGE 2010 Meursault from Fichet, Colin-Morey, Roulot or Lafon, from $75.

GEEKY Old-school white Rioja. The ’98 reserva Viña Tondonia from Lopéz de Heredia is about $40.

RED INEXPENSIVE Pleasantly bitter Dolcettos from the Piedmont region of Italy. Anna-Maria Abbona or Luigi Einaudi are about $20.

MIDRANGE A spicy Montsant from Celler de Capçanes for about $25, or an earthy St.-Joseph from Domaine Faury, about $30.

SPLURGE Classic cabernets with a little age, like Cathy Corison or Mayacamas, around $100.

GEEKY In Côt We Trust is Puzelat-Bonhomme’s indefatigable take on Loire malbec, $20.

You’ve got your dedicated wine friends, for whom no gathering is complete if not centered around a few interesting bottles. Perhaps you’ve heard about a new generation of winemakers in who are conscientiously working to extend the state’s bandwidth, making wines that aim more for subtlety and finesse than power and bountiful fruit. How about a New California party? You could supplement with a gift of “The New California Wine,” Jon Bonné’s fine new book that explores the phenomenon. Forget the Geeky category; it all qualifies.

SPLURGE Kongsgaard The Judge, not exactly new wave but wonderful chardonnay, $150 or more.

SPLURGE Rhys single-vineyard pinot noirs from the , $75 or so.

Why not? You owe enough invitations. Get them all out of the way at once. It’s also a great opportunity for large-scale cooking, like a big pot of chili or stew, a choucroute garni, a ham, a pork or lamb roast. When’s the last time you made prime rib? This artifact of 1950s dining is due for a reimagined comeback (you heard it here first). Sorry, crowd, the Splurge category does not exist for you.

WHITE INEXPENSIVE Mâcon-Villages remains a crisp, all-purpose refresher for $10 to $15 from producers like Vrac or Maison Champy.

MIDRANGE Sancerre is the proverbial crowd-pleaser. Lucien Crochet, about $25.

GEEKY I love dry furmint from . Kiralyudvar Tokaji Furmint Sec is $15 to $20.

RED INEXPENSIVE I’ve been on a Chianti jag; Selvapiana Chianti Rùfina 2010 is $15 or so.

MIDRANGE Copain Tous Ensemble syrah is a very good entry-level wine, $20 to $25.

GEEKY If you can find reds from Dirty & Rowdy or La Clarine Farm in California, they are joyous wines for $20 to $40.

Sometimes you and your pals just want to kick back. You don’t want to cook, but you can’t bear the thought of junk food and bad beer. Takeout is not an abdication of entertaining responsibility, provided you have options that rise above the mundane. Why not?

SICHUAN A good Pilsner beer like Victory, Tröegs or ; or if you want to go geeky, Manzanilla sherry.

CANTONESE Riesling! Try Ravines dry riesling from the for about $15 or a Hermann J. Wiemer semi-dry riesling, also about $15.

PIZZA Champagne, believe it or not, like Billecart-Salmon for about $40, or an excellent Lambrusco, like a Saetti Salamino di Santa Croce for about $18.

INDIAN Good cider, like Cidre Bouché from E. Dupont in , under $10.

For reasons of travel, bad blood or simple inclination, many people end up alone for some or all of the holidays. This can easily justify a visit from the Grand Rationalizer, who will make the case for the quart of ice cream, just this once. But even better is the therapeutic salve of treating oneself well, preparing a favorite dish and accompanying it with just the right wine. I know, I know: wine is to be shared and so on. Well, why deprive solo diners? Nothing wrong with enjoying some wine, as long as it’s for pleasure and not to drown one’s sorrows. Drink something terrific.

WHITE MIDRANGE Will Chablis always be our little secret? A good 2010 premier cru from Domaine William Fevre is around $30.

GEEKY Radikon makes great, unorthodox wines from Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Try a ribolla gialla in a convenient 500-milliliter bottle, about $45.

RED MIDRANGE Earthy, minerally priorats are great expressions of the garnacha grape, as grenache is known in Spain. Camins del Priorat from Alvaro Palacios is about $25.

GEEKY Olga Raffault always holds back so it can sell older Chinons. You can find its Les Picasses Chinon in vintages going back to the early ‘80s. The 1990 is around $60, the ’02 about $30.
437 2013-12-19 Billionaire Richard Li is raising his bet on telecommunications, agreeing on Friday to acquire CSL New World Mobility from Australia’s Telstra....
438 2013-12-19 Thursday’s highlights from around the web include the economics of the stolen credit card black market. Plus, “How the Grinch Stole Your Metadata,” and other parody holiday tales....
439 2013-12-19 The company said that it would publish a report detailing the number of information requests it received from government agencies this year....
440 2013-12-19 Labels and disclaimers will tell readers what is journalism and what isn’t....
441 2013-12-19 Brian McCabe is leaving Morgan Stanley and joining the Swiss investment bank as co-head of its Americas oil and gas group. He will be based in Houston....
442 2013-12-19 Size offers no immunity, and the conglomerate has been proactively restructuring in ways that could wisely head off investor pressure, writes Rob Cox of Reuters Breakingviews....
443 2013-12-19 The real-life subjects of “The Wolf of Wall Street” watch themselves on-screen, while the scriptwriter watches next to his mother-in-law....
444 2013-12-19 The soprano Anna Netrebko’s concert on Jan. 15 is actually a promotion, of sorts, for the Metropolitan Opera’s new production of Borodin’s “Prince Igor.”...
445 2013-12-19 The tapering has begun. A merchant takes a couple to court for writing a negative review. And a 97-year-old owner closes shop....
446 2013-12-19 A work that may have been the future Andy Warhol’s first sale has been given to the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art....
447 2013-12-19 The conviction of a former top trader at SAC Capital could bring more scrutiny for the billionaire Steven A. Cohen, Peter J. Henning writes....
448 2013-12-19 The conviction of a former SAC Capital trader will likely mean more scrutiny of SAC’s founder, Steven A. Cohen. | Drug companies announced more than $6 billion worth of transactions on Thursday. | Darden Restaurants plans to spin out its Red Lob...
449 2013-12-19 The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety has again made it more difficult to earn its Top Safety Pick Plus and Top Safety Pick awards by tightening its criteria for the third time since the 2006 model year. The move is likely to dismay automakers because they will suddenly have far fewer vehicles they can promote as worthy of the institute’s plaudits.

As a result of the changes, 22 vehicles earned the highest award of Top Safety Pick Plus and 17 earned the lesser Top Safety Pick award in this initial announcement of 2014 winners, compared with 13 Top Safety Pick Plus awards and 117 Top Safety Pick selections last year.

The I.I.H.S., which is financed by the insurance industry, continues to add to the list throughout the year as new models are introduced and more are tested. It made the changes to its rating system to reflect two of its newer tests.

One is the small-overlap front test introduced in 2012, which replicates what happens when the front corner of a vehicle collides with another vehicle or with a stationary object like a tree or utility pole. The other test, initiated this year, is a rating of frontal crash prevention technology in the form of warning systems and automatic braking intended to help avoid rear-end collisions.

The new ratings were added to the institute’s tests for side, rollover, rear and moderate-overlap front crashes. Vehicles are rated on a scale of Good, Acceptable, Marginal and Poor.
450 2013-12-19 The complexity, size and cross-border operations of the largest banks suggest that the traditional bankruptcy process simply won’t work for a failing bank, an economist writes....
451 2013-12-19 Raja Casablanca upset Atlético Mineiro of Brazil and its star Ronaldinho, 3-1, and will play Bayern Munich on Saturday in the final of the Club World Cup in Morocco. Mohsine Moutaouali scored the go-ahead goal on a penalty kick in the 84th minute. Ronaldinho had made the game 1-1 with a free kick in the 63rd.
452 2013-12-19 Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly’s top intelligence official handed in his resignation this month, part of an expected series of changes at the top of the New York Police Department as William J. Bratton prepares to take the helm in January.

The official, David Cohen, had been deputy commissioner for intelligence since the role was created after the Sept. 11 attack, and he was central to Mr. Kelly’s efforts to create a robust intelligence operation in the Police Department.

Mr. Cohen came to the Police Department after 35 years at the Central Intelligence Agency, including two years overseeing its worldwide espionage efforts.

The department’s deputy commissioner for counterterrorism, Richard Daddario, is also resigning. His position was also created by Mr. Kelly.

Both officials “submitted their resignations earlier this month to be effective at the end of the administration,” John J. McCarthy, the department’s top spokesman, said late on Wednesday.

The commissioners oversaw ballooning counterterrorism and intelligence operations, including detectives dedicated to pursuing leads in the city and several assigned overseas as liaisons with foreign police departments. The intelligence division also included a small unit — once known as the Demographics Unit and later renamed the Zone Assessment Unit — that has come under intense scrutiny for its monitoring of Muslims in New York.
453 2013-12-19 The international agency overseeing the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons adopted a plan Tuesday night for handling the job and made some of the details public on Wednesday. Though the Syrian government has been fulfilling its part of the international agreement to destroy existing stockpiles and the means to make more, according to weapons inspectors, the agency’s director general, Ahmet Uzumcu, warned that “technical factors have caused delays” and that the deadlines for destroying the weapons may be missed.
454 2013-12-19 On Wednesday, lawyers for both defendants filed papers asking a judge to order new trials for their clients. “These guarantees by the government that Milio testified truthfully misled the jury,” Ms. Annabi’s lawyer, Edward V. Sapone, wrote.

In an interview, Mr. Sapone added that his client “is entitled to a jury that is not lied to.”

Ms. Annabi, a former Democratic majority leader of the Yonkers City Council, is serving a six-year prison sentence. Mr. Jereis, a former Yonkers Republican Party chairman, was sentenced to four years. Both had appealed their convictions before the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; oral arguments were scheduled for next month.

The United States attorney’s office declined to comment. But cooperating witnesses have always presented an occupational hazard for the government. Typically, such witnesses have committed their own crimes. The Milios, for example, admitted to evading taxes, hiring undocumented immigrants and making cash gifts to Yonkers city employees on the holidays.

As part of their deal, both Milios, who help run a property management company, pleaded guilty to tax evasion. In February, a judge sentenced them to probation and fined each $25,000 after prosecutors described their assistance.

In the trial, prosecutors presented evidence that Ms. Annabi had accepted nearly $200,000 in secret payments from Mr. Jereis in return for dropping her opposition to a proposed 81-acre luxury mall complex in Yonkers, known as Ridge Hill, which was being developed by Forest City Ratner, and to a second, smaller project, called Longfellow, which the Milios were pursuing.

In the Longfellow project, the Milios were to renovate two dilapidated schools and transform them into market-rate housing.

Mr. Jereis’s lawyer, Paula Schwartz Frome, said in her filing for a new trial that Franco Milio’s credibility was crucial to the government’s proving the allegations regarding Longfellow, and bolstered the allegations about Ridge Hill.

The government had portrayed the Milios as extortion victims in the Yonkers case. During the investigation, “the Milios were remarkably truthful at all times, telling the government about things we did not know, fleshing out details for us and filling in gaps,” a prosecutor, Jason P. W. Halperin, said in February when the Milios were given probation for tax evasion.

The Milios’ lawyer did not return a message seeking comment.

In the trial, the prosecution advised jurors to “take a hard look” at the Milios and a third cooperating witness and to expect the defense to attack them.

“We have an old saying: Swans don’t swim in the sewer,” a prosecutor, Perry A. Carbone, said in his closing argument.

“Of course, we would have loved to have called Mother Teresa to tell you about these crimes,” he said. “They didn’t choose to commit the crimes with Mother Teresa.”
455 2013-12-19 Politically independent, Dr. Sarraj championed nonviolence and democracy. In recent years he was involved in trying to promote reconciliation between Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza, and its rival Fatah, the mainstream party led by Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. Those efforts have so far been unsuccessful.

Speaking at Dr. Sarraj’s funeral in Gaza on Wednesday, Ismail Haniya, the prime minister of the Hamas government, described him as “a meeting point for all Palestinian people,” adding, “He is going to be missed by Palestine and Gaza because he was born and lived for them.”

Rami Hamdallah, the prime minister of the Palestinian Authority government, said Dr. Sarraj’s achievements would remain as “a beacon for the continuation of the march” of the Palestinian people toward an independent state.

Fluent in English, Dr. Sarraj gained international respect, and his Gaza City home was familiar to foreign diplomats, researchers and journalists seeking his opinions.

Robert H. Serry, the United Nations special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, described Dr. Sarraj in a statement as “someone who persistently stood on the side of human rights, peace and justice.” He received several human rights awards abroad.

But Dr. Sarraj was not always in such favor with the local authorities. When the Palestinian Authority’s security forces were dominant in the cities of the coastal territory of Gaza in the mid-1990s, he was detained twice, spending days in a police lockup. The first detention came after he accused the security forces of torturing members of Hamas who had been rounded up after a wave of suicide bombings in Israel. He was seized a second time after he wrote an article criticizing a Palestinian Authority official.

From 1996 to 1998, Dr. Sarraj was the commissioner general of the Palestinian Independent Commission for Citizens Rights, a watchdog body formed by decree by the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat. It was Mr. Arafat who ordered Dr. Sarraj’s detention in one case, according to human rights activists in Gaza. (Israel unilaterally withdrew from the strip in 2005.)

Eyad Rajab El-Sarraj was born on April 27, 1943, in Beersheba, a city that was then under the British rule of the Mandate of Palestine and that is now in southern Israel. He moved with his family to Gaza to escape the war of 1948 over the establishment of Israel.

In the 1970s he studied medicine at the University of Alexandria in Egypt and then in Britain, graduating with a master’s degree from the Institute of Psychiatry at King’s College, London.

While in Britain he married an English woman, and they had two sons, Ahmed-Saif and Waseem. They divorced, and Dr. Sarraj remarried in Gaza in 2004. His survivors include his wife, Nirmeen; their son Ali, 7; and his sons from his first marriage.

In 1990 Dr. Sarraj founded the Gaza Community Mental Health Program, an institution that describes its goals as developing the mental well-being of the Palestinian community and working to empower vulnerable groups like children, women and “victims of organized violence and torture.”

For the past five years Dr. Sarraj had been treated for cancer, according to a stepdaughter, Noor Kharma.

Issam Younis, director of the Mezan Center for Human Rights in Gaza, said Dr. Sarraj had displayed a “gentlemanly antagonism” in tackling major issues and national concerns. The failure to reconcile the Palestinian schism “left his heart aching because he was not used to failure,” Mr. Younis said.
456 2013-12-19 The hard-sell campaign by drug companies to drive up diagnoses of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or A.D.H.D., and sales of drugs to treat it is disturbing. The campaign focused initially on children but is now turning toward adults, who provide a potentially larger market.

There is no doubt that a small percentage of children, perhaps 5 percent, have the disorder and that medication can alleviate the symptoms, such as inability to concentrate, that can impede success in school or in life. Some studies have shown that medications helped elementary schoolchildren who had been carefully evaluated for A.D.H.D. improve their concentration and their scores on reading and math tests.

Recent data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed that 15 percent of high-school-age children had been diagnosed with the disorder and that the number of children taking medication for it had soared to 3.5 million, up from 600,000 in 1990. Many of these children, it appears, had been diagnosed by unskilled doctors based on dubious symptoms.

A two-decade campaign by pharmaceutical companies promoting the pills to doctors, educators and parents was described by Alan Schwarz in The Times on Sunday. The tactics were brazen, often misleading and sometimes deceitful. Shire, an Irish company that makes Adderall and other A.D.H.D. medications, recently subsidized 50,000 copies of a comic book in which superheroes tell children that “Medicines may make it easier to pay attention and control your behavior!” Advertising on television and in popular magazines has sought to persuade mothers that Adderall cannot only unleash a child’s innate intelligence but make the child more amenable to chores like taking out the garbage.

The potential dangers should not be ignored. The drugs can lead to addiction, and, in rare cases, psychosis, suicidal thoughts and hallucinations, as well as anxiety, difficulty sleeping and loss of appetite. On Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration warned that some A.D.H.D. medications, including Ritalin, Concerta, and Strattera, may, in rare instances, cause prolonged and sometimes painful erections known as priapism in males of any age, including children, teens and adults.

So many medical professionals benefit from overprescribing that it is difficult to find a neutral source of information. Prominent doctors get paid by drug companies to deliver upbeat messages to their colleagues at forums where they typically exaggerate the effectiveness of the drugs and downplay their side effects. Organizations that advocate on behalf of patients often do so with money supplied by drug companies, including the makers of A.D.H.D. stimulants. Medical researchers paid by drug companies have published studies on the benefits of the drugs, and medical journals in a position to question their findings profit greatly from advertising of A.D.H.D. drugs.

The F.D.A. has cited every major A.D.H.D. drug, including the stimulants Adderall, Concerta, Focalin and Vyvanse, for false and misleading advertising since 2000, some of them multiple times. The companies, when challenged, typically stop those misleading claims, but the overall impact appears marginal. The number of prescriptions for A.D.H.D. drugs for adults ages 20 to 39 nearly tripled between 2007 and 2012, and sales of stimulant medications in 2012 were more than five times higher than a decade earlier.
457 2013-12-19 The abrupt resignation of the director of the state’s health insurance marketplace is the latest in a series of top-level departures from troubled state-run exchanges....
458 2013-12-19 Ms. Kelly said the company had asked all of its Greek yogurt suppliers to devise new products and flavors that would distinguish what Whole Foods offers.

“We are always evolving our product mix to make sure we are meeting our shoppers’ needs, and in this case with Greek-style yogurt we are making room for more organic and non-G.M.O.” options, she said.

That echoed a statement by the company that said it was seeking “exclusive flavors, non-G.M.O. options and organic choices.”

The chain still carries other brands that continue to use G.M.O.-related ingredients.

“At this time, Chobani has chosen a different business model, so Whole Foods Market will be phasing Chobani Greek Yogurt out of its stores in early 2014 to make room for product choices that aren’t readily available on the market,” the statement said.

Mr. Ulukaya said in a telephone interview from Twin Falls, Idaho, where Chobani has a production facility, that his goal was to democratize Greek yogurt.

“I come from a dairy farming part of Turkey and grew up with yogurt and eating this simple kind of food, and when I came here I couldn’t understand why in order to find good-tasting yogurt you have to go to some specialty store to find it,” he said. “So the foundation of my business model and my philosophy is that we are going to make yogurt that is delicious, nutritious and accessible to everyone.”

With 370 stores, Whole Foods does not represent a big part of Chobani’s business.

Whole Foods has not said it will ban products containing genetically engineered ingredients, only that it will require them to be labeled as such.

Mr. Ulukaya said he did not know exactly why Whole Foods had decided to end their relationship. “That’s a question for them,” he said.

GMO Inside, a group that advocates for the labeling of foods containing such ingredients, has been pushing Chobani to give feeds that are made from non-G.M.O. grains to the more than 78,000 cows that produce the milk it uses in its yogurt. But the company has said it cannot find enough of such feed.

Finding animal feed that does not contain biotech ingredients is a particularly difficult challenge, according to organic food makers like Stonyfield and Organic Valley and farmers who raise livestock. Standard feeds typically contain corn and soy, and more than 90 percent of those crops in the United States are grown from genetically engineered seeds.

“The farmers need to be able to find those feeds and feed it to their cows — and the economics around it need to make sense for them,” Mr. Ulukaya said. “Now these feeds are just not available.”
459 2013-12-19 Some of the most notable limited editions in cosmetics this season are collaborations with fashion designers. Even if the products are not ones you use every day, the packaging is decidedly better than average.

Move over, hemp tote: a company known for its natural ingredients asked Thakoon Panichgul, a clothing designer, to create a sparkly black evening clutch with the same fabric he used in his collection. The result is Clark’s Botanicals and Thakoon Holiday Clutch. Inside are a sparkly lip tint, an exfoliating cream, a mask and a moisture mist to perk up dull skin. ($65, ClarksBotanicals.com)

Better known for modern looks, Bobbi Brown turned to Lisa Salzer, a jewelry designer for Lulu Frost, to come up with a rendition of a vintage compact she fell in love with at a flea market: Lulu Frost for Bobbi Brown Old Hollywood Compact. Forget the etiquette about not touching up in public: the gold-toned piece is adorned with Swarovski crystals in an Art Deco-inspired design that deserves to be shown off. ($150, bobbibrown.com)

With the theme “One Night Only,” this collection is manufactured by Albion, a Japanese brand, and stars Minnie Mouse. Ms. Sui has the perky character show up on every item, including a makeup kit available in two shades, six colors of nail polish and a rose-scented hand cream. ($16 to $50, b-glowing.com)
460 2013-12-19 Nearly all the major insurers have agreed to cover their customers retroactively if they go to the emergency room or doctor’s office after Jan. 1, but send in their payment by Jan. 10....
461 2013-12-19 In a response to the outcry over the spying, a panel of advisers for President Obama on Wednesday recommended limiting the wide-ranging collection of personal data and restricting operations to spy on foreign leaders.

When asked at the news conference if the spying had anything to do with the decision to award the contract to Saab, Mr. Amorim did not answer directly, instead repeating reasons of cost and technology sharing.

Analysts said Brazil had many financial and practical reasons to award the contract to Saab.

Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at Teal Group in Fairfax, Va., said that while Brazil’s disenchantment over the N.S.A.’s spying could have played a role in the decision, costs were probably a bigger factor.

“You’re talking about a military service that doesn’t need a heavyweight front-line fighter and has suffered a budget squeeze and hasn’t been able to fly the planes that it owns,” he said.

He added that a basic version of the Saab jet might cost about $45 million, compared with $55 million for Boeing’s basic F/A-18 Super Hornet.

And the Gripen’s fuel costs would be half of that for the Boeing plane. Both jets use the same engine, but the Super Hornet has two engines and the Gripen one.

A study by the military publisher IHS Jane’s said that the Gripen costs about $4,700 an hour to fly — the lowest among modern fighter jets — compared with the $11,000 for the Super Hornet.

Boeing said that the decision was “disappointing” and that it would talk to the Brazilian air force to better understand it. The company, based in Chicago, said it would still look for chances to expand its partnerships in Brazil.

The loss was also difficult for Boeing because there are only a few fighter competitions going on around the world and the United States Navy plans to stop buying the F/A-18’s.

While most countries that want high-tech fighters are buying Lockheed Martin’s more advanced F-35, many other countries cannot afford even top older models like the F/A-18. So far, Australia is Boeing’s only export customer for the jet.

By contrast, Saab’s more workaday Gripen models are flown by several other countries.

Brazil originally began its quest for new fighters to replace its aging Mirages more than a decade ago. Brazil’s former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, wanted to buy Dassault’s Rafale fighter jets in 2009 instead of the F/A-18.

But a change in administration in Brazil, and the country’s deteriorating financial condition, helped alter the equation. A Brazilian news report on Saturday said that Dassault had already been eliminated from the competition even though the French president, François Hollande, backed the jet on a visit to Brazil last week.

Terms of the deal must still be negotiated over the next year, but delivery of the first batch of Gripen NG jets is expected in 2018.

Also on Wednesday, Boeing announced the promotion of Dennis A. Muilenburg, the head of its military business, to vice chairman, president and chief operating officer of the company.

Analysts said that move made Mr. Muilenburg, 49, the heir apparent to Boeing’s chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., who is 64.

Ray Conner, the chief executive of Boeing’s commercial airplane division, was also named a Boeing vice chairman while keeping his current responsibilities. Christopher M. Chadwick, 53, will succeed Mr. Muilenburg as chief executive of Boeing’s military unit.
462 2013-12-19 Travelers to the Caribbean island of St. Martin are being warned that, for the first time, a mosquito-borne illness called chikungunya has been detected there. Chikungunya causes fever, headache and severe joint pains that last about a week, and sometimes longer. There is no vaccine, so the only prevention is to avoid mosquito bites, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Wednesday. So far, 10 cases have been confirmed in St. Martin, and health officials believe the virus is present in the island’s mosquito populations — the first time that it appears to have established itself anywhere in the Western Hemisphere. Previous outbreaks have occurred in Africa, Asia and parts of Europe.
463 2013-12-19 Choking back tears with Orlando lying by his wheelchair, Mr. Williams called the news a “blessing” and a “miracle.”

“The spirit of giving, Christmas and all of that, exists — it’s in New York,” he said in a news conference at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where he is convalescing. “I think it’s a time to rejoice.”

Mr. Williams and Orlando were paired in August 2006, in part because both preferred to walk at a rapid New York pace, said Michelle Brier, a spokeswoman for Guiding Eyes for the Blind.

But it was their docile, laid-back personalities that seemed to seal the bond between them.

“He’s a gentleman; he’s a gentle soul,” Mr. Williams said. “Me and him are similar that way.”

As the two traversed the city’s streets, Orlando’s job was to guide and protect, and he would typically cut in front of Mr. Williams before he could step into traffic or off a ledge, Mr. Williams said.

The two companions were waiting at the 125th Street subway station at St. Nicholas Avenue in Harlem when Mr. Williams, who is diabetic, felt faint. When he began to fall, he said, Orlando tried to tug him back from the ledge.

Both fell into the track bed and managed to escape being crushed by a train by crouching in the trench between the rails.

Orlando, whose black fur has started to turn somewhat gray around his mouth, has shown signs of slowing down in the last few months, his trainer, Jessy DiNapoli, said. Guide dogs typically work until they are 8 to 10 years old, though they frequently serve beyond that, Ms. Brier said.

Mr. Williams is scheduled to be released from the hospital on Thursday, and in a few weeks he will meet his new guide dog.

Orlando, meanwhile, now has a new challenge: learning how to be a pet.

“He’s a senior citizen,” Mr. Williams said. “He’s looking forward to enjoying life now.”
464 2013-12-19 OXFORD, England — CAN you have too many rights? It sounds like a bizarre notion. But in the case of migrants, there may be something to it.

In 1990, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, which stipulated a comprehensive set of civil, political, economic and social rights for migrants, including those living or working abroad illegally. But 23 years later, there is no denying the failure of the convention to protect those rights.

News of the mistreatment of migrants seems to arrive every few months. In September, an investigation by the British newspaper The Guardian exposed numerous deaths among Nepalese workers on World Cup construction sites in Qatar. Earlier this month, more than 400 migrants rioted after a bus hit and killed an Indian worker in Singapore, where large numbers of low-skilled migrants are employed under deplorable working and living conditions.

There is a wide gap between the rights of migrant workers in theory and practice, especially in the case of those employed in lower-wage jobs. Under most existing temporary migration programs in North America and Europe, for example, migrants do not enjoy the degree of access to welfare benefits demanded by the convention. In the Persian Gulf nations, more alarmingly, it is common practice for employers to retain migrant employees’ passports to make sure they cannot “escape.”

Why has the 1990 convention failed? The main problem is that it has proved unacceptable to essentially all major migrant-receiving countries. Fewer than 50 countries have signed and ratified it; most of them are predominantly migrant-sending rather than migrant-receiving. This makes the convention the least ratified of all the major international human rights treaties.
465 2013-12-19 Mr. Gerber also offers juicetails at his two-month-old restaurant Kingside, at the Viceroy New York. “It really started with everybody doing those juice cleanses,” he said.

Fans of juicing say it lets them indulge their juice habit when they go out. “If I do see a juicetail on the menu, I always go for it,” said Aly Teich, 32, an entrepreneur who lives in the Flatiron district. She also mixes her own juice cocktails, or “kaletinis” as she calls them, at home using her Vitamix.

Party planners are adding them to the drink list this holiday season, alongside low-calorie mojitos and rum-and-Diet-Cokes. Aliona Chowdhury, a project manager for Juice Press, said its Ginger Fireball and Glo (a grapefruit and orange drink) are especially popular as mixers. And Victoria Smith, founder of the Hamptons-based juice truck Juice Baby, said that its juices were a hit last summer at several social functions.

“People just started mixing the juices with vodka,” Ms. Smith said. “The beet juice got mixed with the rum.”

Some health advocates warn that the benefits of the cold-pressed juices may be canceled out by the alcohol.

Brooke Alpert, a registered dietitian and founder of B Nutritious, a private nutrition counseling practice in New York City, believes mixing juices with alcohol may give drinkers the false notion that they can drink with abandon, leading to overconsumption.

“These type of drinks have what I call a health halo on top of them,” Ms. Alpert said. “I think this is where people can have the wrong notion they can do something healthy for themselves, and they are able to justify their behavior while drinking.”

Julie Upton, another registered dietitian and a founder of the nutrition-focused website Appetite for Health, agreed. “You get the women who are the ‘drunkorexics,’ who save their calories for when they are going out, and who will be juicing during the day and night,” she said. “That’s a health problem.”

That may be true, but for those who partake in too many juicetails, there seems to be only one cure: more juice. “People will often come in the next day on Thursday and visit me for a hangover remedy,” said Erik Dupuy,  the creator of #PSAVE, who happens to be a manager of a Juice Press store.
466 2013-12-19 Re “Hail to the Police Chief,” by Connie Rice (Op-Ed, Dec. 11):

William J. Bratton has repeatedly promised to “get it right” in his second tenure as police commissioner of New York City. Based on his previous record in New York and elsewhere, there is every reason to have confidence in this prediction.

Mr. Bratton’s 1994 introduction of CompStat — developing crime-fighting strategies based on statistical data — has rightly been hailed as a significant policing innovation. Nevertheless, our research has disclosed the unraveling of CompStat under Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg as it descended into a top-down, quota-driven instrument focusing on numbers regardless of community consequences.

The department’s lack of transparency has obscured the deterioration of CompStat’s primary ingredient — accurate and timely intelligence, which is essential to successful crime fighting and citizen satisfaction. Yet the current leadership’s push to present crime statistics only in the most favorable light has contributed to the underreporting of crime and the downgrading of serious felony crimes into lesser crime categories.

If community trust and confidence are restored, then the police will more accurately record crime and citizens will feel more comfortable reporting criminal or terrorist activity. This is an important road to a more transparent, effective and citizen-responsive police department.

The writers are co-authors of “The Crime Numbers Game: Management by Manipulation.” Mr. Silverman is professor emeritus at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Mr. Eterno is associate dean of Molloy College.
467 2013-12-19 FedEx reported a 14 percent rise in quarterly profit on Wednesday, bolstered by stronger margins and cost cuts, but its results missed Wall Street estimates, which overshadowed the company’s confident forecast for the holiday shopping season.

Analysts expressed disappointment at a slight dip in revenue at FedEx’s express delivery business, the company’s biggest unit. They also noted softening volume growth for ground deliveries.

Average daily volume at FedEx Ground rose 8 percent in its fiscal second quarter, which ended Nov. 30, slowing from the 10 to 11 percent growth in the previous two quarters, and below the 10 percent expected by Logan Purk, an analyst at Edward Jones.

A 3 percent rise in revenue, to $11.4 billion, and success in continuing cost-cutting efforts helped offset some of the volume weakness.

FedEx earned $500 million, or $1.57 a share, compared with $438 million, or $1.39 a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Analysts, on average, had expected earnings of $1.64 a share, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.

FedEx predicted a strong holiday season and forecast full-year earnings per share growth of 8 percent to 14 percent above last year. Previously, its outlook was for growth of 7 percent to 13 percent.
468 2013-12-19 “I consider the presence of hexamine both in the field samples and in the official stockpile of the Syrian government to be very damning evidence of government culpability,” Mr. Kaszeta wrote on his website.

The Syrian government, which has denied carrying out any of the attacks, declared possession of 80 tons of hexamine. It is listed among substances that need to be treated and disposed, according to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, or O.P.C.W., a group based in The Hague working with the United Nations to oversee the dismantling of Syria’s arsenal.

The group in November invited bids from companies that could carry out the disposal. Before that bidding invitation was made public, it had not been widely known that Syria had hexamine. The group has not said whether and how Syria used hexamine.

Asked about the presence of hexamine in the annex of the United Nations panel’s report, Scott Cairns, a chemical weapons expert who is a member of the panel, would say only that hexamine is a chemical that could be used in the production of weapons using sarin. It is also commonly found in heating fuel, as well as in conventional explosives.

Ron Manley, a chemical arms expert who headed the verification team at the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons from 1993 to 2002, said hexamine was certainly part of the government’s chemical weapons arsenal. Otherwise, it would not have been listed on the items that must be destroyed.

“The fact that they declared it to the O.P.C.W. means it was part of their C.W. program,” he said “There’s no doubt it was part of their program. What part it played we don’t know.”

Both Mr. Manley and Mr. Kaszeta said hexamine could be particularly valuable in reducing the corrosive effects of what are known as binary sarin weapons. Those weapons can produce highly destructive acids that can corrode even the metal cylinders that hold the nerve agent. Hexamine can neutralize the acids, ensuring that they do not destroy the weapon itself. That could explain, Mr. Kaszeta said, why the government had so much hexamine.

While hexamine is not a common additive to stabilize sarin, both analysts said it could have been used for that purpose.

Since hexamine is also widely available commercially, analysts noted, it is impossible to point to hexamine’s presence on the battlefield as conclusive evidence of who made the chemical weapons used in the Ghouta attack.

Other chemists have said hexamine could have been used in the blaster components of the weapons that dispersed the nerve agent, but that would not explain why hexamine was on the list of chemicals in the government’s arsenal.

The United Nations investigators have repeatedly said that their mandate was limited to establishing the facts of what happened and not who was responsible. They investigated seven possible episodes in all, from March to August. In five, including Ghouta, they found credible evidence that chemical weapons had been used. In Ghouta, they collected the most information, including environmental samples from where the ordnance landed. Their final report was submitted to Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, last Thursday and made public.

Their report lists several places where they found hexamine in Ghouta, including on the floor and a wall of a house where a rocket had landed, a piece of ordnance from the floor of an outdoor terrace next door, and in a rocket fragment found on a nearby roof.

The investigation yielded few details on the four other episodes. The United Nations team was unable to go to the site of the attacks in some cases and could not collect biomedical or environmental samples directly. Unlike in Ghouta, some of the attacks appeared to have been small-scale efforts, using unusual methods, including what witnesses described to be plastic grenades dropped from helicopters.

The Syrian government, which has blamed insurgents for all the attacks, has been unusually cooperative in getting rid of its arsenal since making the pledge to ban them in September. The Syrian ambassador to the United Nations, Bashar Jaafari, told reporters on Monday that in his country, “the chapter is closed.”
469 2013-12-19 BERLIN — Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany vowed Wednesday to fight a European Union investigation into her government’s policy of exempting hundreds of companies from a surcharge on electricity that is used to promote renewable resources.

Ms. Merkel insisted that promoting solar and wind energy was crucial to German competitiveness, but she also noted that other issues were at stake.

“This is about companies, and when it’s about companies, it’s about jobs,” she told lawmakers Wednesday, shortly before European Union officials announced the investigation.

The transformation of the German energy sector from a reliance on power from traditional sources, particularly nuclear and coal, to electricity generated largely by renewable sources was a signature policy of Ms. Merkel’s previous term as chancellor. Her new government has made making changes to the surcharge system a priority.

While the European Union said it could envision cases in which offering discounts for leading industries could be justified, it expressed concern that the practice might constitute government assistance, which requires approval from Brussels. The investigation could take up to three years.

Industrial users are already wary of a lack of price stability in Germany’s energy market, and their representatives warned that scrapping the exemption could spell doom for many companies.

“A loss of the exemption for energy-intensive companies would mean the end for many of them, and cost thousands of jobs,” said Ulrich Grillo, president of the Federation for German Industry.
470 2013-12-19 “We have identified a series of reforms that are designed to safeguard the privacy and dignity of American citizens, and to promote public trust, while also allowing the intelligence community to do what must be done to respond to genuine threats,” says the report, which Mr. Obama commissioned in August in response to the mounting furor over revelations by Edward J. Snowden, a former N.S.A. contractor, of the agency’s surveillance practices.

It adds, “Free nations must protect themselves, and nations that protect themselves must remain free.”

White House officials said they expected significant resistance to some of the report’s conclusions from the N.S.A. and other intelligence agencies, which have argued that imposing rules that could slow the search for terror suspects could pave the way for another attack. But those intelligence leaders were not present in the Situation Room on Wednesday when Mr. Obama met the authors of the report.

The report’s authors made clear that they were weighing the N.S.A.’s surveillance requirements against other priorities like constitutional protections for privacy and economic considerations for American businesses. The report came just three days after a federal judge in Washington ruled that the bulk collection of telephone data by the government was “almost Orwellian” and a day after Silicon Valley executives complained to Mr. Obama that the N.S.A. programs were undermining American competitiveness in offering cloud services or selling American-made hardware, which is now viewed as tainted.

The report was praised by privacy advocates in Congress and civil-liberties groups as a surprisingly aggressive call for reform.

Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who has been an outspoken critic of N.S.A. surveillance, said it echoed the arguments of the N.S.A.’s skeptics in significant ways, noting that it flatly declared that the phone-logging program had not been necessary in stopping terrorist attacks.

“This has been a big week for the cause of intelligence reform,” he said.

Greg Nojeim of the Center for Democracy and Technology called the report “remarkably strong,” and singled out its call to sharply limit the F.B.I.’s power to obtain business records about someone through a so-called national security letter, which does not involve court oversight.

Anthony Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, while praising the report’s recommendations, questioned “whether the president will have the courage to implement the changes.”

Members of the advisory group said some of the recommendations were intended to provide greater public reassurances about privacy protections rather than to result in any wholesale dismantling of the N.S.A.’s surveillance powers. Richard A. Clarke, a cyberexpert and former national security official under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, said the report would give “more reason for the skeptics in the public to believe their civil liberties are being protected.”

Other members included Michael J. Morell, a former deputy director of the C.I.A.; Cass Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor who ran the office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Obama White House; Peter Swire, a privacy law specialist at the Georgia Institute of Technology; and Geoffrey R. Stone, a constitutional law specialist at the University of Chicago Law School, where Mr. Obama once taught.

Mr. Obama is expected to take the report to Hawaii on his vacation that starts this week and announce decisions when he returns in early January. Some of the report’s proposals could be ordered by Mr. Obama alone, while others would require legislation from Congress, including changes to how judges are appointed to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.

Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said he was skeptical that any changes passed by Congress would go far enough. “It gives me optimism that it won’t be completely brushed under the rug,” he said. “However, I’ve been here long enough to know that in all likelihood when there’s a problem, you get window dressing.”

The FISA court, which oversees national security surveillance inside the United States, has been criticized because it hears arguments only from the Justice Department without adversarial lawyers to raise opposing views, and because Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has unilateral power to select its members. Echoing proposals already floated in congressional hearings and elsewhere, the advisory group backs the view that there should be a “public interest advocate to represent the interests of privacy and civil liberties” in classified arguments before the court. It also says the power to select judges for the surveillance court should be distributed among all the Supreme Court justices.

In backing a restructuring of the N.S.A.’s program that is systematically collecting and storing logs of all Americans’ phone calls, the advisers went further than some of the agency’s backers in Congress, who would make only cosmetic changes to it, but stopped short of calling for the program to be shut down, as its critics have urged. The N.S.A. uses the telephone data to search for links between people in an effort to identify hidden associates of terrorism suspects, but the report says it “was not essential to preventing attacks.”

Currently, the government obtains orders from the surveillance court every 90 days that require all the phone companies to give their customers’ data to the N.S.A., which commingles the records from every company and stores it for five years. A small group of analysts may query the database — examining records of everyone who is linked by up to three degrees of separation from a suspect — if the analyst has “reasonable, articulable suspicion” that the original person being examined is linked to terrorism.

Under the new system proposed by the review group, such records would stay in private hands — either scattered among the phone companies or pooled into some kind of private consortium. The N.S.A. would need to make the case to the surveillance court that it has met the standard of suspicion — and get a judge’s order — every time it wanted to perform such “link analysis.”

“In our view, the current storage by the government of bulk metadata creates potential risks to public trust, personal privacy, and civil liberty,” the report said.

The report recommended new privacy protections for the disclosure of personal information about non-Americans among agencies or to the public. The change would extend to foreigners essentially the same protections that citizens have under the Privacy Act of 1974 — a way of assuring foreign countries that their own citizens, if targeted for surveillance, will enjoy at least some protections under American law.

It also said the United States should get out of the business of secretly buying or searching for flaws in common computer programs and using them for mounting cyberattacks. That technique, using what are called zero-day flaws, so named because they are used with zero days of warning that the flaw exists, were crucial to the cyberattacks that the United States and Israel launched on Iran in an effort to slow its nuclear program. The advisers said that the information should be turned over to software manufacturers to have the mistakes fixed, rather than exploited.

Regarding spying on foreign leaders, the report urged that the issue be taken out the hands of the intelligence agencies and put into the hands of policy makers.
471 2013-12-19 GENEVA — Helped by a flurry of offers from Russia and China as well as the United States and European countries, the international watchdog agency overseeing the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons unveiled details Wednesday of a multinational effort to get toxic agents out of the country but warned that the program faced delays.

Following an offer from the United States last month to destroy the chemical weapons at sea, the Syrian government will start transporting hundreds of tons of toxic agents to the port of Latakia around the end of the year, according to a plan approved by the executive council of the watchdog, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

The removal starts a new phase in an agreement reached by Russia and the United States in September that calls for the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons capabilities by June. Despite initial doubts about the cooperation they could expect from President Bashar al-Assad’s government, international inspectors have confirmed that Syria has already destroyed the means of producing chemical weapons and the munitions for delivering them.

But the proposal that Ahmet Uzumcu, director general of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, presented to the executive council in The Hague warned that “technical factors have caused delays regarding some aspects of removal operations and may also affect future implementation activities.” The plan was approved late Tuesday and announced on Wednesday.

Russia has agreed to provide security for loading operations at Latakia’s port but has not said whether it intends to provide troops for that purpose, a European diplomat following developments at the agency said on the condition of anonymity, in line with diplomatic practice. “The plan now has a lot more offers and a lot more parts to it, but we are realistic that there will be challenges,” the diplomat said.
472 2013-12-19 Stocks rallied on Wednesday, with the Dow Jones industrial average the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index reaching record highs as investors reacted to the Federal Reserve’s decision to begin the long-awaited reduction of its economic stimulus.

Wall Street, which had been lackluster waiting for news from the Fed, leapt after the announcement. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 1.7 percent to close at 1,810.65 points. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.8 percent to end the trading day at 16,167.97 as and the Nasdaq finished 1.2 percent higher. All three indexes had been nearly unchanged for much of the day.

The Federal Reserve said it would reduced its bond purchases by $10 billion a month, to $75 billion, but repeated its intent to hold short-term interest rates near zero “well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6.5 percent.”

The Fed’s $85 billion of monthly bond purchases have kept United States interest rates low to encourage economic recovery, but also sent a flood of money into stock markets worldwide in search of higher returns.

There are concerns that “cheap money” has inflated stock prices beyond their rightful value, and so prices have been volatile lately as investors try to gauge the effect of any Fed reductions in the bond purchases, known as tapering.

In Europe, investors were encouraged by signs the Germany economy was picking up steam. The Ifo Institute’s closely watched business confidence index climbed to 109.5 points this month from 109.3 in November — a signal managers anticipate faster economic growth in the new year.
473 2013-12-19 TAIPEI, Taiwan — China Mobile, the world’s largest mobile phone carrier, said Wednesday that it was still in talks with Apple to sell iPhones, amid mounting industry speculation that the pair were about to announce a deal that could net Apple hundreds of millions of new customers.

Xi Guohua, the chairman of China Mobile, said Wednesday that his company had no announcement to make on any deal to carry Apple’s smartphones. Mr. Xi was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a conference in Guangzhou, a city in southern China.

A tie-up between the pair in China, the American company’s second-largest market after its home turf, has been expected for some time and would bolster Apple in its global rivalry with Samsung Electronics of South Korea.

The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this month that an announcement would be made “around Dec. 18.” Mr. Xi’s comment on Wednesday that talks were continuing was first reported by the local news media and later confirmed by a company spokesman, Ge Qi.

A deal with China Mobile could be worth billions of dollars in revenue for Apple. As many as 759 million potential new China Mobile customers could gain access to iPhones, generating up to $3 billion in extra revenue in 2014, equivalent to nearly a quarter of Apple’s projected revenue growth in its current fiscal year. But after an expected initial surge, Apple would likely find itself back in a battle with its main smartphone rival, Samsung.

Mr. Xi also told the conference that China Mobile aims to sell 190 million to 220 million handsets next year. He said the company planned to step up subsidies to cover the cost of handset sales from the 27 billion renminbi, or $4.5 billion, it spent in 2013, according to the company’s official account of his remarks on the Sina Weibo microblogging service.
474 2013-12-19 The government is now prepared to negotiate with the protesters over those demands, Victor Pinchuk, one of Ukraine’s most powerful businessmen, said in an interview. Concessions now from Mr. Yanukovich on these domestic political issues could defuse the demonstrations, even though the main demand, for European integration, went unmet.

“People came to the streets today for values and against violence,” he said. “Now, they are not there for the association agreement,” the name of the wide-ranging trade deal with the European Union that Mr. Yanukovich rejected.

On Wednesday, opposition leaders said they had moved closer to obtaining enough votes in Parliament to dismiss the government of Mr. Azarov, signaling the shift in emphasis to domestic political issues.

In London, around 60 people gathered in front of the multimillion dollar residence of Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine’s richest man, who is considered a strong ally of Mr. Yanukovich, to protest the deal with Russia.

“Akhmetov don’t be quiet! Akhmetov stop Yanukovich!” chanted the crowd, made up of businesspeople, lawyers and Ukrainian immigrants. They whistled, waved Ukrainian flags and held up placards, one reading: “Putin, hands off Ukraine!” It was unclear whether Mr. Akhmetov or his family were there.

The lack of a major reaction in the streets left Mr. Putin, for the moment, seemingly with the upper hand over Europe and the United States in the contest for Ukraine, a former Soviet republic of 46 million that is culturally, economically and militarily intertwined with Russia. It is by far the most populous and influential country in the region that has remained outside the European orbit.

On Wednesday, Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, appeared to be falling back on a less ambitious goal for the country, hinting at a solution that would integrate Ukraine’s economy with the European Union while not ruling out customs-free trade with Russia, as had been stipulated in the failed association agreement.

In her first address to lawmakers since being sworn in for a third term as chancellor, Ms. Merkel said Wednesday that the European Union’s offer to Ukraine “remains on the table.” Ms. Merkel said that while she regretted Mr. Yanukovich’s decision not to sign the agreement, Germany would work “intensively” to ensure there is an end to the current tug of war between Europe and Russia over Ukraine’s future.

“It cannot be that a situation arises where a land that lies between Russia and the European Union must make a basic decision, that will always be seen as either for the one or the other,” Ms. Merkel said.

She warned, however, that Ukraine had to guarantee basic democratic rights to its citizens.

The chancellor’s new foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who held the position in her first government from 2005 to 2009, travels to Warsaw on Thursday, where he is to hold talks with three Polish officials: his Polish counterpart, Radek Sikorski; the Polish president, Bronislaw Komorowski; and Aleksander Kwasniewski, a former president who represented the European Union in negotiations with Ukraine over the failed agreement. Mr. Steinmeier’s party, the Social Democrats, have traditionally been softer on Russia than the chancellor’s conservative Christian Democratic Union.
475 2013-12-19 HONG KONG — China’s biggest Bitcoin exchange was forced to stop accepting deposits in the Chinese currency on Wednesday, sending the price of the virtual money tumbling in one of its biggest markets globally.

The exchange, BTC China, made the announcement in a post on its verified account on Weibo, China’s Twitter-like messaging service.

The development comes less than two weeks after China’s central bank and four other government agencies that regulate finance and technology issued a joint announcement banning Chinese financial institutions from dealing in the virtual currency.

“For reasons we all know, BTC China has had to cease renminbi-account charging functions,” the exchange said in its message, referring to accounts in the Chinese currency. It said that it would continue operating and that deposits denominated in Bitcoins as well as renminbi withdrawals would be unaffected.

By Wednesday evening, the Shanghai-based BTC was quoting Bitcoins at about 2,300 renminbi, or about $380, apiece. That was nearly 40 percent lower than where they had traded on Tuesday and less than half of their peak price of 7,395 renminbi on Dec. 1.

According to Chinese news reports, the People’s Bank of China, the central bank, met Monday with more than 10 of the country’s biggest third-party payment processing companies, ordering them to stop all transactions involving digital currencies. Alibaba’s Alipay service, the country’s biggest processor of online transactions, was among the companies represented at the meeting, according to the reports.
476 2013-12-20 Friday’s highlights from around the web include a dot-com version of Monopoly and the first text message sent by molecular signaling....
477 2013-12-20 Turkey’s latest political crisis coincides with Fed decisions pointing to higher interest rates, a combination that has caused a plunge in the Turkish currency that could be replicated elsewhere....
478 2013-12-20 Regulators are concerned that banks may at times use these complex deals to evade the stiffer regulations that have been introduced since the 2008 financial crisis...
479 2013-12-20 There will be no tried-and-true reforms on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission....
480 2013-12-20 Merchants will now have the opportunity to levy surcharges on credit card transactions, but will they use it?...
481 2013-12-20 The steeper increase in medical spending shown in the revision of third-quarter economic output is a double-edged sword for the White House....
482 2013-12-20 Brightly colored belts, shoes and other accessories sold by some retailers contain high levels of lead, new tests show....
483 2013-12-20 A so-called seeding fund overseen by Julian Robertson, the billionaire investor, is beating the industry average return this year by a wide margin, according to a person briefed on the matter....
484 2013-12-20 Why starting a business up is like dating. I.T. budgets grow. And here’s the question you should stop asking customers....
485 2013-12-20 PRS Legislative Research, an independent research house in New Delhi, found the 15th Lok Sabha falls short compared to its predecessors....
486 2013-12-20 Amid continuing territorial tensions in the South China Sea, analysts are hailing China’s decision to aid an American ship tasked with destroying chemical weapons from Syria as a gesture of cooperation....
487 2013-12-20 The hedge fund received advanced notice that two Chinese banks were planning share placements....
488 2013-12-20 Lamborghini today released images and specifications for its successor to the V10-powered Gallardo, since 2004 the junior model to the automaker’s flagship nameplates – first the Murciélago, then the Aventador. Following the Lamborghini tradition of christening cars with names associated with Spanish bullfighting, the new model will be called the Huracán 610-4, after a bull that fought valiantly in Alicante in the late 19th century. The Huracán will make its public debut at the GenevaMotor Show inMarch.

The new 3,135-pound Lambo – which features a 610-horsepower 5.2-liter V10 – will have big shoes to fill. Lamborghini said in a release that 14,022 units of the Gallardo were sold over its 10-year production run, more than any other model the company has offered. Like the outgoing Gallardo LP 560-4, the Huracán has a top speed of 201 miles per hour. But the new model boasts a zero-to-62 m.p.h. time of 3.2 seconds, two tenths of a second faster than the Gallardo.

All that power goes through a 7-speed dual-clutch transmission and an all-wheel drive system, and exuberant drivers will appreciate the Huracán’s standard carbon-ceramic brakes. Variable ratio steering and adjustable suspension damping are optional upgrades that promise to sharpen the car’s dynamic performance.

The Huracán is new from the ground up, Lamborghini says, splashed with an array of LED lighting that will make it “unmistakably a Lamborghini” at night. As with other more pedestrian cars, the Huracán’s interior gets an infotainment stack, and the instrument panel is actually a 12.3-inch display screen.

Not that Lamborghinis have ever been the standard for fuel efficiency, but at a time when economy concerns have begun to tickle the highest reaches of the automotive universe, even supercars are subject to appraisal. Lamborghini says that with the addition of stop-start technology, the Huracán will get about 19 miles per gallon.

The Huracán, which will be assembled in Sant’Agata Bolognese, Italy, on an all-new production line, is due to begin appearing in customers’ undoubtedly well-appointed garages next spring.
489 2013-12-20 Professor Heffner also helped create what became WNET, New York City’s public broadcasting station, and was its first general manager.

“The Open Mind” made its debut on WRCA-TV, then the NBC affiliate in New York. It stayed with the network after WRCA became WNBC-TV, moving to Channel 13 in 1966.

From the beginning, the program was praised by critics for the level of its discourse, the quality of its guests and the willingness of Professor Heffner to take on freighted subjects.

“What distinguishes the talk is that it is talk that is seldom heard elsewhere on television,” John Corry, writing about “The Open Mind” in The New York Times, said in 1987. “For one thing, people speak in whole passages; Mr. Heffner would sooner dive under the tablecloth than needlessly interrupt. When he does interrupt, it’s because he has something to say.”

Among the topics the program tackled in its earliest days were homosexuality, alcoholism, McCarthyism, segregation and anti-Semitism. Guests over the years included Elie Wiesel, Margaret Mead, William F. Buckley Jr., Thurgood Marshall, Gloria Steinem, Edward I. Koch, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.

Broadcasts from nearly the entire run of “The Open Mind” may be viewed online at thirteen.org/openmind/browse.

Richard Douglas Heffner was born in Manhattan on Aug. 5, 1925, and had a Runyonesque start in life. His father was a highly successful bookmaker — until the Depression came.

“His very wealthy customers were big bettors,” Professor Heffner told the magazine Columbia College Today last year. “They would bet $100,000 on a race. And when they were gone, my father went broke.”

After graduating from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, he earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in history from Columbia, where he was a broadcaster on the campus radio station.

He embarked on his teaching career at Sarah Lawrence College, but broadcasting beckoned. In 1953 he made the rounds of New York radio stations, proposing an interview with Eleanor Roosevelt to commemorate the eighth anniversary of the death of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

WMCA assented, and Professor Heffner recorded Mrs. Roosevelt at her home. Not long before the broadcast, when Professor Heffner discovered to his horror that an engineer had accidentally erased the tape, Mrs. Roosevelt, ever gracious, agreed to a second interview.

The station was so pleased with the program that it gave Professor Heffner a weekly half-hour show, “History in the News.”

Professor Heffner joined WRCA-TV in 1955, serving as host of a public affairs program, “Man of the Year.” The next year, in May, “The Open Mind” made its debut.

In 1959 Professor Heffner joined CBS, where he oversaw the editorials produced by its local television affiliates. In 1961, on leave from the network, he helped negotiate the acquisition of Channel 13 — then a failing commercial station in Newark — as New York City’s first public television station.

He was Channel 13’s general manager from 1961 to 1963; afterward, he established Richard Heffner Associates, a communications consulting concern.

For several years in the 1960s, when the press of other work kept Professor Heffner away from “The Open Mind,” Eric F. Goldman, a Princeton University historian, was its moderator. Professor Heffner resumed the position in 1967.

In 1974, Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, asked Professor Heffner to become the sixth chairman of the association’s Classifications and Ratings Administration, which assigned ratings — then G, PG, R and X — to hundreds of films each year.

“My mother didn’t raise me to count nipples,” he later told the journal Television Quarterly.

But he soon relented, believing the ratings system could help parents make informed decisions on what their children saw. He would hold the post until 1994.

During those years, Professor Heffner commuted frequently to Los Angeles to oversee the ratings board. The board comprised about a half-dozen to a dozen people, unaffiliated with the movie industry, who screened new films.

As its chairman, Professor Heffner became, the The Los Angeles Times wrote in 1990, “the least-known most powerful person in Hollywood.”

On his watch, the board was widely seen as being less worried about sex and more about violence. It awarded X’s for violence to a spate of films, including “The Street Fighter,” a 1974 Japanese martial-arts movie, and “Scarface,” Brian De Palma’s 1983 remake of Howard Hawks’s 1932 gangster film. (On appeal, the rating for “Scarface” was lowered to an R.)

“Parents were more concerned about the human body and sexuality in the 1960s,” Professor Heffner told The Associated Press in 1986. “Today, the threat to family is violence and drug use. We’re tougher on violence and a mite less involved with the view of the human body.”

Two new ratings were created during his tenure: PG-13, introduced in 1984, which marks films deemed unsuitable for children under 13, and NC-17, introduced in 1990, which replaced the X rating and denies admission to children under 17. (In 1996, NC-17’s prohibition was broadened to include 17-year-olds.)

A resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Professor Heffner is survived by his wife, the former Elaine Segal; two sons, Daniel and Andrew; and four grandchildren.

His other books include “As They Saw It” (2004), a collection of interviews from “The Open Mind.”

As Professor Heffner made clear in interviews, the erudite decorum of “The Open Mind” was more than matched by the contentiousness of his film-ratings post.

A particular bone of contention was “Scarface.”

“We were shocked that it got an X rating,” the film’s producer, Martin Bregman, said at the time.

“The only reason I can think of why it originally got an X rating,” he added, was that Professor Heffner “has a vendetta against us.”

Professor Heffner’s rejoinder, reported in some quarters, is not suitable for publication in a family newspaper.
490 2013-12-20 “I started doing experiments — mostly in organic chemistry, because it was so much more interesting — in my mother’s laundry at home,” Dr. Cornforth said in an interview in 2002 with the Vega Science Trust, a nonprofit organization in England.

He entered the University of Sydney at 16, and by the time he graduated four years later, he was deaf.

He also taught himself how to blow glass, earning the nickname Kappa, because he would etch his glassware with that Greek letter to keep others from walking away with his creations.

Through his glassmaking he met a fellow chemistry student, Rita Harradence, when she asked him to mend a flask she had broken. Both went on to win scholarships for graduate study with Robert Robinson, a Nobel-winning chemist at the University of Oxford, and they married in 1941, the same year they finished their doctorates.

Both joined a wartime effort to isolate, identify and synthesize penicillin. After World War II ended, Dr. Cornforth joined the scientific staff of the Medical Research Council, working on the synthesis of steroids.

In 1962 he became co-director of the Milstead Laboratory of Chemical Enzymology in Sittingbourne, set up by Shell Research Ltd., where he did much of the research honored by the Nobel.

Dr. Cornforth had become interested in the chemical reactions that put together squalene, a building block of many steroids, including cholesterol. Because hydrogen atoms on the various organic molecules involved in the reactions are identical, it was hard to figure out which ones took part in the reactions and which did not.

He solved that complication by replacing some of the hydrogen atoms with heavier versions known as deuterium and tritium so that they were no longer identical to the others. He then followed where the deuterium and tritium atoms went during the molecular dance. The result was a three-dimensional model showing how squalene is produced.

Dr. Cornforth had moved to the University of Sussex shortly before winning the Nobel. He was named Australian of the Year in 1975, and he was knighted in 1977. He was also a fellow of the Royal Society.

Dr. Cornforth retired in 1982 but continued conducting scientific research at Sussex until he was almost 90. “He just got on and did things,” Dr. Young said. “He published some very key papers after he retired.”

In addition to Philippa, Dr. Cornforth is survived by another daughter, Brenda; a son, John; two grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. His wife, Rita, who collaborated with him on much of his research, died last year.

Dr. Cornforth found ways to compensate for his inability to hear. During talks at Sussex by visiting chemists, he would glean the content of their speeches from the slides they showed.

“You could always rely on him to ask the most perceptive question of any member of the audience at the end of the talk,” Dr. Young said.

Dr. Young said that other deaf people wrote Dr. Cornforth asking for advice. “I know he has been a great inspiration to young deaf people,” he said.

When he last lectured in Australia, in 1992, Dr. Cornforth told students: “When Rita and I were learning our chemistry here, chemistry was not really very difficult. There was not really all that much to know. Now I am sorry for you people, because there really is a lot to know.”
491 2013-12-20 Congress has been in danger of failing to pass a Pentagon spending bill for the first time in more than 50 years and has been under considerable pressure to do so before Dec. 31, when the Defense Department’s authority to issue combat and hazard pay, as well as recruitment and retention bonuses, is to expire. The bill accounts for $625.1 billion of the $3.8 trillion federal budget.

In addressing the problem of sexual assault in the military, the bill will provide a victim’s advocate to every service member who reports an assault. The measure will also make it a crime to retaliate against service members who report assaults, and it will prevent commanding officers from overturning sexual assault verdicts.

But it falls far short of measures that Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, had hoped to include. Her proposals would remove sexual assault cases from the military chain of command and give military prosecutors the ability to decide which cases to try. Ms. Gillibrand plans to move forward with her changes as a stand-alone bill, and has been promised a vote by Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader.

The Pentagon bill also sets aside $80.7 billion to continue financing for the Afghanistan war, and the measure provides a 1 percent pay raise for members of the military.

Republican lawmakers remained frustrated that they were unable to reach an agreement with the Democrats to be able to offer amendments to the Pentagon bill. “So as we end the year, it’s a tragedy the way the Senate is being run into the ground by basically one person,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, referring to Mr. Reid.

The up-to-the-wire deal on the president’s nominees was something of a Christmas surprise. Senate business has been derailed by discord all week — and even for much of Thursday.

Republicans, still smarting from the Democrats’ decision to invoke the “nuclear option” to eliminate the filibuster for nearly every presidential nominee, had spent much of the month using every arcane procedural hurdle at their disposal to run out the clock on a series of Mr. Obama’s nominations.

Democrats retaliated by scheduling votes late into the evening and threatening to keep Congress in session through the weekend until what they considered to be the most crucial nominations received a vote.

“With all the Republican obstruction delay we have seen over the last two weeks, is it any wonder Democrats changed the rules last month? Of course not,” Mr. Reid said Thursday on the Senate floor. “The American people want Congress to work, not obstruct.”

Before the deal was struck, Republicans complained that Mr. Reid had insisted on clearing as many nominations as possible before the holiday break. “It appears to me like he’s trying to spike the ball,” said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee. “He’s attempting to not only do the nuclear option but then to rub it in everyone’s face.”

Not every problem has been solved. Unemployment insurance benefits are also set to expire at the end of the year, and Senate Democrats and Republicans have been unable to reach an agreement to bring the bill to a floor vote. Mr. Reid promised the measure would be taken up as soon as the Senate returns, but he did so with a swipe at his colleagues across the aisle. “Congress is finishing this year less popular than a cockroach, and this kind of mindless, knee-jerk obstruction from Republicans is exactly why,” he said.

The stalling tactics, late-night votes, amendment fights and general lack of achievements still soured spirits as the Senate finally prepared to head home.
492 2013-12-20 “Some in the Egyptian society have a readiness to tolerate and reconcile with the atrocities that have been happening,” said Bahey Eldin Hassan, the director of the Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies. “Silence facilitates committing more crimes.”

Mr. Hassan said that with the arrest of Mr. Adel, “the four most important youth symbols of the revolution are now in jail.”

“This has never happened at any moment since the 25th of January 2011,” he added, referring to the beginning of the uprising against Mr. Mubarak. The other three — Alaa Abd el-Fattah, Ahmed Douma and Ahmed Maher — are being held on charges that include violating a new law that essentially criminalizes protests.

Court decisions on Thursday, hours after the raid, deepened a sense that Egypt’s years of revolt were fading from view. An Egyptian court acquitted a Mubarak-era minister, Ahmed Shafiq, of corruption charges in a land deal involving Mr. Mubarak’s two sons. The sons, Alaa and Gamal, were also acquitted but face other charges.

The decision raised the likelihood that Mr. Shafiq, a former presidential candidate who has been living in exile, will be able return to Egypt a free man. On Wednesday, prosecutors filed new charges against Mr. Morsi, accusing him in a terrorist plot that the authorities proclaimed was the biggest in Egyptian history, which human rights workers said was ludicrous.

The motive for the raid on the human rights organization remained murky. At a news conference on Thursday, Mohamed Suliman, a lawyer with the group, noted that the raid came only weeks after the center sharply criticized the government’s human rights record in a report to the United Nations.

And it came hours before the group was scheduled to hold a news conference on what it said were violations of workers’ rights, including the breakup of sit-ins by steel workers.

Another lawyer, Mahmoud Belal, said he arrived at the center in downtown Cairo shortly before midnight and saw dozens of security agents in civilian attire blocking the entrance. Five colleagues were being led away by agents who beat and verbally abused them. When Mr. Belal objected, he was taken into custody. The agents removed the detainees’ shirts, and fashioned them into blindfolds and hand ties. “Anyone who objected to the blindfold, or asked a question, or asked to go to the bathroom was harshly beaten,” Mr. Belal said.

Mr. Hassan said that the “stupidity and arrogance” of the security agencies was beginning to mobilize non-Islamists who opposed the government but who had kept silent because they were also critical of Islamists.

“The realization of danger is increasing,” he said, “even if it is happening slowly.”
493 2013-12-20 Chinese officials said their vessel was following protocol and handled the episode in an appropriate fashion.

There is precedent for high-level concern. In 2001, a collision between a Chinese jet fighter and a Navy surveillance plane in international airspace killed the Chinese pilot, resulted in the 11-day detention of the 24-member American crew and ruptured bilateral relations for months. American officials said the Chinese pilot was flying recklessly close, a charge denied by Beijing.

The Cowpens episode, in international waters, occurred after the Chinese declared an air defense identification zone over a disputed area. That move was criticized as likely to increase tensions with Japan and South Korea, which have overlapping claims, as well as with the United States.

Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that the rules of engagement in the region had not been amended since the near collision. But he said American forces were watching for other potential provocative action.

“We remain alert for changes in the environment,” General Dempsey said. “There are times that are more sensitive than others. And we’re in a heightened period of sensitivity, and you can count on our mariners and airmen to be aware of that.”

When the Chinese warship cut in front of the Cowpens, the American cruiser was watching China’s new aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, as it made its first voyage in the South China Sea from its home base in Qingdao, the headquarters of China’s North Sea Fleet.

Asked to assess the level of American concern over China’s fielding of an aircraft carrier — a refurbished older vessel bought from Ukraine — General Dempsey noted that the Chinese were “a long way from being a threat to us with their aircraft carrier.”

Senior Pentagon officials express greater concern over the Chinese military’s focus on long-range bombs and missiles designed at least in part to deny American forces’ access to waters closer to China. The Pentagon, to counter, is investing heavily in weapons and defenses to preserve the ability of American warships and warplanes to operate where they want.

Both Mr. Hagel and General Dempsey called for continued military-to-military talks with the Chinese to defuse tensions. The goal, General Dempsey said, “was to come to a common agreement about rules of behavior when we encounter each other in three particular domains: air, sea and cyber.”

American government officials have said that computer hackers operating from China — either officially or with the knowledge, and even encouragement, of the government in Beijing — have been energetically seeking to steal American national security and economic secrets by hacking computer networks in the United States.
494 2013-12-20 MOSCOW — A regional court in Kazan, Russia, convicted a gay-rights advocate on Thursday for violating the country’s much-criticized law against “gay propaganda.”

The advocate, Dmitri Isakov, faces a fine of 4,000 rubles, or about $120, for having stood on a central square in June while holding a sign that read: “Being gay and loving gays is normal. Beating gays and killing gays is criminal.”

Mr. Isakov became the third person punished since the federal statute became law in June. Just weeks ago, two men in the northern city of Arkhangelsk were sentenced for similar actions.

Despite the court’s decision, Mr. Isakov said in a telephone interview, he plans to continue his activism. “I will not stop,” he said.
495 2013-12-20 WASHINGTON — Sales of existing homes fell in November and new filings for unemployment benefits rose unexpectedly last week, putting a wrinkle in an otherwise brightening economic picture.

The reports on Thursday came a day after the Federal Reserve gave the economy a vote of confidence by announcing that it would wind down its monthly $85 billion bond-buying program, starting with a $10 billion trim in January.

“Things have not changed. It’s still a marginally rosier outlook in the short term,” said Jacob Oubina, senior United States economist at RBC Capital Markets in New York.

The National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes fell 4.3 percent last month to an annual rate of 4.9 million units. That was the lowest since December 2012 and the third straight monthly drop.

A rise in interest rates since the spring and fast-rising home prices have shut some potential buyers out of the market, damping home sales in recent months.

Economists polled by Reuters had expected home resales to fall only to a 5.03 million-unit pace in November.

Median home prices increased 9.4 percent from a year ago and the share of distressed properties — foreclosed and short sales — declined over the same period.
496 2013-12-20 One way to look at An Animated World, a retrospective of films distributed by the New York-based company Gkids, is in terms of dollars. Of the 18 films in this festival, which begins Friday at the IFC Center in Manhattan, those that have already been released commercially in American theaters have made a total of about $2.8 million. That’s 1 ½ percent of what Disney’s “Frozen” has earned in less than a month.

Such is life when your business is finding and selling alternatives to big-budget American animation, studio juggernauts like “Frozen” that often seem to have been made by committees of computers. Gkids’ animated films — craftsmanlike, serious, often foreign and usually aimed at adults as well as children — do not set the United States box office on fire. (Though to be fair, one of the films in the retrospective, “From Up on Poppy Hill,” has made $60 million overseas, mostly in Japan.)

But Gkids has been increasingly successful by other standards, and An Animated World, billed as a fifth-anniversary event, also celebrates the growing prestige of the distributor, which grew out of the New York International Children’s Film Festival.

Among the films are a 2010 Academy Award nominee, “The Secret of Kells,” and two from 2012, “A Cat in Paris” and “Chico & Rita.” Gkids was the first independent distributor to have two Oscar feature-animation nominees in the same year, and now it has a chance to do it again, with the French talking-animal adventure “Ernest & Celestine” (which will also be showing at the Sundance festival in January) and the naturalistic Japanese teenage drama “A Letter to Momo” on the long list for the 2014 nominations.

“Ernest & Celestine,” a sprightly but low-key parable of tolerance starring an unbearably cute and plucky mouse (it was directed by Stéphane Aubier and Vincent Patar, makers of the wonderful “A Town Called Panic,” and Benjamin Renner) and Hiroyuki Okiura’s quiet, almost somber “Letter to Momo” — both in the retrospective — are easily distinguished from bigger, brasher American Oscar competitors.

But within the Gkids festival lineup, there are also degrees of originality, daring and visual imagination, and the best-known films are not necessarily at the top of that scale. The series includes three movies receiving their American theatrical premieres: the French “Eleanor’s Secret,” the Japanese “Welcome to the Space Show” and the Spanish “Nocturna” — and they are all, in various ways, more interesting than the two Oscar hopefuls, which appear to have been chosen partly with cuteness and comprehensibility in mind.
497 2013-12-20 She has floppy ears, eyes of exquisite sadness and an operatic tendency toward ecstasy, anguish and other big emotions. Leave her alone in a thunderstorm, and she may fall into despair.

She is a dog named Rose, and her Dear John letter to the man she loved is the battered heart of Lee Breuer’s dark, joyous and utterly splendid musical fantasia “La Divina Caricatura, Part 1, The Shaggy Dog,” at La MaMa, in a co-presentation with St. Ann’s Warehouse.

An East Village tale told in a subway, it’s a doomed cross-species romance inspired by “The Divine Comedy,” but Mr. Breuer uses Dante more as catalyst than template. The strongest classical link is to Japanese theater’s Bunraku.

Played on multiple stages with live actors, glorious singers and a buoyant band that shifts nimbly from doo-wop to country, gospel to cha-cha (the original music is by Lincoln Schleifer), the multimedia production is, at its core, puppet theater. Rose and John, a grizzled filmmaker in huarache sandals, are puppets, each operated by a supple, stealthy team of three.

But this is puppet theater for adventurous souls. Mabou Mines, the boundary-pushing downtown ensemble Mr. Breuer helped found four decades ago, is one of the show’s producers, but “La Divina” is not to be mistaken for “Peter and Wendy,” the company’s child-friendly hit. This is one of its more niche affairs.
498 2013-12-20 “We had a money-back special. Your money back if the pope’s black,” Rory Scott, a Paddy Power spokesman, said in a telephone interview. So when Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Argentina, a white cardinal now known as Francis, was chosen, Mr. Scott said jokingly, “Our prayers were answered.”

During their pope collaboration, Mr. Scott said, Mr. Rodman and Paddy Power executives devised the idea of setting up an international basketball tournament involving North Korea’s national team. Months later, when Mr. Rodman visited Mr. Kim a second time, the North Korean leader, an avowed basketball enthusiast, embraced the idea. He said they should hold the tournament in Pyongyang on his 31st birthday, Jan. 8.

“So it all started when the pope resigned,” Mr. Scott said, speaking from Beijing as he was preparing to accompany Mr. Rodman to Pyongyang. “That had everything to do with it.”

Mr. Rodman’s publicist, Darren Prince of Prince Marketing Group of Los Angeles, did not return telephone calls or emails seeking comment about the trip, which comes as Mr. Kim, who leads one of the world’s most isolated and repressive governments, appears to be engaged in crushing political challenges to his supremacy. Mr. Kim’s uncle and onetime mentor, Jang Song-thaek, was executed last week after an abruptly announced trial and conviction for sedition.

In an interview on Thursday in Pyongyang with The Associated Press, the only American news agency with a bureau there, Mr. Rodman reiterated that his plans had not changed and that the trip could ease the longstanding estrangement between the United States and North Korea, which never declared a formal end to the Korean War six decades ago. He said the trip was an opportunity for others to see “that this country is actually not as bad as people project it to be in the media.”

Mr. Rodman has said previously that after he conducts the training, he will return in January with an unspecified number of former N.B.A. players for Mr. Kim’s birthday tournament, which Paddy Power officials are calling “the Big Bang in Pyongyang.”

During Mr. Rodman’s first trip to North Korea, photos that quickly spread on the Internet showed him and Mr. Kim laughing together as they took in a basketball game. Mr. Rodman has proclaimed Mr. Kim “a friend for life” and “a very good guy.”

Mr. Scott said Paddy Power was not taking wagers on the tournament, though he declined to discuss the commercial or financial aspects of the event. “We view this as a unique opportunity to put on a quite incredible historic event,” he said. “We view sport as a universal language.”

State Department officials have repeatedly said Mr. Rodman does not represent the United States government and is carrying no messages on its behalf. But privately, diplomats and North Korea specialists say, there is considerable interest in Washington about Mr. Rodman’s trip, partly because so little is known about Mr. Kim, the grandson of Kim Il-sung, North Korea’s revolutionary founder.

The trip and the Jan. 8 tournament also appear to have increased tourist interest in North Korea. Koryo Tours of Beijing, which specializes in trips to North Korea, even offered a deal on its website for a four-day excursion that included tickets to the tournament. “There will never be another trip quite like this one,” the offer states. “Anyone coming along with us will have a story to tell forever more.”

Despite the price of almost $8,900, quadruple the cost of a regular tour of that duration the package sold out within days, said Hannah Barraclough, a Koryo tourism manager. Ms. Barraclough said Americans had not been dissuaded by their government’s warnings that citizens should avoid travel to North Korea because they could be subject to arbitrary arrest.

Kenneth Bae, a 44-year-old American, has been incarcerated for more than a year on charges of hostile acts because of his Christian missionary work. Merrill E. Newman, an 85-year-old Korean War veteran from California who was seized on Oct. 26 while on an official tour, was not released for a month. Mr. Newman’s wartime role included advising anti-Communist guerrillas, a group particularly reviled in the North.

“It was awful what happened to him,” Ms. Barraclough said, referring to Mr. Newman, “but he went in not understanding that the Korean War was still going on. People were quite aware that it was an exceptional case.”

The publicity over Mr. Rodman’s visit could give Paddy Power some name-brand recognition as it is seeking to expand into the United States, where Internet gambling, considered a $33 billion market worldwide, is illegal in most states. The company has applied for licenses in Nevada and New Jersey, which along with Delaware began allowing Internet gambling this year.

The company is famous for offensive advertising and wagers on delicate political issues, some with racial overtones. In 2008 it was widely criticized for offering a bet that President Obama would not finish his first term, which critics said was an invitation for an assassination attempt — an accusation the company denied.

It has been repeatedly criticized in Britain over television advertisements deemed inappropriate. Last year, London’s Daily Telegraph listed Paddy Power’s most controversial ads, which include betting on the survival of two old women shown crossing a busy street, titled “Let’s make things more interesting,” and one showing Jesus and the apostles playing poker at the Last Supper.

Jocelyn Wood, a reporter and editor for Pokerfuse, a website about online poker news, said he would not be surprised if Paddy Power carried out “some form of ridiculous stunt” despite North Korea’s reputation for strictness.

“They may sign a nonaggression pact with Kim, or stage a leprechaun fight with the North Korean mascot, or something similar,” he said in an email. “Think like Borat — they’ll be doing something along those lines.”
499 2013-12-20 Wenger, at 100-1, is a joint favorite to survive in his job. He shared that position with Roberto Martínez, a Spaniard who is in his first, highly successful year as manager of Everton. David Moyes, the longtime previous manager of Everton, which is based in Liverpool, left to take over for Alex Ferguson, the longest-serving manager in the history of top-flight soccer in Britain, when he stepped down after more than 26 years at .

Since the Villas-Boas firing, the sports pages of British newspapers have been rife with speculation on other likely Premier League dismissals, with subjects including the managers of at least six other clubs that are fighting to avoid a bottom-three finish in the league and relegation to the second tier of English soccer, known as the Championship. With relegation comes the loss of $150 million to $200 million a year, the share of television revenue that goes to each Premier League club.

Tracking the fortunes of managers has become almost as much of a pastime among soccer fans as the game itself. In the case of Villas-Boas, and other recent firings, television cameras have focused on the often haunted looks on the faces of managers thought to be doomed. Supporters of opposing teams fill the role of Madame Defarge at the guillotine, improvising mocking chants that foreshadow a manager’s dismissal. One common component is a warning to expect a P45 form, the equivalent of a pink slip in the United States.

In lamenting the dismissals, managers and soccer commentators often blame the culture of impatience that has blossomed as the financial stakes in top-flight soccer have grown. The new generation of billionaire club owners, many of them foreigners who have supplanted community-based owners, is another easy target, though on that issue there have been opposing opinions.

Owners like Roman Abramovich, a Russian, and Sheik Mansour bin Zayed al-Nahyan, of , have invested billion-dollar sums in Chelsea and Manchester City, turning the clubs into title chasers in English and European competition while gaining notoriety for firing managers who falter. Roberto Mancini of Manchester City was fired last season, a year after the club won the Premier League and two years after it won the F.A. Cup; Roberto Di Matteo got his P45 within months of winning the European Champions League title with Chelsea.

But other owners have stuck with managers through meager times. The American Stan Kroenke, the majority shareholder of Arsenal, has backed Wenger strongly even as the club has not won a trophy of any kind since 2005. Members of the American Glazer family, who have owned Manchester United since 2005, were stolid supporters of Ferguson and have backed Moyes, even though the club has slipped to eighth in the Premier League, 10 points behind Arsenal, after Moyes’s first few months.

Moyes was one of many prominent people in soccer who sympathized with Villas-Boas.

“The best clubs have had stability over the years,” he said, citing Wenger, Ferguson and his own 11 years at Everton. Grasping that, he said, might mean that clubs would not be “hiring and firing managers so often.”

Mark Hughes, fired at Manchester City and Queens Park Rangers, and now manager at Stoke City, which is struggling in the Premier League this year, concurred.

“It just seems now that it’s all too easy to change coaches and managers, and it’s a shame,” he said.

Gary Neville, a former Manchester United captain who has built a career as a television analyst, was scathing. Referring to Villas-Boas’s problems in forming a coherent performance out of $175 million in new signings for the 2013 season, he wrote on : “Had to incorporate seven new players, which takes time! Rubbish! Let him finish his work! Prime ministers and presidents get 4/5 years for a reason.”

A former protégé of José Mourinho’s during his first stint as Chelsea manager, from 2004 to 2007, Villas-Boas had a Tottenham record that was statistically unmatched, winning more than 50 percent of all games in the 18 months he was in charge. When he was fired, the club was seventh in the Premier League, 2 points ahead of Manchester United. But a run of crushing defeats against the top clubs, including a 5-0 drubbing by Liverpool at Spurs’ White Hart Lane last Saturday, proved his undoing.

It seemed unlikely that Villas-Boas’s plight would stir much chagrin from the 2.4 million Britons who are unemployed. Villas-Boas is reported to have received a $6.5 million payoff from Spurs, on top of a $20 million payoff when he was fired by Chelsea in 2012. That, too, might be viewed by many soccer fans as something fit for the madhouse.
500 2013-12-20 “There is one goal and that is to create a strong, vibrant and solvent city and this agreement will help us achieve that,” Mr. Orr said in a statement.

The written agreement resulted from six weeks of discussions between Mr. Orr and Mr. Duggan and their staffs, they said. The two men pledged to work closely, although by state law Mr. Orr continues to hold final authority over city government and can reassume control if necessary.

Mr. Orr will continue to manage the city’s overall financial operations, oversee federal grants, and maintain control of its Police Department. Mr. Duggan will be responsible for day-to-day operations, and will appoint non-civil-service positions in the executive branch of city government.

The agreement provides a blueprint for how the city will function during what is expected to be a lengthy bankruptcy process.

Mr. Orr, who was appointed as Detroit’s emergency manager in March by Gov. Rick Snyder, said the collaborative working arrangement was a necessary step for the city’s revival.

Since his appointment, Mr. Orr has run the city government virtually alone, without delegating much authority to the current mayor, Dave Bing, or the City Council.

But with his term as emergency manager set to expire next September, Mr. Orr has proved more willing to turn over significant powers to Mr. Duggan, who won election in November.

The changes represent the beginning of a transition of power back to the city’s top elected official, and an important show of support by state officials for Mr. Duggan as he prepares to take office on Jan. 1.

“The people of Detroit elected me to change the quality of life in their city,” Mr. Duggan said. “This agreement will allow the team I am assembling to impact city services that touch our residents every day.”

Mr. Duggan said he expected to concentrate on eradicating abandoned buildings and blighted commercial areas; restoring streetlights that have been in disrepair; and improving the equipment and effectiveness of the city’s beleaguered Fire Department.

Mr. Orr, who was not available for interviews on Thursday, has been testifying in United States Bankruptcy Court on a proposed debt settlement with two banks that is part of a larger deal to get $350 million in bankruptcy financing for the city.

But the court proceedings were halted unexpectedly on Wednesday by Judge Steven W. Rhodes, who ordered Mr. Orr and the city to renegotiate better terms with the banks, UBS and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

At a news conference, Mr. Duggan said that he was eager to work alongside Mr. Orr and divide the duties of running the city.

“I’d just as soon have responsibility for everything right away,” he said. “But this is a process.”

He described his relationship with Mr. Orr as “very professional,” and said their talks focused on practical solutions to reverse the decades of decline in city services. “This was a negotiated settlement,” Mr. Duggan said, adding that he had also held discussions with Governor Snyder about the arrangement.

Mr. Duggan said he had hoped to gain control of the Police Department in the arrangement, but accepted that Mr. Orr had reasons for rejecting that request. “That’s the most significant issue I would not be responsible for,” he said.

A spokesman for Mr. Orr, William Nowling, said Mr. Orr’s continued oversight of the Police Department was a condition in the recruitment last summer of the new police chief, James Craig. He added that because the department was still under a Justice Department consent decree, Mr. Orr considered it part of his overall supervision of city activities with federal connections.

For Mr. Duggan, Thursday’s announcement was his first opportunity to deliver on his campaign pledge to restore power to Detroit’s electorate.

And as the first white mayor to be elected in Detroit in 40 years, Mr. Duggan used the platform to introduce what looks to be a racially diverse cabinet, headed by two prominent black officials.

As deputy mayor, Mr. Duggan chose Isaiah McKinnon, a former Detroit police chief with deep ties in the city’s educational and religious communities. He also introduced Lisa Howze, a state legislator and former rival in the mayoral election, as his chief of staff.

Mr. Duggan said his appointments would reflect what he hoped was a spirit of solidarity in his new administration and an end to the “fighting and bickering” that has characterized city politics in recent years.

He gave no timetables for improvements in police response times or fire protection, saying he would soon announce specific initiatives to improve services.

“We are going to move very quickly now on blight, public lighting and the Fire Department,” he said.

Mr. McKinnon is expected to play a large role in stabilizing the Fire Department and emergency medical services, as well as leading outreach efforts with church leaders and philanthropic organizations.

He said part of his job would be to instill confidence in city workers that the new mayoral administration would fix fire trucks and repair equipment that has degraded along with the Detroit’s financial condition.

“Let’s take the finances out of it,” Mr. McKinnon said. “The reality is we have to get people to understand their jobs are important, and we are going to save lives.”
501 2013-12-20 The price tags are now on the paintings.

Detroit’s emergency manager on Thursday released Christie’s long-awaited market appraisals for some of the greatest masterpieces in the collection of the Detroit Institute of Arts, which has become a political football in the city’s efforts to repay billions to creditors as part of a federal bankruptcy case.

Pieter Bruegel the Elder’s “The Wedding Dance,” one of the institute’s calling cards and one of only five Bruegels in American museum collections, would bring $100 million to $200 million if sold, the auction house estimated. An 1887 van Gogh self-portrait — one in which he is wearing his familiar yellow straw hat and tortured mien — was valued at $80 million to $150 million. Rembrandt’s “The Visitation” would bring $50 million to $90 million. And Matisse’s “The Window,” the first painting by the artist to enter an American museum collection, would fetch $40 million to $80 million. A drawing by Michelangelo of a design for the Sistine Chapel ceiling brought the only sizable estimate for a work that was not a painting: $12 million to $20 million.

While museums often have their collections valued in a blanket manner for insurance purposes, the public revelation of what its prized paintings and sculpture would bring on the market is a painful turn of events for the institute, which is facing a threat to its existence of a kind never confronted by another American museum of its size.

Christie’s experts focused on a small number of masterpieces, the most valuable of which are on view in the museum’s galleries, and contained no big surprises: a handful of blockbuster old master and modern paintings account for most of the money that could be raised in a sale.

The overall estimate — which Christie’s said would total between $454 million and $867 million — covers about 2,800 pieces, or less than 5 percent of the institute’s entire collection because Detroit’s emergency manager, Kevyn D. Orr, asked Christie’s to focus only on pieces that had been bought with city funds. The reasoning was that city-purchased pieces would be less subject to legal challenge if they were to be sold.
502 2013-12-20 The day’s first trade was followed by other deals for a total of 120,000 permits, known as Guangdong Emissions Allowances, in the first 20 minutes of the market, all at 60 renminbi each.

China’s other emissions markets each produced about half that volume during their entire debut days.

The price level matched expectations, after a government auction of three million permits sold at 60 renminbi, the official price floor for auctions, on Monday.

But some observers warned of potential price volatility in the longer term. Emissions markets are often price-sensitive in early stages, as has been seen in markets in Europe, New Zealand and Shenzhen.

“The biggest concern for companies is how to manage volatility risks. That’s more important than who and how much traded today,” said Jeff Huang, China director of the Intercontinental Exchange.

Guangdong, home to more than 100 million people and with an economy bigger than Indonesia’s, is set to become China’s central carbon trading hub in the near term; its number of carbon permits dwarfs the combined volume in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. Globally it will trail only the European Union.

Guangdong’s carbon plan caps carbon dioxide emissions from 242 of the province’s major power generators and cement, iron and steel producers at 350 million metric tons per year, with a further 38 million metric tons set aside in reserves for new entrants and potential adjustments.

Companies must pay for 3 percent of their expected emissions in the first year of the plan, with that share gradually rising in the future.

The Guangdong government said this week that it would expand the market to cover five new sectors, including textiles, paper production and metals, although it gave no timeline.

In Shenzhen, permits currently trade at 73.50 renminbi, with prices pushed up on small volumes by private speculators after the market opened at 28 renminbi in June. Beijing permits trade at about 50 renminbi, and in Shanghai, they change hands at about 25 renminbi.

In comparison, allowances in the European Union market closed Wednesday at $6.81. Observers say the varying price levels in the Chinese markets do not necessarily reflect real differences in the scarcity of permits.

Instead, companies are unclear whether they are betting on growth or weakness in the permits, because this is the first year the markets have been in operation, and the data that the allocation was based on is uncertain, experts say.
503 2013-12-20 European markets rose in early trading, with indicators increasing in London, Paris and Frankfurt.

Wall Street indexes, which rose after Fed’s announcement, opened slightly lower on Thursday following the release of some disappointing data on jobless claims.

The Fed’s shift in policy, in effect, means it plans to do less now and more later. That is the result of a compromise that has been months in the making between a group of officials convinced that the economy needs more help, and a range of internal critics who regarded the bond-buying campaign as ineffective or dangerous.

The Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, insisted that the net effect was not a withdrawal of support for the economy. “We are not doing less,” he said at a news conference on Wednesday. “I think we have been aggressive to try to keep the economy growing, and we are seeing progress in the labor market. I would dispute the idea that we are not providing a lot of accommodation to the economy.”

Investors appeared to agree with Mr. Bernanke, defying predictions that stock prices would retreat along with the Fed’s pullback. Stock indexes in the United States spiked when the Fed’s statement was released at midafternoon Wednesday, and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had climbed 1.7 percent by the end of the trading day. Importantly, interest rates on benchmark bonds — the rates the Fed is trying to influence — ended the day roughly where they started.

One reason for investor enthusiasm, said Michael Hanson, a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, is the stimulus will be withdrawn very gradually.

The markets now have a clear — though tentative — schedule for the course of Fed policy over the next two years, including an end to asset purchases by late next year and a signal from Mr. Bernanke that the first increase in short-term interest rates is not likely to come until near the end of 2015.

That is particularly striking because the plan, set in the final months of Mr. Bernanke’s tenure, will now define the first two years of the term of his successor, Janet L. Yellen, whom the Senate is expected to confirm this week. Mr. Bernanke said on Wednesday that Ms. Yellen “fully supports what we did today.”

The Fed is struggling to calibrate its stimulus campaign in an environment of steady but mediocre growth. The United States unemployment rate has declined over the last year, reaching 7 percent in November. But that is still a high rate by historical standards, and other measures of the labor market look even worse. Wages are rising slowly, and the share of adults with jobs has not climbed since the recession.

A variety of indicators suggest the American economy may now be growing more quickly than analysts predicted, and Fed officials anticipate somewhat faster growth in the coming year. But the persistence of low inflation indicates the economy is operating well below its capacity.

Prices increased only 0.7 percent during the 12 months ending in October, according to a Commerce Department index that is the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, well below the 2 percent pace the Fed considers healthy. Economic projections by Fed officials, also published on Wednesday, showed that the officials did not expect inflation to exceed 2 percent in the next three years.

In beginning its retreat, the Fed said that it expected inflation to slowly increase in coming years. But it also made clear, for the first time, that it did not intend to raise short-term rates until prices actually started to rise. In doing so, it joins a growing list of central banks grappling with the novel challenge of trying to drive up inflation after decades spent trying to drive it down.

“The committee is determined to avoid inflation that is too low, as well as inflation that is too high,” Mr. Bernanke said at the news conference.

Some analysts saw an inconsistency between that rhetoric and the Fed’s shift, however.

“The Federal Reserve essentially disregarded the trajectory of inflation in this decision,” wrote Tim Duy, an economist at the University of Oregon.

Over the last year, the Fed has bought more than $1 trillion in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities in its effort to encourage job creation. Fed officials say the purchases have modestly reduced a range of borrowing costs, contributing, for example, to a rise in auto sales and an improving housing market. They say the program has also helped to revive an appetite for taking risks, driving up stock prices.

“The ripple effects go through the economy and bring benefits to, I would say, all Americans,” Ms. Yellen said at her confirmation hearing last month.

But independent analysts have struggled to isolate the effects of the program. Some Fed officials, and outside analysts including some at the International Monetary Fund, also see evidence that the impact of the bond buying has diminished as markets have returned to normalcy. Officials are increasingly concerned as well about the potential consequences, including the disruption of financial markets and the difficulty of unwinding the program.

Fed officials also are frustrated that the bond-buying program has become a source of financial instability as investors hang on every shift in policy. Those concerns were reflected in the Fed’s decision to announce not just an initial cut in bond buying, but a probable timetable for ending the purchases completely.

The policy shift won the support of Esther L. George, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City in Missouri, who has dissented at each previous meeting this year over concerns that the Fed was doing too much. But with the balance swinging in favor of her views, the decision drew a dissent from Eric S. Rosengren, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, who called it premature.

The decision won broad support from the policy-making committee, including most proponents of the overall stimulus campaign, because of the accompanying decision to strengthen the Fed’s commitment to holding down interest rates.

The announcement on Wednesday went well beyond the previous declaration of an intent to keep rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remained above 6.5 percent. The Fed said instead that “it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6› percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal.”

Some economists doubt the power of such guidance, however, including Stanley Fischer, whom the White House is expected to nominate as Ms. Yellen’s vice chairman. Another critic of forward guidance, Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics and a former central banker at the Bank of England, described the “fine-tuning” in a Twitter message as “not-so-fine policy.”

Stock prices fell earlier in the year when the Fed first talked about tapering, and the Wall Street economist Henry Kaufman of Henry Kaufman & Company was among the many who predicted a similar reaction once the Fed began to carry it out.

On Wednesday afternoon, he said that the Fed had succeeded instead in focusing the attention of investors on its forward guidance. “The market has concluded that the key issue is the level of short-term interest rates,” he said. “That will allow the market to continue to be aggressive risk-takers, to make speculative investments.”

Both the S.&P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average reached new highs on Wednesday, without adjustment for inflation, with the Dow rising 292.71 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 16,167.97, and the S.&P. 500 rising 29.65 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,810.65. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 46.38 points, or 1.2 percent, to 4,070.06.

At the same time, the assurance that rates would remain low soothed bond investors. The yield on the Treasury’s 10-year note rose to 2.89 percent from 2.84 percent late on Tuesday, while its price fell half a point, to 98œ.

Nelson D. Schwartz contributed reporting from New York and Neil Gough from Hong Kong.
504 2013-12-20 Mushroom ragoût accepts chipotles willingly. I made a delicious and substantial quesadilla dinner with the ragoût, two tortillas and a bit of cheese in under three minutes.

1 teaspoon chopped canned chipotle in adobo (more to taste)

1. Stir the chopped chipotles into the mushroom ragoût. Taste and add more if you want more spice.

2. Using a microwave: Place a corn tortilla on a plate. Top with a heaped tablespoon of the grated cheese. Add half the mushrooms and spread in an even layer. Sprinkle another heaped tablespoon of the cheese over the mushrooms and top with another tortilla. Press down gently. Repeat with the remaining ingredients. Microwave for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes, until the cheese has melted. Remove from the microwave, cut into quarters, and serve.

Using a pan: Place a corn tortilla in a pan. Top with a heaped tablespoon of the cheese and half the mushrooms and spread in an even layer. Sprinkle on another heaped tablespoon the cheese. Turn the heat on medium-high and heat until the cheese begins to melt. Place the remaining tortilla on top of the cheese and press down lightly. Flip the quesadilla over in the pan and heat for about 30 seconds, or until the cheese has melted. Flip back over and remove to a plate. Cut into quarters or sixths, and serve. Repeat with the remaining ingredients.

Variation: You can also make these quesadillas with wheat tortillas.

Advance preparation: The mushroom ragoût will keep for 3 or 4 days in the refrigerator.

Nutritional information per quesadilla: 172 calories; 8 grams fat; 4 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 1 gram monounsaturated fat; 19 milligrams cholesterol; 17 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 239 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 8 grams protein
505 2013-12-21 The Dickens of Detroit started out in the Wild West....
506 2013-12-21 Christoph Niemann’s sketchy tribute to André Cassagnes....
507 2013-12-21 Every day from now until Christmas, the editors of T are sharing their personal gift suggestions. Today’s pick: wrist candy that doubles as motivation to get in shape for 2014....
508 2013-12-21 Pictures From the Week in Business
509 2013-12-21 WASHINGTON — The final day of the Senate’s 2013 session ended on an anticlimactic note on Friday as senators pressed the pause button on the bickering that had kept the chamber nearly paralyzed this year.

The day opened with a bit of a scare when Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, was hospitalized in the early morning after falling ill.

Mr. Reid, who just turned 74, remained in the hospital for most of the day and was at home by the evening.

Mr. Reid’s spokesman, Adam Jentleson, said the senator went to the hospital as a precaution.

“The doctors diagnosed him as exhausted, not anything more serious, and have cleared him to go back to work,” he said. “He spent today resting, talking to family, friends and colleagues, reading the news and discussing Senate business.”

Mr. Reid’s absence left the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, to preside over the business of the day, which moved forward quickly after a tumultuous two weeks of procedural delays and stalling tactics that threatened to keep senators in Washington until Christmas.
510 2013-12-21 The cigar-flavored treat is “a chocolate that should be eaten in its context,” he said. “If you had it at the end of a good meal with a strong alcohol — a Cognac, an Armagnac or a good whiskey — that would be nice.”

Chocolate confectionery is big business, providing more than 4,000 jobs in Switzerland alone last year and earning 1.6 billion Swiss francs in revenue, nearly half of it in exports, according to industry data. And those figures, which count big producers like Nestlé, do not include artisanal chocolatiers like Mr. Pascoët and scores of others in Geneva, Zurich and other cities.

Worldwide, though, analysts say the supply of chocolate cannot keep pace with people’s appetite, because of the cocoa shortage. Betting that prices will continue to rise, investors have been flocking to cocoa futures.

“Production isn’t rising, at least not as quickly as demand, so that’s a recipe for higher prices,” said Michaela Kuhl, an analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. The market imbalance has driven cocoa prices up by 40 percent since the lows hit in the spring, she noted.

While there are more factors in chocolate’s price than just cocoa, a shift in tastes toward dark chocolate is helping drive the cost increase. According to the International Cocoa Organization, a trade group, cocoa makes up about one-tenth of the average chocolate bar. But dark chocolate is increasingly popular, and some contains more than 80 percent cocoa.

Chocolate prices in the United States, for example, are on track to rise 45 percent from 2012, to about $5.75 a pound, according to a recent report from Euromonitor International, a market research firm. And British consumers are paying 25 percent more this year for chocolate bars than last, Mintel, another research house, estimates.

No shortage is evident 135 kilometers, or 80 miles, northeast of Geneva in the village of Broc, where Nestlé’s premium-brand Maison Cailler factory has been humming away ahead of the holidays. Cailler, founded in 1819 but part of Nestlé since 1929, makes its product from scratch on its own premises, starting with raw cacao beans and milk from cows that graze on the Alpine meadows nearby.

Cailler’s annual output dwarfs Mr. Pascoët’s. It roasts as much as 20 tons of beans a day, more than he sells in finished chocolate each year.

But the two producers, so different in scale, are united by their shared need for cocoa, which comes from mostly poor countries in a narrow band around the equator, led by Ivory Coast, Ghana and Indonesia.

The cocoa shortage stems partly from falling yields in Ivory Coast, where investment has been insufficient and rains unaccommodating. Nestlé, which also makes mass-market chocolate like its Crunch and Kit-Kat bars, is the world’s biggest consumer of cocoa, and has to worry more than most about its future supply.

José Lopez, the company’s executive vice president for operations, expressed confidence that the market would solve the shortage problem through the mechanics of higher prices, as farmers who might otherwise switch to rubber or palm oil trees step up their cocoa production.

“The right price,” he said in an interview, “is the one that encourages people to continue in the activity and encourages their kids to take over from them.”

To assure its future supply in countries like Ivory Coast, Nestlé has created an extensive “Cocoa Plan” with its own extension service to teach farmers better crop husbandry skills. It is also distributing hundreds of thousands of high-yielding, disease-resistant cocoa plants at cost.

Keeping supply and demand in balance, even with more investment in producing countries, will take some doing, however. One looming problem may be global warming, which some studies suggest will further reduce production as drier growing seasons reduce yields.

But the biggest challenge may be the evolution of the global market.

The Swiss, along with the Belgians and Icelanders, are the world’s leading chocoholics, with annual per capita cocoa consumption of nearly six kilograms, or 13 pounds. The United States is far behind the leaders at about 2.5 kilograms.

While Western chocolate consumption is growing slowly, emerging markets are booming. China’s 1.3 billion people, for example, each eat just 44 grams of cocoa each year on average now. But the market is expanding fast, particularly among newly wealthy urban Chinese.

Analysts expect chocolate demand to grow at least 10 percent in China, Brazil and India over the next few years. If chocolate consumption rates in those countries were to begin approaching Western levels, there would not be enough chocolate to go around.

That might make Chocolaterie Pascoët’s treats pricier yet.
511 2013-12-21 A monk in a Tibetan region of western China died after setting fire to himself on Thursday afternoon, according to two Tibet advocacy groups based outside China. The monk, Tsultrim Gyatso, was the 125th person inside a Tibetan area of China to commit self-immolation as an act of protest since 2009, according to Kate Saunders, a spokeswoman for the International Campaign for Tibet. Another group, Free Tibet, put the total at 123, with 27 this year. The latest protest took place in a town that Tibetans call Amchok, in the Chinese province of Gansu.
512 2013-12-21 Mr. Colarusso was arrested. If found guilty, he could face a fine of up to $1,000 and a year in jail.

It is not the first time Mr. Colarusso has gotten in trouble. In 2010, he was charged with drinking while on duty after being spotted drinking a beer while standing next to his carriage. Two other bottles of liquor were found inside the carriage.

He has also been fined for driving his horse through city streets at unauthorized times, failing to keep a daily log and not turning on the lamps on the side of his carriage after dark.

About 200 horses work in Central Park, and animal rights advocates said that while Mr. Colarusso’s arrest might be unusual, many horses on New York City’s streets were suffering.

The case, they said, was more evidence that the newly elected mayor, Bill de Blasio, should make good on his campaign promise to ban horse carriages from the city’s streets and parks.

“This incident further reinforces the need for an end to carriage horse operations in the city,” said Bret Hopman, a spokesman for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. “The A.S.P.C.A. believes that the use of carriage horses in 21st-century New York City is unnatural, unnecessary and an undeniable strain on the horses’ quality of life.”

The union that represents carriage drivers did not respond to calls and an email seeking comment.

Christina Hansen, a spokeswoman for the carriage industry, said it was “shocked and saddened to learn that one of our drivers was charged with animal cruelty.”

She said that if the driver were to be convicted, it would be the first time a carriage operator, owner or stable was found to have committed cruelty.

“I have spoken with the owner of Blondie, who says that he was unaware that Blondie had shown any signs of lameness or discomfort when being driven by Mr. Colarusso,” she said.

Ms. Hansen did not identify the owner by name, but she said: “He has suspended Mr. Colarusso pending the outcome of the investigation. We do not tolerate any mistreatment of the carriage horses in our business.”

If the police had not noticed Blondie’s condition, animal experts said, the injury could have proved fatal.

A subsequent examination by a police veterinarian found that Blondie had a condition called thrush — an infection of the hoof that if left untreated can lead to the horse becoming permanently lame, and subject to euthanasia.

Thursh can occur when a horse is not cared for properly and is kept in unclean conditions. After Mr. Colarusso’s arrest, an order of protection was issued directing him to stay away from Blondie.
513 2013-12-21 Stocks rose on Friday, capping the best week for major indexes in months as unexpectedly strong data on economic growth increased confidence that the recovery was accelerating.

Gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 4.1 percent in the third quarter, the fastest pace in almost two years, exceeding the 3.6 percent pace reported earlier this month. Business spending was also stronger than previously estimated.

Until recently, investors have viewed positive data as a negative because it suggested that the Federal Reserve would begin to trim its stimulus program. The central bank had said it would start tapering its monthly bond buying when certain economic indicators met its targets.

The Fed, however, said on Wednesday that it would pare its $85 billion in market-friendly monthly asset purchases by $10 billion, starting in January. It also suggested that its crucial interest rate would stay at rock bottom longer than previously promised.

“If tapering had not been announced, I don’t think this news would be as welcomed by the market as it is right now,” said Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at the ConvergEx Group in New York. “But now, there’s no real risk that there will be more tapering any time soon, and on top of that, growth is absolutely stronger than many were expecting.”
514 2013-12-21 Off the Charts: In the United States, Production Is Back

Industrial production in the United States returned in November to the level it was at before the recession began. Energy goods and motor vehicles have led the advance. But most advanced economies are still well below their prerecession levels. In some, production has fallen back and is close to lows reached during the credit crisis.
515 2013-12-21 It is unclear what the eavesdroppers gleaned. The documents include a few fragmentary transcripts of conversations and messages, but otherwise contain only hints that further information was available elsewhere, possibly in a larger database.

Some condemned the surveillance on Friday as unjustified and improper. “This is not the type of behavior that we expect from strategic partners,” Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen, a spokeswoman for the European Commission, said on the latest revelations of American and British spying in Europe.

Some of the surveillance relates to issues that are being scrutinized by President Obama and a panel he appointed in Washington that on Wednesday recommended tighter limits on the N.S.A., particularly on spying of foreign leaders, especially allies.

The reports show that spies monitored the email traffic of several Israeli officials, including one target identified as “Israeli prime minister,” followed by an email address. The prime minister at the time, in January 2009, was Ehud Olmert. The next month, spies intercepted the email traffic of the Israeli defense minister, Ehud Barak, according to another report. Two Israeli embassies also appear on the target lists.

Mr. Olmert said in a telephone interview on Friday that the email address was used for correspondence with his office, which he said staff members often handled. He added that it was unlikely that any secrets could have been compromised.

“This was an unimpressive target,” Mr. Olmert said. He noted, for example, that his most sensitive discussions with President George W. Bush took place in person. “I would be surprised if there was any attempt by American intelligence in Israel to listen to the prime minister’s lines,” he said.

Mr. Barak, who declined to comment, has said publicly that he used to take it for granted that he was under surveillance.

Despite the close ties between the United States and Israel, the record of mutual spying is long: Israeli spies, including Jonathan Jay Pollard, who was sentenced in 1987 to life in prison for passing intelligence information to Israel, have often operated in the United States, and the United States has often turned the abilities of the N.S.A. against Israel.

Mr. Olmert’s office email was intercepted while he was dealing with fallout from Israel’s military response to rocket attacks from Gaza, but also at a particularly tense time in relations with the United States. The two countries were simultaneously at odds on Israeli preparations to attack Iran’s nuclear program and cooperating on a wave of cyberattacks on Iran’s major nuclear enrichment facility.

A year before the interception of Mr. Olmert’s office email, the documents listed another target, the Institute of Physics at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, an internationally recognized center for research in atomic and nuclear physics.

Also appearing on the surveillance lists is Joaquín Almunia, vice president of the European Commission, which, among other powers, has oversight of antitrust issues in Europe. The commission has broad authority over local and foreign companies, and it has punished a number of American companies, including Microsoft and Intel, with heavy fines for hampering fair competition. The reports say that spies intercepted Mr. Almunia’s communications in 2008 and 2009.

Mr. Almunia, a Spaniard, assumed direct authority over the commission’s antitrust office in 2010. He has been involved in a three-year standoff with Google over how the company runs its search engine. Competitors of the online giant had complained that it was prioritizing its own search results and using content like travel reviews and ratings from other websites without permission. While pushing for a settlement with Google, Mr. Almunia has warned that the company could face large fines if it does not cooperate.

The surveillance reports do not specify whether the interceptions of Mr. Almunia’s communications were requested by the N.S.A. or British spies. Nor do the reports make clear whether he was a longstanding surveillance target or swept up as part of a fleeting operation. Contacted by The Times, Mr. Almunia said he was “strongly upset” about the spying.

Ms. Hansen, the spokeswoman for the European Commission, said that it was already engaged in talks with the United States that were “needed to restore trust and confidence in the trans-Atlantic relationship.” She added that “the commission will raise these new allegations with U.S. and U.K. authorities.”

In a statement, the N.S.A. denied that it had ever carried out espionage to benefit American businesses.

“We do not use our foreign intelligence capabilities to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of — or give intelligence we collect to — U.S. companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line,” said Vanee Vines, an N.S.A. spokeswoman.

But she added that some economic spying was justified by national security needs. “The intelligence community’s efforts to understand economic systems and policies, and monitor anomalous economic activities, are critical to providing policy makers with the information they need to make informed decisions that are in the best interest of our national security,” Ms. Vines said.

Spies have a freer hand with economic targets in Britain, where the law permits intelligence gathering in the service of the “economic well-being” of the country. A GCHQ spokesman said that its policy was not to comment on intelligence matters, but that the agency “takes its obligations under the law very seriously.”

At the request of GCHQ, The Times agreed to withhold some details from the documents because of security concerns.

The surveillance reports show American and British spies’ deep appetite for information. The French companies Total, the oil and gas giant, and Thales, an electronics, logistics and transportation outfit, appear as targets, as do a French ambassador, an “Estonian Skype security team” and the German Embassy in Rwanda.

Germany is especially sensitive about American spying since reports emerged that the agency listened to Chancellor Angela Merkel’s cellphone calls. Negotiations for a proposed agreement between Germany and the United States on spying rules have recently stalled for several reasons, including the United States’ guarantee only that it would never spy on the chancellor — a promise it has refused to extend to other German officials.

Multiple United Nations Missions in Geneva are listed as targets, including Unicef and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research. So is Médecins du Monde, a medical relief organization that goes into war-ravaged areas. Leigh Daynes, an executive director of the organization in Britain, responded to news about the surveillance by saying: “There is absolutely no reason for our operations to be secretly monitored.”

More obvious intelligence targets are also listed, though in smaller numbers, including people identified as “Israeli grey arms dealer,” “Taleban ministry of refugee affairs” and “various entities in Beijing.” Some of those included are described as possible members of Al Qaeda, and as suspected extremists or jihadists.

While few if any American citizens appear to be named in the documents, they make clear that some of the intercepted communications either began or ended in the United States and that N.S.A. facilities carried out interceptions around the world in collaboration with their British partners. Some of the interceptions appear to have been made at the Sugar Grove, W.Va., listening post run by the N.S.A. and code-named Timberline, and some are explicitly tied to N.S.A. target lists in the reports.

Many of the reports, written by British teams specializing in Sigint, shorthand for “signals intelligence,” are called “Bude Sigint Development Reports,” referring to a British spy campus on the Cornwall coast. The reports often reveal which countries were the endpoints for the intercepted communications, and information on which satellite was carrying the traffic.

Strengthening the likelihood that full transcripts were taken during the intercepts is the case of Mohamed Ibn Chambas, an official of the Economic Community of West African States, known as Ecowas, a regional initiative of 15 countries that promotes economic and industrial activity. Whether intentionally or through some oversight, when Mr. Chambas’s communications were intercepted in August 2009, dozens of his complete text messages were copied into one of the reports.

Referred to in the transcripts as “Dr. Chambers,” he seems to have been monitored during an especially humdrum day or two of travel. “Am glad yr day was satisfying,” Mr. Chambas texted one acquaintance. “I spent my whole day travelling ... Had to go from Abidjan to Accra to catch a flt to Monrovia ... The usual saga of intra afr.”

Later he recommended a book, “A Colonial History of Northern Ghana,” to the same person. “Interesting and informative,” Mr. Chambas texted. The high point of his day was receiving an award in Liberia, but soon he was busy working out logistics for future appointments.

“Where is the conference pl? Didnt get the invt,” he texted another contact. He discussed further details before adding, perhaps wistfully, given his grinding travel schedule: “Have a restful Sunday.”
516 2013-12-21 BRUSSELS — European Union leaders gathering here for a summit meeting on Friday barely had time to congratulate themselves on their new banking deal before getting a slap in the face from the ratings agency Standard & Poor’s.

The agency removed the bloc’s top-level AAA long-term credit rating, lowering it one level to AA+, citing “the overall weaker creditworthiness of the E.U.’s 28 member states.”

On Friday afternoon, S.&P. issued a clarification, emphasizing that the downgrade applied only to the European Union’s borrowing as a supranational body and that the move had no effect on individual member states.

The timing of the announcement was inauspicious, coming on the last day of a meeting of European Union officials and heads of state, whose capstone achievement was an agreement for the creation of a European system for winding down failed banks. That plan, despite limits that critics have been quick to point out, was supposed to demonstrate the bloc’s commitment to building a banking union, locking member states into an ever-tighter economic embrace.

S.&P. was apparently unconvinced. “We believe the financial profile of the E.U. has deteriorated, and that cohesion among E.U. members has lessened,” it said in explaining the downgrade. The firm also pointed to disputes over the European Union’s budget and to Britain’s plan for a referendum on remaining in the European Union as signs that solidarity was under strain.
517 2013-12-22 At the Robotics Challenge 2013 Trials in Homestead, Fla., teams that built rescue robots competed for a chance at a $2 million prize.
518 2013-12-22 Katherine Lodgen Sexton, the daughter of John E. Sexton of New York and the late Lisa E. Goldberg, was married Saturday evening to Eric Andrew Gurian, a son of Marcia J. Gurian and David I. Gurian of West Caldwell, N.J. Rabbi Andy Bachman officiated at Blue Hill at Stone Barns in Pocantico Hills, N.Y.

The bride, 25, is keeping her name. She is a third-year law student at New York University. She graduated from Yale.

The bride’s father is the president of New York University. Her mother was the president of the Charles H. Revson Foundation in New York, which makes grants in urban affairs, Jewish life, biomedical research and education.

The groom, 32, works in New York as the executive vice president of Little Stranger, the production company of the actress and writer Tina Fey. He graduated from Syracuse University.

The groom’s mother retired as a speech pathologist for the Caldwell-West Caldwell Public Schools. She now has her own speech pathology practice in West Caldwell, where the groom’s father is an audiologist.
519 2013-12-22 But many were not 100 percent sure. I received a wave of concerned messages and phone calls: an elderly aunt, a cousin, childhood friends, my next-door neighbor from when I lived in , former employers and co-workers, New York friends, people I’d met in last year and in Italy just days before — an unrelated but loosely connected network from all over the globe, a real-life social networking map — all checking in to make sure the Billy they knew or had known once wasn’t the Billy now stuck in Limassol. I even heard from a college roommate, the uber-straight to my :

“Give me a phone call if you really are stranded in Cyprus. But you better know some single girls.”

A number responded directly to the first email, thinking it was me, and got this reply:

i’ve been to the embassy and was issued a temporary passport. I just need to borrow about €950. transfer is the fastest option to wire funds. See details needed for transfer below.

Some went on to test the hackers with questions that only the real me would know. “What member of our college drama department faculty did Kate date?” asked one.

No reply came: proof that identity thieves can be thwarted with details arising from friendship alone. Who needs one of those scrambled letter codes?

Twenty-four hours passed with no serious repercussions, then another 12. By that point, I had pretty much straightened things out — changed my passwords and security settings, disabled the phony account the thief had created under my name, recovered my emails, restored my contact list, reported the fraud, and sent emails to close friends I hadn’t heard from to warn them to ignore any requests from me for money. It would all blow over, I told myself. And then late that night, I got a phone call.

“Billy?!” a voice called; it was someone with whom I’m acquainted professionally but not terribly close. He sounded upset. “Are you O.K.?”

“ — But did you get the money?”

“ — Yes: $700, Western Union, like you instructed, and I was just about to send the other $500 you asked for.”

In a rush of words I tried to explain that this was a scam, awkwardly trying to reassure Kevin how much I appreciated what he had done to help — truly at his own expense. He is not someone who can afford to just give away $700.

There was a long silence. Then Kevin managed to laugh. “I was completely duped; it all seemed plausible up until you thanked me for wiring the money. You didn’t sound — ” he was searching for the word.

“Yeah, grateful. You just asked when I would send the rest. That’s when I suspected it couldn’t be you.”

Nothing could be done to recover his money; it had already been picked up on the other side of the world. I spent a sleepless night worrying about who else might have been duped, who else I might hear from, and kicking myself for not having done more. I had been lax about the security settings on my account and hadn’t changed my simple account password in years.

Kevin and I met up the next day. I repaid half the amount he’d wired to “rescue” me; he insisted he was partly responsible and would not accept more. Walking home alone afterward, I thought for the first time about the identity of the hacker. What did this person think as he or she responded to my friends’ messages of genuine concern? Did it seem funny? Was there any sense of guilt at all? Or did the hacker happily pocket the dough and feel a flush of excitement for having conned someone, and then move on to the next victim?

Hold on, I thought, stopping in the middle of the sidewalk to talk to myself: I refuse to feel victimized by this. It has been a huge hassle, and frightening, but there is a consolation here: the knowledge that my “vital items” definitely are not missing and never were. What is truly vital, and what I hope never to lose, are friends who would come to my aid at a moment’s notice. As I would to theirs.
520 2013-12-22 I posed that question, and others, to the executive editor, Jill Abramson.

“At this point, I’m quite certain the answer is none,” Ms. Abramson said.

Holding a story entirely is “a very rare thing,” she said. “The more usual situation is to withhold a level of detail, and those decisions are excruciating.”

In this case, Ms. Abramson said, the reason for holding back the story was not because of a government request about national security, but in deference to Mr. Levinson’s family. “What caused us to hold the story was their profound worry that he would be killed.”

In these rare cases, Ms. Abramson said, editors must apply “a balancing test,” weighing newsworthiness and the public’s right to know against a potential danger to an individual or harm to national security.

What qualifies her, or other editors, to make such decisions, I asked.

“The qualifications come from the First Amendment — that the founders believed that a free press was a crucial bulwark against” centralized government power, she said. This means that journalists are, in effect, given both the freedom and the responsibility to make difficult judgments. Ms. Abramson doesn’t consider herself an unflawed practitioner.

“I don’t think I have the editorial equivalent of perfect pitch,” she told me.

When a news organization knows something it won’t tell, things can get messy. As the website Gawker has pointed out, The Times has repeatedly and without attribution falsely described Mr. Levinson as being on a business trip to Iran when he was captured. Two of those mentions were glancing ones in editorials; one was in a news story. In other cases, The Times attributed the “business trip” reference to family members or to the government.

Ms. Abramson called the unattributed statements that appeared in The Times “regrettable.” She also said that she was struck by — and essentially agreed with — something that The A.P.’s executive editor, Kathleen Carroll, said about deciding to publish: that even when a story is withheld for good reasons, the time to publish may arrive. (One of the two reporters who wrote A.P.’s Levinson story, Adam Goldman, recently was hired by The , and the Post’s story carried his byline. Martin Baron, the Post’s executive editor, in commenting on his paper’s Levinson article, said that such a story “shouldn’t be held forever.” He added, “Enough time has passed.”)

One can argue that the point of no return should have come much earlier. In 2008, after an internal investigation, several C.I.A. officials were pushed out and others disciplined for mishandling the Levinson case. At that point, the situation spilled over into official wrongdoing. That could have tipped the balance, but this significant intelligence scandal didn’t make its way into media reports.

“That was a chokepoint,” Ms. Abramson said. “I wish we had focused more discussion on it then.”

I also spoke to Barry Meier, the Times reporter who first learned of the Levinson story in 2007. He has never wavered in his belief that the decision to publish belonged primarily in the hands of the family, whose members, understandably, continued to fear that making public Mr. Levinson’s C.I.A. ties could result in his death.

“It’s very, very simple,” he said. “My access to the story depended on a relationship of trust with the Levinson family, the understanding that I would not do anything to jeopardize his safety.”

And although the story was prepared for publication several times over the years, “I felt we could only run it if he died, if he came back or if the family said it’s time.” Mr. Meier questions whether the right time had come, especially given new conversations between the United States and Iran under President , elected in June; that diplomatic initiative, he thinks, should have been given a chance.

Did The Times handle this situation well? Withholding an important story for six years, especially one involving a C.I.A. scandal, goes against every journalistic principle. But with a man’s life in the balance and with a reporter’s implicit promise to that man’s family, the equation changes.

In that situation, there is no good answer.

Mr. Meier agrees that holding a story for six years “defies normal journalistic conventions,” but he still believes The Times did the right thing. “I can’t conceive of our doing it any other way.”
521 2013-12-22 Suter, a defenseman, added: “I love being out there with Zach. He works so hard. You get a lot of chances on the ice. I think it will benefit us for sure — special teams, all over the ice, and off the ice, too. Just being a little more familiar with someone definitely helps.”

In 2002, Parise, who grew up in Minneapolis, and Suter, who is from Madison, Wis., helped the American under-18 team win the country’s first gold medal in the age group, at the world championships. They went on to play two seasons with the United States national junior team, winning the gold medal at the 2004 junior world championships. Suter became a senior national team regular in 2006-7, and Parise the next season.

“We played together on a few other teams,” Suter said. “We’ve been lucky enough to win together on some other teams. Every time you get to play on the same team with someone, the more you do it, the more familiar you get.”

Suter leads the N.H.L. in time on ice, as he did last season, and his sensing where Parise likes the puck around the net frequently pays off. Suter assisted on eight of Parise’s 18 goals last season, and he has assisted on nine of 15 this season.

The familiarity showed in the second period of a recent 4-3 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks. On a power play, Suter, at the right point, saw Parise cut to the net from the top of the right circle. Instead of shooting, Suter slid the puck across the ice to forward Jason Pominville, who had a better angle to find Parise. Pominville’s shot dinged off forward Dany Heatley, and an opportunistic Parise popped in the rebound.

“I think their playing together so much will help,” said Brown, the Los Angeles Kings’ captain. “You talk about Suter and Parise being teammates, that just brings more comfortability to the room, when you’ve got groups of guys that have played together. You never know how they put the team together, but I think Suter and Parise are absolute locks.”

Backes, the St. Louis Blues’ captain, added: “They’re some of the best players in the league at their positions. If they’re playing together, we’ll be a lot better because of it.”

The United States team will be named at the Winter Classic on Jan. 1. No player from the leadership group is expected to be cut from the roster, though Callahan is expected to be out of the Rangers’ lineup for a few more weeks with a sprained knee. Poile said the team’s captain would probably come from that group, with the other four being alternate captains. The United States did it that way before Vancouver, a team captained by Jamie Langenbrunner of the Devils, with Parise and Suter among the alternates.

“Even outside us five, there will probably be other guys that either wear the C or the A during their season, so I don’t think there’s going to be any shortage of leaders,” Parise said.

“Us, we played the last time, we had success the last time,” he added. “It’s guys who play the game the right way, pretty coachable guys. In the short term, the quicker you get your team playing the same way, the more success you’re going to have.”

For the two who know each other best, the transition to red, white and blue should be seamless.
522 2013-12-22 Lopez broke the same foot twice — and required two operations — during the lockout-shortened 2011-12 season, in which he appeared in just five games. This past summer, he had a third operation, to repair a bent screw that had been implanted in the foot after the initial fracture.

Lopez, 25, was drafted 10th over all in 2008 after playing two years at Stanford. The Nets committed to him two summers ago, signing him to a four-year, $61 million contract. Lopez came back strong last season and was named to his first All-Star team.

But concerns about whether he was another talented big man whose career could be undercut by foot injuries were already widespread. Chronic foot issues curtailed the careers of outstanding players like Bill Walton and Yao Ming.

After the front office assembled a roster filled with star players this past summer, Lopez remained the Nets’ focal point on offense, a player whose presence needed to be established each night to open up the rest of the offense.

“I’ve never played with a center whose skill level is at this point,” Kevin Garnett said during the team’s October training camp. “I’ve obviously played with greats, but to the point where he’s young and still hasn’t peaked yet.”

Lopez delivered when he was healthy. He played in 17 games this year, averaging 20.7 points, 6.0 rebounds and 1.8 blocks a game.

But his health this season had already been a problem. He sprained his left ankle during a Nov. 15 game in Phoenix and missed seven games. He returned for a short spell and played well, but then sprained the ankle again and missed another two contests.

The foot injury occurred Friday night during the Nets’ 121-120 overtime loss to the 76ers at Wells Fargo Center. The Nets did not say on which play Lopez injured his foot, but he did fall with 4 minutes 53 seconds remaining in the fourth quarter after colliding under the basket with Thaddeus Young of Philadelphia. Lopez seemed to land awkwardly on his right foot on his way down.

Lopez played the remainder of the game, logging more than 44 minutes in all, and finished with 22 points. He did not make himself available to reporters after the game.

Size was considered a strong point of the Nets’ roster, and players like Garnett, Andray Blatche and Mirza Teletovic will be called upon to make up for Lopez’s inside presence. Reserve big men like the rookie Mason Plumlee and the veteran Reggie Evens could also have expanded roles. But making up for Lopez’s production will be a difficult task.

The Nets have battled numerous injuries. Deron Williams, the team’s starting point guard, returned recently after missing considerable time with a series of ankle injuries. Paul Pierce, a veteran forward, strained his groin during the opening month and has been playing with a broken bone in his shooting hand.

The team is also without forward Andrei Kirilenko, who has played just four games because of a sore back, and guard Jason Terry, who has played just 11 games while battling soreness in his surgically repaired left knee.

Capricious health has been a problem for the Nets this season, but there was a lingering sense that thing would stabilize, that the team could blossom before too long to chase a trophy.
523 2013-12-22 One of the more tried and true soccer clichés — “he opened his account” — normally refers to a player scoring his first goal of the season or his first goal with a new club.

But in the case of Liverpool’s Luis Suárez early on Saturday, it was more akin to making a withdrawal (perhaps at Standard Chartered Bank, the Reds’ jersey sponsor) after signing a lucrative contract extension during the week, and then scoring two goals and creating a third in a 3-1 victory against visiting Cardiff City at Anfield.

The striker from Uruguay scored his 18th and 19th goals of the Premier League season as Liverpool bounced to the top of the standings, pending other results, most notably Arsenal match against Chelsea on Monday. Suárez’s new deal, which supersedes his contract that was to expire in 2016 and now runs through 2018, will pay him nearly $17 million a year over the final four years on the deal.

On Saturday, Suárez, 26, again served as the Liverpool captain in the absence of the injured Steven Gerrard. He opened the scoring in the 25th minute when he cleanly struck a volley at the top of the penalty area from a pass by Jordan Henderson. Liverpool made it 2-0 in the 42nd minute when Suárez slid a pass to Raheem Sterling, who scored.

Right before halftime, it was Suárez again, as he took a back-heeled pass from Henderson and curled a shot inside the far post, going left to right, from the top of the penalty area.

Suárez leads the Premier League in goals scored, six more than Manchester City’s Sergio Agüero. City played at Fulham on Saturday.
524 2013-12-22 “The United States has no involvement in the ongoing corruption probe,” one said.

“All allegations in news stories are lies and slander,” another said.

Trying to tamp down tensions with an important ally, a spokesman for Turkey’s Foreign Ministry said Saturday that the ministry had accepted the embassy’s statement as “sufficient,” and that there was no effort to expel the American ambassador, Francis J. Ricciardone Jr., or to summon him to a special meeting, as some Turkish media reports said Saturday.

The conspiracy theories advanced by the pro-government media — which resonate with certain segments of the population because both anti-American sentiments and anti-Semitism are widespread in Turkey — center on the fact that one of the targets of the investigation, the state-owned bank Halkbank, has in the past been accused by the United States of helping Iran evade sanctions over its nuclear program.

The widening inquiry has unfolded over several days and has quickly become a political crisis for Mr. Erdogan, perhaps the worst he has faced in more than a decade in power. Commentators and government officials have linked the investigation to a popular imam who lives in Pennsylvania, Fethullah Gulen, whose followers are said to have taken up high-level positions in the Turkish police and judiciary over the years.

Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Gulen, who represent different Islamic traditions in Turkey, were once allies, and they teamed up to push the military from politics through a series of trials that landed a number of generals and officers in prison in recent years.

Mr. Gulen, who rarely speaks to the news media, denied any involvement in the corruption case in a statement released by his lawyer last week. On Saturday, though, he released an emotionally charged video in which he appeared to denounce the government’s efforts against his supporters, raising the stakes in what has become an epic fight between the two former partners.

At times he waved his arms and in impassioned language said, “May those who don’t see the thief but go after those trying to catch the thief, who don’t see the murder but try to defame others by accusing innocent people — let God bring fire to their houses, ruin their homes, break their unities.”

Mr. Erdogan has simultaneously blamed foreigners — as he did during mass protests in the summer against what opponents called his government’s heavy-handed efforts to raze a park — and begun a purge of the police forces, removing dozens of officials said to be involved in the corruption investigation.

The inquiry has led to the detentions of dozens of businessmen and officials, as well as the sons of three cabinet ministers. On Saturday, the general manager of Halkbank, the sons of the interior and economy ministers, and 13 others were formally arrested in the case.
525 2013-12-22 The Affordable Care Act provides subsidies for health insurance to individuals making up to four times the federal poverty level, or $45,960. But anyone making just over that line may have to pay thousands of dollars more for the same plan.
526 2013-12-22 It has taken, indeed, more than two decades. But since 2010 the Guggenheim has been quietly engaged in one of the most ambitious conservation projects ever to address the deep uncertainties raised by Minimalism and Conceptualism, which brought highly unconventional materials — plywood, hardware, industrial metals — and even more unconventional ideas to art, questioning the importance of objects and of the artist’s hand. Some answers the project is now reaching will be surprising: that, for example, the most responsible act of conservation might be the destruction of a piece of art because, in the final analysis, it is not really a piece of art.

The project’s stakes have been evident in its financing alone: two grants totaling almost $2.5 million from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for an initiative that will continue for more than another year. And its conclusions — being reached after meetings of more than a hundred fellow conservators, curators, scholars, lawyers, and some of the living artists — will undoubtedly reverberate far beyond the Guggenheim’s walls, to other museums, and to galleries and auction houses.

“These questions are being asked by everybody now, by every collector and museum that has work from this pivotal generation,” said Jeffrey Weiss, the Guggenheim’s senior curator in charge of the Panza Collection. “But decisions tend to be made individually. We don’t talk to each other about these things nearly enough. And the terms set out by this work are a frontier only now being explored.”

Over the last year and a half, the museum invited a reporter to observe, as long unseen pieces by Mr. Morris, Bruce Nauman, Lawrence Weiner, Judd (who died in 1994) and Flavin (who died in 1996) were taken from storage and debated — sometimes, in a sense, as defendants on trial for their lives — in spaces at the Brooklyn Navy Yard and at the Guggenheim. In private, Mr. Weiss and Francesca Esmay, the museum’s conservator for the Panza Collection, spent dozens of hours interviewing Mr. Weiner, whose works exist mostly as words painted on walls, and Mr. Morris, a highly private artist who has argued that there are no originals to his works, only ideas that can be refabricated as needed.

Always, in the background, were the words left behind by the artists no longer around to defend their work. In particular there were the words of Judd, who broke angrily and publicly with Panza at the time of the sale to the Guggenheim, in a long essay in which he accused the collector of making his signature boxlike works from Judd’s plans but without his approval, incorrectly and with inferior materials. “Panza doesn’t care,” he wrote. “What I require is too expensive. Consequently, Panza makes mock-ups, fakes.”

Judd was among a wave of postwar artists to introduce the idea of industrial fabrication — the removal of the artist’s hand — to the conception of art. And most of his best-known geometric objects, in plywood, metal and other materials, were made by specialty craftsmen. But this hands-off delegation, far from distancing him from the work, seemed only to deepen his control, one of many facts that Panza, who died in 2010, failed to grasp, Judd said. (Many artists also complained that Panza underpaid for their work.)

“His understanding of my work was simply shady,” Judd wrote, “either genuinely and superficially wrong or conveniently wrong, since his misunderstanding allowed him to build as he pleased.” One recent afternoon in a private gallery at the Guggenheim, Mr. Weiss, Ms. Esmay and Ted Mann, an assistant curator working on the project, examined several examples of Judd works made by Panza and not seen by the public since the collection came to the museum. While the boxlike works closely resembled Judd pieces, the differences — in the look of the plywood, the way the panels were assembled, even in the screws used — made some appear more like nonfunctional furniture than like the highly specific work Judd made.

“If he were alive today to see this,” Ms. Esmay said, looking at one work.

Ms. Esmay added, “These stand not only as an incredible demonstration of what not to do but a demonstration of the quality of Judd’s authentic work.”

While the fate of the Panza works has not been fully decided, there is now little likelihood that they will ever be shown at the Guggenheim. “It’s very, very difficult to argue,” Mr. Weiss said later, “that works that an artist disavowed can ever be successfully fought for.” Even the question of whether the works will be kept for their historical value is fraught; many Judd partisans would like to see them destroyed because of fears they might be shown as legitimate at some point.

But Mr. Weiss said they might be saved. “They were shown by Panza, and they were taken to be Judds by a lot of people over many years,” he said. “So I think they have a historical role of some sort in the transmission of Judd’s works.”

The number of contested works by Judd and others in the collection represents a small fraction of the whole, and by any measure — art historical, curatorial, financial — the acquisition, which cost the museum more than $30 million, now stands as a remarkably prescient decision by the Guggenheim. (On the market today, the works would cost the museum many times what it paid then.) But the problems have continued to loom large, in part because they force the museum and others around the world to come to terms with work that questions ideas underpinning the very existence of museums themselves.

“It’s tough,” said Virginia Rutledge, an art lawyer who advised the project. “It is about the very human desire to value something created by someone at a certain point in history but also to honor what that person wants or wanted.”

The conflicts between objects and artists that the Panza Collection provoked were very raw in the early days, said Mr. Govan, now the director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art: “That’s how I got to know a lot of those artists — under duress, because they were all mad.”

“But as time goes on, that’s no longer going to be the story,” he said and added that Panza’s role as promoter and protector of the work of a crucial era should not be overshadowed by the problems. “It’s hard for us to imagine now how radical this work was, and he was light years ahead.”

For all the drama surrounding the Judd questions, those regarding Mr. Morris, 82, plunge far deeper into the murky territory of their time. One of Mr. Morris’s signature works, “Untitled (Corner Piece)” from 1964, a flat-gray triangular mass that seems to float snug in a corner, was shown in a show at Richard Bellamy’s Green Gallery on West 57th Street in Manhattan. The piece, made of plywood, was subsequently thrown away, a fate met by many Morris works from those days, because he believed the objects could — and should — be remade and were secondary to the ideas they embodied. The piece was later remade by Mr. Morris in gray fiberglass and sold to Panza. But it came to the Guggenheim badly damaged, with cracks, screw holes and discolorations.

The piece — which Mr. Weiss called “a complicated little sucker” — also came loaded with questions of what it was, exactly. An exhibition copy? A historical refabrication? In long, philosophical, often contradictory discussions with Mr. Morris, the questions were: Should the piece be remade? And if so, how? The Robert Morris of the 1960s most likely would have absented himself from any such debate about objects and materials. But Mr. Morris’s view about the physical importance of his works had changed over the years, and he came to favor remaking the corner piece in the original plywood, which the Guggenheim’s fabrication shop has done.

And so the next time the work is seen in an exhibition, it will be the 2013 iteration of a 1964 piece, with — or maybe without — a label telling viewers that it has been remade. The older work will probably be kept for study purposes, but several Morris pieces made by Panza without the artist’s involvement will most likely be destroyed and refabricated.

“People are always asking us, ‘What does the artist want?’ — as if that’s a simple, monolithic thing,” Mr. Weiss said. “It turns out that it’s one of the most complicated parts of the whole process. It’s not just him and us. It’s the changing him and the informed us.”

“And no matter how we try to deny it,” he added, “the tug of history is always very strong.”
527 2013-12-22 Orchestras have perhaps predictably had better numbers — there are more of them, and the pool of experienced talent is larger — but more than half of the 20 top ones I canvassed had no female guest leaders on their main series this season or last; only five hosted women both seasons. Just two female conductors appear on the schedules of New York’s major instrumental concert programs this season, according to WQXR. That’s absurd.

The pace is agonizing, but things are improving. Recent conversations I’ve had with conductors at various stages of their careers, as well as administrators, artist managers and teachers, suggest that what’s preventing equity is now less overt sexism, though those comments by the Russian maestros and Mr. Mantovani have made clear it still exists, than simply time — the trickle of a younger, more heterogeneous generation as it permeates the field — and incremental societal shifts in attitudes about the face of leadership.

“I’m aware I don’t really look like your standard conductor,” said Gemma New, 26, the associate conductor of the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. “I look very young. Many people ask what college I’m in. But once they start to talk to me and see my work, I think their ideas are changed.”

In 2007, Marin Alsop, probably the most prominent female conductor in the world, became the music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, the first time a woman had led a major ensemble. (Her predecessor was none other than Mr. Temirkanov.) Looking back on her career in a phone interview from Brazil, where she is also music director of the São Paulo Symphony Orchestra, she said: “When I started, I kind of naturally assumed that there would be more and more women entering the field. But it was strange because the numbers didn’t really change 10 years down the line, 20 years down the line, even 30. The numbers hadn’t increased in the way I assumed they would.”

In certain ways, we are still living in the old world. The enterprising Antonia Brico was supposed to have made her Met debut back in the 1930s. But the popular baritone John Charles Thomas declared that he would never perform under a woman’s baton, and that was that. The conductor Anne Manson said, “There was one conversation my agent had with one of the opera companies in Britain and they said, ‘We could never put a woman in front of this orchestra.’ I believe the quote was ‘She’d get eaten alive.’ ” Another American conductor, Laura Jackson, said that in the early 1990s, she was told by a female official of an orchestra in New England that “we don’t do women conductors here.”

It took until 1976, decades after Brico was denied, for the barrier to be broken at the Met by the formidable stage director, impresario and conductor Sarah Caldwell, and she was tapped only at the insistence of a star singer, Beverly Sills. Simone Young followed in 1996.

The gap after Ms. Glover will be considerably narrower: The Met recently announced that the Finnish conductor Susanna Malkki will make her debut in the 2016-17 season, leading the company’s premiere of Kaija Saariaho’s “L’Amour de Loin,” the second opera by a female composer in the Met’s history. Ms. Malkki, whose career has accelerated in recent years, will make her New York Philharmonic debut next season; in 2009, she first led the Boston Symphony Orchestra as a last-minute replacement for — who else? — Mr. Temirkanov.

But Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, said that no other women had been engaged for the immediate future, including his wife, Keri-Lynn Wilson, who was recently named the music director of the National Slovenian Philharmonic. “My wife is a wonderful conductor,” he said with a laugh, “but my marriage has prevented me from engaging her.”

Nearly everyone I spoke to said that the problem was that the field of experienced women was not yet deep enough for it really to percolate into the top orchestras and opera companies, making the training grounds for young artists the next battleground. While Ms. Manson said that she had not long ago participated in a top summer music program for young musicians and hadn’t seen a single other female conductor, the numbers in such programs and conservatories are slowly rising.

Hugh Wolff, the director of the conducting program at the New England Conservatory, said that seven out of 51 applicants to the most recent class at the school were women. When he evaluated applications for the American Academy of Conducting at Aspen, a prestigious summer program, in 2011, he reviewed 46 applicants, and eight were women: still far from parity, but an improvement on the current percentages among the top-tier orchestras.

Deborah Borda, the president of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, said: “Things have really changed radically. In the old days, even 10 years ago, you might have one woman who would come for an assistant conductor audition, and now it might be half.” When Ms. Jackson became music director of the Reno Philharmonic in Nevada in 2009, there were three women among the five finalists for the position.

But the industry still needs to do more to encourage women who study conducting to remain with the daunting career. A post on the blog of the magazine Mother Jones said that the percentage of women among those completing doctoral degrees in conducting still significantly exceeded their presence in the field as practitioners. The young Lithuanian conductor Mirga Grazinyte-Tyla, recently a Dudamel Conducting Fellow at the Los Angeles Philharmonic, told me that more of the male students she studied alongside in Austria had ended up serious conductors than the women.

Even for those able to make the career work, there have been the complications of how, exactly, to conduct when the physical models have been male. “When men make forceful gestures, they come off as being masculine and virile,” Ms. Alsop said. “Sometimes when women do that, they’re interpreted as being pushy and bossy. I’ve really worked hard at trying to, sort of, de-genderize my gestures.”

It helps that the image of conducting has broadened in recent decades from the imposing, patriarchal model of Toscanini and von Karajan. Men like Simon Rattle have flourished with easier-going personalities and an emphasis on community building, a landscape that makes the idea of women on the podium seem more natural to audiences, institutions and donors. “He showed that you could be informal,” Sian Edwards said of Mr. Rattle. “You didn’t have to have this authoritarian, rather grand image that had been peddled by Deutsche Grammophon.”

In September, Ms. Alsop became the first woman to conduct the BBC’s Last Night of the Proms, a little-known event in America but a widely televised blockbuster in Europe. The concert’s success — not least in the adroit way she used the conductor’s traditional speech to dedicate the evening to “progress” — led to chatter that she might yet be in line for a starrier position than Baltimore or São Paulo.

“Nobody’s yet broken completely through the glass ceiling, but Marin’s going to do it,” Ms. Glover said in an interview at the Met. “She’s going to get one of the big orchestras before she stops. There’s no question of that. On which side of the Atlantic, I’m not sure.”

Ms. Alsop, insisting that she was not driven by the need to attain any particular level in the field, said, “It’s not that I wouldn’t want to see in my lifetime someone” — someone female — “lead the quote, unquote Big Five orchestras,” referring to the ensembles of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Philadelphia and Chicago. “If it’s me, great. If it’s someone else, fantastic.”

How long will it take to achieve fairness? Decades ago, blind auditions swiftly equalized the gender makeup of orchestra players. (They did much less to address racial inequality.) But you can’t have blind auditions for conductors. Ms. Edwards, who recently became head of conducting at the Royal Academy of Music in England, predicted that evenly divided classes would emerge in conservatories over the next 20 or 30 years.

When Ms. Alsop received a MacArthur grant in 2005, she gave the money toward the endowment of the Taki Concordia Fellowship for female conductors, which she had founded in 2002. (This year’s winner, Karina Canellakis, was just named assistant conductor of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra.) Ms. Edwards is participating in a new pilot course at Morley College, a popular continuing-education center in London, aimed at encouraging teenage girls studying music to learn about, and try conducting.

All we can do, other than wait and hope that certain men keep their mouths shut, is foster opportunities like these for young women and put pressure on orchestras and opera companies to push further toward gender equity. Musicians, too, should demand the chance to play under women as much as possible. And if major donors made a point of the issue in their meetings with administrators, I suspect that the numbers would really start rising.

“The processes are slow,” Ms. Edwards said. “But they are there and they are moving.”
528 2013-12-22 Condo owners come home to awnings illuminated by the glow of bank signs. Renters find that after sharing a ventilation system with a restaurant, they are forever turned off by the cuisine of an entire continent. Members of co-ops that own the ground-floor commercial space debate whether it’s preferable to live above an appliance store (because anyone’s coffee maker can suddenly break) or a children’s boutique (useful only to some).

Having a bakery, locksmith or hair salon in your building can represent the ultimate in convenience. And some business owners mitigate the downsides by acting as concierges, accepting deliveries for the apartment-dwellers above or agreeing to hold keys for an out-of-town guest.

“It’s just friendship,” Zakirul Chowdhury, a salesman at Wines on 1st, near East 14th Street, said of his willingness to extend such favors to residents of 224 First Avenue, who live above the store.

As in other realms, though, a little distance can be a good thing. The joys of having world-famous ramen noodles or herb-infused cocktails at one’s disposal are sometimes obscured when cohabitation is involved. The businesses that make the city vibrant can appear, smell and sound very different to those who share walls, ducts and pests.

The commercial space beneath an apartment also often factors into the price, although there is no exact calculus for determining how.

“Lower-floor apartments in general tend to get lower prices,” said Andrew Gerringer, the managing director of the Marketing Directors, “but when you look at the use below, certain uses would make it even lower than other uses. There are so many pieces that come into this question.”

So far, Ms. Falcon, 25, has found living above a funeral home surprisingly pleasant. Sure, the occasional hearse is parked out front in the morning. She might pass a coffin or two on her way to work, and returning home in the evening, she must sometimes gently cut through a pack of black-clad mourners before slipping her key in the door.

There have also been unexpected perks.

“We’ve never had a bug problem,” she added, crediting “all the formaldehyde.”

Corlie Ohl, a broker with Citi Habitats, has shown apartments in Ms. Falcon’s building many times over the years. Some people are put off by the funeral home, Ms. Ohl acknowledged. But she emphasizes the positive.

“I say, ‘It’s going to be quiet downstairs,’ ” Ms. Ohl said. “And everybody knows you don’t want to be above a bar.”

To hear brokers and developers talk, it’s a wonder there are any bars in the five boroughs.

When a Lower East Side co-op board was scouting out potential tenants for its street-level commercial space recently, for example, “the one thing they didn’t want was a bar,” said Richard Lech, a Halstead broker who has sold half a dozen apartments in the building, on Avenue C.

The board chose a dance studio, turning down a bar despite its willingness to pay more than double the rent, said Cynthia Poulton, now the co-op’s president.

When Heatherwood Communities began seeking commercial tenants for the ground floor of 568 Union, a high-end rental building on Union Avenue in Williamsburg, , “bars were not what they were looking for,” said Chris Havens, who spearheaded the effort as a broker with .

Then Kwaku Nyampong, a former bartender at the St. Regis New York hotel, came in with an intriguing proposal. It would be less a bar than an elegant lounge. The kind of place where the bartender knows what you drink, where a dinner companion might happily wait while a resident preens upstairs. It would be like a plush hotel bar — not just a non-nuisance, but a draw.

“We thought that it would be a nice amenity for the building,” explained Douglas Partrick, an owner of Heatherwood.

Mr. Nyampong hopes to open the bar, Lounge 568, by the end of the year; he’s still finalizing the ingredients for what will be the signature cocktail, a punch called

Other developers also consider their clients when choosing commercial tenants.

At 50 North 5th, a Williamsburg rental building where the apartments have oak hardwood floors and Caesarstone kitchen countertops, Richard Mack, the chief executive of the Mack Real Estate Group, said that “several big-box tenants have expressed interest in the retail space.” But Mr. Mack prefers to hold out for something “more consistent with the more boutique and bespoke nature” of the neighborhood.

“The revenues produced by the retail are small as an absolute percentage of the building,” he said. “So you really need to make sure that your retail mix enhances the leasability of your apartments. You’re almost better off leaving them vacant until you find the right mix.”

Whether a commercial tenant underfoot is a nightmare, an asset or a nonissue can transcend the type of business, hinging instead on the particulars. When does it close? What sort of clientele does it draw? Just how reliable is that ventilation system? If it breaks, are there the will and money to fix it?

Juliette Soucie, a personal trainer, had a fairly positive experience living above a small hair salon on East 76th Street. The salon kept business hours, five days a week, and when the music got too loud — the speakers were in the ceiling, a k a Ms. Soucie’s floor — the problem was solved with a friendly request. Today the space is occupied by an outpost of Drybar, a salon specializing in blow-drying women’s hair. It’s open seven days a week, as early as 7 a.m. some days and as late as 10 p.m. Blow-dryers are loud. Music, played at a volume that might drown them out, can be louder. And the long hours and festive atmosphere that lure customers have meant nothing but irritation to Ms. Soucie, 43.

For months, she and Drybar went back and forth. In moments of desperation, she says, she would hold a white-noise machine to her jaw, discovering this to be a way of masking vibrations. She spent more than $4,000 for the advice of Alan Fierstein of Acoustilog, an acoustic consultant who said he indeed found noise-code violations.

Drybar, which hired its own consultants, ended up installing insulation and other equipment to reduce the impact on Ms. Soucie, said Michael Landau, a founder of the company.

“Between lawyers, consultants and the work we did,” Mr. Landau said, “we spent tens of thousands of dollars to get something right that we thought was right from the beginning.”

“This is certainly part of living in New York,” he added. “I see it from all perspectives.”

As for Ms. Soucie, she has a new rule for herself: “I will never, ever live in a building above a commercial tenant,” she said. “There are too many variables that are not under your control.”

And then there’s this: “I’m a person with really curly hair, and I don’t even own a blow-dryer,” she said. “It’s the worst kind of irony.”

When Mim Nelson-Gillett saw the Greenwich Village apartment she had agreed to sublet from a friend in the ’80s, shortly after college, she was alarmed. The place was above David’s Cookies, the Magnolia Bakery of its time, and Ms. Nelson-Gillett, who had struggled with her weight for years, feared she would live in a state of constant temptation.

It didn’t turn out that way.

“It felt like I was in a chocolate shower all the time,” she said. “Kind of sickening.”

On the upside, Ms. Nelson-Gillett, now a business coach living in , was never tempted to sample the treats concocted underfoot. “I couldn’t bear the thought,” she said. “It changed my relationship to chocolate.”

Alan J. Goldberg, a lawyer specializing in landlord-tenant disputes, warns that coin laundries can be problematic. He remembers being hired by residents who attributed their bedbug infestation to the presence of the laundry beneath them.

Jenet Levy, a Halstead broker, has sold four apartments in a Cobble Hill prewar condo with a dry cleaner and a laundromat on the ground floor. “People are always asking me, ‘Is there laundry in the building?’ ” Ms. Levy said.

Her answer: “No ... but yes.” Her buyers, she said, tend to be drawn in by the convenience.

In the late 19th century, it was common for New York City families to live over their street-level businesses, said Michael Kovner, a Brown Harris Stevens agent who teaches a course on the history of Manhattan residential real estate for the .

“If they couldn’t afford to buy the building,” Mr. Kovner said, “they would rent the store, and usually you could sweeten the deal if you had the apartment right above it. They could do business until 7, 8 at night, and they could start again in the morning. It was a great time.”

The most extravagant example: Bergdorf Goodman. The Goodman family lived above the store — in a 17-room penthouse apartment, one of the grandest in New York. Family members shared an elevator with shoppers, Mr. Kovner said, adding that if a family member or a pram-pushing nanny walked into the elevator, “you’d go right up to the apartment, even if you were in there to buy a fur coat.”

It became less common for families to cohabitate with their businesses about 40 years ago, as real estate values rose, Mr. Kovner said.

The practice became so unusual that when Brigitte Prat broached the idea of buying a building to house both her own apartment and her children’s toy store and hair salon, friends — even, she suspects, her mother — “thought it was this outrageous, berserk investment for someone who pretty much works paycheck to paycheck,” she recalled.

But Ms. Prat did the math: Rent for a larger space to house her store, LuLu’s Cuts & Toys, plus the and fees on the apartment she shared with her daughter, Lulu, far exceeded the mortgage on a roughly $1 million building.

It worked out. In 2004, she bought a building on Fifth Avenue in North Park Slope. Lulu, 9 when they moved, didn’t need a babysitter; she did her homework upstairs while her mother worked downstairs, as close as if they were simply hanging out on two floors of a house. If Ms. Prat was home on a day off, she could be at the store in seconds in an emergency.

Still, before renovating her apartment a couple of years ago, Ms. Prat could hear the wails of snipper-fearing children from inside her shower. And the biggest challenge has been training herself to refrain from peeking into the store every time she leaves home, because a peek can easily turn into an hour.

Ms. Prat, 49, has since opened two more shops. One, a baby store, is just steps away, and the other, a children’s used-clothing boutique, is two blocks away. Not only does it feel like a commute, but once , when Ms. Prat was restocking shelves late at night, the upstairs neighbor asked her to please turn the music down.
529 2013-12-22 As someone who runs a nonprofit with a mission to help newly arrived refugees in the job market, I understand the challenges that Jacob Deng Mach faces. Most refugees desperately want to work, and work itself can be healing, but survival and resilience aren’t always enough to enter the job market in a new country. I was especially struck by how Jacob would unintentionally press the gas and brake at the same time while driving — what a great metaphor for the transition he is navigating: hoping, pressing on, backing up, starting over. KEITH COOPER, Director, Beautiful Day, Providence, R.I., posted on nytimes.com

Jacob sounds very nice, and I am glad he has a good job. But I am also glad that he won’t be an armed policeman. I found it strange that the instructors were pushing him forward rather than taking note that he was struggling to shoot. It certainly makes me wonder how many have passed the test, perhaps just barely, while struggling in similar fashion. It can’t be wise to arm a person whose past was so full of violence and strife. His inability to shoot was a signal that something was wrong; it was time to stop, not push forward. P.S., Massachusetts, posted on nytimes.com

I’m from Nebraska. I think people tend to construct narratives that seem beautiful to them and impose them on people they see as ‘‘other.’’ You wouldn’t guess from this article and the photos that people in the Sand Hills spend a lot of time watching satellite TV, for example. One of the most interesting things about the myth of the West is that it was constructed primarily by Easterners. Frederic Remington lived in New York, and the dime-novel industry was based here. In a sense, the West has often functioned as a kind of Rorschach test for Easterners, who saw what they wanted or needed to see in it. ALEX STRASHEIM, New York, posted on nytimes.com

Thank you for the crazy-ants article. I was in need of a long sigh of exasperation. In 2006, the U.S. Invasive Species Advisory Committee, of which I was a member, asked the secretary of agriculture to investigate these ants and recommend containment action. The U.S.D.A. concluded that action wasn’t warranted. Clearly it was. We need the federal government to evaluate the potential impacts of invasive animals on infrastructure and wildlife (not just agriculture and human health) and act in a precautionary manner when detailed scientific information is lacking. Many organisms have not been technically described and named, nor their biology studied. JAMIE K. REASER, Stanardsville, Va.

There is something wonderfully ironic about this ‘‘new’’ breed of insect: the idea that it likes to make its group home inside electronics and inhabit our gadgets. This is the way the world ends, not with a bang but with the overflow of ants slipping out of your USB slots, your smartphone ports and the vents of your flat-screen TVs. RICHARD KOPPERDAHL, New York, posted on nytimes.com

THE WEDDING FIX IS IN

Those of us in the wedding industry are standing up for ourselves in response to this article. I don’t charge more just because it’s a wedding. And I’m open with my price ranges before I meet with a client so that no one’s time is wasted. I ask questions about the event because there is no way I can provide flowers for people who don’t tell me what they want. I charge for the amount of work that goes into it. When I work on an event for over a year with multiple meetings, dozens of emails, proposal changes and production hours and then see someone upset that they have to pay for that, it definitely hits a nerve. Weddings are parties, and if we were charging too much for our services, the market would self-correct and drive prices down, or we wouldn’t have a market at all. CORINNE SEBESTA SISTI, Philadelphia, posted on nytimes.com
530 2013-12-22 I work at a midsize publishing company. I randomly met a writer outside of work and offered to read over his unpublished manuscript. I had him send it to my work address, but it was unclear whether I was reading as a new friend or a potential publisher. I read the manuscript during work hours. It was wonderful. I’m certain he would be able to get picked up by a competing company — one with better publicity and marketing resources than my own, more willing to give him higher compensation and greater attention. This could be a chance for our company to publish something special, and I would receive for acquiring a new author. But as a friend, I would never recommend us. To whom am I ethically obligated here, this writer or my company? NAME WITHHELD, NEW YORK

Even if you had no pre-existing personal relationship with this writer, it’s wrong to advise someone to pursue something you know is not in his (or her) best interest. You seem unusually certain that allowing your company to publish this book would not be to the benefit of the creator (or to the work itself). What you should tell him is this: “We will absolutely publish this book. As a professional, I’m telling you that this book is great. But as a person, I have a larger obligation to tell you that it’s too good for you to sell without at least testing the market and seeing what its potential may be. You should get an agent and send this everywhere. If no one responds in six weeks, we will still be here, ready to work with you.”

Look at it like this: If you’d read the manuscript at your desk and found it totally incomprehensible, you would likely have contacted your friend and said: “This is too experimental for my taste. But who knows? It might work somewhere else.” You would have felt no obligation to send back a formal rejection letter. Within this situation, you’re ultimately doing the same thing — it’s just that your rationale is that the book is a little too good (as opposed to a little too bad).

I realize you received the manuscript at the office and read it on company time, but that doesn’t mean the company automatically owns everything you experience there (your boss might make that argument, and maybe his lawyer would agree — but they’d both be ethically wrong). A job is not enslavement. You still have agency.

Recently, three of ’s unpublished short stories were leaked online. While I’m tempted to download copies of these stories and read them right away, I know that Salinger wanted these stories to be published 50 years after his death, in around 2060. Is it unethical to read these stories? DANIEL CHANG, HIGHTSTOWN, N.J.

Because I write books for a living, I have an unnatural bias for the propriety of authors (and as a result, my answer here might reflect a degree of overcompensation). But this case is unique — normal ethical responsibilities don’t necessarily apply. Personally, I think Salinger’s desire to embargo his own work is deeply cool. It is not, however, particularly reasonable. And because we are not dealing with a life-or-death issue — since we are merely debating whether it’s O.K. to read a few stories — that irrational desire is not irrefutable.

It would be one thing if Salinger had never wanted his unpublished work to be seen by anyone, ever — that’s always the author’s prerogative (although also his own responsibility to destroy the content). I certainly think a creative person deserves a high degree of control over how that creativity is consumed: If a writer says she doesn’t want her novel published until after her death (or, in the case of nonfiction, until all involved subjects are dead), that wish should be granted. It’s also acceptable for an author or publisher to stop the electronic distribution of a book if they believe allowing that distribution will seriously damage the work’s commercial potential. But this specific situation usurps all of these parameters. We are talking about someone who is (arguably) the most culturally significant American fiction writer of the last 100 years — a man whose work invented teenage archetypes and inspired deranged assassins. If any writer can be classified as societally important, this writer obviously is. We are also talking about someone who is already dead, and whose reasons for requesting a 50-year window between his funeral and the publication of three specific stories remains unclear. If some 80-year-old scholar has spent his whole career studying and interpreting the writing of Salinger, I don’t see any merit in insisting that scholar has to either a.) travel to the archives to examine these texts in person, or b.) live to be 127. That scholar has rights, too.
531 2013-12-22 As a boy, the chef and restaurateur Hans Röckenwagner looked forward to late November, when the Weihnachtsmarkt (Christmas market) would open in his home village of Schliengen, in southern Germany.

“Everyone in town went,” he said. “It was a tradition, a sign that Christmas was finally here.”

He remembers munching on gingerbread cookies shaped like Santa, with tiny ceramic pipes baked into them, while his parents toured the red and ivory stalls for local crafts. In 1985, he left Germany to open a restaurant in Venice, Calif., and for 20 years he passed the holidays at work, too busy to return home. As a small consolation, every late November, he changed the menus to include a traditional German dessert.

In 2006, while back at a Weihnachtsmarkt in Berlin, he paused before biting into one of his favorite gingerbread cookies. He didn’t want the experience to be a disappointment, compared with what he remembered as a child. His conclusion: “Some things remain perfect in memory and in fact.”

Below are edited excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Röckenwagner, who will be opening his latest Los Angeles restaurant in January, about the ambience and flavors of the Weihnachtsmarkt.

Q. What does it feel like to walk through a Weihnachtsmarkt?

A. It’s just a jolly atmosphere. You might say, “I’ll just go in and check it out,” but then you get drawn in. You’ll walk by a stall where people are making knives with beautifully carved wooden handles, or a cart where on top there’s a wood-burning oven, and you can see dark, crusty flatbreads, covered with cream and speck, baking inside. This is called rahmbrot. And all of the buildings are designed to capture the season. Some of these little villages have two-story-tall nutcrackers and windmills that turn. You’re surrounded by people making crafts, choirs singing and the smell of glühwein, which is prevalent throughout the markets.
532 2013-12-22 After McCain leaves the floor, I ask him what he said to Reid before his speech. “I said, ‘Harry, I’m going to go kick the crap out of you.’ Then he said, ‘John, I would expect nothing less.’ ” McCain grins big to conclude this dark chapter in the history of the United States Senate.

It is not his fault, or not entirely. Many of us become walking self-caricatures at a certain point, and politicians can be particularly vulnerable, especially those who have maneuvered their very public lives as conspicuously as McCain. They tell and retell the same stories; things get musty. They engage in a lot of self-mythologizing, and no one in Washington has been the subject and the perpetrator of more mythmaking than McCain: the maverick, the former maverick, the curmudgeon, the bridge builder, the war hero bent on transcending the call of self-interest to serve a cause greater than himself, the sore loser, old bull, last lion, loose cannon, happy warrior, elder statesman, lion in winter . . . you lose track of which McCain cliché is operational at a given moment. He does, too. “I think I was the brave maverick when I was taking on Bush,” McCain told me, “and then I was the bitter old man when I was criticizing Obamacare.”

Critics will take their shots, he says, it comes with being “in the arena.” That cliché isn’t McCain’s exclusively — it’s the self-consoling Teddy Roosevelt line that politicians are always trotting out. “It’s not the critic who counts” but “the man who really was in the arena.”

McCain has another favorite Teddy Roosevelt phrase, “the crowded hour,” which I have heard him invoke several times over the years. It comes from a poem by the English writer Thomas Mordaunt, and T. R. used it to famously describe his charge on San Juan Hill. In McCain’s philosophy, “the crowded hour” refers to a moment of character testing. “The ‘crowded hour’ is as appropriate for me right now as any in a long time,” McCain told me as we walked through the Capitol. In some respects, this is just a function of public figures’ tendency to overdramatize the current moment and their role in it. But five years after losing to , after enduring the recriminations between his splintered campaign staff and rogue running mate, , and after returning to the Senate and falling into a prolonged funk, McCain finds himself in the midst of another crowded hour, maybe his last as an elected leader.

Along with his Senate Tonto, of , McCain has been the most ardent critic of the White House’s foreign policy in pretty much every hot spot in the world. “Obama drives him crazy,” Graham told me. He seemed to be speaking generally, but McCain said he was referring strictly to foreign policy, on which he believes Obama has been a disaster. (He recently referred to Secretary of State as “a human wrecking ball.”) Either way, Obama has also been a gift to McCain, in that there is part of him that loves being driven crazy. “He operates on outrage, which is genuine, and he seems happiest when there’s friction around,” says Mark Salter, McCain’s former Senate chief of staff and a longtime adviser.

McCain also finds himself in the thick of the latest “fight for the soul of the ” against the right, a cohort that arguably would not have the influence it has if McCain had not chosen Palin as his running mate. They are represented in the Senate by McCain’s junior colleagues of and of — or “wacko birds” as McCain has referred to their far-right ilk. Once the most disruptive figure in his party, McCain now fashions himself a grown-up voice for civility, pragmatism and the best traditions of the Senate — albeit one who tosses around names like “wacko birds” and “human wrecking ball.” The paradox of this is not lost on him. “It just goes to show you,” McCain told me, “that if you live long enough, anything is possible.”

Now 77, which makes him only the ninth-oldest member of the Senate, McCain looks as if he has not aged a day since conceding to Barack Obama on the night of Nov. 4, 2008. He resists suggestions that he has tried on different personae to suit the political moment, but he certainly understands the laws of political reinvention. On a wall next to his office desk hangs a group photo that includes , the decorated general who quit as head of the last year after admitting to an extramarital affair with his “biographer” Paula Broadwell. I ask McCain what Petraeus is up to these days. “Oh, he’s off doing that rehabbing. Speeches, teaching, maybe a book, that kind of thing. You know, there are second acts in American politics.”

This raises the obvious question of which act McCain himself is on. “I’ve probably gone through about 25, 26,” he says. “Something like that.”

I have known McCain for about a decade. He was always fun to hang around with, for obvious reasons, back when he used to refer to the media as “my base” and called his 2000 presidential campaign bus the Straight Talk Express. The novelist described McCain, flatteringly, as someone who “acts somewhat in the ballpark of the way a real human being would act.” (By contrast, Wallace quoted a CNN sound tech describing as “amazingly lifelike.”) Central to that human quality, Wallace and many others have noted, was the fact that McCain has survived three plane crashes, , public disgrace and, above all, five and a half years of torture in a North Vietnamese P.O.W. camp. As is said to have put it, “You spend five years in a box, and you’re entitled to speak your mind.”

Friends of McCain’s say that his loss in ’08, and the ridicule he suffered in the wake of it, was traumatizing in itself. “John has had two defining events in his life,” Senator , Republican of , told me. “The first was his imprisonment, and the second was his failure to win the presidency.”

For a long time after the election, his colleagues in the Senate treaded lightly around McCain. They described conversations over policy disagreements ending in personal attacks. Other senators would come to Lindsey Graham to ask what was up with McCain. “Give it time,” Graham says he would tell them. He tried to serve as an intermediary between McCain and old friends like John Kerry, with whom McCain became enraged for what he considered an excessive assault against him in a 2008 convention speech after McCain defended Kerry four years earlier from attacks by fellow veterans. “I felt like Match.com,” Graham said. “It took a while for John to learn to let go.”

It had been nearly six years since I’d spoken to McCain. is not his favorite newspaper, to say the least. The flash point was an article the paper published in February 2008, which some readers took to imply that he’d had an intimate relationship with a Washington lobbyist, Vicki Iseman. Both parties denied a romantic involvement, and Iseman sued The Times. (Iseman ultimately dropped the suit after The Times agreed to print a note to readers saying the story was not intended to imply a romantic relationship.) The report was widely criticized, and McCain distanced himself from the paper’s reporters. “I will never forgive The New York Times for what they did,” McCain told me in October. He agreed to talk to me, he says, because he knew me before “that story” ran. I have a pre-existing condition.

After his screed on the floor against Harry Reid, McCain hurries back to his office for a scheduled sit-down with a group of dignitaries from . “I love the Aussies!” he declares to me outside his office door, then swings it open and is met with a faceful of them. “Sorry I’m late,” he tells them. “I was just up on the floor kicking the crap out of the Democratic leader.” They all sit down, and McCain mentions that Congress’s approval ratings are now so low “we’re down to paid staffers and blood relatives.” He drops this line so often that probably the only people on the planet who haven’t heard it are in Australia. Everyone laughs, and McCain adds that he recently received a call from his 101-year-old mother, and she’s not happy with Congress, either. “So now we’re down to just paid staff,” he says, to genuine belly laughs. A few minutes later, McCain wants to talk about , the archipelago in the South Pacific where he says he used to vacation with his family. “They are lovely, gentle people,” McCain says of the Fijians, “even though they used to eat each other.”

On that note, McCain goes off to be interviewed by Wolf Blitzer of CNN from a remote studio on the Hill.

Blitzer, whose arching dome of white hair rests in perfect symmetry with the anchor desk’s Capitol backdrop, greets McCain off the air. “Woof, woof,” McCain says to the host while someone fastens on a microphone. Then he howls and grins and prepares to discuss the day’s “outright hypocrisy.”

It is well entrenched in the McCain mythology that he finished nearly last (894th out of 900) in his class at the Naval Academy and never set out to be a great American hero, let alone a politician. He fell into the role — out of an airplane. Politics caught him. He ran for the House in 1982 and then the Senate in 1986. Even then, he conveyed a sense that he didn’t need or especially want this job, but over the years he became essential to the scenery: the Sunday shows, the Senate fights, the high-level globe-trotting. The arena suited and needed and defined McCain. He often parks himself in a hallway at the Capitol and waits for reporters to surround him. He is proud to hold the record for most appearances — 69 — in the 66-year history of “Meet the Press” and also to have more followers than anyone in the Senate (1.85 million badges of his relevance — nearly four times as many as the next Republican colleague, ). You can call this vanity, self-celebration, whatever — if it were a crime, the Capitol would be empty. But in McCain’s case, it’s also proof that he was present and accounted for, which is perhaps no small thing when you spent a good portion of your life expecting to die in a P.O.W. camp. In McCain’s worldview, anonymity equals absence.

“I think the biggest fear John has is not being relevant,” Graham told me. “He worried after he lost the election in 2008. He worried, O.K., I’m done, nobody wants to deal with a loser.” McCain has a favorite line, one of his hundreds, which he attributes to the late Texas senator John Tower: “Don’t let your coattails hit you in the ass,” Tower told him once. “Keep moving.” To McCain, “keep moving” is both a credo and a coping strategy, a balm of perpetual motion and high demand. He likes to provide unprompted recitations of his packed schedule. I was sitting with him in his office in October, shortly after the government shutdown ended. He was, as he often is, fresh off a regimen of morning TV interviews — CNN, “Squawk Box.” “I did a bunch last night too,” he volunteered.

Even when sitting still, McCain projects stir-craziness. Lengthy Senate hearings can be a challenge for him. He was recently busted in a photograph playing video poker on his during a hearing on . (“Scandal!” he tweeted. “Caught playing iPhone game at 3+ hour Senate hearing — worst of all, I lost!”)

Sometimes McCain will express his need to “keep moving” with a more exasperated, even plaintive construction: “Can’t we just move on to something else?” he will say, particularly when people ask him, as they still do, about Sarah Palin’s continued presence on the national stage — or on . Friends and colleagues who respect him for his many virtues and heroic résumé also acknowledge that his role in the unleashing of Palin is an unfortunate part of his legacy. Surely McCain regrets the association, right? He is a man of seriousness, someone who becomes emotional when talking about the need for a more aggressive presence in Syria. And then Palin hops onto Facebook and quips that the U.S. should just stay out of Syria and “Let Allah sort it out.” People close to him say that he bristles at these things and that he wishes Palin had consulted him about some of the endorsements she has made of Republican primary challengers but that he will never go public with any of his regrets. “Good luck trying to get that out of him,” his daughter Meghan McCain told me, laughing.

McCain has always been unrestrained in his expressions of remorse. He spent much of the 1990s doing extravagant penance for his role in the savings-and-loan mess. This led to the reformed campaign-finance crusader incarnation, which led to his first presidential campaign. After dropping out of the Republican primaries in 2000, he returned to South Carolina and grandly apologized for not calling for the removal of the Confederate flag from the Statehouse. “I chose to compromise my principles,” he said at the time. “I broke my promise to always tell the truth.” When it comes to Palin, though, he fidgets slightly in his office chair and meets me with a defiant stare. He reaffirms his allegiance to Palin, saying that she was unfairly attacked in 2008 and that “the liberal-left feminists” felt threatened by her. “Look, it’s been five years,” McCain says. “Can’t we move on?”

Sure, except that Ted Cruz, whose upset win in the Texas Republican primary last year was propelled by the former governor’s endorsement, has not been shy about announcing to the world that “I would not be in the today if it were not for Sarah Palin.”

McCain is sick of talking about Cruz. “We have a cordial relationship,” he insists, which in the translation of political code is something between abject disgust and minimal tolerance. Cruz is an upstart, whose goal seems to be to position himself to run for president in 2016. He appears indifferent to the traditional markers of Senate experience and prestige — passing bills, leading committees, dutifully winning the respect of colleagues. “You know, it’s a funny thing about Cruz,” McCain says, and then stops himself. “No, actually, it’s not funny. It aggravates me more than anything else” — the way Cruz called his fellow Republicans a bunch of wimps and talks about “how we’ve been around too long.” Cruz is the Senate’s modern-day maverick, it would seem, while McCain has become one of the institution’s fiercest traditionalists.

When I read Cruz’s quote about owing his success to Palin, McCain shrugs. Palin has suggested, too, that she might support Tea Party primary challengers to the Senate Republican leader, , in Kentucky and to Lindsey Graham in South Carolina, whom McCain has likened to a son. “Oh, I pray she wouldn’t do that,” he says of Graham. “And you know, I find it hard to believe that she would.” He points out that Palin has never said anything critical about him, that she campaigned in Arizona for him in 2010. And then he adds, again: “I’ve moved on. What’s the statute of limitations on this issue?”

McCain’s cellphone rings, and it’s Joe Lieberman, the former senator from who was McCain’s first choice to be his running mate in 2008, until his advisers convinced him that the Republican base would go full wacko bird if he picked a pro-choice Democrat. McCain answers the phone by saying, “I love you, Joey.” He speaks loudly, the way that people tend to on cellphones, or when they might be speaking for the benefit of a third party. “Joey, Joey, where have you been?” After a minute or so, he tells Joey he’s with someone and will call him back.

“Funny story about Lieberman,” he says to me. The Israeli ambassador in Washington honored him after he left the Senate. “Everyone was saying Joe’s the most wonderful guy, the usual crap you hear,” McCain says. “So I got up, I was the last guy, and I say: ‘I’m here to announce that I’m converting to Judaism. Because for all these years with Joe, I’ve had to eat that crappy salmon. I had to ride the damn Shabbat elevator. I’ve observed Shabbat to a point where I couldn’t even ride in a goddamn car. I’ve had all of the bull associated with this religion, and I’ve gotten not a single benefit. So I’m converting to Judaism.’ ”

Lieberman then stood up and announced that before McCain could convert, he must first have a proper bris. In the retelling, McCain pronounces it “brits” — which is how he pronounced it when he told me this story a week earlier.

A few days later, I join McCain in Arizona, where he is scheduled to host two town meetings and is expecting hostile incoming from the local Tea Party brigades. After missing my flight to , I caught the last plane of the night to the general vicinity ( ), then drove five hours through the pitch-black desert to meet up with McCain at dawn. Those five hours were filled with the sound of incessant grievance across the radio dial — about President Obama and about RINOs (Republicans in Name Only) like McCain, who are just as responsible for the socialist, lawless, porous-bordered dystopia our once-great nation has become. Captive exposure to these voices in the dark, over endless miles, makes you wonder how anyone to the left of Ted Cruz has ever been elected to anything. It also brings into relief how grueling it must be to oppose the most fervent sector of his own party. “I’m really not psyched about going back to Arizona to do another Tea Party election,” Meghan McCain told me. “I honestly don’t know how much more of that I can hear.”

Yet John McCain seems characteristically energized by the prospect — as evidenced by his recent barrages against the Tea Partiers. As disastrous as the shutdown was for their party, many Republicans in the Senate greeted the humiliation with glee, and McCain was a particularly ebullient leader of this caucus. “It didn’t take a goddamned rocket scientist to see how this was going to turn out,” he said, and then switched metaphors. “When the rainstorm came, we were all wearing cardboard shoes.”

His first stop of the day in Arizona is an early-morning radio interview with a conservative host, Barry Young on KFYI in Phoenix. McCain eats a Sausage McMuffin in the passenger seat of an S.U.V. driven by an aide, Michelle Shipley, who at one point makes a wrong turn and has to spin around in a parking lot. As she gets us headed down the correct street, McCain exhales an exaggerated sigh. “Every once in a while a blind hog will unearth an acorn,” he says. (Shipley giggles and seems not to mind being likened to a blind hog.)

Young’s show is focused heavily on the disastrous rollout of Obamacare. He and his sidekick, Michele Larson, joke about calling the Obamacare 800 number and repeatedly play a busy signal over the air. McCain mentions that help with the law is available in 150 languages. “I would like mine in Urdu,” he says, and then he quotes Dana Milbank of The , who compared the president’s pitch for Obamacare with late-night ads for the Ginsu knife. “If you call within the next 20 minutes, you’ll get 50 percent off!” McCain says. “And you’ll lose weight!”

He also has news of his own to make. He mentions to Young that he’s thinking about running for re-election in 2016. This is a different message from the one he sent over the summer, when he said that he didn’t want to be one of those old geezers hanging around the Capitol. He repeats this status update during a commercial to everyone in the studio. “I’m thinking about running again,” he says, and makes eye contact with me to make sure I caught it. “Couldn’t we assume that you were considering this already?” I ask. “Aren’t you also thinking about retiring?” McCain shrugs.

Back on the air, Young asks if McCain has just said that he was considering another run for Senate.

“If some wild-eyed journalist hears this and wants to run with it and says that John McCain has announced on the air that he may run for another term in the Senate — that would not be wrong?”

“That would not be wrong,” McCain says.

I ask McCain if I can tweet the momentous information he has just relayed. He nods.

“Just so I’m clear,” I ask, “are you ‘considering’ running? Or can I say ‘strongly considering’ it?”

“I am very much considering it,” McCain says.

That settled, we get back in the car to cover about two hours of Interstate 10 between Phoenix and . Shipley is again driving — also texting and emailing, balancing her iPhone against the wheel with her leg at high speeds. This would seem hazardous both from a safety and a public-relations standpoint, but McCain doesn’t seem to care at all. He even tells Shipley to tweet a few things for him while she drives — about how the town meetings would be “spirited” and so forth. He takes a phone call from Meghan and tells her that wants them to come on his show together in January; it will be a blast. He calls “Lindsey, my boy,” and reads him a article about . Calls Tom Coburn, tells him he did a great job on “Meet the Press” a few days earlier. Calls Senator of , one of his new favorites. After each call, McCain repeats the name of the person he was just talking to. He likes to advertise his friendships, cataloging the names of colleagues he is close to, whom he has been impressed with and whom “we take traveling with us” — a reference to the Senate delegations he and Graham lead around the world. He prizes his role as ringleader and is fiercely selective about who gets to be part of the bipartisan “gangs” he is always organizing.

Colleagues approach him “pretty much every day,” he says, about joining the gangs. As with many things in politics, there is an element of middle-school cliquishness about this. I ask what happens if he does not want someone in his group. “Sometimes we just get together and don’t tell anybody else,” he says. Or, in the case of an international trip, they won’t publicize it until they land in or wherever.

Gestures seem to matter more to him than they used to — things that people say about him, compliments they pay. “For somebody who seems to be gruff, he’s one of the most sensitive people I’ve ever met,” Graham told me of McCain. “In a good way and a bad way.” McCain has many Washington friends — meaning he will promiscuously address people as “my friend” or colleagues as “my good friend from Texas” or whatever. (Cruz, naturally, tells me that he is “proud to count John McCain as a friend.”) But for as social an organism as McCain is, he puts up a forbidding barrier. “There’s no such thing as friends,” he told me. “There’s me and Joe and Lindsey, but it’s rare. I can count on one hand the number of real friends I have, or maybe two hands.”

When he’s not on the phone en route to Tucson, McCain keeps reading news headlines (“Sebelius calling in sick!”) and emails aloud. He reads an item about a poll, just out, about how only 12 percent of Americans believe that the rollout of Obamacare has gone smoothly. “Just goes to show you,” McCain says, “that you can probably get 12 percent of Americans to say pigs can fly.” He learns that Liz Cheney, waging a primary challenge in against his colleague Mike Enzi, referred to McCain as a “liberal,” which sparks an animated commentary from McCain — not against Cheney but about Enzi: “Have you seen that Geico ad?” he says. “Mike Enzi looks exactly like the guy in that Geico ad. He talks like him too. It’s the damnedest thing!”

We enter the city limits of Tucson, which McCain notes is the birthplace “of that singer who used to go out with , ‘Blue Bayou’ ” — . In the parking lot of the community center where the town meeting will be held, Shipley brushes McCain’s hair and sprays on a ton of hair spray. “We might very well have some fireworks in here,” McCain says again on the way into the town meeting. He has been priming me for a raucous assembly all morning. But the crowd inside is small and subdued: 47 people in the room — three of them babies, three cops, 14 staff people and a trickle of media. The questions are pro forma and polite. McCain trots out the paid-staff-and-blood-relatives line. He vows to keep “doing God’s work in the city of Satan.” He is back on the road in less than an hour and appears slightly deflated by the reception. He assures me things will be rowdier in Phoenix.

To pass the time on the drive back, I engage McCain in a game of hypothetical-question roulette: If he were a young man living in Arizona today, not a politician, would he register to vote as an Independent? “I would think about it,” he says, but then catches himself and reasserts his faith in “the party of Lincoln and .” Would he consider supporting an Independent presidential candidate if Ted Cruz were the Republican nominee? “No, because I have to respect the process.” Would he support his friend in a head to head against Cruz? “I will support the Republican ticket,” he says, then adds: “With all due respect, that is a foolish question, my friend.”

The Phoenix town meeting is also lightly attended — about 50 people — but does yield fireworks. One Tea Party guy hits McCain on , and a sizable man who claims to have family in the Jordanian Army becomes volcanic on the subject of U.S. policy in Syria, then engages in a shouting match with a man across the room. He keeps accusing McCain of “insulting my intelligence,” and McCain asks the man repeatedly, “Are you done?” He calls the man rude, which really sets him off, and a few security jumbos have to escort the guy out of the room. McCain solicits the next question as if nothing happened, but his face remains bright red, and he looks slightly shaken and very much alive.

He invites me to an actual arena that night: in Glendale, Ariz., where the of the N.H.L. were in town to play the . This is not the most fabled rivalry in sports, but McCain says he will watch any sporting event (“I’d pay to see the Bedwetters play the Thumbsuckers”). He is a big fan of the Coyotes. There are supposedly other Phoenix Coyote fans, too, though not many of them come to home games. McCain’s 25-year-old son, Jimmy, drives us to the arena. Cindy McCain is in the front seat, and I’m in back with the senator, who is desperate to hear the pregame show on the radio. Silence makes him nervous. He keeps barking out call numbers to Cindy, but no luck. He checks the Coyotes app to find information about the show (McCain talks incessantly about his new Coyotes app), and Cindy continues to hunt around the radio dial, except when she is bracing herself for a crash, which happens on three separate occasions during Jimmy’s gun-and-slam death ride through the greater Phoenix sprawl. When we arrive, miraculously without incident, the McCains engage in a spirited debate about which parking lot to use. Jimmy takes a few wrong turns; Cindy tells him to slow down and asks why he’s going this way or that way, until finally Jimmy snaps and says, “Mom, you make it seem like which parking-lot entrance is the most important thing in the world!” In fact, it’s not, he tells her. “I had a woman almost OD in front of me at a strip club this afternoon. Now that’s something serious.”

“Why were you in a strip club this afternoon?” Cindy asks. Jimmy says he was making a delivery for the family beer distributorship. The woman will be fine, Jimmy reports. His father chuckles in the back.

The arena is ringed with palm trees popping out of the concrete and named for a company I’ve never heard of. Twenty minutes before face-off, the concourse is as placid as Penn Station on a Sunday morning. The celebrity politician walks a few feet ahead of the rest of us. He carries himself with a full and rightful expectation that people will recognize him, and he greets anyone that meets his glance. “Thank you for your service, senator,” many say. He gets this a lot, he says, “usually right before they unload on me.”

In the elevator, we meet a big, handsome guy in a suit who looks like a hockey player and, sure enough, turns out to be an inactive member of the Flames. McCain asks him where he’s from. . “Where are you from?” he asks McCain. “Oh, I’m sort of from all over,” McCain tells him. When the player gets off the elevator and I mention to McCain that the guy had no idea who he was, the senator seems slightly amused and even a bit disoriented. “It happens sometimes,” he says.

The seats are about half filled, and the arena is quiet enough during the game to hear the players shouting to each other. Fans are periodically instructed to howl like Coyotes, which McCain does in the same way he greets Wolf Blitzer. The home-team Bedwetters beat the visiting Thumbsuckers 4-2, and McCain heads home happy, except when Cindy can’t find the postgame show on the radio, and Jimmy is nearly killing us again.

“I’m sure you’ve noticed, I never talk about my experiences in prison,” McCain said to me on the Sunday after Thanksgiving. “I’ve known too many professional heroes in my life.” We were speaking by phone after a weekend he spent at his vacation home in , and he was getting ready to leave on a weeklong tour of and Saudi Arabia. He would be joined by two staff members but no Lindsey, no entourage and no other members of the Senate.

For as much as McCain’s P.O.W. story has been told, the details never fail to astound: the two badly broken arms, a shattered knee and multiple gashes after parachuting from a shot-down plane into the hands of an enemy mob; how he received no treatment for his wounds for four days, his captors hanging him by his broken limbs and beating him repeatedly; how they offered to release McCain early because of his famous father (who was about to take over as commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific), but he refused to leave, not wanting to give his enemies a propaganda win or risk demoralizing his fellow prisoners.

In his book about five Naval Academy graduates, “The Nightingale’s Song,” the journalist Robert Timberg described what McCain looked like after two months of imprisonment — weighing less than 100 pounds, with collapsed cheeks and atrophied limbs. “His eyes, I’ll never forget,” McCain’s cellmate, Bud Day, told Timberg. “They were bug-eyed like you see in those pictures from the Jewish concentration camps. His eyes were real popeyed like that.”

Day, a decorated fighter pilot, died in July at age 88. “He was the bravest man I ever knew,” McCain said after his death. He and Day had notable disagreements over the years: Day was part of the , who campaigned against John Kerry in the 2004 presidential campaign. McCain condemned the group for their attacks against Kerry. “Like a lot of heroes, everything was black and white with Bud,” he told me. “That’s how you survive.”

In captivity, McCain said many of his fellow P.O.W.s would search for omens that their release was imminent. “People would say, ‘Hey, there’s a carrot in my soup, so that must mean we’re going home,’ ” he said. “Bud used to say to them: ‘Right, guys. We’ll be going home one day, but it sure as hell won’t be because we found a carrot in the damn soup.’ ”

McCain says he has learned forgiveness, which is essential to maintaining forward motion. “He seems to be thinking about his life,” Meghan McCain told me. “He just said to me, ‘I watched an interview with myself on CNN and thought, Who is that old man that’s staring back at me on the TV?’ ” McCain agrees that he is in a reflective mode. His friends are dying off and longtime colleagues are retiring, and he himself is weighing whether to run again. He fears growing too old in the Senate, as he believes many of his colleagues did — he mentions and . But he has also spoken about his father and grandfather, decorated Navy men who both died not long after they retired. “My grandfather actually flew home from the peace-signing on the and died,” McCain says. “I have seen people age dramatically when they go into .” If he seeks re-election and wins, McCain would be 86 at the end of that term. He is in line to become chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee if Republicans win a majority next November.

Last April, Harry Reid convened the Senate for a special lunch in the Kennedy Caucus Room to commemorate the 40th anniversary of McCain’s release from prison. McCain appreciated the gesture immensely, and nearly every one of his colleagues was present. He spoke through tears at times and without notes. He talked about the kindness he encountered in prison as well as the cruelty. That was striking to the people there, but more so that he spoke about his experience at all. “John told a lot of little poignant stories,” Susan Collins of told me. “When John was tied up in such a painful position, he talked about the one guard who would loosen the bonds. He told the story of being out in the yard on Easter, and how one of the guards drew a little cross in the sand, just to acknowledge the holiday, and then rubbed it out so no one would get in trouble.” Collins has spent more than a hundred hours on airplane trips with McCain, she says, and has never heard him tell these stories. “There was not a dry eye in the house,” Ted Cruz told me. “It was extraordinary for everyone in that room, regardless of party or ideology.”

McCain points out that he was 31 when he became a prisoner of war. He was a formed human being, he says, as opposed to someone like Bob Dole, who sustained crippling wounds in World War II at age 21. “That’s obviously going to be a transformational experience,” he said. “For me, prison was obviously a testing period, but certainly not something that changed me.” He also made a point of reminding me that his “performance” in prison was lacking. He did sign a confession, McCain noted. It followed sustained torture. “You think to yourself, If I get into a situation like that, they’ll never get me down,” he said. “And you know, they did. It took a lot of pain, but they did.” He still feels shame over it, he said.

I had a final meeting with McCain in his office last Wednesday. It was the day after ’s memorial, which McCain said he was invited to but “couldn’t justify” attending because there was too much going on in Washington. This could be construed as a slap at Cruz, who was the only senator who did attend. I asked him what he thought about Cruz going — trying to bait him, yes. (I was a blind hog seeking an acorn.) But McCain wasn’t playing. “Would it help you if I called Cruz a wacko bird again?” he said. As the conversation veered to topics like jail soup, his own mortality and the death of yet another friend, McCain began jiggling his leg. “If you stay really busy, you don’t get nostalgic,” he told me earlier, and it felt as if that was what was happening now, that he was physically willing the introspection away. An aide was waiting with a bunch of logistical questions for McCain about a trip to Kiev he was scheduled to take in a few days. Across the Hill, John Kerry was about to brief a group of senators about . When I asked McCain one final question about the aftermath of 2008, he said, “You find out who your friends are after something like that.” He projected no bitterness, only the of someone who had another place to get to in a hurry. “Do you mind if we walk?” he asked.
533 2013-12-23 In an interview, William J. Bratton, who was appointed by Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio to be the next New York City police commissioner, said collaboration would be a main theme of the department....
534 2013-12-23 Sample animations from one of IntelliGym's computer training programs.
535 2013-12-23 The Carlyle Group is in exclusive talks to buy Johnson & Johnson’s blood-testing unit, in what could lead to a transaction worth about $4 billion, a person briefed on the matter said on Monday....
536 2013-12-23 Before it declared bankruptcy Detroit made a deal with two banks on money it owed them in line with safe harbor rules for derivatives traders, in what could end up as a better deal than what other creditors receive....
537 2013-12-23 Depression has proved remarkably hard to subdue, but cooperative biomedical research efforts are starting to show promise....
538 2013-12-23 A state security court in the United Arab Emirates handed a one-year sentence to an American man and two Indians for making a satirical video deemed a threat to the nation....
539 2013-12-23 What I’ll be teaching soon....
540 2013-12-23 Peter Klein, who served as Microsoft’s chief financial officer until June, will be finance chief of both William Morris and IMG Worldwide when the $2.4 billion takeover of that agency is completed....
541 2013-12-23 An inside look at the reporting process and why now is a good time for a profile on the senator....
542 2013-12-23 Elliott Management, the New York-based hedge fund founded by Paul Singer, reiterated Monday that it has no plans to participate in a tender offer by McKesson Corporation for the German pharmaceutical wholesaler Celesio, unless the deal is sweetene...
543 2013-12-23 In part, it’s because businesses that want to offer health insurance to employees can find other ways to do so....
544 2013-12-23 The agreement could, at least initially, give Apple a big lift into the vast Chinese market, analysts say, increasing its global sales....
545 2013-12-23 Oscar, unlike my caregivers, doesn’t care that I’m tired, feeling nauseous after my chemotherapy treatments. Every morning between 6 and 7, Oscar scoots over to my side of the bed and begins the process of baptizing me with his tongue until I ...
546 2013-12-23 “You can actually train your brain to do that, even in a very, very complex, challenging environment like a hockey game,” said Dankner, who added that the program was based on one used to train pilots in the Israeli air force, in which he served as an officer. The company also produces a basketball version of IntelliGym.

Thirteen players on last year’s United States U-20 team, which won the world junior tournament in Russia, trained with IntelliGym during their time with USA Hockey. That number included Seth Jones and Jacob Trouba, who jumped directly to the N.H.L. this season.

The Americans will defend their world junior title starting Thursday in Malmo, Sweden. Sixteen of the 26 players on the team’s preliminary roster have trained on the computer game, most of them for at least two years.

The use of IntelliGym has spread beyond USA Hockey. Last season, the Niagara IceDogs of the Ontario Hockey League and Concordia University in Montreal used the system. This season’s adoptees include Seattle, Portland, Regina, Lethbridge and Ottawa in the Canadian major junior leagues, as well as the Union College men’s team and the Maine and Ohio State women’s teams in the N.C.A.A.

“We love the gaming, so this is nothing new for us,” said Trevor Dulong, a 17-year-old center using the program with the junior league Ottawa 67’s. “It’s a cool experience.”

Boston Bruins defenseman Dougie Hamilton said he enjoyed the program when he played for Niagara, becoming so deft he could repeatedly pass the puck to himself to conquer a level. The Islanders’ Ryan Strome also scored high on the game last season, when he led Niagara in actual on-ice scoring.

Shayne Rover, who used the program in his fourth and final season as a Niagara defenseman, said, “You recognize more on the ice without realizing you’re recognizing it.”

After scoring one goal in his first three years, he scored eight in his fourth and said he thought the computer game had helped. Rover now plays for York University.

“Making better decisions on the ice, what we call spatial awareness, can be trained if you have the right tools,” Dankner said. “During our research, we asked coaches how they trained those skills, and most told us, ‘Either you’re born with it, or you’re not.’ They said it was very, very hard to train them directly.”

Not all players are fans of the system. J. T. Miller of the Rangers, who played for the United States in four youth world tournaments, said he did not bother with it.

“I just didn’t think a computer game was going to help me become a better hockey player,” he said.

At USA Hockey, players begin the program at the simplest level, using it twice a week in 15- to 20-minute sessions — but never on nights before games or on consecutive days. As they progress through the levels, the game becomes harder and faster, requiring new steps such as making a minimum number of passes before shooting or playing while the screen is obscured. Those sessions can last up to 45 minutes. Each player’s scores go to the coaches and to analysts at IntelliGym.

“The information the guys at IntelliGym have is really in-depth,” Cole said. “Without knowing our guys, they can go in and describe how the young man processes and that we need to work on particular things. They’re spot on with it. We can jump on it and get those guys moving again.”

Cole cited one player who had shown no progress in the game for a month or so.

“The IntelliGym guys’ analysis was that the player was drifting off, and that’s certainly a big component to hockey — your focus and concentration,” he said. “And through addressing that with him, boom, he got back on track.”

Cole added: “The guys are surprised when that kind of feedback comes back. Our guys are competitive. They want to be the best on the team, so when they see something like that, they get frustrated and ask questions and want to get better at it. They get more out of it that way.”
547 2013-12-23 Re “A Poet Who Pushed (and Recycled) the Envelope” (Books of The Times, Dec. 6):

In the 1970s, I attended a gathering in Amherst, Mass., at which (yet) another biographer of Emily Dickinson spoke about his forthcoming book and briefly about the poet’s habit of writing on scraps of paper, on envelopes, on whatever was handy.

Unwisely, he suggested that these “scribblings” reflected disorganization rather than on-the-spot attention to inspiration.
548 2013-12-23 The best advertisement for Ann Patchett’s new collection of nonfiction is anything else Ms. Patchett has written. Her novels (“Bel Canto” remains the most exquisite), memoir about a friend (“Truth & Beauty”) and assorted speeches and essays all share unusual frankness and drawing power. Ms. Patchett’s style is not overly confessional, but it is beguiling in ways that make her sound like someone you’d want to know. Her new book, “This Is the Story of a Happy Marriage,” reinforces the impression of an uncommonly kind person who is not above self-interest but loves books, her grandmother, the toughest nun who taught her in grade school, her husband and her darling dog.

Mush? Hardly. Ms. Patchett has had the courage to assemble both the hackish pieces she’s written for Vogue, which do a sunny job of reinforcing what the reader wants to think, with freer, more soul-searching work from The Atlantic Monthly and Harper’s. If these pieces were not identified by source, it would still be very easy to guess. But Ms. Patchett started writing magazine articles at an early age (“When Your Best Friend’s a Guy”), and she nailed the tricks of that trade so well that they’re worth showing off. In a long piece for Byliner, she shows off her accumulated prowess by delivering “a veritable clearinghouse of practical advice.”

Crediting much of what she knows to the luck of the draw, which gave her Grace Paley, Allan Gurganus and Russell Banks as writing teachers, Ms. Patchett presents herself as something of a traditionalist. If you want to write, she says in “The Getaway Car,” sit down at your desk every day. Start with 20 minutes. Work up to two hours. “During that time, you don’t have to write, but you must stay at your desk without distraction: no phone, no Internet, no books,” she says. “Sit still quietly. Do this for a week, for two weeks. Do not nap or check your email. Keep on sitting for as long as you remain interested in writing.” And either you’ll write or you’ll quit. “Either way,” Ms. Patchett says, “you’ll have your answer.”

As she says in “The Getaway Car” (with a title referring to how writing her first novel, “The Patron Saint of Liars,” was going to save her from the life of waitressing she was then leading), and demonstrates throughout these essays, Ms. Patchett believes in telling stories straightforwardly. You don’t drown a character and then go back to figure out why it happened, she says. You lead up to the event and then consider its causes and consequences. That, at least, is how she writes about the most memorable subjects in “This Is the Story of a Happy Marriage,” all but one of which are either animate or much mourned. Those that are dead come very much alive as Ms. Patchett lovingly recalls them.

The inanimate marvel is Parnassus Books, the independent bookstore Ms. Patchett opened in Nashville in 2011 with a business partner, Karen Hayes, who did much of the heavy lifting. Like almost all of the topics in this collection, it is touched on more than once. The seeds for it appear in “My Life in Sales,” with Ms. Patchett trying to describe the ordeal of going on book tour, finding almost nobody in the bookstores to hear her and attempting to convince herself that the process is necessary. She describes the early days of in-person book marketing, when Julia Child made mayonnaise in a blender in a Boston department store and crowds went crazy. But to Ms. Patchett, the whole idea seems inherently wrong.

Her desperation is palpable. When someone asks her where she got the idea for her latest book, she wants to scream: “The book is about you. I’ve been stealing your mail for years.” Still, she soldiers on and gets the hang of it and begins to draw large, loyal crowds. She is sentimental about them when “My Life in Sales” is over.
549 2013-12-23 Apple is the No. 5 smartphone player in the country, behind Samsung and the Chinese handset makers Huawei, Lenovo and Yulong.

The slow sales of the iPhone in China are reflected in the overall shrinkage of the company’s share of the global smartphone market — to 12.1 percent in the third quarter, down from 14.3 percent in the same period a year ago, according to the market research firm Gartner. Meanwhile, Lenovo, the No. 3 player, which sells the vast majority of its smartphones in China, had 5.1 percent of the global market in the third quarter, from 4.1 percent a year ago. Samsung’s global share remained flat at 32.1 percent.

Still, analysts were optimistic that Apple would sell a lot of phones through China Mobile, though they offered wide-ranging estimates for how many more. William V. Power, an analyst for Robert W. Baird & Company, said Apple could sell as many as 30 million more iPhones in 2014, while Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein research, offered a more conservative estimate of 15 million iPhones.

Apple sold about 23 million iPhones in China over the last year, Mr. Sacconaghi said.

Apple has long pursued a deal with China Mobile. The carrier showed signs of warming up to Apple only after it began losing customers to competitors that offered the iPhone. The No. 2 carrier in the country, China Unicom, and China Telecom, No. 3, have had longstanding arrangements with Apple, but they are much smaller than China Mobile.

In addition to cost, another reason Android phones have proved so popular in China is that, unlike in the rest of the world, there is a wider variety of mobile applications for Android phones than for iPhones. While the Google Play store is not officially available in China, Android users can turn to dozens of alternative app stores offering licensed and pirated applications.

Analysts expect the vast majority of smartphone growth in China to occur at the lower end of the market, as the phones become more widely available to lower-income consumers in smaller cities and rural areas. Those consumers will presumably be more attracted to the lower-cost Android phones.

Also, in China fewer handsets are subsidized by mobile carriers than in the United States, Europe or Japan. More than two-thirds of Chinese phones are sold unsubsidized by third-party retailers, often over the Internet.

Chinese operators are reluctant to subsidize phones too heavily in a market where many customers are happy with smartphones that cost under $100. Both China Unicom and China Telecom have been cutting back on subsidies.

Apple surprised some analysts in September with its aggressive pricing of the iPhone 5C, which has fewer features and costs less than the 5S, though the two were introduced on the same day. The company had been expected to try to appeal to Chinese customers with the lower price, but the 5C was introduced at a level that remains high in China.

Analysts say Apple may have to cut the price further, or introduce another, less expensive model if it hopes to broaden its appeal in China.

The cost-consciousness of Chinese consumers extends to their choice of mobile networks. Only 176 million China Mobile customers, less than a quarter of the total, subscribe to the company’s high-speed wireless data service, using 3G technology.

Apple and China Mobile announced their partnership a few days after China Mobile introduced an upgrade to a newer, faster system — 4G — for parts of its network. The existing 3G subscribers, not the overall customer base, will provide the main target audience for the new phones and services.

The deal with China Mobile has been rumored for a while, and potential customers for the iPhone are already lining up. Among them is Wang Xiaocong, who works in the marketing department of a law firm in Beijing. Ms. Wang, 31, said she had a BlackBerry for work and a Samsung smartphone for personal use, but was looking for something different.

“I am not a big fan of high-tech products,” Ms. Wang said. “But I would love to have an iPhone next time, with the 4G network, maybe next year. It looks very fashionable.”
550 2013-12-23 Last year, Make Music Winter, the annual solstice celebration of participatory performance, took place with an emphasis on its final word. I joined in “Winterize,” the baritone Christopher Dylan Herbert’s peripatetic outdoor version of Schubert’s “Winterreise,” at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden on a raw, gray afternoon as chilly as the melancholy score.

This year’s iteration of the citywide festival, on Saturday, was decidedly different. Temperatures soared into the 60s, and the sky was full of sunshine and fluffy clouds. It was a springlike climate for some of the performances that have grown into traditions since 2011, when Make Music Winter was added as a companion to the original Make Music New York, which takes place in June. Saturday brought not just another “Winterize” but repeats of projects like Daniel Goode’s “SoHo Gamelan Walk” (drumming on the hollow cast-iron fronts of SoHo buildings) and James Holt’s “Thru-Line” (a union of the G train and Bach’s cello suites).

I took part in a new addition, “Blink,” by the young Spanish engineer turned artist and composer Merche Blasco. The piece called for participants to bring their bicycles, and 50 or 60 of us congregated at Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn at 4:30 in the afternoon, just as the sun was setting behind the trees of Prospect Park. Like all the Make Music events, the charm was in the crowd’s range, from children to the elderly and from skilled bikers to those whose experience seemed — how shall I phrase this? — more limited.

Each cyclist received a bell, the different sizes — and, therefore, pitches — marked with different-colored labels. From Ms. Blasco’s helmet protruded small light bulbs in the five colors that matched those on the labels. (She looked like a 1920s vision of a 21st-century future.) The instructions were simple: When your color lit up, you gave your bell a single ring. I had yellow, which to my selfish ears made the most shimmering sound of all.

The performance began with a few minutes of standing still and ringing, the tones alternating and combining with demented, dissonant sweetness. Then Ms. Blasco took off into the park and led us on a 10-minute ride. It was hard to follow in its entirety the score she had planned but fun to be in a pack of riders, united for a common purpose. At one point, I fell slightly behind, which provided the loveliest effect of all: a panoply of pixielike bells ringing faintly ahead of me in the dark.
551 2013-12-23 Ms. Morrison’s experience is typical of other adjunct instructors who, in addition to the lack of job security, are often poorly paid and receive few benefits. Only 28 percent of adjunct instructors surveyed by the American Federation of Teachers in 2009 had health insurance and only 39 percent had retirement benefits.

Some adjuncts are turning toward collective action. The Service Employees International Union has successfully encouraged adjunct faculty members at various universities to organize, running campaigns in Boston, Los Angeles and other major cities. Adjuncts have unionized at American University, Georgetown, George Washington University, Tufts and Montgomery College, among others.

While the term adjunct is not used in European universities, Katrien Maes, chief policy officer of the League of European Research Universities, or LERU, said that in many ways the situation in Europe paralleled that in the United States. Ms. Maes said many fixed-term university positions in Europe offered little or no prospect of leading to a permanent contract. “We certainly have situations of uncertainty and lack of career perspectives for early-career researchers,” she said.

The growth in postdoctoral appointments — temporary research positions widely viewed as holding patterns for a tenure-track position — has contributed to congestion in the academic job market in the United States. According to the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics, the number of postdoctoral appointees in science and engineering grew to 63,415 in 2010, up 25 percent since 2007. Taking on more than one postdoctoral position has also become common to compensate for what is often low pay.

In Europe, there has also been a rise in temporary postdoctoral research appointments. “At LERU universities there are on average between 1,000 to close to 3,000 postdocs per institution versus a few hundred or more junior lecturers,” Ms. Maes said. “Naturally, because of this bottleneck, there is fierce competition for academic positions.”

A report this year by the Group of 8 leading universities in Australia said the security and status of academic work in Australia had changed. “Over recent years the trend has increasingly been to part-time and casual employment, often dependent on the availability of external funding,” it said.

The report found a significant increase in the number of doctorates awarded in Australia, with only a minority able to find employment in academia. According to the report, from 2000 to 2010, doctoral enrollments at Australian universities rose 68 percent and the number of doctorates awarded increased 60 percent, to 6,053 from 3,793. Meanwhile, in 2008, it said, only 28 percent of recent Ph.D. graduates worked in higher education, with the rest finding alternative careers.

Still, Glenn Withers, economics professor at the Australian National University’s Crawford School of Public Policy, said academic recruitment prospects were still better in Australia than in Europe and the United States. “Many universities in Australia have seen the opportunity to cherry-pick from more troubled Northern Hemisphere counterparts,” he said.

Asia is also offering more opportunities for early-career researchers.

“The academic profession is not excluded from the rise in global migration,” said Gerard Postiglione, professor of sociology and education policy at the University of Hong Kong. “The only obstacle in many cases is ability to teach in the language of the country where the overseas university is located. Universities in Asia have always tried to recruit early-career researchers from abroad.”
552 2013-12-23 Many country-opera venues also now run satellite projects for schools and community groups that reach far beyond the world of the wealthy. And although they range from the grandly sophisticated to the haphazardly eccentric, they mostly share a seriousness of purpose and ambition for artistic standards, offering short, intensive seasons in rural areas that are easier to manage than the year-around slog of full-time companies.

That, at least, is how it always was with Glyndebourne in East Sussex, Britain’s longest-running country-house opera and the one that used to rank pre-eminent, though it no longer stands out as it once did. Founded in 1934 and celebrating its 80th birthday next year, Glyndebourne began as a rich man’s plaything, when the owner of a large estate on the Sussex Downs, John Christie, married the soprano Audrey Mildmay. Mr. Christie decided, as aristocrats could in the 1930s, to build an opera house for his wife beside the Tudorbethan mansion that was their home.

For years the venue was not much more than a village hall, with just 300 seats. But it drew serious talents on the run from Europe in World War II, like the Austrian impresario Rudolf Bing, the German conductor Fritz Busch and the German director Carl Ebert — legendary names on which Glyndebourne’s reputation was built.

With time the village hall grew bigger, and the Christie family eventually replaced it in 1994 with a 1,200-seat auditorium that is probably the most exquisitely appointed theater of its kind in Britain. The 2014 edition of the Glyndebourne Festival will take place there from May 17 to Aug. 24 and includes three new productions — Strauss’s “Der Rosenkavalier,” Mozart’s “La Finta Giardiniera,” and Verdi’s “La Traviata” — along with revivals of Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene Onegin,” Mozart’s “Don Giovanni” and Handel’s “Rinaldo.”

But in acquiring its enviable facilities, Glyndebourne has paradoxically lost something of its former energy and vision. Some productions, like the Britten “Billy Budd” that will play in the United States next year, attract acclaim, but many do not. The choice of repertoire plays safer than it should. And with more seats to sell for what is now more than 120 performances a year — if you include its annual tour, which takes reduced versions of the season’s shows around Britain — there is a widespread belief that Glyndebourne has lost an element of exclusivity and cachet to Garsington and Grange Park, its closest rivals in the country-opera pecking order.

Garsington Opera also has seen dramatic changes in recent times, but it has managed them more skillfully. Started in 1989 as a modest venture in the gardens of a Jacobean manor house near Oxford (famous for its Bloomsbury connection), it was the most personal and charming of the country opera venues. Its owner, Leonard Ingrams, would meet and greet guests, ring the starting bell and make endearingly eccentric speeches from the stage about improvements to the lavatories.

But a few years after his death in 2005, Ingrams’s widow, who endured the annual invasion of her house by singers, instrumentalists and punters for two decades, wanted out. The opera moved to the Wormsley Estate in Buckinghamshire, owned by the Getty family, where it occupies an auditorium that wins architectural prizes, though perhaps not for charm.

But Garsington’s new building has succeeded in raising its game, which was already high thanks to astutely clever programming. It has made a specialty of rare works by familiar names like Rossini, Richard Strauss, Haydn, Vivaldi, many of them never before staged in Britain. Offenbach is now another focus, with the Monty Python- sounding farce “Vert-Vert” (about a dead parrot) scheduled for 2014. And with a new artistic director, the conductor Douglas Boyd, who also runs an orchestra in Switzerland, there are plans for international tours and shared productions — all of which will take what once looked like a cozy, local venture (and the butt of jokes when village neighbors got together and complained about the noise) to more exalted levels.

“One thing I know I want to do,” Mr. Boyd said, “is bring to Garsington some sense of the style and ethos of the Chamber Orchestra of Europe, which I’ve been closely involved with and think is one of the great orchestras.

“It has to do with excellence and friendship, and a particular way of playing Mozart which, perhaps, other companies have lost. I’d like us to be famous not just for rare repertory but as a Mozart house. That’s where I see our future.”

Trying to keep up with Garsington is Grange Park Opera near Arlesford, Hampshire. It began in 1997 and is run from a stylishly distressed 550-seat theater built inside the orangery of a ruined but still stately 18th-century mansion. It exists thanks to the colorfully well-connected Wasfi Kani, a conductor-turned-administrator whose talent for raising money and spending it with flair has made her a legendary figure. Beyond her artistic responsibilities for a season that now offers four productions over seven weeks, she puts considerable effort into creating what she calls “a weekend house-party ethos.”

“People gather in the portico of the old house for drinks, then there’s a passeggiata to the auditorium,” Ms. Kani said. “We like the passeggiata, it’s theatrical and fun. A chance to show your frock off.”

Curiously, for such a modest auditorium, Grange Park does not aim for a modest repertory. “We’re probably the smallest proper opera-house in Britain,” Ms. Kani said, “but with a huge orchestra pit, big enough for Wagner; and big romantic repertory is what tends to work best here, washing the audience in sound. So that’s what we do, rather than Mozart who gets well served at Glyndebourne and doesn’t need us.”

That policy explains her 2014 season of “Peter Grimes,” “Traviata,” “Don Quichotte” and “Queen of Spades.”

After the three Gs — Grange Park, Garsington and Glyndebourne — come the smaller venues, some more notable than others, ranging from the super-chic of West Green House in Hampshire to the charming eccentricity of Woodhouse Copse in Surrey. West Green is a picture-perfect Queen Anne manor house whose chatelaine, Marylyn Abbott, puts on opera in the context of spectacular, illuminated water gardens. Woodhouse is an arts and crafts-style jewel of a building that once had an annex with a swimming pool until the owner, Monika Saunders, gave up on exercise and turned the pool into a concert venue.

She then started using it for opera in productions that she made herself — as well as putting up the singers, cooking meals for everyone, doing the box-office and front of house — it was a hands-on project. As the project grew she hired a digger, scooping out a hill on her estate. And now her operas happen in a woodland amphitheater by a lake, a magical environment if sometimes damp.

As any country-opera regular will tell you, though, damp is a standard price to pay for the experience. This isn’t Italy, it’s Britain, where enthusiasts are used to sitting through the second half of “La Bohème” in sodden trousers after picnicking on wet grass. It is the legacy of tough schools and a lingering sense that pleasure isn’t perfect without sacrifice. And it makes country opera what it is: not always comfortable, but curiously English.
553 2013-12-23 SEOUL — South Korea’s Hyundai Group said Sunday that it planned to raise more than 3.3 trillion won, or $3.1 billion, by selling off its three financial units and taking other steps to ease concerns over affiliates’ high levels of debt.

Hyundai Securities will be among the units offered as part of the sale, the group said in a news release.

Hyundai Group affiliates have been under increasing strain in supporting the unprofitable shipping line Hyundai Merchant Marine because of falling profit margins, as well as pressure to refinance from creditors like Korea Development Bank.

Hyundai Merchant Marine reported a total net loss of 345.6 billion won in the first three quarters of 2013, as well as yearly net losses in 2011 and 2012 because of a slump in the global shipping industry.

“We have come up with pre-emptive and voluntary measures to ease market concerns, even though we will have enough cash by the first half of 2014,” the news release said.

The statement said the company would focus on shipping, logistics, manufacturing and inter-Korean business projects in the future.
554 2013-12-23 For “The Tree of Life,” a finalist for the National Book Award in 1985, Mr. Nissenson spent years studying the Ohio frontier of the early 19th century to portray his protagonist, a New England preacher who moved West.

“I went out and I learned to fire replicas of flintlock rifles, to throw a tomahawk,” he said in a lengthy interview in January magazine in 2003. “I went on a hunt. I spent time in the winter in the northern part of Ohio, I walked on snowshoes, I dressed in buckskin. I felt that in order for me to recreate this experience, which was so alien to me, a New York Jewish kid, educated on the West Side of Manhattan, that I really had to deeply understand, in a physical and an imaginative way, what the experience was like living under those circumstances on the Ohio frontier in 1812.”

He recalled the thrill of realizing later, while writing the book, that he could recognize the sound of bark falling from a cottonwood tree. “And I knew at that moment that I was there, that I had absorbed the milieu so completely that I was hearing the sounds!” he said. “And it was a thrilling moment, because I said to myself: ‘Aha! I’ve arrived! I’m in the Ohio woods. It’s happening.’ ”

For his first novel, “My Own Ground” (1976), which traced the troubles of a Jewish teenager on the Lower East Side in the early 20th century, he drew on stories that his father, a dressmaker, told of his early life in the city.

A quarter-century later, he imagined the year 2057 through a genetically programmed artist, John Firth Baker, in “The Song of the Earth.” For that book, Mr. Nissenson taught himself to become a visual artist, and he incorporated color plates of his work, ostensibly by Baker, into the pages of the novel. He also created fictional email messages, diary entries and websites from a world where characters have been physically and sexually distorted, sometimes through genetics, and where climate change is scorching and flooding the planet.

“We’ve seen what happens with the uninhibited acquisition of knowledge, when human beings have the power of God,” Mr. Nissenson said of the book in an interview with The Times in 2001. “We are now manipulating the human genome.”

Hugh Howard Nissenson was born on March 10, 1933, in New York, the only child of Charles and Harriette Nissenson. He attended the Fieldston School in the Riverdale section of the Bronx and received a bachelor’s degree from Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania in 1955. Seven years later he married Marilyn Claster. In addition to his wife, his survivors include two daughters, Kate Scott and Kore Glied, and four grandchildren.

He worked briefly as a copy boy at The Times after college but found that newspaper writing was not his ambition. His mother encouraged him to pursue his dream of becoming a fiction writer by staying home, he recalled years later, to “learn how to write — by writing.”

In the late 1950s, Mr. Nissenson spent two years in Israel working on a film about the Israeli war of independence. His first short story, “The Blessing,” about a father who struggles with his faith after the death of his young son, was published in Harper’s Magazine while he was still in Israel.

In 1961 he covered the trial of Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem for Commentary magazine.

In 1968 he published “Notes From the Frontier,” about his time living in a kibbutz. He published selected pieces of his fiction and nonfiction, “The Elephant and My Jewish Problem,” in 1988.

“Though these stories sometimes feel contrived — as though the author were manipulating his characters, like a not-so-benevolent God — there is something luminous about them as well,” Michiko Kakutani wrote in a review in The Times. “They propel the reader from a mundane plane of social realism to a loftier one of fable, from a world of meticulously observed domestic details to a more elusive one of everlasting faith.”
555 2013-12-24 The creator of the Etch A Sketch gets his own treatment.
556 2013-12-24 The settlement is the latest attempt to crack down on credit card firms as federal regulators seek tighter restrictions on hidden fees and penalties....
557 2013-12-24 A new study suggests that mothers who eat nuts during pregnancy can eat them without fear of causing nut allergies in their babies....
558 2013-12-24 A German woman moved to Penang, Malaysia, hoping for tranquility in her retirement, but before long she was running a shelter for about 250 stray dogs....
559 2013-12-24 Arsène Wenger failed for the 10th time to get the better of Jose Mourinho as Arsenal was held to a 0-0 draw by Chelsea, missing a chance to return to the top of the Premier League.

The London derby, played with rain swirling around Emirates Stadium, failed to produce the drama expected, with few attempts on goal.

Chelsea came closest in the first half when Frank Lampard’s shot struck the crossbar, while Arsenal only threatened in the closing minutes when Olivier Giroud shot wide from a tight angle.

In Mourinho’s two stints as Chelsea manager, Wenger has had five draws and five losses.

“It is a solid point but 2 points dropped at home,” Wenger said.

Arsenal is second in the Premier League, trailing Liverpool on goal difference, and is 2 points ahead of fourth-place Chelsea.

■ Tottenham appointed the inexperienced Tim Sherwood as the coach until the end of next season in a surprise move by the club, a week after André Villas-Boas was fired. He was named the interim coach a week ago.
560 2013-12-24 A large media management company signed a lease on Monday to occupy nine floors at the base of what would be the third office tower at the World Trade Center site in Lower Manhattan.

The long-awaited deal with GroupM is the first to be signed by the developer Larry Silverstein for the planned 80-story tower, which would sit on Greenwich Street next to a 72-story tower Mr. Silverstein completed last month.

GroupM would move 2,400 employees to the trade center from several Midtown buildings, the latest example of how technical and creative services firms are proliferating in Lower Manhattan, a neighborhood once dominated by banks and financial services.

As part of the agreement, the state agreed to provide the media company with a cash grant worth about $15 million, according to two government officials who have been briefed on the agreement.

Mr. Silverstein still has to clear several hurdles before the third tower rises to completion.
561 2013-12-24 While studies show that in fact previous immigrants usually fill jobs shunned by Britons and contribute more in taxes than they get in social services, the issue remains delicate in a period where growth is slow, joblessness is high and the British are complaining about the high cost of living, in particular energy and housing.

Mr. Cameron has said he wants legislation passed before the year’s end to ban new immigrants from qualifying for jobless benefits for the first three months. His home secretary, Theresa May, floated the idea of a cap of 75,000 a year on new European Union immigrants, which the Liberal Democrats and European Union officials have dismissed as “illegal and unworkable,” in Mr. Clegg’s words. Mr. Clegg supports the three-month benefit qualification, however.

The prime minister’s 2010 electoral pledge to cut immigration by “tens of thousands” by 2015, from the 200,000 a year expected under current trends, drew criticism on Monday from the independent National Institute of Economic and Social Research. The group said that the restrictions could shrink the economy by more than 10 percent by 2060 and that having fewer young immigrants would raise the cost of caring for the elderly.

Mr. Cameron is facing criticism not only from U.K. Independence Party and its leader, Nigel Farage, but more important, from a deeply anti-European wing in his own Conservative Party, with as many as 100 members of Parliament considered in favor of leaving the 28-nation European Union in its current form.

Mr. Cable was particularly harsh, telling the BBC that “we periodically get these immigration panics — I remember going back to Enoch Powell and ‘rivers of blood’ and all that, and if you go back a century, there were panics over Jewish immigrants.” Politicians have a responsibility when people panic, Mr. Cable said, “to try to reassure them and give them facts, and not panic and resort to populist measures that do harm.”

The tone of the British debate was hardly helped when a Conservative junior minister of defense, Anna Soubry, made an off-color comment about what she called Mr. Farage’s odd facial expressions. The comment prompted angry responses on Twitter and from Mr. Farage, and Ms. Soubry apologized, saying it was “a lighthearted remark.”

Given polls showing that Britons are unhappy about immigration, the opposition Labour Party has said little recently on the topic. Previously it tried to show itself as tough on immigration by proposing tougher residency tests and calling for large companies to take on an apprentice for every foreign worker hired.

The Bulgarian president, Rosen Plevneliev, warned Mr. Cameron not to play on people’s fears in a period when right-wing parties are doing relatively well in European opinion polls. “Isolating Britain and damaging Britain’s reputation is not the right history to write,” Mr. Plevneliev told The Observer, a Sunday newspaper. “Bulgarian people are raising a lot of questions today about the democratic, tolerant and humane British society.” He asked whether Britain was “writing a history of a switch to isolation, nationalism and short-term political approaches.”

Mr. Plevneliev’s comments echoed criticism last month from the European Union’s employment commissioner, Laszlo Andor of Hungary, who called Mr. Cameron’s effort to restrict benefits to new European immigrants an “unfortunate overreaction” that could cause hysteria. The plans “risk presenting the U.K. as the nasty country in the European Union,” he said.

The Romanian foreign minister, Titus Corlatean, recently criticized the fears about Romanians, Bulgarians and others as racist, calling on Mr. Cameron to reject, “in clear terms, the xenophobic and populistic, and once again sometimes racist attitudes which are promoted by some other British politicians.”

Mr. Corlatean said there would be no flood of Romanians to Britain, noting that “the U.K. is not the only country in the E.U. by the way.”
562 2013-12-24 BOISE, Idaho — Boise State quarterback Joe Southwick said he was unfairly dismissed from the Hawaii Bowl, arguing he was falsely accused of urinating from a hotel balcony.

Southwick, a senior who was sent home Friday by the interim head coach Bob Gregory shortly after the Broncos got to Hawaii, took a polygraph test after arriving in Boise in a bid to prove his innocence, the Boise television station KTVB reported Sunday.

Initially, Southwick and the backup quarterback Nick Patti were suspended for violating team rules, with Boise State not providing details. Eventually, Patti was reinstated, but Southwick was taken to an airport where he says he waited nine hours before his flight.

The Hawaii Bowl, on Tuesday night, matches Boise State against Oregon State.

The episode — and Southwick’s denial of involvement — represents a challenge for a program that was already in transition: Coach Chris Petersen quit and took a job at the University of Washington earlier this month following an 8-4 season, his worst since taking over in 2006. Brian Harsin, the former head coach at Arkansas State, has been hired to replace Petersen.

“It’s really important for myself and my family to get this cleared up,” Southwick said. “There was no process to properly adjudicate what happened. It’s really disappointing that it had to come to this.”
563 2013-12-24 Stocks continued to climb in quiet trading on Monday, as investors began to close the books on 2013.

Apple helped lift technology stocks after it reached a deal to sell the iPhone through China’s largest wireless carrier.

The market has moved broadly higher since last Wednesday, when the Federal Reserve said it would start pulling back on its stimulus program next month as the economy improves. Last week, the government also raised its estimate for third-quarter economic growth to 4.1 percent, the fastest pace since 2011.

“Everything is going in the right direction,” said Rob Stein, chief executive of Astor Investment Management, based in Chicago.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 9.67 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,827.99. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 73.47 points, or 0.5 percent, to 16,294.61. The Nasdaq composite rose 44.16 points, or 1.1 percent, to 4,148.90.

Apple rose $21.07, or 4 percent, to $570.09, after the company reached a deal with China Mobile, the world’s largest cellphone provider, to sell the iPhone in China. The iPhone is already sold through two smaller carriers there. Technology stocks in the S.&P. 500 rose 1.5 percent.
564 2013-12-24 The assault in Tikrit, about 100 miles northwest of Baghdad, appears to open a new, deadlier phase in a vicious campaign by militants with Al Qaeda against journalists. As the overall level of violence increases, it has added to the sense here that the country is on a steady slide back to the bloodiest days of the past decade.

And for journalists here, the latest violence has been all the more shocking because their circumstances had begun to improve: Last year, for the first time since 2003, the Committee to Protect Journalists did not report any “work-related fatalities” among journalists in Iraq.

The only place in the world these days more dangerous for a journalist than Iraq is Syria, where the conflict is increasingly reminiscent of the long war here that never quite ended, even after American troops left in 2011.

This year groups linked to Al Qaeda have gained strength in Iraq, and the level of violence has pushed the country to the edge of a new civil war, with more than 8,000 people killed so far, according to the United Nations, the most since 2008. Other attacks on Monday killed at least 20 people, according to news reports.

Before Monday’s attack in Tikrit, there had been a string of attacks on journalists in Mosul, with five journalists killed in three months — at least one of them in public while reporting. Over the past year or so, Mosul and its surrounding areas have once again become a Qaeda stronghold, with militants controlling entire neighborhoods, extorting local businesses, officials and university professors, residents and security officials said.

On Dec. 15, her last day alive, Nawras al-Nuaimi left her university and headed home for a nap before going to work at a local television station. She had just become engaged, to a doctor, and friends said she was realizing her dream of becoming a television news presenter. On her way home, she was ambushed by several gunmen, who shot her in the head and chest. “She was on top of the world,” said a journalist friend, Mohamed, who gave only his first name because he feared he too could be killed.

Security forces have found lists of journalists targeted for assassination during raids on militant hide-outs in Mosul, and many journalists have stopped reporting in the streets or attending news conferences. Like other reporters in Mosul, Mohamed fled to the relative safety of the nearby autonomous Kurdish region. Even there, though, in the city of Sulaimaniya, a reporter was recently killed outside his home.

Mohamed said he had warned Ms. Nuaimi not to go out alone.

“She told me she is not doing anything wrong, why would anyone think of killing me?” he recalled in a telephone interview.

Like Mohamed, Salar Ahmed, a cameraman at a Mosul TV station, left the city recently for the Kurdish region, as fearful for his safety as he is angry at the government for not protecting him and his colleagues.

“To work as a journalist is tantamount to suicide,” he said. “The government and the security forces are incapable of protecting us. They haven’t been able to catch one person involved in any of the killings so far.”

Journalists in Iraq must also deal with intimidation. In Baghdad, one journalist, Halem Hassan, said that after reporting on corruption recently he was visited at his home by an official whom he had written about and whose bodyguard threatened to kill him if he continued.

“I am a simple man; I have only my pen,” he said. “No one can protect me from those people; they have all the power.”

Human Rights Watch recently stated: “Journalists in Iraq face a double threat, from armed gangs gunning them down and prosecutors charging them, all because of what they write. The recent spate of assassinations of journalists has had a chilling effect on journalists, who risk being prosecuted by the very authorities that are supposed to protect them.”

By the end of 2012, the Committee to Protect Journalists counted 93 unsolved murders of journalists in Iraq since 2003, not counting the journalists killed in the crossfire of combat. There is no indication that the Iraqi authorities have investigated the cases.
565 2013-12-24 MOSCOW — The Russian defense minister, Sergei K. Shoigu, said Monday that 50 trucks and 25 armored vehicles had been delivered to the Syrian port of Latakia in recent days to help with the removal of the country’s chemical weapons stockpile, the latest sign of progress in that effort despite the grinding civil war.

Mr. Shoigu reported the equipment delivery as new signs emerged of fractures in the diplomatic effort to start peace talks next month. The Syrian opposition threatened to boycott the talks, scheduled for Jan. 22 in Geneva, if the government did not halt a relentless aerial assault on Aleppo, the contested northern city.

Opposition activists say hundreds of civilians have died in nine days of air attacks.

The Russian vehicle delivery, reported on the Kremlin’s website, was conveyed by Mr. Shoigu to President Vladimir V. Putin by a video link, in which the defense minister informed him it had been completed “to implement as soon as possible the transmission of equipment and supplies for the export of Syrian chemical weapons.”

The removal of the chemical arms, which Syria committed to dismantle under an international agreement reached in September following American threats of a military strike, poses an enormous security challenge.

The main road from Damascus, where many of the chemical weapons facilities and materials were located, has been periodically closed in recent weeks by heavy fighting in the civil war.
566 2013-12-24 Only a few months ago Mr. Jang was believed to be the second most powerful man in North Korea. In fact, American intelligence agencies had reported to the White House and the State Department in late 2011 that he could well be running the country behind the scenes — and might edge out his inexperienced nephew for control. In part that was based on his deep relationship with top officials in China, as well as his extensive business connections there.

His highly unusual public humiliation and execution on Dec. 12 set off speculation about the possibility of a power struggle within the secretive government. But in recent days a more complex, nuanced story has emerged.

During a closed-door meeting on Monday of the South Korean National Assembly’s intelligence committee, Nam Jae-joon, the director of the National Intelligence Service, disputed the North’s assertion that Mr. Jang had tried to usurp his nephew’s power. Rather, he said, Mr. Jang and his associates had provoked the enmity of rivals within the North’s elite by dominating lucrative business deals, starting with the coal badly needed by China, the North’s main trading partner.

“There had been friction building up among the agencies of power in North Korea over privileges and over the abuse of power by Jang Song-thaek and his associates,” Mr. Nam was quoted as saying. Mr. Nam’s comments were relayed to the news media by Jeong Cheong-rae and Cho Won-jin, two lawmakers designated as spokesmen for the parliamentary committee.

In interviews, officials have said that the friction described in general terms to the South Korean Parliament played out in a violent confrontation in late September or early October, just north of the western sea border between the Koreas.

There, the North harvests one of its major exports: crabs and clams, delicacies that are also highly valued by the Chinese. For years the profits from those fishing grounds, along with the output from munitions factories and trading companies, went directly to the North Korean military, helping it feed its troops, and enabling its top officers to send cash gifts to the Kim family.

South Korea was a major market for the North’s mushrooms, clams, crabs, abalones and sea cucumbers until the South cut off trade with the North after the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship in 2010, forcing the North Korean military to rely on the Chinese market.

But when Mr. Kim succeeded his father two years ago, he took away some of the military’s fishing and trading rights and handed them to his cabinet, which he designated as the main agency to revive the economy. Mr. Jang was believed to have been a leading proponent of curtailing the military’s economic power.

Mr. Jang appears to have consolidated many of those trading rights under his own control — meaning that profits from the coal, crabs and clams went into his accounts, or those of state institutions under his control, including the administrative department of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea, which he headed.

But this fall, the long-brewing tensions that arrangement created broke into the open. Radio Free Asia, in a report last week that cited anonymous North Korean sources, reported that Mr. Kim saw North Korean soldiers malnourished during his recent visits to islands near the disputed western sea border. They say he ordered Mr. Jang to hand over the operation of nearby fishing grounds back to the military.

According to accounts put together by South Korean and American officials, Mr. Jang and his associates resisted. When a company of about 150 North Korean soldiers showed up at the farm, Mr. Jang’s loyalists refused to hand over the operation, insisting that Mr. Jang himself would have to approve. The confrontation escalated into a gun battle, and Radio Free Asia reports that two soldiers were killed and that the army backed off. Officials say the number of casualties is unknown, but they have received similar accounts.

It is hard to know exactly how large a role the episode played in Mr. Jang’s downfall — there is more money in coal than in seafood — but Mr. Kim was reportedly enraged when he heard of the clash. Mr. Nam said that by mid-November his agents were already reporting that Mr. Jang had been detained. The Dec. 12 verdict noted that Mr. Jang “instructed his stooges to sell coal and other precious underground resources at random.”

Mr. Nam said the fact that such behind-the-scenes tensions had spun so far out of control that Mr. Kim had to order his own uncle’s execution raised questions about the government’s internal unity.

“The fissure within the regime could accelerate if it further loses popular support,” the lawmakers quoted Mr. Nam as saying.

Mr. Jang was the husband of Kim Kyong-hui, the only sister of Mr. Kim’s father, the longtime leader Kim Jong-il. Mr. Nam told the committee Monday that Mr. Kim’s aunt had retained her position in the hierarchy, even while the purge of Mr. Jang’s other associates continued. But he denied news reports in South Korea and Japan that some of Mr. Jang’s associates were seeking political asylum in Seoul and Beijing.

Mr. Nam pointed to Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, the top political officer in the North Korean People’s Army, and Kim Won-hong, the head of the North’s secret police and its intelligence chief, as the government’s new rising figures since Mr. Jang’s execution, the two lawmakers said.
567 2013-12-25 LISS--Stanley, 97, died peacefully December 19, 2013. He is survived by his devoted and loving wife of 73 years, Ruth Schlesinger Liss, his son Robert Liss, a psycho-analyst, writer, and basketball coach who resides in San Francisco, and his grand...
568 2013-12-25 Profits are doing just fine....
569 2013-12-25 Antipoverty programs and other parts of the social safety net raise the cost of doing business and at the same time penalize smaller businesses more, an economist writes....
570 2013-12-25 “The goods were similar prices, but services like the dancers were up this year, as they began to catch up from smaller increases in recent years.”

But over all, he said, “The figures over the past 30 years for the indexes show each averaged a 2.9 percent increase on an annual basis.”

The tab this year for all 364 items repeated in the song’s verses is $114,651, up 6.9 percent from last year and 82.5 percent from 1984, when the index began and totaled $62,833.

This year, the cost of engaging the lords and ladies jumped the most. The nine dancing ladies soared 20 percent, to $7,553. Next were the 10 lords a-leaping, whose cost rose 10 percent, to $5,243. The 11 pipers piping and the 12 drummers drumming edged up slightly, just 2.9 percent this year, with the pipers at $2,635 and the drummers at $2,854. The prices come from the Philadelphia Dance Company and the Pennsylvania Ballet.

In contrast, the price for most of the fowl held steady over last year, unlike 2012, when the cost of feathered creatures rose markedly after a widespread drought drove up feed costs. Over the long term, however, the hens soared 983.4 percent — to $165 for three of the French Houdon breed — up from $15.83 in 1984.

There are still a few holiday bargains to be had, like the 3.2 percent decline in the cost of the partridge’s perch, a pear tree, which costs $184 this year, according to prices provided by Cinnaminson Nurseries in New Jersey.

The services of the eight milking maids, the only unskilled labor on the gift list, remained at $58 at the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, though Mr. Dunigan noted that could soon change as pressure mounts to increase the minimum wage.

The price of the five gold rings was also flat, at $750. Mr. Dunigan said that the price of gold was down 25 percent over a year ago and that the drop was likely to be reflected in lower prices in coming months.

The partridge is the cheapest item, at $15, and the swans, at $1,000 each, are the most expensive. The availability and price of swans fluctuates greatly, so much so that the PNC list annually reports a so-called core index without the swans.

Mr. Dunigan said that in preparing the index, started by a PNC predecessor bank in Philadelphia, PNC checks bird prices with the National Aviary in Pittsburgh and contacts groups like musicians’ unions and professional dancers’ organizations for the going rates for performers, including lords and ladies.

National jewelry retailers, he said, provide prices for the five (14-carat) gold rings. Gold prices can swing widely, too. But as investors dropped their reliance on gold as a potential safe haven this year, prices plunged. That has yet to translate into cheaper jewelry like rings.

For those who might want to assemble the hundreds of gifts in the song’s many verses from the comfort of home, Internet shopping would be easier but would add $12,300 to the total when compared with making the purchases in person.

Transportation and shipping costs add significantly to the bottom-line outlay, but this year web shopping brought the total down 1.7 percent. That was partly because of the cost for the six geese a-laying and the four calling birds, which this year declined 17.8 percent to $1,140 for the geese, and 14.5 percent to $470 for the birds. Over all, the giver was out of pocket $39,762, compared with $40,439 last year.

Each year, PNC displays the information on a website to explain prices and how they affect the economy. The site, popular among schools to teach economic trends, has historical data and interactive activities like the Gift Maker, which allows users to build online versions of 12 gifts and share them via Facebook or Twitter.
571 2013-12-25 GENEVA — Four days after his release from a Russian prison and arrival in Germany, the former oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky has applied for a Swiss visa that would allow him travel to most of Europe, a spokesman for Switzerland’s Department of Foreign Affairs said Tuesday.

Switzerland received Mr. Khodorkovsky’s application for a three-month visa through its embassy in Berlin on Tuesday and would normally decide in a matter of days whether to grant it, said Stefan von Below, the department’s spokesman.

Mr. Khodorkovsky was convicted on charges of fraud and tax evasion that he said were politically motivated, and he spent a decade in a prison near the Arctic Circle. Since his surprise release and arrival in Germany on Friday, aboard a private jet arranged with the help of a former German foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, Mr. Khodorkovsky said he would not become involved in Russian politics but would work to help other prisoners.

Mr. Khodorkovsky’s wife, Inna, and their three children live in Switzerland. His spokesman, Christian Hanne, said the former oligarch wanted to visit early in the new year to see where they go to school, but the visa request was not an indication of where he intended to settle, The Associated Press reported.

He went to Germany, he said, because his mother, who lives in Berlin, was receiving medical treatment. Once the owner of Yukos oil and reputedly the richest man in Russia with assets worth up to $15 billion, Mr. Khodorkovsky has also had extensive business contacts with Switzerland, where Yukos had an oil service company and a number of offices.
572 2013-12-25 Many of these robots vibrate when they run and could be knocked off-balance by an unstable floor, said Larry Glazer, chief executive of Buckingham Properties, which owns and leases manufacturing space in and around Rochester. “Vibrations are always a problem when you have this real sophisticated equipment,” he said. “It could miscalibrate it, make the machine so it’s not producing parts within spec.”

Scott Marshall, executive managing director of industrial services for the Americas at the commercial real estate company CBRE Group, said conversations about housing robots were becoming more and more common.

Another example involves Ford Motor Company, which added some 600 robots as part of a $555 million overhaul of its Flat Rock Assembly Plant in Michigan. “The robots basically do the difficult lifting and moving,” said Bruce Hettle, vice president for North America manufacturing.

Companies face the choice of building new plants or raising ceilings and moving support beams in existing factories — and older buildings tend to need upgrades to power, climate and sprinkler systems, as well. Mr. Marshall said these challenges often prompted his manufacturing clients to build new factories rather than try to retrofit existing structures. “You can’t fit the infrastructure within the existing envelope,” he said.

But for a company that wants to ramp up production quickly, renovating an older building can be faster and cheaper than starting from scratch.

“We can prepare an awful lot of space within 90 days,” Mr. Glazer said. “New build means design, buying land, permitting,” he said. “You have to figure at least a year to put a building up.”

Rochester, with its rich history of imaging and optics manufacturing anchored by Eastman Kodak and Xerox, has numerous small manufacturing companies that are staying competitive by introducing robotics to their production lines, said Togo DeBellis, managing director of growth services at High Tech Rochester, a nonprofit group.

“We’ve seen all types — robotic welders, robotic wire makers and clip makers. You’re seeing them being integrated into the system to increase volume, increase consistency and quality,” he said. “There’s an awful lot of technology and equipment being purchased in these spaces to be competitive globally.”

Michael Sanguinito, plant engineer at Sentry Group, based in Rochester and the parent company of SentrySafe, said, “To get the robots to perform more accurately, we realized our foundation wasn’t good enough and we dug up our floor.”

Sentry’s robots are smaller than those used by Weber; Mr. Sanguinito said they built two-foot-deep pads of rebar-reinforced concrete for each of four new robots, a four-month project that was completed in November.

The investment lets Sentry increase productivity, Mr. Sanguinito said. “Probably what took 12 people to do, these four robots can do,” he said. “It’s more reliable and more steady than a human and they don’t get ergonomic issues.”

Sentry was able to cut down on the number of errors and reduce its “dropout rate” with the new robots, as well as decrease maintenance time.

In New York City, the type of manufacturing that takes place generally does not demand giant, floor-shaking robots, but for companies that do work with heavier equipment, the considerable size of the machines is a major concern.

“Most of the time you’re fighting for footprint space,” said Stephen J. Giumenta, vice president and treasurer of the fabrication company Architectural Grille in Brooklyn. “Especially in New York, the cost per square foot to rent property is ridiculous.”

Architectural Grille, which lost $7 million in Hurricane Sandy last year, has been reconfiguring its facilities to use vertical space more efficiently. Mr. Giumenta said that by the end of next year, he hoped to have replaced forklifts with robots to move material along the production line.

“We’ve already gone up to utilize the space we have,” he said. “We will be switching everything around so we can take advantage of that full ceiling height and reorganize the line for handling.”
573 2013-12-25 The cost of first-class postage stamps is going up by 3 cents — but only until the Postal Service makes up losses that it has estimated it accumulated during the recession. The increase — to 49 cents from 46 cents — will go into effect on Jan. 26.

The Postal Regulatory Commission announced the increase on Tuesday, but it stressed that it would “last just long enough to recover the loss.” The commission determined that loss to be $2.8 billion, caused by a substantial drop in mail volume, totaling about 25.3 billion pieces, between 2008 and 2011.

The commission also ordered the Postal Service to provide quarterly reports on how much money was coming in from the rate increase and to provide a plan to phase out the increase in less than two years.

The increase was approved in a 2-to-1 vote.

The post office asked that the price increase be permanent, but the commission said no. In a statement, the commissioners said that “the Postal Service conflated losses that are a result of Internet diversion with losses that were a result of the Great Recession.”

Last month, the agency reported a $5 billion net loss for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, a significant improvement over last year, when it said it lost a record $15.9 billion.

It was the seventh consecutive year that the post office had reported a net loss. But Joseph Corbett, the Postal Service’s chief financial officer, noted at the time that the last financial results were “the first growth in revenue since 2008.”
574 2013-12-25 Drilling companies in Wyoming typically lease land from the state, private owners or the federal Bureau of Land Management, depending on who owns the mineral rights.

The state’s Oil and Gas Conservation Commission already budgets $1 million a year to plug abandoned wells. And under the governor’s proposal, the commission would appropriate another $3 million over the next four years in an effort to restore property value and reduce the risk of contamination.

The money would come from a conservation tax that oil and gas companies pay.

Still, given the number of wells already abandoned and the concern that more will soon be deserted, the money is not expected to go far. The state estimated that closing the 1,200 wells already abandoned would cost about $8 million.

Compounding the problem, state officials estimate that Wyoming may also have to plug 2,300 wells that are sitting idle but have not been entirely abandoned by operators.

There are also 400 idle wells scattered across land owned by the Bureau of Land Management, which has its own criteria for determining when a well on its land is considered abandoned or idle. State officials said they would need to work with the bureau to help deal with those wells, too.

Governor Mead also wants the commission, which he sits on, to review the conservation tax and bonding requirements for drilling companies to determine whether they are sufficient.

Currently, companies must pay a $75,000 blanket bond to cover all of the wells they operate — often numbering in the hundreds — on state and private land in Wyoming. Once a well stops producing and is deemed idle, the operator must pay up to $10 a linear foot in bonding to offset the cost of reclamation.

But it is at that point that some companies drift into financial trouble and cannot pay the additional fees, leaving the state to scramble to make up the cost.

The governor’s proposal has drawn support from landowner groups like the Powder River Basin Coalition, which has been pushing the state to take a tougher tack toward financially marginal drilling companies.

“There has been a lot of hand-holding and coddling over the years when it comes to oil and gas operators and their ability to pay the bonding,” said Jill Morrison, an organizer with the group.

Ms. Morrison said that the issue had largely been ignored during Wyoming’s peak boom years — from 1995 to 2004.

“We are really pleased there is an actual plan to move forward with an aggressive plugging and reclamation strategy,” she said.

The proposal is also backed by the Petroleum Association of Wyoming, which favors raising the conservation tax to help pay for plugging fees. The group also supports higher bond fees for operators with tenuous finances.

“It’s how you weed out companies that are too risky to go into business with,” said the group’s president, Bruce Hinchey.

But getting drilling companies who claim to be on the verge of collapse to take responsibility for wells they still technically own has proved difficult.

One such company, Patriot Energy Resources, which owns about 900 idle wells on state and private land, said in an October letter to Governor Mead that it was $1.9 million short of full bonding on those wells after the bankruptcy filing of Luca Technologies, its parent company.

Patriot has proposed allowing another drilling company to take on a part of its debt, saying it will have to abandon its wells otherwise. “Without this deal or something similar, Patriot will be forced to file for bankruptcy and turn these wells and reservoirs over to the state of Wyoming,” a company official wrote in the letter.

Renny MacKay, a spokesman for Mr. Mead, said the state was weighing the offer.

State Senator John J. Hines, a Republican who represents mineral-rich Campbell and Converse Counties, said it was vital for lawmakers to take up the issue swiftly, because natural gas was so important to Wyoming’s economy.

“All of this just came to a head at once,” said Mr. Hines, who heads the Senate’s minerals committee.

Last spring, Mr. Hines was told by Patriot that the hum of gas drilling activity on his own sprawling cattle ranch would soon grow quiet.

Soon after, the company, which leased parcels of Mr. Hines’s land, disappeared completely — leaving behind more than 40 coal-bed methane wells and a jumble of pipes and pumps.

“They informed me that they were shutting down because they were short of funds,” Mr. Hines said. “All of it, in my opinion, needs to be cleaned up.”
575 2013-12-25 Venice was Chris Jaeckle’s inspiration for this duplex restaurant. “It has always had the most global outlook of any place in Italy,” said Mr. Jaeckle, the chef and a partner. “And that goes back 800 years.” But Venice is only a starting point. He also applies a touch of Japanese flavor to the typical Venetian rice, noodles and seafood. “With these ingredients, Japanese food has a lot in common with Venetian,” he said. Sardines with typical sweet-and-sour “in saor” flavors are artistically arranged Japanese-style. A touch of miso brightens razor clams. He interprets Venetian liver and onions with monkfish liver and adds a touch of curry to spaghetti with clams. Chris Cannon, the manager and consultant, has created a list with more than 36 Italian sparkling wines (white, rosé, red and even orange varieties) to pair with the food. The upstairs dining room is relaxed and understated; the ground floor is the bar. (Opens Monday): 22 East 13th Street, 212-231-2236, allondanyc.com.

EL BORN Elena Manich’s tapas restaurant, named for a neighborhood in Barcelona, blends modern and rustic elements. The chef, Diego Gonzalez, prepares octopus seared on a stone and quail in chocolate sauce. (Saturday): 651 Manhattan Avenue (Norman Avenue), Greenpoint, Brooklyn; 347-844-9295; elbornnyc.com.

THE LITTLE BEET Franklin Becker’s casual food is made with local, organic ingredients. A brown rice wrap is filled with egg whites, roasted peppers and feta; a salad combines cooked and raw beets: 135 West 50th Street, 212-459-2338, thelittlebeet.com.

PARK KITCHEN The Park Central Hotel, an icon of the 1920s where Jackie Gleason and Eleanor Roosevelt stayed, has been renovated and features a restaurant serving American comfort food, a market and a bar run by the mixologist Nick Mautone: 870 Seventh Avenue (55th Street), 212-707-5500, parkcentralny.com.

HURRICANE STEAK & SUSHI This successor to Hurricane will close after dinner on Saturday. A different concept opens in the spring.

TAMARIND New Year’s Eve will be the last day for this highly regarded Indian restaurant on East 22nd Street, which is closing to make way for a new building. Avtar Walia, the owner, has another, larger Tamarind in TriBeCa.

CORKBUZZ WINE BAR Laura Maniec plans to open this sibling to her Corkbuzz Wine Studio in the Chelsea Market in the spring.
576 2013-12-26 Patrick Byrne, the chief executive of Overstock, said the company planned to let online shoppers pay for goods with Bitcoin by June....
577 2013-12-26 Sporting Ranch Capital Management, a private equity firm, raises money from investors to buy ranches that it can fix up and resell....
578 2013-12-26 Thursday’s highlights from around the web include a retrospective of the year when wearables let down, M&A replaced innovation, and the arrogance of technology’s ruling class increased. Plus, Apple interns talked about what it’s like to work...
579 2013-12-26 Lawyers for the wireless company filed documents in a New York bankruptcy court, outlining a plan to bring in at least $1.25 billion in new equity and $2.75 billion in loans....
580 2013-12-26 Mr. Abe himself did not visit the shrine during his first stint as prime minister from 2006 to 2007, but he has since expressed regret for that.

Speaking to reporters after his brief visit, Mr. Abe expressed frustration that the shrine still provoked such controversy. He said that he had paid his respects not just to those who gave their lives serving Japan, but to fallen soldiers around the world.

He added that it was normal for any national leader to honor the war dead, and that he had prayed for peace.

“Japan must never wage war again,” Mr. Abe said. “This is my conviction based on severe remorse for the past. It is not my intention at all to hurt the feelings of the Chinese and Korean people.”

But his visit came at a tense time. Japan is already involved in a standoff with China over control of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea and over a new air defense identification zone announced by China that includes airspace over the disputed islands. It is also embroiled in a dispute with South Korea over separate islets.

Mr. Abe has been particularly scrutinized because he is known for his conservative views on Japanese history, and what his supporters describe as a personal desire to revise an overly negative portrayal of Japan’s actions during the war. He has questioned some accounts of Japan’s wartime conduct, including whether the military forced women across Asia into sexual servitude.

He has also sought to bolster Japan’s military standing, increasing the country’s military spending for the first time in a decade and adopting a new defense plan that calls for the purchase of drones and amphibious assault vehicles to counter China’s own rapid military buildup in the region. Mr. Abe has long said that Japan must ultimately revise its pacifist Constitution to allow for a fully developed military instead of a purely defensive force.

Local news reports have said that some of his closest aides advised Mr. Abe to stay away from the shrine, so he could focus on what has been the defining policy of his administration so far, reviving Japan’s economy. American officials had also expressed concern that historical issues may isolate Japan, the United States’ largest Asian ally, at a time when Washington faces a more assertive China and a nuclear North Korea.

Still, since he took office exactly a year ago, Mr. Abe has sent offerings to the shrine, while several members of his cabinet paid visits. Some of his supporters had said it was just a matter of time before the prime minister himself paid a visit, especially as hopes for improved relations with either China or South Korea appeared slim anyway. Though Mr. Abe had never visited the shrine as prime minister before Thursday, he was a regular visitor as a lawmaker of the Liberal Democratic Party and most recently as opposition leader last year.

China’s reaction to Mr. Abe’s visiting the shrine was swift.

“The Chinese government expresses its strong indignation that Japanese leaders brutally trample the feelings of the Chinese and other Asian peoples victimized in wars,” the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement. “We solemnly urged the Japanese side to abide by the commitment to reflecting on its history of aggression, taking measures to correct its errors, eliminating its adverse effects, and taking concrete actions to win over the trusts of its Asian neighbors and the international community.”

Luo Zhaohui, director of the Foreign Ministry’s Asian affairs department, wrote on the Chinese microblogging site Weibo: “This is absolutely unacceptable to the Chinese people. It will cause great harm to the feelings of the Asian peoples and create a new, major political obstacle on bilateral relationships. Japan must bear the consequences.”

The South Korean news agency Yonhap quoted unnamed government officials in South Korea who rebuked Mr. Abe, calling his visit to the shrine an act that “sought to justify Japan’s war of aggression” and that would damage bilateral relations.

Yang Soon-im, who runs the Association for the Pacific War Victims, based in Seoul, South Korea, said: “This shows how arrogant Abe is toward the neighboring countries, how unrepentant Japan is about its past war crimes. Abe is almost as reckless as the regime in North Korea.”
581 2013-12-26 The surge in violence stands in sharp contrast to earlier assurances from senior Obama administration officials that Iraq was on the right path, despite the failure of American and Iraqi officials in 2011 to negotiate an agreement for a limited number of forces to remain in Iraq.

In a March 2012 speech, Antony J. Blinken, who is currently Mr. Obama’s deputy national security adviser, asserted that “Iraq today is less violent” than “at any time in recent history.”

In contrast, after a recent spate of especially violent attacks against Iraqi forces, elected officials and civilians, Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, issued a strongly worded statement on Sunday warning that the Qaeda affiliate is “seeking to gain control of territory inside the borders of Iraq.”

Pledging to take steps to strengthen Iraqi forces, Ms. Psaki noted that the Qaeda affiliate was a “common enemy of the United States and the Republic of Iraq, and a threat to the greater region.”

But the counterterrorism effort the United States is undertaking with Iraq has its limits.

Iraq’s foreign minister has floated the idea of having American-operated, armed Predator or Reaper drones respond to the expanding militant network. But Mr. Maliki, who is positioning himself to run for a third term as prime minister and who is sensitive to nationalist sentiment at home, has not formally requested such intervention.

The idea of carrying out such drone attacks, which might prompt the question of whether the Obama administration succeeded in bringing the Iraq war to what the president has called a “responsible end,” also appears to have no support in the White House.

“We have not received a formal request for U.S.-operated armed drones operating over Iraq, nor are we planning to divert armed I.S.R. over Iraq,” said Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the , referring to intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions. For now, the new lethal aid from the United States, which Iraq is buying, includes a shipment of 75 Hellfire missiles, delivered to Iraq last week. The weapons are strapped beneath the wings of small Cessna turboprop planes, and fired at militant camps with the secretly providing targeting assistance.

In addition, 10 ScanEagle reconnaissance drones are expected to be delivered to Iraq by March. They are smaller cousins of the larger, more capable Predators that used to fly over Iraq.

American intelligence and counterterrorism officials say they have effectively mapped the locations and origins of the Qaeda network in Iraq and are sharing this information with the Iraqis.

Administration officials said the aid was significant because the Iraqis had virtually run out of Hellfire missiles. The Iraqi military, with no air force to speak of and limited reconnaissance of its own, has a very limited ability to locate and quickly strike Qaeda militants as they maneuver in western and northern Iraq. The combination of American-supplied Hellfire air-to-ground missiles, tactical drones and intelligence, supplied by the United States, is intended to augment that limited Iraqi ability.

The Obama administration has given three sensor-laden Aerostat balloons to the Iraqi government, provided three additional reconnaissance helicopters to the Iraqi military and is planning to send 48 Raven reconnaissance drones before the end of 2014. And the United States is planning to deliver next fall the first of the F-16 fighters Iraq has bought.

The lack of armed drones, some experts assert, will hamper efforts to dismantle the Qaeda threat in Iraq over the coming weeks and months.

“Giving them some ScanEagle drones is great,” said Michael Knights, an expert on Iraqi security at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “But is it really going to make much difference? Their range is tiny.”

“The real requirement today is for a long-range, high-endurance armed drone capability,” added Mr. Knights, who frequently travels to Iraq. “There is one place in the world where Al Qaeda can run a major affiliate without fear of a U.S. drone or air attack, and that is in Iraq and Syria.”

In an effort to buttress the Iraqi military’s abilities, the Obama administration has sought congressional approval to lease and eventually sell Apache helicopter gunships. But some lawmakers have been hesitant, fearing that they might be used by Mr. Maliki to intimidate his political opponents.

A plan to lease six Apaches to the Iraqi government is now pending in the Senate. Frustrated by the United States’ reluctance to sell Apaches, the Iraqis have turned to , which delivered four -35 attack helicopters last month and planned to provide more than two dozen more. Meanwhile, cities and towns like Mosul, Haditha and Baquba that American forces fought to control during the 2007 and 2008 surge of American troops in Iraq have been the scene of bloody Qaeda attacks.

Using extortion and playing on Sunni grievances against Mr. Maliki’s Shiite-dominated government, the Qaeda affiliate is largely self-financing. One Iraqi politician, who asked not to be named to avoid retaliation, said Qaeda militants had even begun to extort money from shopkeepers in Ramadi, Anbar’s provincial capital.

A number of factors are helping the Qaeda affiliate. The terrorist group took advantage of the departure of American forces to rebuild its operations in Iraq and push into Syria. Now that it has established a strong foothold in Syria, it is in turn using its base there to send suicide bombers into Iraq at a rate of 30 to 40 a month, using them against Shiites but also against Sunnis who are reluctant to cede control.

The brutal tactics, some experts say, may expose Al Qaeda to a Sunni backlash, much as in 2006 and 2007 when Sunni tribes aligned themselves with American forces against the Qaeda extremists.

But Mr. Maliki’s failure to share power with Sunni leaders, some Iraqis say, has also provided a fertile recruiting ground.

Haitham Abdullah al-Jubouri, a 40-year-old government employee in Baquba, said that “the policy of the sectarian government” had “contributed to the influx of desperate young elements from the Sunni community to the ranks of Al Qaeda.”

In Mosul, most of the security force members who are not from the area have left the city, and Al Qaeda controls whole sections of territory.

“In the morning, we have some control, but at night, this is when we hide and the armed groups make their movements,” said an Iraqi security official, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, out of fear of retaliation.

Ayad Shaker, a police officer in Anbar, said that Al Qaeda had replenished its ranks with a series of prison breakouts, and that the group had also grown stronger because of the limited abilities of Iraqi forces, the conflict in Syria and tensions between Mr. Maliki and the Sunnis.

Mr. Shaker said that three close relatives had been killed by Al Qaeda and that he had been wounded by bombs the group had planted.

“I fought Al Qaeda,” he said. “I am sad today when I see them have the highest authority in Anbar, moving and working under the sun without deterrent.”
582 2013-12-26 Baseball is, after all, an inexact science, and the guesswork is only magnified when players are switching countries, using a different ball, trying to communicate in a foreign language.

When the Yankees moved in to sign Igawa, they saw a 27-year-old pitcher who had led Japan’s Central League in strikeouts three times and who might have slipped some from his standout 2003 season, when he was the league’s most valuable player, but still had a reassuring 14-9 record in 2006 with a 2.97 earned run average.

None of that translated to the United States.

But the Igawa misjudgment — and some baseball people in the United States were skeptical of him from the start — is not the only cautionary tale lurking in the background as the Tanaka bargaining takes shape. of Japan became a major leaguer just weeks ahead of Igawa but to far more fanfare, signing a six-year, $52 million contract with the after they won the rights to negotiate with him with a bid of $51,111,111.

In the end, Matsuzaka hardly lived up to his reputation. In his first season in , when he was 27, he went 15-12 with a 4.40 E.R.A. and helped the Red Sox win a championship. In 2008, he was 18-3 with a 2.90 E.R.A. But from then on, there was too much ineffectiveness, too many arm problems (including Tommy John surgery) and too much frustration. In the last three seasons combined, for Boston and then the , he started all of 25 games and had only seven victories. He is currently a free agent.

And then there is Yu Darvish, who starred for the Nippon Ham Fighters in Japan and then, at age 25, joined the for 2012 after they won the rights to him with a $51.7 million posting fee, which was followed by a six-year, $60 million contract.

As a Ranger, Darvish has been solid, and at times dominating, with a combined two-season record of 29-18 with a 3.34 E.R.A. In 2013, he led baseball with 277 strikeouts.

So what about Tanaka? In 2011, Darvish had his best season in Japan — going 18-6 with a 1.44 E.R.A. — but was beaten out for the award that goes to the country’s best pitcher by none other than Tanaka, who went 19-5 with a 1.27 E.R.A. Then came Tanaka’s 24-0 run.

A major league scout who has often watched Tanaka pitch said Tanaka could throw a fastball between 90 and 97 miles per hour and had an above-average slider and an average curveball and changeup. His signature pitch is a split-finger fastball.

The scout, who did not want to be identified discussing a pitcher who is not on his own team, said that Tanaka, like ’s Justin Verlander, could throw a little harder in a crucial spot late in a game or snap off a particularly devastating splitter.

For a team like the Yankees, all of that sounds great. More disconcerting is the fact that less than two months ago, Tanaka threw 160 pitches in a complete-game loss in Game 6 of the Japan Series and followed that up with 15 more pitches in a Game 7 save.

Still, that alarming volume of pitches should not keep the Yankees and other clubs from battling it out to sign him — and hoping that, just as in Japan, he is not only as good as Darvish, but better. But there are no guarantees.
583 2013-12-26 Representative Melvin Watt, a Democrat of North Carolina, who was confirmed earlier this month as the director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, will need to use all of his agency’s powers to cope with a worsening affordable housing crisis that is placing poor and elderly Americans at risk of homelessness and forcing many of the nation’s 43 million renters to skimp on food and medical care to meet the rent.

One thing he can do right away is to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the federally backed mortgage companies that the agency oversees, to pay into the National Housing Trust Fund, which was created by Congress in 2008 but was never financed because the two companies were brought low by the mortgage crisis.

The crisis in affordable housing was underscored in an alarming study released this month by the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard. The study found that, from 2000 to 2012, renters were caught in a relentless squeeze, with falling wages on one side and rising rents on the other. Median gross rents went up by 6 percent, while the median renter’s income declined by 13 percent.

Nearly half of all renters earn less than $30,000 a year. According to the report, about half of them now pay more than a third of their incomes on rent — up 12 percentage points from a decade ago. A quarter of renters pay more than 50 percent of their incomes in rent, which places them at clear risk of homelessness.

Mr. Watt needs to encourage Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to stimulate affordable housing production by purchasing and guaranteeing more multifamily mortgages. He must find ways to make home loans more affordable to moderate-income borrowers. And he should direct Fannie and Freddie, which have recovered from the mortgage crisis, to begin paying into the trust fund.

The fund, modeled on successful state programs, could provide grants and loans to preserve, rehabilitate and build housing, primarily for extremely low-income families that earn 30 percent or less of median income in their areas. The fund could also be used to develop healthy, mixed-income communities; a developer who receives a subsidy would set aside a proportionate number of units for low-income families who would be charged affordable rents. Given the current crisis, programs like this are needed more than ever.
584 2013-12-26 For decades, most private college pricing has reflected the Chivas Regal effect — the notion that whether in a Scotch or a school, a higher price indicates higher quality.

“Schools wanted a high tuition on the assumption that families would say that if they’re charging that high tuition, they must be right up there with the Ivies,” said David L. Warren, president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. “So schools would set a high tuition, then discount it. But when the schools in your peer group all have discounts, it becomes an untenable competition for students, with everyone having to increase their discounts.”

At the nation’s most selective institutions, discounts are usually reserved for low- and middle-income students, and a third to a half of students pay the full sticker price. But colleges without a national reputation pass out discounts, in the form of aid, with a free hand — and not just to needy students.

“About a quarter of students at independent colleges are full-pay, and at institutions with small endowments and small name recognition, it’s single-digit,” Mr. Warren said.

Over all, private colleges discounted freshman tuition by 45 percent last year, a new high, according to a survey by the National Association of College and University Business Officers, and the share of freshmen getting institutional aid rose to 87 percent last year, from 80 percent in 2002, also a new high.

For all but the top-tier private colleges, these are tough times. Enrollment is flat or declining in many parts of the country. In November, Moody’s issued a report finding that more than 40 percent of colleges and universities face falling or stagnant tuition revenue. With family incomes stalled, many bargain-seeking students are drawn to public institutions. And for colleges that are not well known, the race to lure students with big discounts is becoming unsustainable.

As a result, many private colleges are rethinking their pricing — whether cutting or freezing tuition, or locking in the freshman tuition for all four years.

“Whether you in fact make it more affordable with a reset or a freeze is not clear, since net revenues tend to come out about the same,” said Richard Ekman, president of the Council of Independent Colleges. “But there’s a public assumption that private higher ed is unaffordable, so anything that gets people’s attention and lets you have the conversation explaining that most people don’t pay full price, that it is within reach, is very important.”

Sewanee, the University of the South, reduced its overall cost of attendance — tuition, fees, room and board — by 10 percent in 2011 to be more competitive with the public universities elsewhere in Tennessee, and in Georgia.

“We’re happy with it,” said the vice chancellor, John M. McCardell Jr. “Our applications continue to grow, our selectivity and yield and retention are all improving.”

True, costs have crept back up, almost to the $46,100 pre-cut level, but Sewanee now guarantees that tuition will not increase during a student’s four years at the college.

With growing sensitivity to tuition increase, such fixed-rate guarantees are becoming more widespread. Just this week, Northland College in Wisconsin became the latest to announce such a step.

Roger Williams University in Rhode Island turned to fixed-rate tuition after some market research.

“When I got here in June 2011, there were so few people paying full price that one wondered why we bothered,” said Donald Farish, the university’s president. “If everybody’s getting a discount, the notion that there is a full price is almost meaningless. It’s a model that makes no sense, and makes you feel like you’re in a Middle Eastern souk bargaining with the tourists who just arrived.”

Mr. Farish talked to the board about cutting tuition “to present a more authentic number,” and hired consultants, Maguire Associates, to find out whether current and prospective families would prefer a campus that charged $23,000 or one that charged $36,000 but offered an average of $13,000 in aid.

To Mr. Farish’s surprise, twice as many families preferred the high-cost, high-discount approach, and the consultants warned that cutting tuition would cut the freshman class in half. So instead, Mr. Farish has locked in freshman tuition for four years. This year, the university overshot its enrollment target by 100 students, he said, bringing in 40 more freshmen, and retaining 60 more sophomores, “which I think was largely because their tuition didn’t go up.”

But the consultant who worked with Converse and Concordia, Kevin W. Crockett of Noel-Levitz, said tuition cuts can be useful at colleges where the high sticker price is scaring off students, few pay full freight, and where the school is reasonably healthy over all.

“If the school’s doing badly, a tuition cut can look like an act of desperation,” he said. “Also, it has to be part of an overall business strategy, emphasizing the program.”

Converse, the nation’s only women’s college competing in Division II sports, met those conditions. After some difficult years, the college is on an upswing, with the largest freshman class in years, a new genetics counseling program, a new field house and a strong music school.

While the reset will have little effect on net revenue per student, Ms. Fleming said, the lower sticker price should increase interest in the school. Indeed both applications and donations have increased.

“We’re taking the fear of the price tag out of the equation on the front end,” she said. “When I think about tuition discounting, it seems deceptive, like a smoke-and-mirrors game. I think a majority of colleges like us could do exactly what we’re doing if they trusted that they don’t have to buy students.”
585 2013-12-26 Last May, Robinette Christian, 64, lost her partner of 37 years, but even before the death, Ms. Christian had a tenuous grip on happiness....
586 2013-12-26 Customers took to social media to complain as they bemoaned having to offer apologies instead of presents, some of which were ordered well in advance.

Rachel Shelton, a consultant for M.B.A. applicants who lives in Connecticut, ordered gifts from Kohls.com for her mother almost two weeks ago and her tracking information from U.P.S. and Kohls indicated that the items would arrive on Christmas Eve. On Tuesday, one box arrived, but only one item was inside.

Ms. Shelton called U.P.S. customer service four times, but she was disconnected.

“The fact that my mom didn’t get her pajamas isn’t going to scar anyone for life,” Ms. Shelton said. “But when kids don’t get their presents from Santa, that breaks my heart.”

Ms. Black of U.P.S. said the company had projected that it would process 132 million deliveries last week, but declined to detail the extent of the excess demand. She noted that a storm earlier in the month in Texas began a backlog. She added that the company would honor air and international shipping guarantees, which may include refunds. The company had suspended its ground shipping guarantee for the holiday season, which Ms. Black noted was customary.

FedEx also appeared to be experiencing delays. A FedEx spokesman told The Associated Press that some customers would be able to pick up delayed packages at FedEx Express centers. FedEx did not return calls for comment.

Dennis Yslas of Fort Worth said he ordered a green chef’s coat embroidered with the name of his partner, Bo, who is training to become a cook. The coat did not arrive in time for Christmas.

“I’m frustrated,” Mr. Yslas said Wednesday. “I feel like Christmas is incomplete.”

Mr. Yslas said that he ordered the gift from Chef Uniforms early in the month, and that it was shipped on Dec. 14, with an estimated delivery of Dec. 19. But on Dec. 19, U.P.S. changed the estimated delivery date to Dec. 23. The package arrived in Fort Worth on Dec. 22, and U.P.S. changed the estimated arrival to Dec. 24. On Dec. 23, U.P.S. pushed that to Dec. 26. Mr. Yslas said he had complained to U.P.S.

“I send my messages everywhere and nothing is being done,” he said in an interview. “The customer service is absolutely horrific.”

Online shopping is on the rise. Over all, online sales  during Thanksgiving weekend were up 14.5 percent over last year, according to IBM Digital Analytics Benchmark.

Mary Osako, an Amazon spokeswoman, said customers who did not get their orders by the promised time would receive a $20 gift card and would not be charged for delivery, but she stressed that Amazon was not at fault. “Amazon fulfillment centers processed and tendered customer orders to delivery carriers on time for holiday delivery,” she said.

A Walmart spokeswoman, Jaeme Laczkowski, said it would give gift cards to customers who did not get orders. “We extend our deepest apologies,” she said.

U.P.S. was not delivering packages on Wednesday, and Ms. Black said that most of the remaining parcels should be delivered Thursday or Friday.

But on Christmas Day, some customers did not appear to be much interested in explanations.

“U.P.S. is the Grinch of Christmas,” David Erdman said on Twitter. “Unless you have a time machine,” he continued in a later message, “you can’t fix this.”
587 2013-12-26 Though the wind industry has grown enormously since the tax credit began in the 1990s, it has followed a boom-and-bust cycle driven by the fate of the subsidy. Over the years, Congress has allowed it to expire several times before renewing it, according to the American Wind Energy Association, a trade group. With each expiration, new installations dropped sharply.

That happened in late 2012, when manufacturing and new project starts nearly came to a standstill, only to pick up again after Congress revived the credit, called the Production Tax Credit, in January for a year. The renewal was intended as a temporary fix to keep business going as lawmakers overhauled the tax code.

Under the current rules, a lapse in the credit will not have much immediate effect, since many projects are now in the early stages of development.

However, executives said, developers are unlikely to start any projects without a credit in place because they cannot compete with power generation from other sources like cheap natural gas. And with prospects for a redesign of the whole tax code looking dim at the moment, clean-energy advocates are calling for yet another extension of the subsidy.

Referring to the credit, Kevin A. Lynch, managing director of external affairs at Iberdrola Renewables, which develops and operates green energy projects, said: “In the near term, projects that do not have the P.T.C. attached to them are probably difficult to justify economically for buyers to purchase, and therefore for us to build.”

He added that with the credit, “Wind has clearly become a very competitive generation source, and I do have to say we’re pretty confident that the president and the Congress will see their way to extending the credit.”

Still, how that process will go is anybody’s guess, especially given that President Obama nominated one of the chief architects of the larger tax effort, Senator Max Baucus, to become ambassador to China.

Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is in line to succeed Mr. Baucus as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said tax reform was a priority.

“My first choice is comprehensive tax reform where in effect you start moving toward a more level playing field,” Mr. Wyden said. “But I’m not going to support just letting renewables just fall off a cliff.”

Under a recent agreement, among the largest in land-based wind power, MidAmerican will buy 448 turbines from Siemens. The turbines, which Siemens will maintain for the first 15 years of operations, are to be installed in five projects in Iowa.

The company has also agreed to make turbines for Cape Wind, which could become the country’s first offshore wind farm. More than a decade in the making, it has faced lawsuits and stiff opposition from Cape Cod residents who say the spinning machines will spoil pristine views and raise the price of electricity.

Other companies are benefiting from the new orders, too: Vestas said on Tuesday that it would reach its second-highest peak in sales in the United States and Canada this year since it entered the market in 1981, with recently announced equipment orders for projects in Texas and Oklahoma.

Opponents of the credit campaigned against a renewal all fall. They include some fiscal watchdogs worried about the cost. But the bulk of the opponents are mostly generators of other forms of energy, who say that by subsidizing wind, the government is adding supply to the market in a way that depresses prices for electricity, cutting the revenues of other generators and, in some cases, driving them out of business.

The subsidy “is grossly distorting the marketplace,” said Don Nickles, a Republican who represented Oklahoma in the Senate from 1981 to 2005 and is now a consultant on energy policy. The problem, he said, was that the credit was very large relative to the wholesale price of electricity. It is occasionally infinitely larger. During the late-night hours when overall electric demand is low and wind production is high, the value of a kilowatt-hour on the open market is sometimes zero or below. Wind generators collect the credit regardless.

Mr. Nickles, who was a senator when the first production tax credit was passed, said that it was meant to be an incubator for a fledgling industry. Now, he said, “This child is ready to go to college.”

Some of the economic logic behind wind energy no longer exists. In most places, every additional megawatt-hour generated by a wind machine means that a plant running on natural gas could be dialed back. When natural gas prices were high, the savings could be significant. But natural gas prices have dropped with the new supplies brought on by hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. So the savings have shrunk.

The production tax credit for wind energy has passionate opponents in the nuclear industry. This is because in about half the country, electrically speaking, the wholesale price of electricity is set by auction, and when there is oversupply, prices drop. Sometimes they drop below zero.

This is a problem for generators that run on coal or natural gas, but within minutes or hours they can reduce their output. Reactors, however, cannot easily lower their power output. Thus, at hours when wholesale electricity prices go negative, operators often end up paying to generate electricity.

At Exelon, the country’s largest civilian reactor operator, executives say one of its Illinois plants sees negative prices during 14 percent of the off-peak hours. And some of its plants could be shut as uncompetitive next year, not because of their true production costs, but because of the wind subsidy, the company argues. Exelon was a member of the American Wind Energy Association, the industry’s trade group, but was expelled in September 2012 because it opposed extension of the production tax credit.

“With 20 years and 60,000 megawatts in the ground, this is a mature industry,” David C. Brown, an Exelon lobbyist, said of the industry. “It’s time we declare victory and celebrate our success.”

Wind developers argue that all forms of energy receive government support and that the credit helps level the playing field. Their main focus now is the familiar race to make sure their projects qualify while the credit is still available.

“It’s the same old story — it’s just another 365 days later,” said Paul J. Gaynor, chief executive of First Wind, a developer based in Boston.

Wind executives say the new deals will keep them busy through the coming months, but many of them are also taking potentially expensive gambles. This year’s renewal does not require projects to go into production until the end of 2016, but they must either be in continuous construction or have spent at least 5 percent of the total costs this year. Project costs can top $100 million.

Companies are frantically reordering their usual processes, with some ordering turbines without permits to build or starting construction while still negotiating power contracts, said Michael Garland, chief executive of Pattern Energy, a developer of wind farms that went public this year.

“There’s a lot of risk on it that you have to take in order to put that kind of money out,” he said. “That’s what everybody’s running around trying to figure out what to do.”
588 2013-12-26 Grangemouth is only one outpost in the global empire of James A. Ratcliffe, but he has said that profitable units in the United States and elsewhere should not subsidize those losing money in Britain.

Over two decades, Mr. Ratcliffe, 61, who owns more than 70 percent of Ineos, has shaped the private company into a global leader in petrochemicals with $43 billion in sales, including those from joint ventures, and about 50 plants. But the company’s core, Ineos Group Holdings, said it had a loss of 287 million euros last year on revenue of €18.2 billion.

Grangemouth was a big reason for that. Last year Ineos wrote off about €520 million on its operations there. The company says that its overall business, excluding the joint ventures, had $780 million in operating profit in 2012, a decline of about 50 percent from the previous year.

Ineos says the Grangemouth site, which has revenue of more than 5 billion pounds a year, had negative cash flow of £157 million in 2012, and losses are expected to reach £141 million this year. Capital expenditures account for much of the losses, but the plants are also on the wrong side of big shifts in the global refining and petrochemical industries.

Analysts say that many refineries in Europe — Antwerp and Rotterdam are bigger refining centers than Grangemouth — are losing money because demand for their products, particularly gasoline, has fallen for various reasons, including the European economic slump.
589 2013-12-26 “Booksellers Wary About Holiday Sales” (Business Day, Dec. 16) notes that e-book sales are down without citing what is perhaps the major reason for the decline. Digital sales were attractive to readers like me when most new titles were available for $9.99 or less. Now the price of e-books is in many cases approaching the cost of print books. No wonder “the e-book thrill is gone.”
590 2013-12-26 “We live in history the way fish live in water,” said Edward L. Ayers, the founder of the Digital Scholarship Lab and a senior consultant on the project. “It’s invisible to us, but a historical atlas can give us a sense of coherence of the larger pattern.”

The digital Paullin arrives at what seems like a fortuitous moment. In recent years, scholars have paid increasing attention to the spatial aspects of history, using sophisticated Geographic Information Systems technology to reveal previously unseen patterns of change. The Richmond lab’s 2012 Visualizing Emancipation project, for example, plots out intricate interactions between federal policy, the Union and Confederate Armies, and thousands of enslaved people, illuminating how liberation unfolded on the ground.

At the same time, other researchers are taking a fresh look at old maps, exploring how they represent not just changes in the nation’s boundaries and places, but also deeper shifts in its self-understanding.

In the 19th century, maps became “a new kind of tool — not just a way-finding device, a map of what we know, but something that opened up new questions,” said Susan Schulten, a historian at the University of Denver and the author of “Mapping the Nation: History and Cartography in 19th-Century America.” Instead of just showing geographical features, works like Francis Walker’s 1874 Statistical Atlas of the United States — the first national atlas anywhere in the world based on census data — layered different kinds of information onto the landscape.

Paullin’s atlas, published nearly 50 years later, was “a culmination,” Ms. Schulten said, of that new statistical cartography. It was also a herculean effort. Dozens of researchers, assembled by the Carnegie Institute, spent nearly 20 years painstakingly culling and plotting out data from census records, newspapers, local archives and other far-flung sources, acknowledged in 145 pages of detailed notes.

There were some 50 historical maps going back to 1492, and more than 600 new maps, beginning with the natural environment and moving on to territorial expansion, settlement patterns, transportation, slavery, the development of political parties, the spread of churches and universities, and shifts in wealth distribution.

Place names were largely omitted, to keep the focus on broader patterns. One map shows shifts in the geographical center of the nation’s population, both as a whole and broken down for whites, blacks, immigrants and urban vs. rural dwellers. (The animated version on the digital site shows the center for African-Americans drifting south and west after the Civil War, before abruptly moving northeast in 1920 — the beginnings of the Great Migration, Mr. Nelson said.)

Another series of maps, still regularly reproduced in textbooks and on blogs, shows how long it would have taken a traveler to reach any point in the United States from New York City in 1800, 1830, 1857 and 1930.

“It’s so far ahead of its time,” Mr. Ayers said. “It suggests how people experienced geography. You could ask, ‘What would it mean for a family to move to Kansas?’ ”

The digital Paullin is only a prelude to the Richmond group’s next effort: an entirely new digital atlas, to be completed over a decade or so. This “Paullin for the 21st century,” supported with an initial grant of $750,000 from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, will update some aspects of the earlier work — Paullin’s treatment of Native Americans, Mr. Nelson said, was “pretty horrible.” It might also spice up some topics that can be, well, a little boring.

Take canals. “Most canal maps just show skeletal remains,” Mr. Nelson said. “But by animating them and showing what and passed through them, we can show them as vital arteries rather than desiccated bones.”

The atlas will also cover the last 80 years of history, including topics like the Interstate Highway system, the civil rights movement, growing American military power and the rise of the Internet. While the country, and cartography, have changed since 1932, both the old and new work share a fundamental democratic spirit, Mr. Ayers said.

“A historical atlas enfranchises the whole nation,” he said. “Anyone can look at it and say that even here, in some history-less suburb, this was part of the unfolding.”
591 2013-12-26 In class, perhaps, but not in life. In November, after 63 years of marriage, Mr. Handman lost his wife, Bobbie, who died at their home in Manhattan from complications of Alzheimer’s disease. He hasn’t been getting much sleep since, and he has been moving a little slower, pushing his rolling walker and using its seat on occasion on the two-block journey from his apartment to his teaching studio in Midtown. Most of the times when he speaks of his wife, he tears up, and his voice halts. As for the loneliness, classes help.

“I was teaching a class later that day, the day Bobbie died, because I can easily lose the pain in theater,” Mr. Handman said during a recent interview in the studio, his fleshy cheeks ruddy on a windy day, his green eyes clear and fixed.

Nor has he gotten over losing his artistic home, the American Place Theater, which opened in 1962 in Hell’s Kitchen. The company, for which he often directed, offered productions starring students like Frank Langella and newcomers like Dustin Hoffman. The theater, out of money, stopped producing shows more than a decade ago; the Roundabout Theater Company took over its last home, turning it into the Laura Pels Theater, and Mr. Handman has refused to go back since. Friends have tried to get a plaque commemorating the American Place, but the Roundabout has declined; a spokesman said this week that there were no plans for one at this point.

While the American Place Theater lives on in its staged reading program called Literature to Life, the theater itself — known for producing experimental plays and noncommercial fare like “The Cannibals” (about cannibalism in a concentration camp) and “Isadora Duncan Sleeps With the Russian Navy” — has been largely forgotten, Mr. Handman said.

“I was drawn to challenging plays, plays that would not succeed commercially and therefore needed a home,” he said. “It was never in my mind to do a play that would become a hit. But that’s what most New York theaters are all about today.”

Still, a measure of due came this month in a new book, “Wynn Place Show,” part biography and part theater history, written by Jeremy Gerard. At the Players club a couple of weeks ago, Mr. Langella and other former students, including Richard Gere and John Leguizamo, joined current ones and scores of others to celebrate the book and Mr. Handman. Mr. Gerard said afterward that Mr. Handman’s sometimes fierce style had inspired an equally fierce devotion among students across generations.

“Wynn’s not averse to saying when something’s not working, or someone’s not giving what he or she is capable of giving to a role, or saying in the end, ‘You’re in the wrong place,’ ” said Mr. Gerard, a theater journalist who has covered Broadway and Off Broadway for more than 30 years, most recently as chief theater critic at Bloomberg News. “And people believe what he says.”

While Mr. Handman studied with the legendary teacher Sanford Meisner, who emphasized improvisation and truthfulness in performance, he doesn’t favor any one technique. He and his assistant and former student, Billy Lyons, interview and audition students, looking for hard workers who are eager to explore and grapple with their characters. At a cost of $300 for six classes, Mr. Handman takes students of all ages, some of whom aspire to Broadway, others trying acting after earlier careers.

Chris Cooper, who studied with Mr. Handman for years before making films (his breakout being “Lone Star,” his latest being “August: Osage County”), said he still adhered to one of Mr. Handman’s guiding philosophies: Preparation is everything.

“Wynn told me long ago that someday you’re going to work with a director — in theater or film, more likely in film — where you’re going to have to save your performance,” Mr. Cooper said. “It has totally come to pass. So I get the script as early as possible to prepare, research, work on my character. Because once you know your material backward and forward, know your lines so you don’t think about them, you can leave yourself open for all the possibilities that come your way.”

To that end, Mr. Handman wants his students so immersed in their roles that during class they speak to him in character. Working on a scene from Douglas Carter Beane’s “As Bees in Honey Drown,” a satire about a con artist passing as a New York sophisticate, Mr. Handman stopped the action after two minutes and asked the actress, Jessica Sherr — or rather her character, Alexa Vere de Vere — what she was doing in the scene. Ms. Sherr, as Alexa, began fuming about her inability to win a person over on the phone, alternately sneering and pouting as she talked. In a matter of seconds, Ms. Sherr’s Alexa had become wildly narcissistic.

“I like that character you have now,” Mr. Handman told her. “That character is destined to fail.”

The 20-odd students laughed heartily. Ms. Sheer began again, and nailed the scene.

“If we were in rehearsal, I’d feel I had the right actress for the role,” he told her. Ms. Sherr smiled. And then, his voice strong, Mr. Handman said, “Thank you,” as he always has when one student is done, and moved on to the next.
592 2013-12-26 The investigation became public a week ago with dawn police raids on the offices of businessmen and others close to the prime minister. But Wednesday was the first time that someone who had been in Mr. Erdogan’s hierarchy — a confidant, no less — left the strong implication of the prime minister’s entanglements in some of the real estate deals at the heart of the case.

The crisis strikes a sharp contrast to the image that Turkey has projected as an exemplar of a prosperous, Muslim-majority country based on democratic principles. A NATO member, Turkey has been embraced by the United States and Europe as a force for stability in the tumultuous Middle East, and the country has sought to play an important role in shaping the outcome of crises in Syria, Egypt and with Iran’s nuclear program. With Mr. Erdogan now preoccupied with political survival, Turkey’s role in the region and its relationship with the West are in question.

The corruption inquiry has targeted the ministers’ sons, a major construction tycoon with links to Mr. Erdogan and municipal workers, and it centers in part on allegations that officials received bribes in exchange for ignoring zoning rules and approving contentious development projects. No one has been convicted, but the issue has struck a nerve among the Turkish public, especially Istanbul residents. They have become increasingly resentful over the dizzying pace of development and riches amassed by a new, pious economic elite, with a strong hand in the construction industry, which rose to power alongside Mr. Erdogan and his associates.

Analysts questioned whether Mr. Erdogan can weather the crisis by blaming foreign powers, appealing to the religious sentiments of supporters, and evoking the ghosts of Turkey’s past by likening it to the war for independence it fought after the breakup of the Ottoman Empire.

The developments on Wednesday came amid rumors in the local news media that more damaging allegations from the investigation were coming and would link directly to Mr. Erdogan and his family.

“We can see the prime minister is trying to take precautions against something that could be bigger,” said Ozgur Unluhisarcikli, the head of the Ankara office of the German Marshall Fund of the United States, a research organization. Mr. Unluhisarcikli said that as the investigation inched closer to Mr. Erdogan personally, he would “have more difficulty containing the damage.”

The public has been riveted by a flow of sordid details of the investigations leaked to the news media — with photographs of piles of cash in the bedroom of a minister’s son and reports that the chief executive of a state-owned bank had $4.5 million in cash packed in shoeboxes.

Another major worry for Mr. Erdogan now is that anger with his administration will spread to the streets, as it did in the summer with the violent suppression of demonstrators trying to protect a beloved Istanbul park from development. On Wednesday night sporadic protests erupted in some neighborhoods of Istanbul and other cities, with people calling on the government to resign and shouting: “Everywhere bribery! Everywhere corruption!”

On Wednesday morning, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan and Interior Minister Muammer Guler, whose sons are among 24 people arrested in the corruption investigation, stepped down. A few hours later the environment and urban planning minister, Erdogan Bayraktar, closest among the three to Mr. Erdogan, said in a live television interview that he had resigned under pressure. He also said Mr. Erdogan was personally involved in unspecified property deals that are a focus of the investigation.

“The prime minister has the right to work with the ministers he prefers,” Mr. Bayraktar said. “But I can’t accept this pressure on me to resign. The prime minister too has to resign.”

Soli Ozel, a columnist and professor at Kadir Has University in Istanbul, said: “This is extraordinarily dramatic. Bayraktar was someone who was very close to the prime minister. This is someone you’d expect to fall on his sword without question.”

The resignations came after a week in which Mr. Erdogan’s government sought to purge the police forces of those it believes are behind the investigation, which has been linked to Fethullah Gulen, a popular Muslim spiritual leader in exile in Pennsylvania who has millions of followers in Turkey, including some who hold high positions within the police and judiciary. Mr. Erdogan and others have called them a “criminal gang” and a “state within a state.”

In a televised speech on Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Erdogan used some of his strongest language yet to denounce his former allies in the Gulen movement and promised to dismiss them. “We will root out the bad apples or whatever is necessary,” he said.

Dozens of high-level police officials, and hundreds of other officers, already have been removed. Reports emerged in the Turkish news media on Wednesday that prosecutors were pursuing other high-level officials, but that new police officials installed by the government had resisted pursuing them. This essentially highlights a power struggle within state structures.

Turkey has faced many upheavals, with coups and power struggles that sometimes turned violent, but the current crisis is something new: a clash between two Islamist rivals that had once been united in overhauling the political system by pushing the military from politics.

Once ruled by secularists backed by powerful military generals, Turkey has seen the rise over the last decade of Mr. Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, known by its Turkish initials A.K.P., that was rooted in political Islam but also included other partners, among them liberals and some on the nonreligious right.

Most of the liberals and the nonreligious no longer support the A.K.P., and now that Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Gulen, who represent different Turkish Islamist traditions, are basically at war, the party is at risk of collapsing, said analysts.

In another setback for Mr. Erdogan, a prominent A.K.P. lawmaker who was a former interior minister resigned from the party on Wednesday — not because he was implicated in the corruption investigation, but because he was disgusted by how the government was handling it, dismissing police officers and attacking the judiciary.

“It seems that within the A.K.P. things are spiraling out of control,” said Mr. Oktem, the research fellow at Oxford.

More broadly, the clash is also seen as a contest over the viability of political Islam, and comes after Islamist movements struggled to maintain power in postrevolution Egypt and Tunisia. “What we have seen in Egypt and Tunisia was a fight between Islamists and non-Islamists,” Mr. Oktem said. “What we are seeing in Turkey is between two Islamist movements.”

The question is whether the clash will upend the Turkish political system. “This kind of power struggle between two different Islamist groups might make the non-Islamist, secular groups more powerful, in Turkey’s case,” Mr. Oktem said.

Mr. Erdogan’s assertions of a foreign plot, implying American and Israeli subterfuge, have angered the United States and damaged his once strong personal bond with President Obama. The State Department, in a statement issued Tuesday, said attacks in the pro-government Turkish news media against American officials were “deeply disturbing.”
593 2013-12-26 Big-name corporations have also joined the high-tech sex party. Durex, the manufacturer, is experimenting with a novelty product called Fundawear, a pair of his/her underpants with vibrating nodes that can be remotely activated by an iPhone. A YouTube video dramatizing the product, subtitled “touch over the Internet” and “the future of foreplay,” has been viewed more than 6.7 million times since it was published in April.

Sex doodads such as these are among the subjects explored in “Sex//Now,” a reimagining of ’s “Real Sex” series from the 1990s that will focus on the digital footprint of evolving sex-and-relationship practices. (The title is a nod to URL formatting.)

Chris Moukarbel, a filmmaker who splits his time between and New York and is the show’s director, said he wanted to resurrect the series after seeing a rerun from 1997. “Peep shows used to be all over Times Square, but I realized at that moment they had all vanished since that episode,” Mr. Moukarbel said. Those live girls “had been replaced by a computer screen.” The pilot episode of “Sex//Now,” scheduled to be shown on HBO on Jan. 2, is split into two segments, with the first half exploring the phenomenon of do-it-yourself adult webcam models, and the second on RealTouch.

“We’re experiencing an unparalleled technological revolution, and we’re learning that social desire feeds technological change,” Mr. Moukarbel said.

The future, in fact, could be even closer to the Siri-like sex partner depicted in “Her.”

That’s the conclusion of a report, “The Future of Relationships,” published this month by the Museum of Sex in conjunction with Sparks & Honey, a trend-forecasting firm in New York. The report makes the case that forward leaps in augmented intelligence and video-game interactivity will let people “get attached to and develop real relationships with their hardware and software.”

Among the trends it highlights are: “long distance foreplay,” in which partners need not be in the same room; sophisticated “relationship forensics” systems that can comb through a partner’s hookup history; “teledildonics,” sex toys operated by computer technology; and bedroom data mining that purports to metricize sexual performance and even love.

“We’re on the brink of a new way of defining those spaces of intimacy,” said Terry Young, the founder of Sparks & Honey. “If you fast-forward five to 10 years, it’s fascinating to think about what teenagers might constitute as intimate relationships and how relationships will be radically different.”

Some of that has already begun to happen. Love Plus, a dating-simulation game developed for the portable Nintendo DS console, allows a player to caress another’s hair using a touch pad or to go on a flirtatious study date. Much like how Samantha is programmed to be adaptive to Theodore’s personality in “Her,” these virtual sweethearts modify their personas in real time based on the player’s likes and dislikes. The game is popular among otaku, Japanese slang for reclusive computer nerds, who often post screen shots of their Samanthas online or go on real-life dates with their video-game console.

More socially accepted forms of A.I.-mediated intimacy are being beta-tested on our iPhones as we type. Last year, had to pull Boyfriend Maker, a program geared toward young women that promised users the opportunity to “pamper your boyfriend and show him your affection with hugs and kisses,” because of the ribald back-and-forth offered up by the chatty boybots. (The game is available on Android, and there is even a dedicated to the virtual Romeo’s weirdest and most comical pillow-talk fails.)

There is also Spreadsheets, an iPhone app that purports to measure whether one is good or bad in bed by logging the bumping and grinding captured through a smartphone’s internal accelerometer and microphone. It has been downloaded more than 8,000 times in over 115 countries since being released in August.

But while the high-tech gizmos get the most attention, it’s really the person-to-person technologies that just extend our sexual reach that remain the most popular (see apps like Grindr, Tinder and even , which recently added a new feature that allows users to send private images directly to each other).

“People don’t want technology to inhibit the sexual experience,” said Lux Alptraum, the owner of Fleshbot, an online bible for sex culture. “It’s not going to work unless it’s seamless feeling. At the end of the day, actual people want to be in an actual room having actual sex.”

“The act itself hasn’t changed — at least not yet,” she said.
594 2013-12-27 These might be difficult times for print magazines, but the beloved Esopus, which just published its tenth-anniversary issue with work by Matthew Weiner, keeps on keeping on....
595 2013-12-27 The arguments for and against letting a child light the menorah—or peel potatoes, or, someday, take the train into the city on a Friday night. What is “ready,” anyway?...
596 2013-12-27 According to a report released this week, many of the trends in online piracy remained the same this year, but some content creators finally admitted that illegal downloads aren’t all bad....
597 2013-12-27 An assessment of when violence works in games, because it serves the narrative, and when it fails....
598 2013-12-27 The conflict in South Sudan has expanded to attacks on civilians, straining the United Nations troops’ ability to protect the populace....
599 2013-12-27 WICHITA, Kan. — The parent company of Cessna Aircraft said on Thursday it would buy Beechcraft for approximately $1.4 billion, a deal that would combine two mainstays of Wichita’s general aviation industry.

Cessna’s parent, Textron, based in Providence, R.I., said it expected to complete the acquisition early next year.

“The acquisition of Beechcraft is a tremendous opportunity to extend our general aviation business,” Scott C. Donnelly, Textron’s chairman and chief executive, said. “From our customers’ perspective, this creates a broader selection of aircraft and a larger service footprint — all sharing the same high standards of quality and innovation.”

Beechcraft emerged from bankruptcy this year largely freed from debt and its unprofitable Hawker business jet operations, which it stopped making to focus on turboprop and piston aircraft as well as trainers and light attack planes for the military.

Bill Boisture, Beechcraft’s chief executive, called the sale “an important step forward in the evolution of Beechcraft’s business.” He had said in recent months that he expected the company would sell at least its idled business jet assets by the end of 2013.
600 2013-12-27 Right, but lonesome. In any case, it is Pellegrini’s duty, his extremely well-compensated duty, to oversee not simply the games, but also the training session that was necessary on Christmas Day. He is too educated a man to protest. He has one of the most expensive and diverse collections of individuals in soccer anywhere on earth. Not all of them are Christians, or even observe the meaning of Christmas. But all are brothers in terms of playing to win the games, to win the league, and to have a shot at winning the Champions League.

Liverpool’s manager, Brendan Rodgers, had suggested before this match that the Premier League title was “City’s to lose,” even though his team was atop the standings. He might have been engaging in gamesmanship, trying to take some heat off his side.

But it was not idle talk. Rodgers knows that his resources do not yet rival Pellegrini’s — or, for that matter, José Mourinho’s at Chelsea. Maybe, though, Rodgers forgot to mention that to his players, because for most of the match at City’s supposedly impregnable Etihad Stadium, Liverpool poured forward in wave after wave of attacks.

What, then, gave City its 2-1 victory?

First came a goal on the stroke of halftime that was sprung from the center line. Liverpool was caught high up the field, chasing a second goal of its own, and in three swift, supremely accurate passes, City perfected the counterattack.

The final pass, from Jesús Navas, split Liverpool’s defense and invited Navas’s Spanish teammate, Álvaro Negredo, to score. Negredo has now scored in nine successive games in this stadium.

It might have been Negredo’s least convincing strike this season, a shallow lob that barely cleared the Liverpool goalkeeper, Simon Mignolet. Mignolet attempted to save it with one hand, but it glanced off him and dropped embarrassingly over his line.

That error sealed the fate of the evening. Joe Hart, the English goalie restored by City after being left out for several gaffes of his own, made one superb stop on Coutinho and safely handled other shots.

Rodgers had complaints about the officials but added: “My overall feeling tonight is I’m very proud of our football. Proud of our passing, our understanding, our bravery, really, because to come here and play this well against a really good side that wins every game in this place shows we are progressing.”

Pellegrini could also say that he was pleased with his team’s response after it was a goal behind, and Kompany described the victory as the “hardest game we’ve had here so far.”

The Boxing Day results left four teams — Arsenal, City, Chelsea and suddenly fourth-place Liverpool — separated by only 3 points. Everton, Newcastle, and Tottenham Hotspur are close enough to fear, and Pellegrini noted that “six teams have the same obligation, and the same possibilities, to win the Premier League.”

The weekend brings the next full schedule of games.
601 2013-12-27 With plans to attend a prestigious school in New York, José del Carmen Arias’s life ground to a halt when his green card was confiscated after an extended stay in the Dominican Republic....
602 2013-12-27 The American Studies Association also frames the issue in good part around academic freedom, citing the lack of such freedom “for Palestinian students and scholars under conditions of Israeli occupation” and “the protected rights of students and scholars everywhere to engage in research and public speaking about Israel-Palestine and in support of the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement.”

Supporters of the boycott, including some prominent Jewish professors, say the American Studies Association’s resolution was written carefully to apply to institutions, not individual scholars, leaving room for scholarly collaborations. And they say that as professors, they have a moral responsibility to take a public stand against Israel’s treatment of Palestinians.

“I know many Jews are against the occupation but don’t believe in the boycott,” said Colin Dayan, the Robert Penn Warren professor in the humanities at Vanderbilt University. “I have noticed, as a Jew, that the one subject that can never be critiqued is action taken by Israel against Palestinians. What made it clear to me that I needed to speak out — although it puts me in a difficult position vis-à-vis family and friends — is that the situation for Palestinians is deteriorating. It’s worse than I ever would have imagined.”

There are now three small American academic groups that support a boycott. The Association for Asian American Studies endorsed it in April, and the Native American and Indigenous Studies Association did so this month after the vote by the American Studies Association. In that vote, 66 percent supported the boycott, and 30.5 percent opposed it — but only 1,252 of the group’s 5,000 members participated.

Next month, the Modern Language Association’s annual meeting will include a discussion on academic boycotts, and the group will consider a motion critical of Israel for restricting professors’ freedom to visit Palestinian universities.

Brandeis University and Pennsylvania State University at Harrisburg announced last week that they would withdraw from the American Studies Association, and this week they were joined by Indiana University and Kenyon College.

“Indiana University values its academic relationships with colleagues and institutions around the world, including many important ones with institutions in Israel, and will not allow political considerations such as those behind this ill-conceived boycott to weaken those relationships or undermine the principle of academic freedom in this way,” Michael McRobbie, the president, said in a statement on Monday.

The same day, the president of Kenyon, Sean M. Decatur, wrote on his blog that he rejected the idea of boycotting academic institutions “as a geopolitical tool.”

In a recent television interview, Lawrence H. Summers, a former president of Harvard, said Israel was being unfairly singled out when other countries’ human rights records were far worse. He suggested an informal counterboycott in which university administrators would refuse to pay for professors to go to the association’s meetings.
603 2013-12-27 On Thursday, one year after coming to power, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited Yasukuni, the controversial Shinto shrine that honors Japan’s war dead, including war criminals from World War II. China and South Korea swiftly criticized the move, as did the United States. Mr. Abe’s visit will worsen Japan’s already tense relations with China and South Korea, which see the shrine as a symbol of imperial Japan’s wars of aggression and colonialism. The United States Embassy said America was “disappointed that Japan’s leadership has taken an action that will exacerbate tensions with Japan’s neighbors.”

The question is why Mr. Abe decided to visit Yasukuni now. It had been seven years since a Japanese prime minister visited the shrine, a recognition at the highest levels that the site is symbolically repugnant to China and South Korea and that such a visit is detrimental to relations with them. Japan’s relations with those two nations are worse now than during the mid-2000s. Both Chinese and South Korean leaders have refused to meet with Mr. Abe since he became prime minister in 2012 (his first stint as prime minister was 2006-7), in part because of issues over territory in the East China Sea and Korean comfort women, who were forced into sexual slavery by Japanese soldiers during World War II.

Paradoxically, it is Chinese and South Korean pressure on these fronts that has allowed Mr. Abe to think a visit to Yasukuni is a good idea. China’s belligerent moves in the past year over Japanese-administered islets has convinced the Japanese public that there is a Chinese military threat. This issue has given Mr. Abe cover to ignore all the signals from China and to pursue his goal of transforming the Japanese military from one that is strictly for territorial defense to one that can go to war anywhere. The visit to Yasukuni is part of that agenda.

South Korea’s continuing and sharp criticism of Japan’s grudging stance on the comfort women issue and the refusal by President Park Geun-hye to meet Mr. Abe to discuss the issue have sown distrust of South Korea among Japanese citizens, nearly half of whom, polls say, also see South Korea as a military threat. Such views among voters have effectively given Mr. Abe license to act without regard to the reactions in Beijing and Seoul.

The three major national newspapers — Yomiuri, Asahi and Mainichi — have been editorializing against a prime ministerial visit to Yasukuni, especially in the year since Mr. Abe took office. And more important for Mr. Abe and his nationalist supporters, Emperor Akihito has refused to visit Yasukuni, as did Emperor Hirohito before him.

Mr. Abe’s ultimate goal is to rewrite Japan’s pacifist Constitution, written by Americans during the postwar occupation, which restricts the right to go to war. Here, too, Emperor Akihito disapproves, though he has no political power under the Constitution. A few days before Mr. Abe visited Yasukuni, the emperor, in comments marking his 80th birthday, expressed his “deep appreciation” toward those who wrote the post-1945 constitution in order to preserve the “precious values of peace and democracy.”
604 2013-12-27 For the housing authority, holding onto the money it pays each year to the Police Department would be helpful, though a modest gain. One proposal calls for using the payments to leverage financing for $1 billion in much needed capital improvements in the city’s 344 housing projects.

Ending the payment would require the two agencies to recast their relationship for the first time since the merger in 1995. The police commissioner at the time was none other than William J. Bratton, who has been chosen by Mr. de Blasio to lead the Police Department once again.

A change could become entangled in the continuing debate over the Police Department’s stop-and-frisk practices. Those tactics were especially common at some projects and fueled tensions between tenants and officers. The police and others have pointed to the relatively high level of crime in public housing. According to the Police Department, about 20 percent of the city’s violent crimes take place in projects, home to about 5 percent of city residents.

About two-thirds of crimes in public housing are violent, compared with about one-third citywide. So far this year, 55 of the city’s 328 homicides and 144 of the 1,365 rapes have occurred in public housing. (The number of robberies so far this year in public housing — 1,140 out of 18,634 citywide — is roughly proportional to the population.)

The locations of public housing, often in higher-crime neighborhoods, and the layout of the complexes heighten the need for more policing, said Fritz Umbach of John Jay College of Criminal Justice, who wrote a history of the housing police, “The Last Neighborhood Cops.”

“Public housing is a unique policing context, not because the residents are more criminally prone, but because the architecture is distinctive and where it is in the city is distinctive,” he said. “This presents unique police challenges that can only be met with these over-and-above services.”

Landlords of thousands of private residential buildings across the city have authorized the Police Department to patrol their hallways and stairwells, and the police do so — at their discretion — without charging.

The opposition to funneling federal housing subsidies to the Police Department has been building as the authority’s budget has come up shorter each year. In a report last year, Manhattan Borough President Scott M. Stringer, now the comptroller-elect, said public housing “residents are essentially charged twice for policing services — once through local taxes like all other New Yorkers and once through the reimbursement required of their landlord.” Public housing developments are exempt from property taxes, but the authority pays the city about $28 million a year in lieu of property taxes.

The housing authority chairman, John B. Rhea, said that discontinuing the police payments “should be on the table,” but not at the expense of policing.

John J. McCarthy, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, declined to discuss whether there were likely to be any changes to the police staffing levels in the Housing Bureau if the payments stopped. (The Police Department has officers assigned to public transit, as well, with 12 transit district stations citywide; New York City Transit pays the Police Department $4 million a year for fare evasion enforcement.)

The housing authority created its own force in the 1950s to patrol on foot, pioneering what is now widely known as community policing, Mr. Umbach said. In 1994, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mr. Bratton argued that merging the housing force with the Police Department would consolidate bureaucracies and strategies. During the Giuliani administration, Mr. Bratton also presided over the integration of the transit police (which he had once led).

The Housing Bureau has about 2,000 officers and supervisors, out of a total police force of more than 34,000. Four projects have police bases, and 15 have Police Department surveillance cameras. Since the merger, police figures show, major crimes have decreased, but the 45 percent decline in homicides, for example, is far shallower than the drop across the city as a whole.

Some opponents of the merger predicted that officers would not be as invested in public housing, and some residents say the surge in stop-and-frisk encounters in recent years, often on suspicion of trespassing, was evidence of a deeper disconnect.

Even as the number of stop-and-frisk encounters citywide has declined, there is still a tug-of-war between younger residents and the police over public spaces in some projects. Many younger residents chafe at what some describe as an occupying force that imposes de facto curfews.

At the Frederick Douglass Houses in Upper Manhattan, some residents wondered what public housing gets for the money. They said the police force they see is undermanned and does not patrol enough.

“I love my police officers, I really do,” said Carmen Quinones, a member of the project’s volunteer resident watch and a public housing resident for 40 years. “But they’re not protecting our buildings. We’re still being robbed. We’re still being mugged.”

Nicholas D. Bloom, a public housing expert at the New York Institute of Technology, said that in the short term, the money “is not a game changer because of the major declines in federal operating and capital costs. But in the long-term it can add up to significant operating money.”

Ultimately, Dr. Bloom said, Mr. de Blasio will need to decide whether to start funneling substantial city money to the housing agency.

“So many people who don’t live in public housing don’t realize they are dependent on the well-being of public housing,” he said. “The maintenance of a good housing project brings security, and it’s a big factor in the value of property.”
605 2013-12-27 Since then, the pace of change has been very rapid. When the justices heard arguments in the cases in March, same-sex marriage was permitted in nine states and the District of Columbia. If the Utah decision stands, the number of states allowing such marriages will have doubled, to 18.

On Dec. 19, the New Mexico Supreme Court allowed same-sex marriage there. And on Monday, a federal judge in Ohio said the state must in at least some circumstances recognize same-sex marriages performed in other states.

Michael J. Klarman, a historian at Harvard Law School and the author of “From the Closet to the Altar: Courts, Backlash and the Struggle for Same-Sex Marriage,” said he had expected rapid change — but not this rapid.

“The Utah decision is unique,” he added, “because it’s in a state with so much opposition to same-sex marriage. In Utah, you’re going to have a real experiment in backlash.”

Many hundreds of couples have been married there in the last week. Judge Robert J. Shelby of Federal District Court in Salt Lake City turned back a request to stay his decision, and a two-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, in Denver, agreed, though it called for “expedited consideration” of the appeal.

The question for the Supreme Court in the short term will be whether to block Judge Shelby’s ruling while appeals proceed. The state’s request will initially be directed to Justice Sonia Sotomayor, the member of the court responsible for overseeing the Tenth Circuit, but she will almost certainly refer the matter to the full court. It is likely to act within several days.

The Supreme Court will face difficult calculations, ones it did not have to confront in reviewing decisions from federal courts in California striking down Proposition 8, the state’s ban on same-sex marriage. In that case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, stayed both the trial judge’s ruling and its own as appeals went ahead.

Professor Dorf said there are probably not five votes on the Supreme Court to block Judge Shelby’s ruling. “On the strictly legal argument,” he said, “it’s hard to justify granting a stay.”

But he added that the lower courts should have done so, partly because of the potential cruelty of voiding the new marriages and partly because the Supreme Court is hard to predict.

“It’s pretty clear that even the five justices who are sympathetic to same-sex marriage would rather take a few years before getting there,” Professor Dorf wrote in a blog post on Tuesday. “If their hand is forced, as it now will be, it’s impossible to say with certainty what they’ll do.”

Whatever the Supreme Court does regarding a stay, it is hard to see how it could hear the larger issue in the case in the current term. But a decision in the court’s next term, culminating in a decision in June 2015, is entirely possible.

In the meantime, Judge Shelby’s decision will certainly get the justices’ attention. He acknowledged, for starters, that the Supreme Court’s 5-to-4 decision striking down part of the Defense of Marriage Act, United States v. Windsor, could be read to support either side in his case.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, writing for the majority in Windsor, said “the definition and regulation of marriage” is generally “within the authority and realm of the separate states.” That would seem to suggest that voters in Utah were entitled to amend their state’s Constitution to ban same-sex marriage.

But Justice Kennedy also stressed the harm to individual liberty in denying equal marriage rights. That counts in the plaintiffs’ favor in the Utah case.

In Windsor, the two interests — states’ rights and gay rights — pointed in the same direction. They were, Judge Shelby wrote, “allied against the ability of the federal government to disregard a state law that protected individual rights.”

To resolve the tension, Judge Shelby looked to Justice Antonin Scalia’s dissenting opinion in Windsor.

“The view that this court will take of state prohibition of same-sex marriage is indicated beyond mistaking by today’s opinion,” Justice Scalia wrote.

Judge Shelby wrote, referring to himself, that “the court agrees with Justice Scalia’s interpretation of Windsor.”

That part of Judge Shelby’s reasoning did not impress Jason Mazzone, a law professor at the University of Illinois. “His opinion would have appeared considerably more judicial had he resisted the urge to give Justice Scalia the finger,” Professor Mazzone wrote in a blog post last Friday.

That is not to say that Justice Scalia’s prediction will turn out to be wrong.

“Somewhere between the next two and six years, the court will be ready to do it,” Professor Klarman said, referring to establishing a constitutional right to same-sex marriage, “assuming the composition of the court does not change.”

As for the pace of change, Professor Dorf said, “it’s faster than the majority in Windsor had expected but not faster than Justice Scalia anticipated.”
606 2013-12-27 Some lucky fliers capitalized on a computer error Thursday to buy inexpensive flights on Delta Air Lines.

From about 10 a.m. to noon Eastern, certain Delta fares on the airline’s website and other booking sites were showing up incorrectly, offering some savvy bargain hunters incredible deals.

A round-trip flight between Cincinnati and Minneapolis for February was being sold for just $25.05 and a round trip between Cincinnati and Salt Lake City for $48.41. The correct price for both of those fares is more than $400.

Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based airline, said that the problem had been fixed, but that “Delta will honor any fares purchased at the incorrect price.”

New Department of Transportation regulations, aimed at truth in advertising, require airlines to honor any mistake in fares offered.

Jackie Fanelli, 27, learned about the fares from a friend’s Facebook page. She tried to buy a $98 round-trip first-class ticket from her home city, Baltimore, to Honolulu on Priceline.com but the transaction did not process.
607 2013-12-27 Credit: Boryana Katsarova for The New York Times
608 2013-12-27 “I wanted to compare what was considered official art and what was degenerate,” Mr. Peters said, “and to examine the role modern art played in anti-Jewish policy, seeing how official art looks after 80 years.”

Say the name of the early Renaissance painter Piero della Francesca, and most art lovers think of his fresco cycle “The Legend of the True Cross,” in the Church of San Francesco in Arezzo, Italy. A fanciful narrative that is Piero’s history of the world, starting with the Garden of Eden and ending with the rediscovery of the cross, the symbol of humanity’s redemption, it has influenced generations of artists, including Cézanne and Seurat. But his devotional paintings — intimate, personal and private — are less known and until now have never been the subject of an exhibition.

The Metropolitan Museum of Art has gathered four of these devotional paintings, which will be shown together for the first time from Jan. 14 through March 30. On view will be “St. Jerome and a Donor,” from the Gallerie dell’Accademia in Venice; “Madonna and Child With Two Angels” (the Senigallia Madonna), from the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, Italy; “St. Jerome in a Landscape,” from the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin; and “Madonna and Child” from a private collection in New York.

“It spans his entire career,” said Keith Christiansen, chairman of the Met’s European paintings department. “One may be one of his earliest pictures, two from his middle life, and one is among his last.”

As an artist, Mr. Christiansen explained, Piero never was without work, and, unlike Botticelli or Bellini, he had not developed a large workshop for the serial production of paintings for private devotion. “So these four paintings offer a rare glimpse of his ideas on the most favored themes.”

The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, was one of the first museums in the country to collect photography, beginning in 1924, with a gift from Alfred Stieglitz of 27 of his works. Since then, its holdings have kept growing, and this week, the museum announced that it has acquired an important touchstone of Modernist photography: F. Holland Day’s “The Seven Last Words,” along with three photographs of Day taken by Edward Steichen, James Craig Annan and Clarence H. White from Day’s personal archives.

An eccentric Bostonian who has long been considered a pioneer in the history of American photography, Day started to explore religious themes that have been admired for their relation to old master paintings. For “The Seven Last Words” in 1898, Day posed as Jesus. To play the part accurately, he lost weight and let his hair and beard grow. He also imported a cross from Syria and created a crown of thorns. The work consists of seven platinum prints, each representing one of the last phrases spoken by Jesus, set in a frame the artist designed.

“Day defined photography as a high art,” said Anne E. Havinga, the museum’s photography curator. “And this work bridges the ideals of 19th- and 20th-century photography.”

“The Seven Last Words,” along with the three portraits, were purchased from the Norwood Historical Society, which is based in Day’s former home in Norwood, Mass. The society gave the museum the original crown of thorns that Day wore when he impersonated Jesus.

Only two other versions of “The Seven Last Words” exist, one in the Met (without the artist-designed frame) and the other owned by an unidentified collector and has an altered frame. The Museum of Fine Arts version is the only one with its original frame. It will be the centerpiece of “Truth and Beauty: Pictorialist Photography,” which will be on view in Boston from April 17 through Feb. 16, 2015.
609 2013-12-27 Masahiro Tanaka, the 25-year-old pitching ace from Japan, is officially up for grabs to Major League Baseball teams. To get him, they will have to go through Casey Close, the prominent baseball agent at Excel Sports Management who also represents Derek Jeter and Mark Teixeira of the Yankees and pitchers Clayton Kershaw and Zack Greinke of the Dodgers.

Tanaka, who was 24-0 with a 1.27 earned run average during the regular season for the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles, was under contract, but the team relented this week and allowed him to leave for the majors. The team that signs Tanaka will have to pay Rakuten $20 million as part of the posting-fee system in place for Japanese players coming to M.L.B. The payment can be made in installments.

The period to negotiate for Tanaka’s rights ends on Jan. 24.

Major League Baseball said Thursday that Tanaka would be represented by Close, 50, who has handled several of the sport’s top players in his two decades as an agent. He previously worked at IMG and Creative Artists Agency, representing Ryan Howard, Ben Sheets, Kenny Lofton and others. He joined Excel in 2011.

Before becoming an agent, Close was a minor league player for the Yankees. He was drafted in the seventh round in 1986 and played for three seasons at Oneonta, Albany-Colonie and Columbus before asking for his release and moving to the Seattle Mariners’ top minor league team in Calgary.

His career ended there after two seasons.

Close was at IMG in 1993 when Jeter, the Yankees’ No. 1 draft pick, was the shortstop at Class A Greensboro. Jeter’s family replaced his first agent, Steve Caruso, with Close, and they have stayed together since.

Arn Tellem, a longtime agent in baseball and the N.B.A., has represented the most prominent Japanese players, including Hideki Matsui and Kazuo Matsui, as well as pitcher Kei Igawa, who was a disappointment with the Yankees. Tellem is also among those who have represented Yu Darvish, the star pitcher for the Texas Rangers.
610 2013-12-27 MOSCOW — A court in Moscow has issued an arrest warrant for Sergei Pugachev, a Russian banker who bought the French confectionery and luxury food chain Hédiard six years ago with hopes of expanding its global reach only to run it into bankruptcy instead, the Kommersant newspaper reported on Thursday.

By the time the Russian court issued the warrant last week, the newspaper reported, Mr. Pugachev had left the country, perhaps a sign that his business empire at home and abroad was coming apart.

He is wanted in Russia in a bank fraud case not directly related to the failure of Hédiard, a storied brand in France. In Moscow, he had ignored summonses and could not be found.

Unidentified officials in the Russian investigative committee, a powerful domestic law enforcement agency, told Kommersant that the domestic criminal warrant was a first step to requesting an international arrest order from Interpol.

The report cited a spokeswoman for the Basmany Court in Moscow, Natalya Romanova, confirming the issuance of the warrant and an appeal from Mr. Pugachev’s lawyers, who could not be reached for comment after working hours on Thursday.

Mr. Pugachev rose to prominence as a businessman in St. Petersburg in the 1990s, where he reportedly was acquainted with the deputy mayor, Vladimir V. Putin, who is now president of Russia.
611 2013-12-27 “The yellow eyes are really the soul of the dog,” Mr. Rodrigue told The New York Times in 1998. “He has this piercing stare. People say the dog keeps talking to them with the eyes, always saying something different.”

He added: “People who have seen a Blue Dog painting always remember it. They are really about life, about mankind searching for answers. The dog never changes position. He just stares at you. And you’re looking at him, looking for some answers, ‘Why are we here?,’ and he’s just looking back at you, wondering the same. The dog doesn’t know. You can see this longing in his eyes, this longing for love, answers.”

By the early 1990s, Mr. Rodrigue was painting only Blue Dog.

“I dropped all the Cajun influence,” he said in an interview with the New Orleans public television station WLAE.

Mr. Rodrigue was born in New Iberia in southern Louisiana on March 13, 1944, the only child of George and Marie Rodrigue. His father was a bricklayer. He began learning to draw and paint after he was found to have polio at age 8 and spent several months in bed. He studied art at the University of Southwest Louisiana (now the University of Louisiana at Lafayette) in the mid-1960s and attended the Art Center College of Design (then in Los Angeles; now in Pasadena) from 1965 to 1967.

He returned to Louisiana in 1968. In 1976, he published his first book, “The Cajuns of George Rodrigue.”

He died of cancer, his family said. Survivors include his wife, Wendy, and two sons, Jacques and Andre.

Mr. Rodrigue boasted that it was not uncommon for his Blue Dog paintings to sell for $25,000. Some were rumored to have sold for 10 times that.

He painted Blue Dogs with presidents, with naked women in faux French scenes, on the lawn with his Aioli dining club party, inside a soup can, in ads for Absolut Vodka and next to Marilyn Monroe (returning jabs, perhaps, at those who dismissed him as a Pop Art opportunist). Critics were not always impressed, but he said he did not care.

In later years Mr. Rodrigue painted other subjects, but he did not abandon Blue Dog. He said he painted in part for the people who walked past his studio on Royal Street in the French Quarter of New Orleans.

“You have to do something that really attracts the attention,” he said in the WLAE interview. “I didn’t start out doing that, but that’s to fight for that audience. It’s great. It’s really great because it’s a cross-section of the whole country here that walks down Royal Street, and the world.”
612 2013-12-28 A King County judge on Friday struck down the voter-approved $15-an-hour minimum wage for the vast majority of workers the measure aimed to help. Judge Andrea Darvas’s ruling said the recently approved measure applies to about 1,600 hotel and parking lot workers in the city of SeaTac, but that the city initiative does not have authority over 4,700 employees and contractors working within Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, which is operated by the Port of Seattle. The judge said the State Legislature had given jurisdictions like the Port of Seattle exclusive sway over their operations. Proponents of the measure, which was narrowly approved by SeaTac voters in November, say they will file an expedited appeal to the State Supreme Court. The challenge to the measure is led by Alaska Airlines Group and other businesses. Washington has the nation’s highest state minimum wage at $9.19 an hour. The federal minimum wage is $7.25 an hour.
613 2013-12-28 While his university’s financial ties to speculators have been the subject of scrutiny by the news media and others, it was not until last month, after repeated requests by The Times under the Freedom of Information Act, that the University of Houston, a public institution, insisted that Mr. Pirrong submit disclosure forms that shed some light on those financial ties.

Governments and regulatory agencies in the United States and have been gradually moving to restrict speculation by major banks. The Federal Reserve, concerned about the risks, is reviewing whether it should tighten regulations and limit the activities of banks in the commodities world.

But interviews with dozens of academics and traders, and a review of hundreds of emails and other documents involving two highly visible professors in the commodities field — Mr. Pirrong and Professor Scott H. Irwin at the University of Illinois — show how major players on Wall Street and elsewhere have been aggressive in underwriting and promoting academic work.

The efforts by the financial players, the interviews show, are part of a sweeping campaign to beat back regulation and shape policies that affect the prices that people around the world pay for essentials like food, fuel and cotton.

Professors Pirrong and Irwin say that industry backing did not color their opinions.

Mr. Pirrong’s research was cited extensively by the plaintiffs in a lawsuit filed by Wall Street interests in 2011 that for two years has blocked the limits on speculation that had been approved by Congress as part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. During that same time period, Mr. Pirrong has worked as a paid research consultant for one of the lead plaintiffs in the case, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, according to his disclosure form.

While he customarily identifies himself solely as an academic, Mr. Pirrong has been compensated in the last several years by the , the commodities trading house Trafigura, the , and a handful of companies that speculate in energy, according to the disclosure forms.

The disclosure forms do not require Mr. Pirrong to reveal how much money he made from his consulting work, and a university spokesman said that the university believed it was strengthened by the financial support it received from the business community. When asked about the financial benefits of his outside activities, Mr. Pirrong replied, “That’s between me and the ”

No one disputes that a substantial portion of price increases in oil and food over the last decade were caused by fundamental market factors: increased demand from and other industrializing countries, extreme weather, currency fluctuations and the diversion of grain to biofuel.

But so much speculative money poured into markets — from $13 billion in 2003 to $317 billion at a peak in 2008 — that many economists, and even some commodities traders and investment banks, say the flood became a factor of its own in distorting prices.

Others assert that commodities markets have historically gone through intermittent price bubbles and that the most recent gyrations were not caused by the influx of speculative money. Mr. Pirrong has also argued that the huge inflow of Wall Street money may actually lower costs by decreasing what commodities producers pay to manage their risk.

Mr. Pirrong and the University of Houston are not alone in publicly defending speculation while accepting financial help from speculators. Other researchers have received funding or paid consulting jobs courtesy of major commodities traders including AIG Financial Products, banks including the Royal Bank of Canada or financial industry groups like the Futures Industry Association.

One of the most widely quoted defenders of speculation in agricultural markets, Mr. Irwin of the , Urbana-Champaign, consults for a business that serves hedge funds, investment banks and other commodities speculators, according to information received by The Times under the Freedom of Information Act. The business school at the University of Illinois has received more than a million dollars in donations from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and several major commodities traders, to pay for scholarships and classes and to build a laboratory that resembles a trading floor at the commodities market.

Mr. Irwin, the University of Illinois and the exchange all say that his research is not related to the financial support.

Underwriting researchers and academic institutions is one part of Wall Street’s efforts to fend off regulation.

The industry has also spent millions on lobbyists and lawyers to promote its views in Congress and with government regulators. Major financial companies have also funded magazines and websites to promote academics with friendly points of view. When two studies commissioned by the , the financial regulatory agency, raised questions about the possible drawbacks of speculation and of , lawyers for the Chicago exchange wrote a letter of complaint, saying that its members’ proprietary trading information was at risk of disclosure, and the research program was shut down.

The result of the various Wall Street efforts has been a policy stalemate that has allowed intensive speculation in commodities to continue despite growing concern that it may harm consumers and, for example, worsen food shortages. After a two-year legal delay, the futures trading commission this month introduced plans for new limits on speculation. Some European banks have stopped speculating in food, fearing it might contribute to worldwide hunger.

Mr. Pirrong, Mr. Irwin and other scholars say that financial considerations have not influenced their work. In some cases they have gone against the industry’s interests. They also say that other researchers with no known financial ties to the industry have also raised doubts about any link involving speculation and soaring prices.

But ethics experts say that when academics fail to disclose financial ties, they do a disservice to the public and undermine the perception of impartiality.

“If those that are creating the culture around also have a significant, if hidden, conflict of interest, our public is not likely to be well served,” said Gerald Epstein, an economics professor at the , who in 2010 released a study about conflicts of interest among academics who advised the federal government after the financial crisis.

Financial ties among professors promoting speculation and the banks and trading firms that profit from it date back to the beginning of the recent commodities boom, which got an intellectual kick-start from academia.

After Congress and the Clinton administration deregulated the commodities markets in 2000, and the lowered capital requirements on investment banks in 2004, the financial giants began developing new funds to capitalize on the opportunity.

AIG Financial Products commissioned two highly respected professors in 2004 to analyze the performance of commodities markets over a half-century. The professors — who prominently acknowledged the financial support — concluded that commodities markets “work well when they are needed most,” namely when the stock and bond markets falter.

Money flowed into the commodities markets, and although the markets have cooled in the last two years, the price of oil is now four times what it was a decade ago, and corn, wheat and soybeans are all more than twice as expensive.

A public uproar about the rising prices became heated in the spring of 2008, as oil soared and gas prices became an issue in the presidential campaign. Congress scheduled public hearings to explore whether speculation had become so excessive it was distorting prices.

Financial speculators are investors who bet on price swings without any intention of taking delivery of the physical commodity. They can help smooth the volatility of the market by adding capital, spreading risk and offering buyers and sellers a kind of price . But an assortment of studies by academics, congressional committees and consumer advocate groups had found evidence suggesting that the wave of speculation that accelerated in 2003 had at times overwhelmed the market.

Financial speculators accounted for 30 percent of commodities markets in 2002, and 70 percent in 2008. As gasoline topped $4 a gallon in the summer of 2008, Congress tried to soothe angry motorists by pushing for restrictions on oil speculation.

Mr. Pirrong jumped into the fray. He wrote papers, blog posts and opinion pieces for publications like The , calling the concern about speculation “a witch hunt.”

Mr. Pirrong also testified before the House of Representatives in 2008 and, identifying himself as an academic who had worked for commodities exchanges a decade earlier, he warned that congressional plans to rein in speculators would only make matters worse.

“Indeed, such policies are likely to harm U.S. consumers and producers,” he said. When oil company executives, traders and investment banks cited speculation as a major cause of surging prices which, by some estimates, was costing American consumers more than $300 billion a year, Mr. Pirrong dutifully contradicted them.

Mr. Pirrong’s profile grew as he sat on advisory panels and hosted conferences with senior executives from the trading world as well as top federal regulators. Last year, Blythe Masters, head of commodity trading at , approached him to write a report for a global bank lobbying group, the Global Financial Markets Association.

The report was completed in July 2012, but the association declined to release it. Mr. Pirrong said it was because he had reached the conclusion that banks should be regulated more heavily than other commodity traders. “I wouldn’t change the call, so they sat on the report,” he wrote on his blog, The Streetwise Professor.

What Mr. Pirrong did not reveal in his public statements about the report is that he had financial ties to both sides of that debate: the commodities traders as well as the banks. Ms. Masters declined to comment. Over the years, Mr. Pirrong has resisted releasing details of his own financial dealings with speculators, and when The Times first requested his disclosure forms in March, the University of Houston said that none were required of him. The disclosure forms Mr. Pirrong ultimately filed in November indicate that since 2011, he has been paid for outside work involving 11 different clients. Some fees are for his work as an expert witness, testifying in court cases on behalf of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and a bank and a company that makes futures-trading software. The commodities firm Trafigura contracted him to conduct a research project.

Mr. Pirrong is also a member of the advisory board for TruMarx Partners, a company that sells software to energy traders, a position that entitles him to a stock option package.

It was reported in The Nation magazine in November that the University of Houston’s Management Institute, where Mr. Pirrong serves as a director, has also received funding from the Chicago exchange, as well as financial institutions that profit from speculation, including and .

On his blog, Mr. Pirrong has dismissed suggestions that his work for a school that trains future executives creates a conflict of interest.

“Uhm, no, dipstick,” he wrote in 2011, replying to a reader who had questioned his objectivity. “I call ’em like I see ’em.” In a telephone interview last week, Mr. Pirrong said that his consulting work gave him insight into the kind of real-world case studies that improve his research and teaching. “My compensation doesn’t depend on my conclusions,” he said.

When asked about Mr. Pirrong’s disclosure, Richard Bonnin, a university spokesman said only that all employees were given annual training on the school’s policy, which requires researchers to report paid outside consultant work.

Concerns about academic conflicts of interest have become a major issue among business professors and economists since the financial crisis. In 2010, the documentary blasted a handful of prominent academic economists who did not reveal Wall Street’s financial backing of studies which, in some cases, extolled the virtues of financially unsound assets. Two years later, the American Economic Association adopted tougher disclosure rules.

Even with the guidelines, however, financial firms have been able to use the resources and credibility of academia to shape the political debate.

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, for example, at times blur the line between research and public relations.

The exchange’s public relations staff has helped Mr. Irwin shop his pro-speculation essays to newspaper op-ed pages, according to emails reviewed by The Times. His studies, writings, videotaped speeches and interviews have been displayed on the exchange’s website and its online magazine.

In June 2009, when a Senate subcommittee released a report about speculation in the wheat market that raised concerns about new regulations, executives at the Chicago exchange turned to Mr. Irwin and his University of Illinois colleagues to come up with a response.

Dr. Paul Ellinger, department head of agriculture and consumer economics, said, “The interactions that have occurred here are common among researchers.”

A spokesman for the exchange said that Mr. Irwin was just one of a “large and growing pool of esteemed academics, governmental editors and editors in the mainstream press” whose work it follows and posts on its various publications. While the C.M.E. has given more than $1.4 million to the University of Illinois since 2008, most has gone to the business school and none to the School of Agriculture and Consumer Economics, where Mr. Irwin teaches. And when Mr. Irwin asked the exchange’s foundation for $25,000 several years ago to sponsor a website he runs to inform farmers about agricultural conditions and regulations, his request was denied.

Still, some of Mr. Irwin’s recent research has been funded by major players in the commodities world. Last year, he was paid $50,000 as a consultant for Gresham Investment Management in Chicago, which manages $16 billion and runs its own commodities index fund. He noted Gresham’s sponsorship in the paper and on his disclosure form, and said it gave him the opportunity to use new data and test new hypotheses.

Mr. Irwin also works for a business called Yieldcast that caters to agricultural producers, investments banks and other speculators, selling them predictions of corn and soybean yields. Mr. Irwin has said he does not consider it a conflict because he works only with the mathematical forecasting models and never consults with clients.

“The debate about financialization is primarily about the large index funds, none of whom are clients,” he said.

Mr. Irwin declined to provide a list of his clients, and the university said its disclosure requirements did not compel him to do so.
614 2013-12-28 Tony Romo’s season is over, and the Dallas Cowboys will try to win without their star quarterback as they face a third straight playoffs-or-bust finale.

Coach Jason Garrett said that Romo had back surgery on Friday and that Kyle Orton would start when Dallas faces the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday with the N.F.C. East title and a postseason berth on the line.

Garrett said Romo had received treatment all week in hopes of playing after injuring his back in a season-saving 24-23 victory over the Washington Redskins. Romo hurt himself in the fourth quarter when he tripped over his foot while trying to escape pressure.

“He might have had his finest hour against the Redskins last week — what he did at the end of that ballgame under the circumstances,” Garrett said. “Pretty special.”

Romo lost the past two winner-take-all finales — to the Giants two years ago and Washington last season. He also lost to the Eagles in the same situation in 2008, and now he will miss a chance to improve his 1-6 record in elimination games.
615 2013-12-28 Re “The Peril of Antibiotic Use on Farms” (editorial, Dec. 22):

The Food and Drug Administration’s antibiotic “guidance” is worse than complete inaction, because it implies that if pharmaceutical companies and industrial farms comply with the F.D.A.’s suggestions, antibiotic use will decline. But the agency is asking drug companies only to change its labels — removing statements that the antibiotics can be used to promote livestock growth — and asking farms to ensure that drugs are used solely to treat, prevent or control disease.

Modern farms are filth chambers, and they require the current level of drugs not just to promote animal growth but also to prevent the spread of disease. Thus, compliance with the F.D.A.’s voluntary guidance actually requires no change at all in drug use.

As long as it remains legal to confine animals in unnatural and abusive conditions where disease can spread like wildfire, drug use will not decline.

The writer is senior policy director for Farm Sanctuary, a national farm animal protection organization.
616 2013-12-28 “Gas is raining on everyone’s parade; gas is ruining it for everybody in most electricity markets,” said one expert, Michael Webber of the University of Texas at Austin. In 2012, production of electricity from natural gas rose 10 times as fast as production from wind.

Wind energy is being added to the grid mostly because of state requirements, called renewable portfolio standards, but production would grow faster than the standards required if electricity prices from other sources were slightly higher, experts say. At the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit utility consortium, Anda Ray, the group’s vice president for environment, said the electric system would incorporate more zero-carbon sources if natural gas rose to the level of few years ago.

Adding to the clean energy industry’s cannibal behavior, wind farms are being built in places where there is lots of wind but not much demand for power, some experts argue.

Experts say a more intelligent use would involve dispersing the wind farms. Travis Kavulla, a member of the Montana Public Service Commission, said putting the wind machines in one place created an “all-on, all-off” problem. If the wind machines were spread more widely, he said, there was a far better chance that at any moment some would be running and some would not be, with less chance of a local useless surplus.

Montana has a cluster of wind machines near the town of Judith Gap, and Mr. Kavulla’s commission has set up connection fees that charge extra for building in Judith Gap and reward developers for building elsewhere.

The nuclear industry makes the same complaint, but louder. David C. Brown, a Washington representative for Exelon, the Chicago company that operates the nation’s largest network of nuclear reactors, said that the main subsidy for wind, the production tax credit, which pays operators about 2.3 cents per kilowatt-hour for the first 10 years of production, “has been very effective at getting generation built.”

“It’s getting built without regard to whether it’s actually needed for power supply purposes, and it distorts the market,” he said. Existing nuclear plants do not get a subsidy per kilowatt-hour produced.

Wholesale energy prices fluctuate throughout the day. Exelon, he said, is “seeing this tipping point developing” when several of its zero-carbon reactors may have to be retired because wind power is suppressing those prices around the clock, and at some hours producers must pay the grid operator if they put energy on the grid. Wind operators still make money, though, through the production tax credit.

It is not clear how this struggle will play out over the next few years. At the moment, according to Mr. Webber, natural gas is so cheap that it is stunting construction of even new plants that would burn natural gas.
617 2013-12-28 “It has been a decade of troubles in the Spanish energy system, but the situation has now reached a critical point,” said Fabien Roques, an energy consultant in Paris with Compass Lexecon. “Spain needs urgently to move away from ad hoc changes to a reliable system in which prices reflect costs and in which investors can also regain confidence.”

Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, the leader of the main opposition Socialist Party, said at a separate news conference, “I prefer a rise of 2.3 percent to 11 percent, but we still need to know what happened in this auction.” He added: “If there was manipulation, this should end up in court.”

The government and Spain’s electricity companies have been at loggerheads since the auction last week. To the utilities’ dismay, the auction result was annulled, with José Manuel Soria, the industry minister, further angering the sector by suggesting auction participants had engaged in a “crude manipulation in order to modify prices.”

Responding to the accusations, Unesa, the association representing Spain’s electricity companies, said in a statement last weekend that “serious damage is being done to the reputation and economies of companies that perform a vital service for this country and employ 180,000 people.”

On Friday, Unesa said the government had set “an artificial price” that “does not resolve fundamental questions about the functioning of the system.” Unesa added that government intervention represented “an important risk for the liberalization” of the energy market.

The auction dispute comes amid a separate fight between the government and renewable energy investors over whether Madrid was entitled to cut subsidies for renewable energies. The cut has been particularly damaging for producers of solar power, many of which have struggled to refinance projects backed by Spain’s banks before the financial crisis.

In 2008 alone, Spain added 2,600 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity — more than five times what the government had targeted. The economy then floundered, and the euro debt crisis began leaving Spain with costly overcapacity.

In recent weeks, some international funds have begun legal proceedings against Spain’s overhaul of renewable energy subsidies before an arbitration panel administered by the World Bank. But the regulatory change has also hurt thousands of small investors, who supported the 60,000 solar installations built during the boom years.

Rosa Barcenilla, a lawyer who took a bank loan of about €60,000 to invest along with other members of her family in a solar park near Toledo in 2006, said, “The government has kept changing the rules since, in breach of the basic principle of legal security that should prevail in any state of law.”

Javier García Breva, one of Spain’s leading renewable energy experts, detailed in a newsletter this week how the auction dispute showed that Spain’s problems went beyond the renewable energy sector. The headline of his newsletter was “Total Electricity Crisis.”
618 2013-12-28 That approach involved the central bank’s turning to posts on China’s Twitter-like social messaging service, Sina Weibo, to chasten banks to “make rational adjustments to the structure of their assets and liabilities, and improve their liquidity management using a scientific and long-term approach.”

But as in June, the experiment did not last long. On Tuesday, China’s central bank, the People’s Bank of China, provided a direct injection of fresh money after the market pushed seven-day interest rates to nearly 10 percent, double their earlier level. The central bank’s action eased pressure on the financial system and quelled fears of an immediate credit crisis. But rates remain elevated, and the bank may have only postponed the moment of reckoning for a few months.

“The key message from the current central bank-induced tightness is deleveraging,” said Stephen Green, the head of research for greater China at Standard Chartered. “We’ll see what happens when we see greater levels of corporate distress in 2014, whether Beijing buckles or not.”

A complex and loosely regulated network of financial go-betweens has sprung up to profit from repackaging and reselling China’s new mountains of debt, turning loans into investment products. Such products have become popular among ordinary investors in China because they pay much higher interest rates than deposits in savings accounts, where rates are capped by the government to protect the state-owned banking system from competition.

But loosely regulated financial businesses can make a dicey business model, as Wall Street learned in 2008. And they pose a particular threat in an economy where growth is slowing, as it has been in China for the last three years.

“The final users of the money will not be able to earn returns high enough to repay the money and promised interest,” said Yu Yongding, a senior fellow at the Institute of World Economics and Politics of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and a former member of the monetary policy committee at China’s central bank. “The chains of lending and borrowing can be long, just like the securitized subprime mortgages. The result can be devastating.”

Indeed, the real-life stress tests the central bank has been experimenting with are not without casualties. As markets became jittery in the run-up to the June credit crunch, two branches of the state-owned China Everbright Bank technically defaulted on 6.5 billion renminbi, or $1.1 billion, worth of short-term payments.

In a regulatory disclosure that was part of its $3 billion Hong Kong share offering earlier this month, the Everbright Bank explained that while it had sufficient financing and liquidity at the corporate level, “the branches did not manage to fulfill their obligations to repay short-term interbank loans.” Instead, the payments were settled a day late.

The bank said that in response to the episode and to the greater volatility in China’s bank-to-bank lending market, it had increased reserve levels and “emphasized among our departments the overriding importance of sound liquidity.”

The big risk for China’s cosseted banks is not necessarily bank runs of the sort seen in the early 1930s in the United States, with depositors lining up to withdraw money before a bank can fail. The Chinese authorities have made clear that they will not tolerate disorderly closures of banks, and over the years have reportedly rushed cash to banks that faced sudden withdrawals.

Instead, the greater worry has been what some experts describe as “a walk on the banks” — depositors steadily removing their savings from banks after losing enthusiasm for deposit rates that have long been set by regulation at levels often below the inflation rate and only occasionally slightly above it. That slow drain could imperil the banks’ ability to continue pumping ever-larger loans to state-owned enterprises and politically connected individuals, even when many of those loans appear to be for helping borrowers repay previous loans.

Banks in China have been able to stay profitable while lending at low rates only because the government has required all of them to pay even lower rates for deposits. Savers have had few alternatives to banks until very recently: Real estate prices are already stratospheric relative to incomes, the weakly regulated and highly speculative domestic stock markets are widely distrusted and shadow banking businesses are periodically reined in by the government.

Total credit in China, although growing fast, remains slightly smaller relative to economic output than in the West. The worry is that the eventual proportion of nonperforming loans may prove even higher than other countries have had to manage, while China’s less developed financial system may make it hard to bail out less regulated entities, even as the central bank retains tighter links to the four main state-owned banks.

While policy makers say they are worried about upsetting the delicate mechanisms of the current banking system, public criticism continues to grow, even within China’s elite. That suggests further market-oriented experiments could be coming soon.

“Banking in China has become like a highway toll system,” Yao Jingyuan, the former chief economist at the state statistics agency, said late last week during a speech at Nanjing University, according to numerous Chinese news reports. “Banks charge every time money goes through them.”

“With this kind of operational model,” Mr. Yao added, “banks will continue making money even if all the bank presidents go home to sleep and you replaced them by putting a small dog in their seats.”
619 2013-12-28 The accomplishments of mission schools were both intentional and not. Their founders and faculties clearly parted ways with colonial leaders by believing in the educability of black Africans and their capacity to be saved through Christ. Yet those beliefs were a long way from liberation theology.

“I’m not making missionaries heroes,” said Richard H. Elphick, a historian at Wesleyan University in Connecticut and the author of “The Equality of Believers,” a book about Protestant missionaries in South Africa. “Missionaries and other white Christians were alarmed by the idea that the equality of all people before God means they should be equal in public life. But the equality of believers is an idea they dropped into South Africa. And it was constantly reinforced in the schools. And that made it a dangerous idea.”

Olufemi Taiwo offered a similarly nuanced endorsement, and he did so from two perspectives: as the product of a mission education in his native Nigeria and as a Cornell University professor with expertise in African studies.

“Under colonialism, there’s a tension between the missions and the colonial authorities,” said Dr. Taiwo, author of the 2010 book “How Colonialism Preempted Modernity in Africa.” “There was a missionary idea that black people could be modern. And most churches cannot come out and say some people are not human. So you might have a patronizing attitude, but if you don’t think Africans can benefit from education, why would you set up schools?”

Certainly, the model of mission education was not unique to Africa. White American missionaries played a similarly complicated role as emblems of both modernity and noblesse oblige in China before the Communist revolution. Many mission colleges in South Africa modeled their practical courses in industry and agriculture — a curriculum known as differentiated education or adapted education — on those of black schools in the United States such as Booker T. Washington’s Tuskegee Institute.

In whatever form it took, mission education was virtually the only formal sort available to black Africans for much of the colonial era. The first mission school in Nigeria opened in 1859, 50 years before the first government school, according to Dr. Taiwo. In the mid-1920s, mission schools in South Africa were educating far more Africans (about 215,000 compared with about 7,000) than were state schools, by Dr. Elphick’s calculations.

“For young black South Africans like myself,” Mandela wrote about Fort Hare in his autobiography, “it was Oxford and Cambridge, Harvard and Yale, all rolled into one.” Before his rancorous departure, he studied Latin and physics, joined the drama society, ran cross country and lived in a hostel for Methodists like himself.

Just as important for the person Mandela would become, Fort Hare put him in a multiracial community, said Daniel Massey, author of “Under Protest,” a history of political activism at the college. Mandela’s classmates included Indian and “colored” students, and even some white children of faculty members. The black students were drawn from across tribal and linguistic lines.

For all those reasons — academic, religious, cultural — mission schools like Fort Hare were anathema to Afrikaner nationalists. Speaking in 1938, the political leader Daniel Malan warned about the growing number of “civilized and educated nonwhites who wish to share our way of life and to strive in every respect for equality with us.”

In the dozen years after winning a majority in South Africa’s 1948 elections, Afrikaner nationalists exerted state control over mission schools, imposing apartheid’s segregation by racial category and tribal identity and pushing for education in African languages rather than in English. Fort Hare, over the protests of its students, was subsumed under the government policy of “Bantu education.”

Like so much else in South Africa, that changed with Nelson Mandela’s release from prison and the transition to majority rule. In October 1991, Mandela’s political ally, law partner and college classmate Oliver Tambo was named chancellor of Fort Hare. In his installation speech, even as he acknowledged the strife during his student years, Tambo intoned the college motto: “In your light, let us see light.”
620 2013-12-28 The Rockwell painting is worth more than $1 million, and presumably too well known to fence on the black market or try to sell to a reputable dealer. It sold at auction at Sotheby’s for $1,085,000 in May, but when workers at Welpak Art Moving and Storage in Maspeth, Queens, went to ship it to the new owner on Sept. 13, it was gone.

In the weeks that followed, the police were searching for the painting while working to make sure it had not simply been misplaced in Welpak somewhere. Detective Mark Fishstein, who is investigating the theft, was asked this week whether that had been ruled out.

So, it’s definitely stolen? The whole warehouse has been searched?

“I really can’t talk about it, unfortunately.”

So the police are as yet unable to prove that the thefts are not connected. (Chuckle, chuckle. Sip.) The identity of the Rockwell’s owner has not been released. Mr. Montero, for his part, is moving on.

“I have another preserver that was signed by a lot of the youngsters that were on a training vessel from Galveston, Tex.,” he said. “I’m going to take that out and hang it up.”

AT least one of the city’s other mysteries seems to have been cleared up, thanks to a man who lost a sneaker.

On Aug. 1, the man was climbing into the first-floor window of an apartment in Greenwich Village when he found himself facing its resident, Tom Ligon. If the burglar spent any time parked in front of “The Young and the Restless,” he would have recognized Mr. Ligon’s longest role in his wide-ranging television career, spanning “The Jackie Gleason Show” and “Law and Order.” On the soap opera, he played a character named Lucas Lorenzo Prentiss for four years.

That day, he surprised the intruder, who was halfway in the window when Mr. Ligon punched him. The police took the sneaker for evidence.

“I got a call from one of the detectives down in the Sixth Precinct,” Mr. Ligon said this week. The police had matched DNA from the sneaker to a suspect, he was told. And he was not hard to find.

“There he was, sitting in Rikers Island,” Mr. Ligon said. The police did not release the suspect’s name because, incarcerated in an unrelated crime, he has not been charged in Mr. Ligon’s case.

“He said the guy was a career burglar,” Mr. Ligon said. “I said, ‘Well, he’s not having much of a career right now.’ ”

“You have ups and downs,” he continued. “It’s like acting.”
621 2013-12-28 This month the Motley Fool investing website named Mr. Hastings its chief executive of the year. Even so, when I caught up with Mr. Hastings recently, he was anything but euphoric. After all, he was named businessman of the year by Fortune in 2010, only to be humbled by the events of 2011.

He said he remained chastened by that experience and was focused on running the business, not the stock price. That means more original programming (a new season of “House of Cards” will appear in February) and expanding internationally.

“We’re trying to stay centered as the critics howl and fans cheer,” he told me. “Whether our stock price is way up or way down, we focus on pleasing and growing our membership the same.”

In the annals of the gay rights movement, 2013 will be remembered as the year the Supreme Court struck down the Defense of Marriage Act as unconstitutional. But another milestone came in September, when Exxon Mobil, the world’s largest corporation by market capitalization and a notable holdout in granting equal benefits to gay employees, announced that “Exxon Mobil will recognize all legal marriages for the purposes of eligibility in U.S. benefit plans to ensure consistency for employees across the country.” It added, “We provide benefits to same-sex spouses in 30 countries outside the United States.”

But some things haven’t changed. In May, on the eve of a shareholder vote to require the company to add sexual orientation to its equal opportunity employment statement, one former Exxon Mobil employee, Tom Allen, told me: “I don’t think they’ll ever back down. Not until they’re forced to.” Exxon Mobil prevailed in the shareholder vote by a bigger margin than ever, and still doesn’t include sexual orientation in its equal opportunity employment statement.

The upshot, gay rights advocates have pointed out, is that an Exxon Mobil employee seeking to claim same-sex spousal benefits must come out as gay — a status that isn’t protected from discrimination under the company’s employment statement.

As Cece Cox, the chief executive director of Resource Center Dallas, a service organization for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, told me, “You have to out yourself in the workplace with a company that doesn’t offer you any protection.”

Ms. Cox said Exxon Mobil was getting little or no credit among gay rights advocates for offering same-sex benefits, since it was required to do so by federal law. “Of course, we support the new policy,” she said, “but has the culture really changed? Will gay employees feel free to put a picture of their spouse or partner on their desk? So far, we haven’t seen anything to suggest that they’ve really embraced equality for their gay employees.”

An Exxon Mobil spokesman, Alan T. Jeffers, said “We follow the federal definition of protected groups” with respect to the equal opportunity employment statement. That definition also doesn’t include sexual orientation, although gay rights advocates have been lobbying the White House for an executive order that would add sexual orientation to the list. Should that occur, “we would absolutely change the policy if necessary,” Mr. Jeffers said. He added, “As we’ve said repeatedly, we have zero tolerance for all forms of discrimination.”

Ms. Cox said, “We can’t give up the hope they’ll do something. Our door is open and we’d love to communicate with them. All of their comrades in the Fortune 10 have already done it. You just have to think that with time, it will happen.”

Since I examined the plight of Mathew Martoma, the SAC Capital trader accused of insider trading who, like all criminal defendants, faces the dilemma of whether to cooperate with prosecutors, the year has brought nothing but grim tidings. Thus far, Mr. Martoma has defiantly asserted his innocence and refused to cooperate.

But the pressure is mounting.

In November, SAC Capital Advisors, the successful hedge fund founded by Steven A. Cohen, pleaded guilty to five felony counts, agreed to pay $1.2 billion and to stop managing money for outside investors.

“I want to express our deep remorse for the misconduct of each individual who broke the law while employed at SAC,” said Peter Nussbaum, the firm’s general counsel. Mr. Nussbaum acknowledged, in entering the fund’s guilty plea, “This happened on our watch, and we are responsible for that misconduct.”

Mr. Martoma wasn’t mentioned by name, but government prosecutors referred to SAC as a “veritable magnet of market cheaters.” Six employees have pleaded guilty.

Then, last week, a Manhattan jury convicted another SAC trader, Michael S. Steinberg, of insider trading. Mr. Steinberg, the only SAC trader besides Mr. Martoma who opted to fight the charges, fainted as the jury filed in to deliver the guilty verdict.

The verdict is especially significant for Mr. Martoma because the Steinberg case was considered much weaker for prosecutors than his. Mr. Steinberg wasn’t accused of gathering inside information himself, only of knowing that it was obtained illegally. He was at the end of a five-person chain of information that started with an insider at Dell. And the government’s star witness said that Mr. Steinberg never explicitly told him to break the law, only that he wanted him to get “edgy” information.

Yet the jury took just two days to convict.

By comparison, the star witness in Mr. Martoma’s case is expected to be the doctor who leaked confidential information about clinical trials directly to Mr. Martoma. The doctor is cooperating with the government and has already implicated Mr. Martoma.

And Mr. Martoma may be uniquely positioned to offer prosecutors valuable information. He’s the only former SAC trader who, the government has said, had direct dealings with Mr. Cohen concerning suspicious trades. The government said the two had a 20-minute telephone conversation the night before SAC started trading shares of two pharmaceutical companies based on confidential information that Mr. Martoma obtained from the doctor. So far, Mr. Martoma hasn’t told prosecutors the substance of that conversation. Of course, if all they did was exchange pleasantries, it won’t be of much value to prosecutors.

The latest developments have rendered even more baffling Mr. Martoma’s refusal to reach a deal, especially one with the potential to minimize any time in prison.

For Mr. Martoma, time is running out. His trial is scheduled to begin Jan. 6 in Federal District Court in Manhattan. According to The New York Post, he and his family were spending the holidays in Yellowstone National Park.

Richard M. Strassberg, Mr. Martoma’s lawyer, said, “Mr. Martoma continues to fight these charges and is preparing for trial.”

Last summer, I dropped in at Tesla’s Manhattan showroom and gave Jason Berkley, the assistant manager, the daunting task of persuading me to buy a $71,000 all-electric car. He nearly succeeded — until I came to my senses.

Since then, I’ve wondered how Mr. Berkley has been doing. He impressed me at the time with his candor, acknowledging at one point that the Tesla “might not work for you,” since I live in Manhattan and have a weekend home in upstate New York, far from any charging station.

Now, Mr. Berkley faces some new challenges. In November, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said it would investigate two battery fires in Model S Teslas. No one was injured in either episode and the Tesla still has an impeccable safety record, but the cars were heavily damaged.

Given Boeing’s highly publicized problems with lithium-ion batteries in its new 787 Dreamliner, it’s not surprising that Tesla skeptics have long pointed to the car’s batteries as a potential Achilles’ heel. But Tesla and its visionary founder and chief executive, Elon Musk, came out with an aggressive defense of the car’s safety record and engineering.

As Mr. Musk said in a blog post, “There are now substantially more than the 19,000 Model S vehicles on the road,” for “an average of one fire per at least 6,333 cars, compared to the rate for gasoline vehicles of one fire per 1,350 cars.” By this measurement, he said, “You are more than four and a half times more likely to experience a fire in a gasoline car than a Model S! Considering the odds in the absolute, you are more likely to be struck by lightning in your lifetime than experience even a noninjurious fire in a Tesla.”

I can’t say how the persuasive Mr. Berkley is handling the issue, since a Tesla spokesman, Patrick Jones, turned down my request to speak to him. (Tesla requires all employees to get permission to speak to the press. For my earlier column, I came to the showroom as a potential customer.)

Mr. Jones cited several milestones for the auto company: Since my column appeared in August, the company has expanded to 75 showrooms from 50; Tesla is producing 600 vehicles a week, up from 500; and it now has about 50 supercharger locations in the United States. He added, “In early January we expect to have completed both the East Coast corridor from Boston to Miami, and a cross-country route from Los Angeles to New York.”

Tesla shares peaked at $194.50 in October, just before news of the battery fires, then dropped to just over $120 a share. This week, the federal government announced that the Tesla S would retain its five-star safety rating despite the continuing investigation. By the end of the week, shares had recovered to $151. For the year, Tesla stock was No. 1 in the Nasdaq index of 100 largest nonfinancial companies.
622 2013-12-28 Georgia regulators made their move about three years after the Government Accountability Office reported that officials from 21 states “indicated that they were somewhat or very concerned about consumer fraud in the Lifeline program.”

Georgia’s mandate, which had been scheduled to take effect in January before a judge in Atlanta granted an injunction last week, prompted outrage from some advocates for the poor, and a legal challenge from a trade group that represents cellphone companies. The group argued that Georgia was circumventing federal law to set rates.

But the author of the regulation has argued that the fee’s benefits outweigh the risks, and that it would do much to reduce Georgia’s share of fraud in the Lifeline program, which began in 1985 and was expanded to include wireless coverage two decades later.

“There’s always going to be collateral damage when you’re having a war, and we’re having a war with fraud and abuse,” Commissioner H. Doug Everett told WABE Radio in October.

Stan Wise, one of two public service commissioners who voted against the new regulation, conceded that the Lifeline program has been rife with misconduct, but warned that the fee would be ineffective and damaging.

“What it really does is harm those in the most need and the ones that the program was designed to help,” Mr. Wise said. “If you have three Lifelines and it’s important to you to have the three phones, what’s $15 to you if you’re promoting fraud?”

The program’s troubles have received widespread attention. Aware of the criticisms, the Federal Communications Commission, which cited the potential for “a significant burden on some classes of Lifeline consumers” when it turned back a plan in 2012 to impose monthly fees across the country, has started a campaign to clean up the program, including the introduction of new national databases tracking eligibility and participation.

But if Georgia’s new policy can survive in court, it could be replicated elsewhere by anxious state regulators.

“These sorts of cases are relatively unusual,” said James B. Speta, a professor at Northwestern University who specializes in telecommunications law. “So in a second state or a third state, they will certainly look at what happened in Georgia.”

As the legal battle plays out, Georgia residents who have Lifeline phones are beginning to contemplate what they will do if the fee is put in effect.

Ms. James, who has a monthly budget of about $350, said she was likely to have to choose between her phone and one of the six prescription medications she takes every day.

“I’ve got medicines I’ve got to buy with $5,” said Ms. James, 47, who lives just northwest of Atlanta and said she has medical debts well into six figures after numerous hospitalizations and health issues that include chronic bronchitis and gastrointestinal ailments.

Others who have the Lifeline phones, including Brenda Florence, said they would immediately return them.

“They’re supposed to be free,” said Ms. Florence, 60, who pays for a home landline and cell service but also participates in Lifeline because she receives Medicaid benefits. “I’m going to put it in the box and mail it back.”

In Georgia, where nearly 721,000 people use Lifeline, the debate has also exposed a fissure among those who work to aid people in poverty.

At the Christian Aid Mission Partnership, which provides food and clothing to the region’s poor and sometimes hosts phone providers offering their wares, officials said they endorsed the state’s new effort to stem fraud.

“I think there should be some skin in the game,” said Linda Oviatt, the organization’s outreach director. But she added that she generally supported the Lifeline program because it was “a godsend” for many of her clients.

Other advocates for the poor, though, have been sharply critical of Georgia’s plan.

“The proposed fee simply serves as a penalty on the poor,” the Rainbow PUSH Coalition wrote in an October letter to commissioners. “It is, in essence, a tax being arbitrarily applied to those who can least afford it and an incursion by the P.S.C. on the free market business practices of private companies.”

Back on Lot 54, Ms. James, whose kitchen on a recent day was cluttered with boxed and canned foods, said she thought the debate should focus less on complex legal arguments. She merely wants to keep her aging flip phone.

“It’s so hard on someone who is on a fixed, fixed income,” she said. “It was just an honor to get something that is going to help me.”
623 2013-12-28 While the government tries to shout down the opposition, it has done little to restore its own credibility. The compromised ministers weren’t the initial targets; rather, it was the officers involved in the investigation who lost their jobs first. A reported 400 officers have been removed from their posts or reassigned. To choke off the steady trickle of embarrassing leaks, the Interior Ministry has banned reporters from police stations. Procedures have been changed so that the police cannot assist the public prosecutor without first informing their superiors — even if it is the superior who stands accused.

Absolute power corrupting absolutely tells only part of the Turkish story. Corruption and institutionalized greed can become a powerful engine pushing a government over the edge into absolutism. It’s happening to a government that came to power 11 years ago promising to be the new broom that would sweep Turkish politics clean.

Some analysts believe that Mr. Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party (known as the A.K.P.) will lose a few percentage points in nationwide local elections this March, but that its standing is so strong that it will cling to power.

Yet this assumes that the A.K.P. has managed to plug the dam. The government is used to taking its gloves off against the radical secularists. It isn’t used to dealing with waves of dissent from within its own camp. The brutal suppression of last summer’s protests in Istanbul’s Taksim Square had already tarnished Mr. Erdogan’s image. Blaming America and the rest of the world for his troubles will only isolate Turkey further.

It is a country that needs to borrow liberally from abroad to finance its public debt. This week the Turkish lira fell to a record low against the dollar. The prospect of more political instability will make investors even more nervous.

Many commentators have framed the raids as evidence of an escalating row between Mr. Erdogan and the religious preacher Fethullah Gulen, who controls an influential network of adherents from a self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania.

It’s true that the Gulenists were natural allies of the A.K.P. when it first came to power in 2002. Zekeriya Oz, the prosecutor who initiated last week’s investigation, is the same official who launched the Ergenekon trial — a successful criminal action against the top brass for plotting a military coup (he is believed to have Gulen connections). The speculation is that many of those police officers who lost their jobs in the last 10 days had Gulen affiliations. A recent brimstone sermon webcast by Mr. Gulen fueled speculation that new revelations about A.K.P. wrongdoing are in the pipeline.

But blaming the Gulen movement is a bit like blaming Zionists. It’s a sad commentary on contemporary Turkey that people have to reach for conspiracy theories to explain why public officials are doing their job to prosecute corruption. It doesn’t seem to have crossed people’s minds that disunity within the A.K.P. coalition has given wiggle room to those who actually believe in the rule of law and want to enforce it.

Until recently, the great cliché about Turkey was that its primary political fault line lay between secularists and the religious right. But the tremors that have shaken Mr. Erdogan’s government are emanating from a fault line within the religious right itself.

The government is treating the crisis as nothing short of a coup by those jealous of its success. This is nonsense.

The opposition it faces has emerged because of the A.K.P’s own lack of respect for the rule of law and a cynical disregard for public accountability. It can no longer hide behind conspiracy theories and bluster.

Andrew Finkel is the author of “Turkey: What Everyone Needs to Know.”
624 2013-12-29 The actor discusses a scene from "The Wolf of Wall Street."
625 2013-12-29 As China’s outbound direct investment increases and becomes ever more visible, times are good for third-party agencies that can bridge the cultural and linguistic gaps to reach Chinese investors....
626 2013-12-29 But Zajac’s deflection at 13:03 provided the margin of victory. Jaromir Jagr also assisted on the goal; it was the 1,028th assist of his career. The 41-year-old Jagr also has 694 goals, giving him 1,722 points, 1 behind Mario Lemieux.

The Islanders outshot the Devils, 31-25, but could not muster enough quality chances against Schneider, who improved to 5-8-5 in his first season with the Devils. The Islanders had a power play late in the third, after Mark Fayne was called for tripping at 16:32, but did not test Schneider.

“It’s the same music all the time: Why don’t we win?” said Nabokov, who made his sixth straight start since returning from a groin injury. “We have to find a way to work harder and generate more chances.”

Tavares, who had played 246 consecutive games, had a lower-body injury, and the Islanders said he was day to day. He leads the Islanders with 13 goals and 26 assists. His absence affected the tone of the game, played before a near-capacity crowd announced at 16,012.

The powerful and smooth-skating Tavares is a noticeable figure virtually every time he emerges for a shift. Without him, the Islanders tried different line combinations and power-play units.

Tavares, 23, had not missed a game since Oct. 15, 2010. He sustained a minor concussion in the opener that season and was absent for three games, the only previously missed contests of his N.H.L. career.

The rookie Brock Nelson took Tavares’s spot on the team’s top line, centering Okposo on the right and Vanek on the left. For the third period, Islanders Coach Jack Capuano put Nielsen on the top unit with Okposo and Vanek. The three combined for the Islanders’ goal.

“Obviously, we miss Johnny in many ways when he’s not out there,” right wing Colin McDonald said. “This was the first time most of us haven’t seen him on the ice or the bench. It means we all have to work harder.”

Henrique scored at 11:37 of the first period, knocking a rebound past Nabokov with assists by Reid Boucher and Michael Ryder. The goal was Henrique’s eighth of the season.

“We play the same style no matter where we are,” Henrique said. “This was our usual team effort. It’s good to be rewarded.”

Schneider started one night after the Devils lost at home, 2-1, to Columbus in a shootout with Martin Brodeur in the net.

After winning just once in 14 games, the Islanders (11-21-7) were coming off two significant wins in their previous three games.

They smothered the Red Wings, 3-0, last Monday and upended the Rangers, 5-3, at Madison Square Garden on Dec. 20.

In between was a wrenching home loss to Anaheim on Dec. 21, when the Islanders lost a 3-1 lead in a 5-3 defeat. It was the 10th time this season they had squandered a third-period lead, ultimately losing eight of those games.

In the four home games before the loss to the Ducks, the Islanders lost in overtime to Washington, Pittsburgh and Montreal and in a shootout to Tampa Bay.

“The effort is there,” Nabokov said. “We have to make it pay off.”

The Devils’ defenseman and captain Bryce Salvador, out with a foot injury since Oct. 22, returned to the lineup.

The game was the first between the rivals since Oct. 4 in Newark, when the Islanders won, 4-3, in a shootout. The teams will play again March 1 and March 29 at Nassau Coliseum, with the Islanders visiting Newark on April 11.
627 2013-12-29 The Minnesota Vikings ruled out running back Adrian Peterson, who sprained his right foot Dec. 8 and has also been bothered by a sore groin muscle, for their season-ending game Sunday against the Detroit Lions.
628 2013-12-29 Under the new law, unless the secretary of defense and the director of national intelligence certify to Congress that the monitor stations would not be used to spy on the United States or improve the effectiveness of Russian weaponry — or unless they waive that requirement altogether on national security grounds — the plan is dead.

“The idea was to make it next to impossible, if not impossible, to do this,” said a House Republican aide involved in the legislative process, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of committee rules prohibiting officials from talking publicly to the news media. “We also took the State Department out of the loop since they were the ones who caused all the trouble in the first place.”

The snub to the Kremlin’s request came as the White House received a State Department report on Friday trumpeting United States-Russian cooperation in a wide range of areas, including national security and science. Glonass did not make the cut.

American relations with Russia are now at a nadir because of Moscow’s granting asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, and its backing of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.

Administration officials on Friday sought to play down the significance of the new constraints, saying that discussions with the Russians continue but that no decisions have been reached. The Pentagon and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence referred questions to the State Department, which is taking the lead on the issue for the government. A State Department statement said, “Any decision taken will be in compliance with all relevant legislation.”

A spokesman for the Russian Embassy in Washington did not return phone or email messages. The Russian effort is part of a larger race by several countries, including China and European Union nations, to perfect their own global positioning systems and challenge the dominance of the American GPS.

“There isn’t any question that their system would be more accurate and reliable if they had some stations somewhere in the northern half of the Western Hemisphere,” said Ralph Braibanti, a former director of the State Department’s Office of Space and Advanced Technology. “The more stations you have, the more corrections you can make, and the more reliable the system you have.”

Mr. Braibanti said that rebuffing the Russians would deal a blow to efforts by the State Department to work with other countries to make their positioning systems more accurate.

“There is a significant argument in favor of going the extra mile to accommodate what the Russians feel are their needs,” he said, because it would improve all systems amid demands from consumers for more accurate GPS readings, he said.

After The New York Times reported in November that there were divisions between the State Department and the intelligence agencies about whether to allow the Russian structures, congressional Republicans publicly opposed acquiescing to the Russians’ request.

The new law requires the certification from the Pentagon and intelligence agencies or a waiver from the defense secretary and director of national security to ensure that any data collected or transmitted from the monitor stations are not encrypted; that anyone involved in building, operating or maintaining the structures is an American; and that none of the stations are near “sensitive United States national security sites.” The waiver would also require that the stations not pose a cyberespionage threat or weaken the American GPS technology for consumers.

“The provision,” said Roger Zakheim, a former general counsel of the House Armed Services Committee, “certainly creates a high bar for the secretary of defense and the director of national intelligence to authorize or permit this type of construction.”
629 2013-12-29 Analysis of Rockets Used in Syrian Chemical Attack
630 2013-12-29 But there is another practical merit to moving fast: Teams have to start searching for a new coach, and other teams that fired their coaches will be bidding for a limited pool of top replacements. Once a head coach is hired, other coaching spots must be filled. Then all of them must prepare for the combine and the draft.

“Everyone’s in such a competitive environment, there’s a race to get things done because there is the same group of candidates out there,” said Mike Tannenbaum, the former general manager of the Jets who now represents coaches for Priority Sports & Entertainment. “It’s to clear the decks and move on.”

This year, more than a half-dozen teams may clear the decks. In Washington, Redskins Coach Mike Shanahan, whose team has three victories going into Sunday’s game just one year after making the playoffs, has feuded publicly with the owner Daniel Snyder over the decision to bench quarterback Robert Griffin III.

Mike Munchak of the Tennessee Titans, Dennis Allen in Oakland and Jim Schwartz in Detroit are also in the hot seat. The Houston Texans, another team unable to return to the playoffs, fired Gary Kubiak earlier this month, just weeks after he collapsed on the field during a game and was hospitalized.

Innovations like 24-hour sports channels, Twitter and blogs have fueled the coaching merry-go-round and given Black Monday an almost historical or hysterical feel, depending on your point of view. But the use of the phrase Black Monday to denote the coaching day of reckoning appears to date back only about 10 or 15 years.

Even with an extensive search of news databases, it is difficult to determine who coined the phrase Black Monday, which the N.F.L. does not endorse. Some of the earliest references were in the late 1990s, including a story in The Chicago Tribune about several college coaches being fired at one time. In 1998, The Associated Press ran an article with the headline “Black Monday for N.F.L. coaches.” The story began: “The next time a group of N.F.L. coaches gets together and someone says ‘Black Monday,’ nobody should ask him what he’s talking about.”

The New York Post and The Houston Chronicle also used Black Monday in their headlines that day.

It is unclear whether the news media created the phrase or whether reporters parroted a term used liberally by football insiders. But two years later, The Associated Press ran an article that said that the day after the regular season ends “traditionally is called ‘Black Monday’ in the coaching profession,” though when this so-called tradition started was not defined.

There are few examples of N.F.L. and team personnel using the phrase, though in a Jan. 6, 2000, article in The Times-Picayune, Greg Bensel, a spokesman for the New Orleans Saints, was quoted saying that he discussed with Tom Benson, the team owner, “what the state of the league was on Black Monday” and “who was around and who wasn’t.” That off-season, the Saints fired Mike Ditka and hired Jim Haslett.

Bensel said he did not recall where he first heard the phrase. But within a few years, others in the N.F.L. started saying Black Monday, including Bill Cowher, then the coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers. He said that coaches always feared being fired and were motivated “to not be a part of Black Monday.”

While the term’s roots are uncertain, it is clear that a handful of coaches, assistants and front office personnel are going to receive pink slips Monday, regardless of whether their teams win their season finales.

As Cowher said in 2006, “We all understand that getting into this business.”
631 2013-12-29 Former President Bill Clinton will swear in Bill de Blasio as New York City’s 109th mayor at the inauguration ceremony on Jan. 1, the mayor-elect’s transition team announced in a statement on Saturday.

Mr. de Blasio served in Mr. Clinton’s administration as a regional director of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and was the campaign manager for Hillary Rodham Clinton’s successful run for the Senate in 2000. Mrs. Clinton will also attend the inauguration.

“I was honored to serve in President Clinton’s administration and on Secretary Clinton’s campaign for U. S. Senate, and I am honored again that they will both join our celebration for all of New York City,” Mr. de Blasio said in the statement. “Wednesday’s ceremony will be an event for every New Yorker from all five boroughs, and Chirlane and I couldn’t be more excited to have President Clinton and Secretary Clinton stand with us,” he said, referring to his wife, Chirlane McCray.

Mr. de Blasio later sent out on Twitter a photograph taken in 2000 showing Mr. and Mrs. Clinton at the White House with him, his wife and their two children, Chiara and Dante, who were then small enough to be carried in their parents’ arms.

The ceremony, which will begin at noon, will be held on the steps of City Hall in Lower Manhattan. Last week, Mr. de Blasio set aside 1,000 free tickets to the inauguration for the general public. The tickets were snatched up in less than two hours. Some appeared to be for sale on Craigslist.
632 2013-12-29 “It is like a diseased town,” said the Newark store owner, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution from the assailants in the Mercedes case, who have not been caught. “There are a lot of predators.”

Carjackings are nothing new to Newark, a city that was among the nation’s worst for such crimes in the 1990s. Like other cities, Newark saw the number of carjackings fall in subsequent years. But they have returned to Newark with a vengeance.

In 2007, there were 208 reported carjackings in all of New Jersey. In 2012, there were 345 in Newark alone, 56 of which took place in December, according to the Newark police.

Already this year, there had been 475 carjackings in Essex County as of Friday, the vast majority of those in Newark, according to the Essex County prosecutor’s office. In contrast, New York City had seen 159 carjackings this year as of Friday, and there has been a general decline over the last five years, the Police Department said.

One law enforcement official in New Jersey, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, likened the trend in Newark to a “ride-share program” for criminals.

The rise in carjackings comes at a time when Newark is experiencing high rates of other violent crimes. With a population of less than 300,000 people, Newark has already seen at least 100 murders this year, and the feeling of lawlessness among some residents is palpable.

Law enforcement officials and criminologists also said that Newark’s proximity to major ports — one in Newark and another in nearby Elizabeth — has contributed to the increase, giving thieves the ability to move stolen cars quickly to overseas markets. Indeed, in some cases, carjackers are simply looking for a car they can use to commit another crime and then dump. Some are targets of opportunity; others are orchestrated by organized car-theft rings that send vehicles for resale in Africa, law enforcement officials said.

This year, the victims included a Newark politician, an off-duty police officer and a police sergeant. The trend is so acute that it has inspired a Twitter account, @NewarkCarjacked, which alerts followers to most new cases.

Paul Telekian, the owner of Empire Auto Body in the city’s Ironbound section, said some of his clients refuse to drive to his shop. So he arranges to meet them in West Orange, and drives the cars in himself.

“The insecurity is deep now,” he said.

On the same day the lawyer, Dustin J. Friedland, was killed, three men wearing ski masks and brandishing a handgun carjacked a man in South Orange, another Newark suburb, fleeing with his Land Rover, according to the South Orange police. Although some law enforcement officials speculated that the two crimes could be related, there was no evidence connecting the carjackings, the police said.

Efforts to address the problem have yet to yield significant results. Responding to the spike in carjackings, New Jersey in 2010 created four regional task forces composed of municipal, county, state and federal law enforcement personnel, to assist with investigations. Those task forces have mainly dealt with investigating carjackings, rather than preventing them, officials said.

In August, Essex County unveiled billboards with the photos of convicted carjackers set against images of jail cells.

“Jahlil from Newark, now serving more than 21 years in federal prison in West Virginia,” read one of the billboards, which also included a slogan: “Seconds to carjack. Years of hard time.”

The goal, according to the Essex County prosecutor’s office, was to send a message to young people about the stiff punishments for carjacking. During a carjacking epidemic in the 1990s, the maximum punishment for such crimes was raised to 30 years in prison.

“It’s been a serious problem for a long time and we’ve all been grappling with it,” said Katherine B. Carter, the spokeswoman for the Essex County prosecutor.

Mildred C. Crump, the president of the Newark Municipal Council, criticized law enforcement agencies for failing to devote enough resources to preventing carjackings rather than just prosecuting offenders after they commit a crime.

“I think the situation has reached its crisis,” she said. “We can no longer sit and hope that this will go away.”

One reason carjackings are resurgent is that many new cars have sophisticated anti-theft measures, including computerized ignition systems that make driving a vehicle without the keys nearly impossible.

“With better electronic car security, carjacking may be a more efficient way to obtain cars for sale or parts than the ‘traditional’ method of smashing car windows and hot-wiring the ignition,” Jeffrey A. Fagan, a criminologist at Columbia University, said.

Terri Miller, the executive director of an anti-car theft group called Help Eliminate Auto Thefts, or H.E.A.T., based in Michigan, said the Internet had greatly expanded the marketplace for small-time thieves.

“We see a lot of these vehicles that are carjacked ending up on Craigslist,” she said. “If the price is too good to be true, it probably is.”

Her group has focused its efforts on Detroit, where the problem is so endemic that the city’s police chief, James Craig, narrowly avoided becoming a victim himself, speeding away as assailants approached his unmarked police car.

In New Jersey, most carjackers are between the ages of 16 and 33, and often live in Essex County, Ms. Carter said.

Almost 90 percent of stolen cars are recovered, she said, though a small fraction of the perpetrators are arrested. The majority of cases do not involve luxury vehicles: Hondas are the most frequent targets of carjackers, followed by Nissans, BMWs, Mercedes-Benzes and Fords.

Only a small number of carjackings are tied to organized crime rings, Ms. Carter said, but for those enterprises, Newark’s location near two ports is a major attraction. One such ring was run by Hope Kantete, who was convicted in June for leading a group that shipped carjacked or stolen cars from New Jersey to Africa. Over 18 months, according to the authorities, Ms. Kantete orchestrated the illegal export of cars worth more than $1 million to countries like Nigeria, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

The investigation offered a glimpse into the intricate network of conspirators necessary to turn a stolen car into cash.

In Ms. Kantete’s ring, gang members would do the carjacking and then sell the vehicle to fences for a few thousand dollars.

From there, according to court documents, the car would be sent to an individual who specializes in “retagging,” or creating a clean vehicle identification number.

Ms. Kantete then would find customers and ship the cars overseas.

While weapons are used in most carjackings, very rarely do they lead to injury or death, officials said. Since 2009, three people had been killed during carjackings in Essex County, including Mr. Friedland, 30.

Mr. Telekian, the owner of the auto-body shop, said the spate of carjackings had influenced his behavior. He no longer leaves any of the shop’s cars outside the building’s roll-down doors.

And, after a lifetime in Newark and 46 years as a business owner, Mr. Telekian, 72, said all of the crime has made him want to leave New Jersey.

“This used to be a very nice town,” he said.
633 2013-12-29 The 5-foot-8, 165-pound Isles, 24, ran a 4.22-second 40-yard dash in a workout with the Lions earlier in the week, The Detroit Free Press reported. Isles, from Massillon, Ohio, ran a 10.13 100-meter dash and a 6.68 60 at Ashland University, where he was an all-conference football player. The Lions will take a look at him at wide receiver.

“When you’re in rugby and catching the ball, it’s a lot different,” Detroit Coach Jim Schwartz said. “I wouldn’t necessarily classify him as a rugby guy as much as of a track guy.”

YOUNG EAGLES SEEKING A SPOT Only 15 Eagles who played for Philadelphia when it won the N.F.C. East title in the 2010 season remain, and that figure includes the injured wide receiver Jeremy Maclin.

But with the Eagles playing at Dallas on Sunday with another division title at stake, Coach Chip Kelly is not worried that his young roster lacks playoff experience. “I think everybody understands what’s at stake,” he said. “It’s the first game of the playoffs for us and for them. If you win on Sunday, you get to play again, and if you don’t win on Sunday, you go home.”

ONE MORE START FOR CLEMENS Kellen Clemens is finishing his run as the St. Louis Rams’ quarterback, his first regular playing opportunity since 2007 with the Jets. The Rams are 4-4 under Clemens, who has filled in since Sam Bradford sustained a season-ending knee injury.

“There’s been some things you’d like to maybe do over, but some moments that I will cherish for a long time,” Clemens said. “And not all of them have been plays on the field. A lot of it’s just been memories and interactions with the guys, being in the huddle.”

BIRK HELPING WITH FAREWELL The Minnesota Vikings will play their final game at the Metrodome on Sunday, and their former center Matt Birk will serve as an honorary captain.

A six-time Pro Bowl pick who grew up in nearby St. Paul and was drafted by the Vikings in the sixth round out of Harvard in 1998, Birk played 11 of his 15 years in the N.F.L. with his hometown team.

Birk is set to join his former teammates Robert Smith and Adrian Peterson and the former Vikings coach Bud Grant in addressing the crowd during a farewell ceremony after the game for the stadium, which the Vikings have used for 32 seasons. The dome will be torn down next month to make room for a new stadium on the site.

EX-DOLPHIN PAYS A VISIT Jay Fiedler, the last Dolphins quarterback to win a playoff game, stopped by the Dolphins’ camp to check up on his former team.

The Dolphins, whose regular-season finale is Sunday against the Jets, are in the race for the A.F.C.’s final wild-card berth. Miami has not made the playoffs since 2008 and has not won a postseason game since 2000, with Fiedler. “It really is amazing to think it has been 13 years now, when you think of all the history of the Dolphins winning playoff games,” he said, adding, “It kind of stopped at the turn of the century.”

FOCUS ON BENGALS ASSISTANTS With the Cincinnati Bengals having won the A.F.C. North with a balanced team, their coordinators are already being mentioned in connection with head coaching jobs. The defense of the coordinator Mike Zimmer is ranked fifth in the N.F.L. in yards allowed despite missing lineman Geno Atkins and cornerbacks Leon Hall and Terence Newman. The offense, under Jay Gruden, is ranked 10th in total yards.

Cincinnati and New Orleans are the only two teams in the league with both offense and defense ranked in the top 10.
634 2013-12-29 Aston Villa drew, 1-1, against Swansea. Cardiff, playing without a manager, hosted last-place Sunderland in the late game.

City’s 10th league win in 10 matches at Etihad Stadium this season was far from straightforward, with Manager Manuel Pellegrini’s decision to make six changes from the 2-1 victory over Liverpool on Thursday disrupting City’s attacking rhythm.

City goalkeeper Joe Hart played with a gash under his left eye after a collision with Palace striker Cameron Jerome in the first half, but he produced some fine saves after the break to preserve City’s perfect home record.

“I think the team that wants to win the title must have different faces,” said Pellegrini, whose team is unbeaten in its last 11 games in all competitions.

PRICING DISCREPANCY Hotel rooms are expected to cost almost 50 percent more in Rio de Janeiro during the World Cup than when the city hosts the 2016 Olympics, in part because the organizer FIFA’s official accommodations agency has not set maximum room rates like those promised in Rio’s winning bid for the Olympic Games.

FIFA is working with the Swiss company Match Services as the official accommodations agency for the World Cup.

Match signed contracts with the vast majority of hotels in Rio and other cities that will host matches, and offers rooms via FIFA’s website at high rates that have prompted an investigation by the Brazilian government into possible cartel-like practices.

Industry studies, documents from Rio’s Olympic organizing committee and an Associated Press review of hotel prices offered by Match all showed the discrepancy between housing costs for the two events.

The cost difference between the events is in large part a result of the local Olympic organizing committee capping hotel prices.

Analysts said simple economics is also in play: More fans are expected during the World Cup than the Olympics, and more hotel rooms will be available during the 2016 Games because of ongoing construction. Rio will have nearly 10,000 more hotel rooms in 2016.

TIMEOUTS ENDORSED Russia Manager Fabio Capello and Juventus Coach Antonio Conte voiced support for the introduction of timeouts during matches, a move they said would benefit players, managers and commercial partners.

While timeouts are used extensively in baseball, basketball and American football in the United States, such a rule change in soccer would face resistance from many in the game who argue that breaks would interrupt the flow of matches.

“Timeouts would be nice things to have as, from the bench, it is difficult to communicate a message during the game,” said Conte, who is aiming to secure a third successive Serie A title with Juventus this season. “So a two-minute timeout would be useful for a manager.”

Capello also said it would provide a tactical advantage for coaches, along with potential health and commercial benefits.

“Timeouts to hydrate would leave players in better shape and would allow the clubs to get more revenue,” said Capello, who has won titles in Italy and Spain. (REUTERS)
635 2013-12-29 Hillel’s defenders say that in an atmosphere so hostile to Israel, Jewish campus organizations must draw parameters and that this is why Hillel established new guidelines in 2010.

Alan M. Dershowitz, a professor at Harvard Law School who was once a faculty adviser for the Harvard Hillel, said in an interview: “I don’t think this is a free-speech issue. The people who want divestment and boycotts have plenty of opportunity to speak on campus. The question is a branding one. You can see why Hillel does not want its brand to be diluted.”

In interviews, some students said that college should be a place for no-holds-barred discussions about Israel and that Hillel should host those discussions, since Hillel emphasizes inclusion and takes its name from a rabbinical sage who welcomed intellectual challenge.

“Hillel does a fantastic job of bringing together Orthodox, Conservative, Reform, secular students, and respecting everyone’s different religious practice,” said Rachel Sandalow-Ash, a student active in the Hillel at Harvard. “But in the political realm, that sort of pluralism just doesn’t exist, and students who have more dissident views on Israel are excluded in many ways.”

Joshua Wolfsun, a student on the Swarthmore Hillel board, said, “There are a lot of really smart people across the political spectrum on Israel that we want to talk to, and we feel that Hillel should not have a political litmus test on who is allowed and who is not.”

In a manifesto, the Swarthmore Hillel students proclaimed: “All are welcome to walk through our doors and speak with our name and under our roof, be they Zionist, anti-Zionist, post-Zionist, or non-Zionist.”

But the president and chief executive of Hillel, Eric D. Fingerhut, responded to them in a letter saying that “ ‘anti-Zionists’ will not be permitted to speak using the Hillel name or under the Hillel roof, under any circumstances.”

The organization’s guidelines specify that it will not host or work with speakers or groups that deny the right of Israel to exist; “delegitimize, demonize or apply a double standard to Israel”; support boycotts, divestment or sanctions against Israel; or “foster an atmosphere of incivility.”

A nationwide online petition in support of the Swarthmore Hillel’s rejection of those guidelines has gathered 1,200 signatures.

In an interview, Mr. Fingerhut said, “If we’re an organization that is committed to building Jewish identity and lifelong connections to the Jewish world and to Israel, then we certainly have to draw lines.”

But some students active in Hillel say the lines are either muddy or wrong. Hillel’s adult staff members on more than a dozen campuses have refused to allow J Street U, an affiliate of the liberal group J Street, to co-sponsor events. The explanation was that donors to Hillel do not support J Street, which supports a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict but is critical of Israeli settlement building and the occupation of the West Bank.

J Street is challenging the dominance of the more conservative establishment Israel lobby, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Leaders of Hillel and Aipac recently published an essay in The New York Jewish Week hailing their partnership on campuses.

David Eden, a spokesman at Hillel, said that each of the 550 campus Hillel branches worldwide was independently funded. “But as far as Hillel international is concerned,” he said, “J Street and J Street U and other groups are more than welcome.”

In contrast, the leaders of Jewish Voice for Peace, a group that supports the boycott and divestment movement, say their organization has been unable to affiliate or work with any campus Hillel in the United States.

Hillel chapters have also shunned collaborations with Palestinian student groups, which tend to support boycott and divestment.

That is what happened at Harvard. Hillel held a dinner with about 15 students for Avraham Burg, a leftist former speaker of the Israeli Parliament. The students then walked over to the Quincy House dormitory for Mr. Burg’s speech — Hillel refused to host the speech because it was co-sponsored by the Palestine Solidarity Committee.

Showing documentary films about the Palestinian experience has also caused friction on many campuses. In one case, Benjamin Sheridan, a senior at Binghamton University, part of the State University of New York, said he arranged a showing last year of the Academy Award-nominated film “5 Broken Cameras” and a talk by the filmmaker’s brother, a Palestinian angry about the occupation of the West Bank and East Jerusalem. The event was sponsored by Dorm Room Diplomacy, a student group that holds video conferences between American and foreign students.

Mr. Sheridan said he was forced to resign from the board of Bearcats for Israel, a Hillel affiliate, and from a paid internship promoting study abroad programs in Israel. He said the Hillel director told him he could no longer hold these positions because he had broken the guidelines and put donations to Hillel at risk. (Mr. Eden, the spokesman for Hillel, disputed this, saying fellow students forced Mr. Sheridan out.)

Mr. Sheridan, 21, wears a wristband that says “Israel Is Strong” in Hebrew. He spent his gap year in Israel, has an Israeli flag in his dorm room and did an internship at the American Jewish Committee.

“The second I question Israel — Israeli policies, not its existence — all of a sudden I’m a pariah?” he asked. “If Hillel is going to be the group that represents all Jews, how can it say, ‘On Israel we have one policy only’?”
636 2013-12-29 Some 100,000 Russian businesspeople are either in prison or have been subject to criminal prosecution. Among the most famous is Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former head of the Yukos oil company, who had been in prison for more than a decade until he was unexpectedly released this month by President Vladimir V. Putin. The pardon, coming as it did on the cusp of the Winter Olympics to be held in Sochi, Russia, was viewed more as a political expedient than as a harbinger of reform.

Mr. Telkov says that in his situation, investigators seemed more interested in pressuring him to plead guilty than in building a case; he says he was promised a suspended sentence, in which he would avoid prison but lose his confiscated goods. That’s how Russian businesspeople who find themselves in the middle of such cases often choose to plead. But Mr. Telkov was, simply put, a nuisance, filing requests and demanding to see the fabric that had been taken from him. If someone wanted to intimidate him or wear him down, it wasn’t working.

Finally, in January, at the request of investigators, a judge ordered Mr. Telkov arrested and held in pretrial detention. He was put into a cell with 10 other men, most of whom were facing drug charges. As Mr. Telkov remembers, investigators suggested that it was his own fault — if he would only make a deal, he could go home.

Weeks passed, then months. Mr. Telkov’s wife, Adilya, said she was sure that the court would see the absurdity of the case and release her husband. “At first I was absolutely certain that if not at this hearing, then the next one. If not there, then one more,” she said. After a few months, though, she said she “stopped being naïve.”

When Boris Titov heard about Mr. Telkov’s case, it struck him as a clear reminder of why his job is necessary. Mr. Titov, who holds the official title of presidential commissioner for entrepreneurs’ rights, was appointed to his position — which reports directly to Mr. Putin — in June 2012. Fighting corruption and easing the way for business are among the main priorities, at least in rhetoric, of Mr. Putin’s current economic agenda. After years of oil-fueled growth and rising consumption, the economy is slowing, with growth in gross domestic product falling to just over 1 percent. Kremlin officials hope that an improved climate for small business will help save the country from a prolonged period of stagnation, thus preserving social and political stability.

But that will not be easy, in no small part because of policies enacted by Mr. Putin over the years. According to a global survey of entrepreneurship released in the spring, 7 percent of Russians are engaged in entrepreneurial activity and just 3.8 percent have plans in the next three years to open their own businesses. (For comparison, the overall average in the so-called BRICs countries — Brazil, Russia, India and China — is 21 percent, and 24 percent for Eastern Europe.) Most university graduates say they want jobs in government service or as managers in large corporations.

Mr. Putin’s decision this month to pardon Mr. Khodorkovsky was long awaited by the business and investment community, but does little to lift the many hurdles to entrepreneurship in Russia: a large state sector that crowds out private investment, an unwieldy thicket of regulation and bureaucracy, and a police force and court system that can often seem like the persecutors of businesspeople as much as their protectors.

One rainy afternoon this fall, I went to see Mr. Titov in his office tucked inside a small, leafy park just beyond Moscow’s central ring road. Russia’s entrepreneurs, he said, “wouldn’t have asked the president to create this position if everything was great.” One day, he said, he hopes his work won’t be required anymore. But for now, he imagines his office, with its staff of a few dozen people, as a kind of “joint venture” between business and the state in an effort to make entrepreneurship more “comfortable, profitable and safe.”

A 53-year-old businessman, Mr. Titov began his career in the 1980s, selling oil and petroleum products abroad for the Soviet foreign trade ministry. After the Soviet collapse, he helped found a company that sold mineral fertilizers and lubricants; he often worked from London. In recent years, he started a lobbying group, Business Russia, and had several notable successes in saving individual businessmen from criminal investigations.

At the same time, Mr. Titov has good relations with the state, enjoying access to the highest levels of power, Mr. Putin included. In May 2012, to celebrate Mr. Putin’s inauguration, he supplied to the Kremlin 5,000 bottles of sparkling wine, produced by a vineyard Mr. Titov owns.

Mr. Titov is fighting against a deep societal hostility toward private business that goes back to the Soviet days, when the sale of anything for even a kopeck of profit could be considered illegal speculation. But the animus really sharpened in the 1990s, a period of chaotic and murky deal-making in which a few became rich and most everyone else was left gasping to stay afloat. Suspicion toward private enterprise is so widespread, said Olga Romanova, who founded the group Russia Behind Bars after her husband was sent to prison on economic charges, that “even the guy who owns the local convenience store in a village is seen as a kind of oligarch.”

While speaking on a panel at an investment conference where Mr. Titov was also present, Igor Zubov, a deputy minister of internal affairs, said that many criminals simply take on the cover of business, and suggested that businesspeople are to blame for corruption since they are the ones giving bribes. But while many in the police and security services are sincere in such beliefs, just as often these attitudes can provide a cynical opening for corruption. “If nobody loves a private businessman,” Mr. Titov said, “then you can go to him and ask for a bribe, and he can’t say anything.”

But Mr. Titov argues that a majority of improper legal cases against entrepreneurs — he has said as many as 80 percent — originally stem from disputes among businesspeople themselves. A conflict arises, and one side goes to the police, who, as Mr. Titov said, “have learned very well how to take advantage of this.”

That appears to have been the case with Mr. Telkov. He didn’t think much of it at the time, but he later remembered that while attending a Moscow trade fair, some men came up to him and said: “You have very low prices. We suggest you raise them, otherwise you will have problems.” While in jail, after studying the case materials, he realized that those men in civilian clothes who pointed at the fabric to confiscate were representatives of his competitors. What’s more, Mr. Telkov learned that under Russian law, if investigators don’t have the room to store evidence before trial, they are allowed to use private spaces. In his case, police investigators decided to hold the fabric confiscated from Mr. Telkov in his competitors’ warehouses.

After Mr. Telkov had been in jail for several months, his wife wrote to Mr. Titov. Over the last year, Mr. Titov’s office has received several thousand such pleas and taken on many hundreds. Right away, Mr. Titov said, he could tell that Mr. Telkov’s was a “unique case.” It was almost unheard-of for a businessman to be charged with this particular violation of copyright law, let alone held in jail. The evidence seemed odd, and, as Mr. Titov remembered, the case struck him “clearly as an attack by competitors.”

Mr. Titov’s involvement made a difference right away, because, like it or not, police and investigators have to provide him with answers. “It’s one thing for an accused person to write from jail on a piece of toilet paper,” said Sergei Tayt, the head of Mr. Titov’s advisory secretariat. “But if a commissioner who reports to the president writes about some sort of outrageous situation, that’s a different status entirely.” Over the coming months, Mr. Titov would indeed be able to help, but the case would also reveal the limits in a system that favors the state at the expense of private businesspeople.

As the months in jail went on, Mr. Telkov tried to keep himself from turning into a “zombie,” as he put it. His lawyer, Alkhas Abgadzhava, would have him look through the case materials and help write motions.

It didn’t take long to notice incongruities in the charges. Even the copyrights in question seemed odd: they were based on letters of unclear provenance from the United States and Turkey, where the original copyrights were said to be held. One copyright, for the pattern “Pemberton,” was registered on June 3, 2011. But the search of Mr. Telkov’s warehouse happened almost a month earlier, on May 12. Another copyright document from Turkey is dated from 2004 yet mentions a design registered two years later, in 2006. The case file contained two separate analyses of the fabrics, supposedly written by two different independent experts. But the analyses were word-for-word identical.

Mr. Titov and his staff were convinced of what had happened. “One of his competitors simply began to use criminal prosecution against Telkov,” Mr. Titov told me.

Mr. Tayt said it seemed as if “someone showed up, jump-started some investigators, and then they closed their eyes to the law.” Mr. Titov wrote letters to the general prosecutor’s office and the interior ministry on behalf of Mr. Telkov. At one meeting, he pushed for law enforcement officials to take another look at the case materials, with an eye toward dropping the charges. Mr. Tayt, who was also present, said some of the officials were themselves “puzzled” by the investigation.

Still, it was hard for Mr. Titov to win a conclusive victory for Mr. Telkov. The police and prosecutors have grown accustomed to a degree of unquestioned impunity, and the Russian justice system is permeated by a sense of inevitability. Proceedings chug along according to the logic of bureaucratic formalism, in which judges are wary of ruining their own statistics and thus instinctively paper over sloppiness on the part of the police and investigators. Mr. Titov, while not changing the fundamental system, is at least a voice — a “challenge to impunity and to this sense of quiet,” said Vladislav Korochkin, the vice president of the Moscow chapter of Opora, a nongovernmental organization that defends private business. “He is making certain people think about having to change their habits.”

In his first weeks on the job, Mr. Titov spoke to police officials in Ufa, a city of one million people 725 miles southeast of Moscow. He chastised the officials about suspicious cases against local businesses. Yana Yakovleva, the head of Business Solidarity, a nongovernmental organization that defends the rights of entrepreneurs, attended the meeting and told me that Mr. Titov produced a palpable sense of “discomfort” among the officers and bureaucrats present. “It wasn’t clear who this new figure is,” she said, “who at one moment appears on television meeting with Putin and in the next is issuing a reprimand.”

But Ms. Yakovleva compared Mr. Titov to a man who wakes up in the middle of the night to find cockroaches all over his kitchen. He starts hitting them with his slipper, she said, “but you could go crazy fighting these cockroaches every night.”

Mr. Titov himself once compared his office to a brigade of firefighters: “The fires are burning and burning, and new ones are being produced all the time,” he said. But he is proud to talk about successes that he has been able to achieve. And one of them, he says, is the case of Mr. Telkov.

On Jan. 26, 2013, after letters and pressure from Mr. Titov, months of work by Mr. Abgadzhava, as well as coverage in the local press, a judge ordered Mr. Telkov freed from pretrial detention. He had spent a year in jail. After being released, he went directly to a restaurant for lunch with his wife and friends. “The only thing I wanted was to eat fried potatoes,” he told me.

Now a free man, he was able to spend more time working with Mr. Abgadzhava on his defense, as well as trying to slowly rebuild his business, which was effectively destroyed. But despite his release, the charges remained. Mr. Telkov was still a defendant awaiting trial.

More than any individual case, the signal achievement of Mr. Titov’s tenure as ombudsman has been a so-called business amnesty, under which those prosecuted for a range of economic crimes would be freed and their records expunged. Mr. Titov says that more than 1,500 people have been freed since the law was passed in July, but that number is potentially misleading; just 116 have actually left jail or a prison colony, whereas the rest had their convictions lifted but already had suspended sentences or had served out their prison terms.

The amnesty law, while pathbreaking, emerged with several major caveats. For starters, instead of a blanket amnesty that would apply to nearly all economic crimes, it was whittled down to exclude many categories, including the overarching charge for fraud, which Mr. Titov estimates applies to 70 percent of prosecuted businesspeople. Another requirement says that only first-time offenders are eligible. (At the time, some wondered if the purpose of this technicality was to exclude Mr. Khodorkovsky, who was tried in two separate cases.) And then, to be eligible, the convicted person — or even one who is merely accused — must pay back whatever losses they are alleged to have caused their victims.

Mr. Titov pushed to have the little-used copyright article included in the amnesty law, an addition meant specifically to aid Mr. Telkov. That means he is eligible for amnesty, which would close the case against him and expunge the charges — but only if he pays back the supposed damages, in his case claimed by investigators to be around $338,000. Mr. Telkov has refused.

The question for those watching Mr. Titov is how much he can achieve within the current political order, which arguably depends on allowing for a certain level of corruption among law enforcement for its stability. Moreover, the very creation of an ombudsman’s office is symptomatic of the habits of a highly centralized system, which thinks to solve problems by means of a single, powerful figure — an even stronger bureaucrat to defeat the evils of bureaucratism.

“Of course it’s easier to name Titov to his position than reform the courts,” said Mr. Korochkin, whose nongovernmental organization defends private business. But he acknowledged that “the first will help the second,” pointing to Mr. Titov’s efforts to change parts of the criminal code  and his ability to represent the perspective of small-business owners to high-ranking officials.

Mr. Abgadzhava, the lawyer for Mr. Telkov, is doubtful. “He can’t directly say to Putin that your whole system is constructed in such a way that makes it impossible for an entrepreneur to survive,” he told me. For Mr. Titov to bring about real change, Mr. Abgadzhava said, he would, in effect, have to join the political opposition.

When I asked Mr. Titov about that, he grew frustrated. He cited the thousand businesspeople who have been released from criminal prosecution as part of the amnesty as proof of his effectiveness. “We use our mechanism,” he said. “If we were to get involved in political work, that’s an entirely different type of activity.” He also argues that as Russia’s entrepreneurial class grows and matures, it will demand more from state institutions.

As for Mr. Telkov, he still doesn’t have his fabric back. After months of delay and refusal, investigators allowed him to see the fabric that had been stored as evidence at the warehouses of his competitors. According to Mr. Telkov, it wasn’t his fabric at all. Some rolls were stamped with production dates of November 2012, some 10 months after he was arrested. He suspects that the fabric originally confiscated from him was sold long ago. Mr. Tayt told me that although Mr. Titov’s office could not confirm that theory, “we haven’t heard refutation of this thesis either from his competitors or from investigative bodies.”

In essence, investigators have two choices: Send the case to court, but the evidence appears flimsy and the prosecutor’s office has already twice declined to present the case to a judge; or close down the investigation, but that would hurt the careers of the officers involved and could make Mr. Telkov eligible for compensation for the year he spent in jail. Dropping the case would be the “optimal option,” Mr. Titov said. “But if the ministry of internal affairs” — the state body that oversees the police and the investigators working on the case — “has a different opinion, then, unfortunately, there’s nothing we can do.” Ultimately, his office can act only as an advocate for entrepreneurs, not take on the power of the courts.

Mr. Telkov told me that he was trying to look at the ordeal as a “very costly advertising campaign” that revealed his honesty and bravery to potential partners and investors. In recent months, he has received several offers to work as a manager for large multinational companies in Europe, but after running his own business, he said, he has no desire to work for someone else.

He has also become more involved in civic activism and would like to help other businesspeople avoid ordeals like his. “It’s impossible to break the machine,” he said of Russia’s criminal justice system. “But you can modify it, make life a little more comfortable for business.” It sounded, in a way, like something Mr. Titov might say.

But Mr. Telkov’s optimism has its limits. I asked what his overall advice was for anyone in Russia thinking of starting a business. He paused for a moment. “My general advice,” he said, “is that for now, better not to.”
637 2013-12-29 Austin Gates, 50, of Harrison, Mich., recently changed departments at the A.S.P.C.A., which she joined in 2010.

Q. Was your new job at the A.S.P.C.A. a lateral move? A promotion?

A. It’s actually two levels lower than the position I had before.

Then why did you want to move?

Because of what I believe in. In my former role, as director of the A.S.P.C.A.’s animal-relocation initiative, I helped relocate dogs from overcrowded shelters to shelters with more room. This is important work, but to me, spaying and neutering animals is the highest priority. It’s the best way to stem the flow of animals entering shelters.

How did you first become interested in working with animals?

When I was in my 20s, my father was working in Mexico and we were living in a hotel while waiting for housing. A friend of the family asked me to pet-sit for her dog in my hotel room. We’d had a mouse problem and the hotel staff had put rat poison under the TV in my room. The dog made a beeline for it and ingested it before I could stop him. He died. His owner was shattered, and I was so devastated that I studied to become a veterinary technician in Denver to find out how I might have saved him. I learned there was nothing I could have done.

So you worked with animals before joining the A.S.P.C.A.?

After vet tech school, I worked as a veterinary technician at a large shelter in Denver and opened its first spay/neuter clinic. Then I became an assistant director of a shelter in Golden, Colo. I left to get a bachelor’s in management at Colorado Christian University, and afterward I was the executive director for a shelter in Washington State.

What is it like to tour the shelters?

Meeting other people who are committed to helping animals is inspirational, and, of course, getting to meet the dogs and cats is great. It can be dangerous, though. On one trip to New Mexico, I fell in love with a Chihuahua mix and adopted him.
638 2013-12-29 Selfies are something new to me, but as I have become increasingly addicted to Instagram, I have been accused of posting too many of them. I was called out on the “Today” show, and have even been called the selfie king.

Maybe this is so, but only because I’ve learned that the selfie is one of the most popular ways to post — and garner the most likes from followers. The likes spin out of control for selfies of me and my two handsome brothers, especially Dave, the other actor, whose image pulls in its own legion of teenage fans.

I can see which posts don’t get attention or make me lose followers: those with photos of art projects; videos telling the haters to go away (in not so many words); and photos with poems. (Warning: Post your own, and you’ll see how fast people become poetry specialists and offer critiques like “I hate you, you should die.”)

But a well-stocked collection of selfies seems to get attention. And attention seems to be the name of the game when it comes to social networking. In this age of too much information at a click of a button, the power to attract viewers amid the sea of things to read and watch is power indeed. It’s what the movie studios want for their products, it’s what professional writers want for their work, it’s what newspapers want — hell, it’s what everyone wants: attention. Attention is power. And if you are someone people are interested in, then the selfie provides something very powerful, from the most privileged perspective possible.

We speak of the celebrity selfie, which is its own special thing. It has value regardless of the photo’s quality, because it is ostensibly an intimate shot of someone whom the public is curious about. It is the prize shot that the paparazzi would kill for, because they would make good money; it is the shot that the magazines and blogs want, because it will get the readers close to the subject.
639 2013-12-29 In a warm review of Luhrmann’s “Gatsby,” The Times’s A. O. Scott advised readers to “put aside whatever literary agenda you are tempted to bring with you.” But that’s a tad disingenuous. A literary agenda, after all, is what inspired the adaptation in the first place: Stroheim’s passion for “McTeague,” Luhrmann’s for “Gatsby.” And so the ancient quarrel — or is it a love affair? — continues. This year’s “Great Gatsby” was at least the sixth film version of that novel. Who doubts there will be another?

Daniel Mendelsohn is the author of seven books, including the international best seller “The Lost: A Search for Six of Six Million”; two collections of essays on books, film, theater and television; and a translation of the poetry of Cavafy. His essays and reviews have appeared frequently in The New Yorker, The New York Review of Books and The New York Times Book Review. Mendelsohn has won the National Book Critics Circle Award for memoir and the NBCC’s Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence in Book Reviewing; the National Jewish Book Award; and the George Jean Nathan Prize for Drama Criticism. His most recent book, “Waiting for the Barbarians: Essays From the Classics to Pop Culture,” was a finalist for the NBCC award in criticism and the PEN Art of the Essay prize. He teaches at Bard College.

I made peace with the idea that my book was being adapted, not imitated or illustrated. The liberties had been bought and paid for.

There are no sensible generalizations to be made about what we’re “meant to get” from film adaptations — other than, perhaps, good movies. (Adaptations are just as various in their commercial and artistic ambitions as films based on original screenplays.) The common expectation is that adaptations should be “faithful” to their source texts. But it’s not at all clear why we should burden films with this obligation.

When my novel “Notes on a Scandal” was turned into a movie some years ago, I was repeatedly asked if I minded that the filmmakers had “taken liberties” with the book. I did not mind. The liberties had been bought and paid for. And I had made my peace with the idea that my book was being adapted, not imitated or illustrated. Novels create effects with words that may be gestured at in other mediums, but not reproduced. Why then demand that a movie be faithful to a book when the book is always going to do a superior job of being itself?

Better, surely, to accept adaptations as independent works of art that make use of — but owe no particular loyalty to — anterior texts. We don’t blame Shakespeare for playing fast and loose with Holinshed’s “Chronicles,” or go after Zadie Smith for “betraying” E. M. Forster.

This is not, by and large, what people want to hear from writers who have had their work adapted. The fidelity principle demands that an author should either endorse a movie by saying it has “done justice” to her work, or angrily denounce it for having traduced her artistic intentions. As for the filmmaker, he is honor-bound to characterize even his most flagrant additions, subtractions and innovations as efforts to “capture the spirit” of the text. (See Baz Luhrmann’s defense of the hip-hop soundtrack for his film of “The Great Gatsby.”) But what if the filmmaker has decided, as is his right, to mess with that spirit, or to go after another spirit altogether?

The new movie “Saving Mr. Banks” advertises itself as the story of how Walt Disney “worked his magic” to “bring Mary Poppins to life.” This tag line doesn’t just insult the author, P. L. Travers, who had already brought Mary Poppins to life very nicely, without Hollywood’s ministrations; it also does a disservice to Walt Disney’s boldness as an adapter. If there’s one thing Disney clearly did not attempt in the movie, it was to “capture” or portray the snappish, volatile, lower-middle-class nanny of the books. His infinitely more audacious decision was to kill off that Mary Poppins and replace her with another character altogether, a plummy-voiced, uncomplicatedly benign personage played by Julie Andrews.

We may feel that Travers’s Poppins is a more interesting and beguiling character than the one Disney invented — just as we may judge F. Scott Fitzgerald’s “Gatsby” to be a superior work of art to Luhrmann’s club remix. But this is only to say that Luhrmann’s and Disney’s genius was not equal to that of the authors from whom they borrowed. It does not follow that Luhrmann and Disney would have made better movies by being more respectful of the originals.

Most adaptations don’t achieve greatness (most films don’t, most art doesn’t), but those that do — Nicolas Roeg’s “Don’t Look Now,"Vittorio De Sica’s “The Garden of the Finzi-Continis,” Robert Hamer’s “Kind Hearts and Coronets,"Luchino Visconti’s “The Leopard,” most of Hitchcock’s oeuvre — are not distinguished by any unusual degree of loyalty to their original texts. Conversely, some of the dullest adaptations are the most slavishly “faithful.” (See Peter Jackson’s version of “The Hobbit,” a movie bogged down in C.G.I. and its director’s desperate determination not to offend Tolkien fans.) Given the choice between Jackson’s reverence and Disney’s chutzpah, I think I’d plump for the latter. At least “Mary Poppins” the movie gives us some good songs.

Zoë Heller is the author of three novels: “Everything You Know”; “Notes on a Scandal,” which was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize and adapted for film; and “The Believers.” She has written feature articles and criticism for a wide range of publications, including The New Yorker, The New Republic and The New York Review of Books.
640 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
641 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
642 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
643 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
644 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
645 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
646 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
647 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
648 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
649 2013-12-30 Mayoral inaugurations often reflect characteristics of both the mayor and the era. Here are some reports and recordings from inaugurations dating back to Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1934.
650 2013-12-30 The first man in modern history to be elected mayor for three consecutive terms, Fiorello H. La Guardia – the “Little Flower” – has become the model of what it means to be the leader of New York City. Running on a Republican and Fusion ticket, he defeated incumbent John P. O'Brien, who was backed by Tammany Hall, the notoriously corrupt Democratic Party machine. Mr. La Guardia held no formal inauguration ceremony; instead on his first day he went straight to work, setting the tone of dynamism, reform and anticorruption zeal that were to become his trademarks. In a radio address he declared, “New York City was restored to the people this morning at one minute after midnight.” Promising to “clean house and clean it thoroughly,” he took what he described as the oath of the young men of Athens, saying: “The oath was taken in the temple before Zeus. ‘We will never bring disgrace to this our city by any act of dishonesty or cowardice, nor ever desert our suffering comrades in the ranks. We will fight for our ideals, and sacred things of the city, both alone and with many.’” The mood of the city was brightened by the fact that his inauguration coincided with the first New Year’s Eve celebrations since the end of Prohibition.

William O’Dwyer, an Irish-born Democrat universally known as “Bill-O,” won the 1945 election by a huge majority, and was inaugurated before a crowd of 700 people in the City Hall council chambers, with the celebratory song, “It's a Great Day for the Irish.” But he resigned just five years later, after he had secured re-election, as a police corruption scandal involving a large gambling ring closed in. He was appointed ambassador to Mexico by President Harry Truman, and left New York immediately.

After serving as acting mayor under his scandal-scarred predecessor, Vincent R. Impellitteri, an immigrant cobbler's son who was born in Sicily, won a special election held after Mr. O’Dwyer’s abrupt resignation, and became the 101st mayor. Given the circumstances, he held the briefest of inaugurations, speaking for three minutes without a band or platform and pledging to “do my level best to justify the confidence you have reposed in me.” He ran without the support of a major party and served the remaining three years of the term, but had angered Tammany Hall and failed to get re-elected in 1953.

The son of a German immigrant who became a United States senator, Robert F. Wagner, a Democrat, was Manhattan borough president when he beat Mr. Impellitteri in the 1953 election. At his inauguration he promised to act in “the best interest of all people” and hailed public service as “among the most noble challenges.” He went on to become the first three-term mayor since Mr. La Guardia. During his 12 years, New York hosted the 1964-65 World’s Fair and saw a massive highway and bridge construction, including the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. Mr. Wagner also used state and federal funds to clear slums and build public housing, although critics said he was overly cautious in tackling postwar social changes. He failed in attempts to follow his father into the Senate.

John V. Lindsay’s election in 1965 marked a generational change in New York politics, with the arrival of a charismatic and telegenic young politician who was as at home on “The Tonight Show” with Johnny Carson as he was touring urban ghettos. He was the first Republican to hold the office for two decades, coming off four terms in the United States House of Representatives. His very first day was marked by a transit strike that forced him to abandon plans for a tour of the city and overshadowed his inauguration, in which he warned that if his new administration were allowed to fail, cynics would conclude that “great cities are no longer governable.” He won re-election in 1969, and served two terms during an era of growing racial unrest, fiscal problems, strikes and protests against the Vietnam War, but fewer riots, with Mr. Lindsay often out late at night on the streets of Harlem and the Bronx, personally touring the areas in an effort to maintain calm.

The antithesis of his predecessor, Edward I. Koch was a voluble, charismatic and streetwise politician who courted headlines and was not one to shirk controversy. He served three terms, from 1978 to 1989, and relished his image as a New Yorker’s New Yorker, with his ubiquitous catchphrase, “How’m I doin?” Born in the Bronx, he served nine years in Congress before being elected mayor as a reform Democrat from Greenwich Village. Three decades before Bill de Blasio campaigned on the slogan “A Tale of Two Cities,” The New York Times greeted the incoming mayor with a grim line drawn from another Dickens novel: “Welcome to hard times. Today Edward I. Koch officially becomes Mayor of New York City – a place that has hit financial bedrock and now, as outgoing Mayor Abraham Beame observed last week, is ready for years of rebuilding.” Mr. Koch drew praise for leading the city back from near bankruptcy, but by his third term was consumed by his handling of corruption scandals and racial divisions, and he was faulted for an inadequate response to the crack, homelessness and AIDS crises that were afflicting the city.

In 1990 David N. Dinkins became the city’s first black mayor after defeating two giants of New York politics. In the Democratic primary he beat Mr. Koch, and went on to defeat the Republican candidate, Rudolph W. Giuliani, by 47,000 votes, the narrowest electoral margin in the city’s history. In his inauguration speech he pointedly said that he would be “mayor of all the people of New York,” and told the audience, “I stand here before you today as the elected leader of the greatest city of a great nation, to which my ancestors were brought chained and whipped in the hold of a slave ship.” The city was in fiscal trouble, but he succeeded in bringing down crime figures. However, Mr. Dinkins, who called New York a “gorgeous mosaic,” found that race remained a defining issue during his single term. He drew criticism for his handling of the 1991 race riots in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. He failed to get re-elected, losing the rematch with Mr. Giuliani.

Rudolph W. Giuliani’s two terms as mayor were characterized by a relentless focus on crime and security, not surprising for a pugnacious former prosecutor who made his name by going after mafia and white-collar criminals. In his campaign he promised fiscal responsibility and to make the streets safer for New Yorkers, and was more liberal than the national Republican Party on social issues such as immigration and abortion. But the defining event of his mayoralty came at the end of his second administration, the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in 2001. He won plaudits for leading the city out of the crisis. But his image had already been damaged by severe racial tensions and allegations of civil-rights abuses. His last-minute attempt to extend his time in office after Sept. 11 raised anew accusations that he had tried to foster a cult of personality, and had come to see himself as indispensable.

Michael R. Bloomberg took over as mayor in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and presented himself as a safe pair of hands to steer New York through a period of crisis. Mr. Bloomberg is a self-made billionaire, and his business acumen made him a reassuring figure to the financial markets. He used his inauguration speech to proclaim, “New York is safe, strong, open for business.” As prosperity grew, so did his popularity. But his improvements in public health and infrastructure of the city were overshadowed during his second term by the financial crash, and the widespread disgust at the excesses of Wall Street, with which he was inextricably linked. He secured a controversial third term after successfully persuading legislators to overturn the city’s two-term limit for elected officials. That, combined with growing unease at the widening gap between rich and poor provided the springboard for his successor, Bill de Blasio, to campaign on a slogan that it was time to end what he termed the “tale of two cities.”
651 2013-12-30 Bruce Springsteen’s new album, “High Hopes,” is due for release on Jan. 14, but was temporarily made available for download on Saturday by Amazon.com....
652 2013-12-30 At a luncheon for “The Wolf of Wall Street,” Matthew McConaughey discusses his performance in the film....
653 2013-12-30 Always inquisitive and lively, the deputy business editor David Gillen makes sense of the world’s business, tackling complicated issues from a common-sense perspective.
654 2013-12-30 Management lessons from Disney U. A restaurant eliminates tipping. How to reduce shipping costs....
655 2013-12-30 Tech stocks may not quite have returned to the anything-goes dot-com era, but Twitter shares’ rapid rise is a sign of giddiness in the industry....
656 2013-12-30 From Derrick Rose to Matt Harvey, promising athletes were felled by a laundry list of ailments and, perhaps, overly optimistic expectations....
657 2013-12-30 A mesmerizing shooting display gave a final glimmer of hope to the last underdog in the N.C.A.A. tournament....
658 2013-12-30 Smart borrowers look for unbiased sources of information and advice, an economist writes....
659 2013-12-30 The design institute at Stanford University, known as the D.school, pushes its students to rethink the boundaries of industries. The students are taught to forgo computer screens and spreadsheets and focus on people. So far, that process has worked. In the eight years since it opened, its students have churned out dozens of innovative products and start-ups — everything from ways to tackle infant mortality and unreliable electricity in the third world to a mobile news-reader app. Below, a few of those ideas.
660 2013-12-30 “You’re starting to hear it: ‘It’s a new world order.’ Apparently the sun is going to rise in the west because of Twitter,” said Timothy Connolly, a Queens money manager who teaches classes in investment analysis and has posted a steady stream of skeptical tweets about Twitter’s stock. “It’s absolutely beyond ridiculous.”

Twitter, which has triple-digit revenue growth but no profits, is trading at a much higher valuation than proven Internet powerhouses like Facebook and Google. The company has released no major news or financial information since its initial public offering that would shape investor perceptions about the company.

But that has not stopped investors’ exuberance about Twitter’s potential to eventually bring in billions of dollars from advertising, coupled with Wall Street’s penchant for hopping onto any fast train, from propelling the shares to nosebleed levels.

Even some of the most bullish analysts who declared the stock a buy before it went public at $26 do not understand why anyone would purchase it at current prices.

“I just haven’t seen something like this in a long time,” said Robert S. Peck of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, who had set a price target of $50 before the I.P.O. but cut his rating to hold two weeks ago when shares reached $59. “They don’t have earnings. They don’t have free cash flow.”

As Barron’s, an investment advisory publication, put it over the weekend, “At $45 billion, the company may have the highest market value of any firm that isn’t generating any earnings since the dot-com bubble of 1999-2000.”

Mark S. Mahaney, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, was more sanguine about Twitter’s rise and said he was not ready to change his “outperform” rating on the stock, set on Dec. 13 when the shares were at about $55. He said that other Internet I.P.O.’s, like that of the daily deals site Zulily, have also done well recently, and that Twitter’s stock is getting a lift from the small number of shares available for eager public investors to buy.

The stock is also trading on the company’s potential prospects a few years out. A recent advertiser survey by RBC and Ad Age found Twitter well positioned to benefit from the shift of Internet use to mobile devices and the migration of television advertising budgets to the Internet.

“There is a ‘glass one-tenth full’ story to be told on Twitter,” said Mr. Mahaney, who had predicted a range of $40 to $70 for the stock in his last report.

Still, by conventional measures, Twitter’s stock is extremely expensive.

Shares trade at about 39 times the company’s estimated revenue of $1.1 billion in 2014. To justify even a $50 stock price, Mr. Peck recently wrote, investors would have to believe that Twitter will have revenue of about $4 billion in 2017, compared with an estimated $630 million this year.

Put another way, Twitter’s total market value is one-third that of Facebook, which has five times as many users and more than 10 times the revenue.

Analysts say investor expectations for Twitter have now become so high that any negative surprise — slowing growth, a botched product release, a bad quarter — will cause the stock to plunge.

One of those negative surprises occurred Friday, when Ben Schachter, an analyst with Macquarie Securities Group, cut his rating on the stock before the market opened, noting that “nothing has changed in the fundamentals to justify the sharp rise in shares over the past few weeks.”

That was enough to start a stampede among Twitter traders who had been betting that someone would always be willing to pay a higher price. They dumped the stock all day, and by the end of trading, the shares had dropped $9.56 to close at $63.75.

Still, the stock ended the week 6 percent higher than when it began.

Mr. Ganik, who displayed a surprising amount of market knowledge for someone so young, already has his plan for trading Twitter on Monday.

He said he was aware of the risks of jumping into such a volatile stock. That is one reason he is buying options instead of the stock itself. Options allow the holder to buy or sell the stock at a certain price over a specified time period. They cost far less than the stock itself, and if the shares move in the wrong direction of the trade, the most an investor can lose is the price he paid for the option.

Mr. Ganik said he did try buying Twitter’s stock, but quickly sold after a small profit. “I was too scared to hold it,” he said.

Even a youngster like Mr. Ganik knows that eventually, the mania will subside and the stock will fall.

“Valuation doesn’t matter until it matters,” said Mr. Peck of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. “There will be a point where, all of a sudden, it will matter.”
661 2013-12-30 Top Republicans assert that a wage increase would dampen the economic recovery and indicated after Mr. Obama mentioned the issue in his State of the Union speech this year that they had no intention of bringing a minimum-wage increase to a vote in the House, which they control.

“Why would we want to make it harder for small employers to hire people?” Speaker of said.

In the capital, Mr. Obama and congressional Democrats are supporting legislation that would raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour by 2015. Mr. Obama is planning a series of speeches across the country focused on improving wages for workers, aides said, many of them timed to coincide with key minimum-wage votes in Congress. is also likely to play a prominent role in his next month.

At the same time, Democratic campaign officials and liberal activists — conceding that Democrats face tough prospects in some Senate races — are working to put minimum-wage increases on the ballot next year in places like , and . The hope is to stoke Democratic turnout in conservative-leaning states where the party’s Senate candidates have been put on the defensive by the mishandled rollout of the Affordable Care Act.

But in a sign that some moderate Democrats are uneasy about inflaming their local business communities, the imperiled Democratic Senate incumbents in Alaska and Arkansas, and , have yet to embrace the ballot measures.

States with contested House races, including , will also see campaigns to bring minimum-wage increases to a referendum next year.

After being battered for nearly two months on the problems with Mr. Obama’s signature health law, Democrats see the minimum-wage increase as a way to shift the political conversation back to their preferred terms.

“The more Republicans obsess on repealing the Affordable Care Act and the more we focus on rebuilding the middle class with a minimum-wage increase, the more voters will support our candidates,” said Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.

Democratic planning on the issue has picked up in recent weeks, as the 2014 elections approach and the need to counter attacks on the health law has grown more urgent.

This month, top aides to Mr. Obama including the economic advisers Jason Furman and Gene B. Sperling, Secretary Thomas E. Perez and the legislative affairs office convened a meeting at the White House complex with an array of liberal groups to discuss the minimum wage. The gathering included representatives from Mr. Obama’s political arm, Organizing for America, unions and progressive groups like Americans United for Change and the National Employment Law Project.

An official from the National Employment Law Project presented a spreadsheet showing which cities and states were pursuing campaigns to increase minimum wages next year, according to a person who attended. The attendees also discussed the potential timing of a minimum-wage vote in the Democratic-controlled Senate.

A representative from the urged the White House officials to coordinate with Senate Democrats on when to bring the issue to the floor so that the unions could “have time to mount a grass-roots” campaign stirring up support for the measure, an attendee recalled.

“The combination of the state ballot initiatives and at some point a big nasty fight in D.C. that will amplify some of the stuff in the states is going to create a feedback loop that will be really helpful,” said one Democratic official involved in the discussions.

Democrats prize the issue of a minimum-wage increase because it would help address income inequality, which is galvanizing liberals at the moment and is popular with swing voters they will need in next year’s elections.

Sixty-four percent of independents and even 57 percent of Republicans said they supported increasing the minimum wage, according to a CBS News poll last month. Some 70 percent of self-described “moderates” said they supported an increase.

“We’ve got a lot of folks who are registered Republicans for whatever reason here, but when you start talking about earning a dollar more an hour it means something to them, regardless of their party,” said Rick Weiland, the Democrat running for the Senate in South Dakota next year, who has embraced the ballot measure there.

Mr. Weiland said 62,000 people in his sparsely populated state would receive a raise if a ballot question that calls for raising the minimum wage to $8.50 an hour from $7.25 wins the approval of voters in November.

Liberal strategists would like other Democratic Senate candidates to follow suit, noting that Democrats were elected senators in two conservative-leaning states, and , in 2006 when proposals to increase the minimum wage were overwhelmingly approved.

Of course, for the overall strategy to work for the Democrats they need Republicans to oppose an increase, and history suggests that is not a given.

At the meeting this month, Mr. Sperling, who was an adviser to President , recalled that in 1996 Republican leaders decided that fighting an wage increase was not worth the political trouble and let a bill raising the rate pass after inserting provisions helping small businesses.
662 2013-12-30 More states are coming to recognize that the death penalty is arbitrary, racially biased and prone to catastrophic error. Even those that have not abolished capital punishment are no longer carrying it out in practice.

In 2013, became the sixth state to end capital punishment in the last six years. Eighteen states and the have abolished the penalty, and it is dormant in the federal system and the military. Thirty states have had no executions in the last five years.

As it becomes less frequent, the death penalty also becomes more limited to an extremely small slice of the country, and therefore all the more arbitrary in its application. All 80 death sentences in 2013 came from only about 2 percent of counties in the entire country, and all 39 executions — more than half occurred in and — took place in about 1 percent of all counties, according to a new report by the Death Penalty Information Center. Eighty-five percent of all counties have not had a single execution in more than 45 years.

Public support for the death penalty — an important factor in the ’s consideration of its constitutionality — is at its lowest level in four decades, and 40 percent of people surveyed by Gallup say they do not believe it is administered fairly. Surely that is due in part to the hundreds of exonerations based on DNA testing — including 18 death-row inmates — which continue to reveal irreparable failures throughout the system.

Of course none of this matters to, say, Troy Davis or Cameron Todd Willingham, both of whom were executed in recent years despite deep doubts about their guilt. Nor is it of much use to the 3,100 people still sitting on death row around the country.

The argument is not that all of these people are innocent, or that they deserve to be released. Most would be justly imprisoned for most if not all of their life. But the death penalty as applied in America now — so thoroughly dependent on where the defendant lives and how much money he can spend on his defense — violates the constitutional guarantees of due process and equal protection, and no longer can overcome the Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel and unusual punishments.

The dishonor and shame of capital punishment are further highlighted by the current shortage of lethal-injection drugs, a “crisis” resulting from the refusal of European drug makers to provide them for executions. As a result, states that use lethal injection have turned to unregulated compounding pharmacies, and have even passed laws to hide the identity of those pharmacies and the chemical makeup of the drugs. This only underscores the fact that when it comes to the death penalty, the United States is virtually alone in the Western world.
663 2013-12-30 In 1967, he built and sponsored a radical new car with a turbine engine and 80 percent fewer parts than a conventional, piston-driven engine. Al Dean, a rival owner, said, “If they’re going to race airplanes, then let’s all race airplanes.”

Mr. Granatelli entered a turbine car in the Indianapolis 500 that year with Parnelli Jones driving. It led for 171 of the 200 laps and was leading by almost one lap with three laps left when a $6 transmission ball bearing broke. The car slowed to a stop.

The next year, the United States Auto Club, which made the race rules, ordered turbine power reduced by a third. Still, a Granatelli car with Joe Leonard driving was leading with eight laps to go when a tiny gear broke in the fuel-pump shaft. The crowd, which seemed to prefer the traditional cars, cheered. Then came more restrictions, and Mr. Granatelli gave up on the turbine car.

In his 1969 autobiography, “They Call Me Mr. 500,” he said: “We were rather badly handled in the turbine affair. Perhaps we tried to hurry tomorrow to a group of tradition-bound people who were frightened silly at the prospect of a new dawn.”

In 1969, Mario Andretti crashed Mr. Granatelli’s new four-wheel-drive Lotus in an Indianapolis 500 practice. Andretti drove a year-old backup car with a conventional engine in the race and won. In 1973, Mr. Granatelli won the race again with a car driven by Gordon Johncock.

Mr. Granatelli last entered a car at Indianapolis in 1974. He also sponsored Richard Petty in Nascar races, and from 1972 to 1981, Petty won four series championships and four Daytona 500s.

Anthony Granatelli was born March 18, 1923, in Dallas and grew up in the Chicago slums. He dropped out of school at 14 and worked in a grocery for $6 a week.

He and his two brothers — Vince and Joe — became auto mechanics who turned normal car engines into racing engines. When he was 20, he and his brothers bought a gas station in Chicago and became an instant success because four or five mechanics would work on a car at once. Soon, he started marketing auto parts.

After World War II, he promoted auto stunt shows featuring drivers who did rollover and end-over-end crashes and survived, a sort of Harlem Globetrotters performance with spark plugs.

In 1946, the three brothers drove an 11-year-old racecar from Chicago to Indianapolis. They slept in a garage because they could not afford hotel rooms. With Danny Kladis as their driver, they entered a car in the 500, which qualified in the back of the field, ran out of fuel and finished 21st.

By 1947, Mr. Granatelli was promoting stock-car and hot-rod races in the Midwest. In 1948, he tried to become an Indianapolis driver, using a helmet borrowed from his friend Bill France Sr., the founder of Nascar. He crashed in his qualifying run.

Mr. Granatelli’s first major business operation was Paxton Products, which made superchargers and was losing money. He bought the company in 1958, and in seven months, it was making a profit. In 1961, he sold the company to Studebaker and became a Studebaker vice president, chief engineer and driver.

His production cars set more than 400 world land-speed and endurance records. At 62, in a passenger car legal for street driving, he drove 241.731 miles per hour over the Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah.

Studebaker controlled 55 percent of STP’s stock, and in 1973, it terminated his STP contract because of differences with the board of directors. In 1976, Mr. Granatelli bought Tuneup Masters, an auto-parts distributor, for $300,000. In 1986, he sold it for 

$60 million.

He was elected to at least 24 automotive, racing and business halls of fame, including the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 1992 and the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 2001. Besides his son Vince, survivors include his wife, Dolly, and another son, Anthony.

In 1969, Mr. Granatelli said of himself: “People say he’s flamboyant, he’s this, he’s that. That’s just me. I can’t help who I am. I was born supercharged.”
664 2013-12-30 Your article suggests that our stop-and-frisk case, Floyd v. City of New York, somehow “bypassed the random assignment process and went directly” to Judge Shira A. Scheindlin, as if that were exceptional or controversial.

In fact, it was not only the norm but also a requirement under the court’s rules, under penalty of financial sanction, that litigants mark cases brought with similar facts and legal arguments as related. Your article does not adequately emphasize the mandatory nature of the related case designation.

We settled a nearly identical case on racially discriminatory stop-and-frisk practices by the New York Police Department before Judge Scheindlin, but the number of unconstitutional stops rose dramatically. The facts were the same. The legal arguments were the same. We marked the new case as related.

Judge Scheindlin, as any reasonable judge who is obligated to consider judicial efficiency would, took the case. The city at no point formally objected because there was nothing to object to.

There is nothing unusual about the assignment of our case, as a consideration of the facts and the law demonstrates.
665 2013-12-30 To Ms. Schwarzer, though, such a system simply locks in place a misogynist power structure: “Prostitution is not the exception, it is a mass phenomenon.” Ms. Schwarzer’s position is common in other parts of Northern Europe, where a sort of “state feminism” has been on the rise for decades. In the name of protecting women, in 1999 Sweden criminalized the hiring of prostitutes, turning the judicial gaze on the johns and away from the women.

Such a law works well in a place like Sweden, where the political consensus is to subordinate one’s personal needs and desires to the common good.

“In Sweden, there are many more men who consider themselves feminists than anywhere else in the world,” said the German journalist Thomas Kirchner, a correspondent for the Süddeutsche Zeitung. “Men have to ask themselves: Do I really want to satisfy my urge, even if that means supporting a system that humiliates and exploits thousands of women? What image of women do I teach my children?”

The Swedish model is being taken up across the Continent: Northern Ireland, Belgium, Finland and Lithuania are all about to follow suit.

But Ms. Schwarzer and Sweden represent just one side of the debate. Organizations that represent sex workers have pushed back aggressively. They argue that the women for whom they advocate — such as the sociology student earning a little extra money in a high-priced escort service, the ex-prostitute who opened up her own business and who claims to love her job — are a social category that simply does not exist for the feminist prohibition movement, which sees only victims of oppression.

Resistance to this new state feminism has nowhere been as vivid as in France, where a new law imposes a fine of 1,500 euros on people caught soliciting a prostitute (they are also required to undergo awareness classes on the dire situation of prostitutes and the dangers of sex work). The French philosopher Elisabeth Badinter declared the proposal “a declaration of hate toward male sexuality.” She has made common cause with a growing number of Frenchmen — as diverse as the novelist Frédéric Beigbeder and the lawyer Richard Malka, who defended Dominique Strauss-Kahn against charges of rape — who deny that their visiting prostitutes constitutes anything other than a private transaction between consenting adults.

A petition called “343 Bastards” — an allusion to a notorious abortion-rights campaign in 1971 of “343 sluts” — stated that “some of us have gone, go, or will go to prostitutes — and we are not even ashamed.” They added, “everyone should be free to sell their charms, and even to love doing it.”

What this debate obscures is the crucial difference between prostitution in general, which can certainly be about consenting adults doing what they want with their bodies, and human trafficking, which no one should tolerate or provide excuses for. Unfortunately, state feminism, in its desire to make a stand for women, ends up punishing those who are most open about their willingness to pay or be paid for sex, while pushing the evils of human trafficking and forced sex work further underground.

Instead of cracking down on the men who frequent prostitutes, the authorities should be focused on the criminal networks that bring in women from Eastern European countries to the European Union.

Punishing johns in general is a kind of fundamentalism that doesn’t befit a liberation movement. By becoming a state religion, feminism can only lose.

Mariam Lau is a political correspondent for the German weekly newspaper Die Zeit.
666 2013-12-30 A $20 million fraud lawsuit filed by the heirs of the sculptor Alexander Calder against the estate of his art dealer, Klaus G. Perls, has been dismissed in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The suit claimed that Perls and his family held on to hundreds of Calder’s works, cheated the artist’s estate out of tens of millions of dollars over the course of three decades and sold fake Calder works. According to the decision by Justice Shirley Werner Kornreich, made public last week, the various claims are “an incoherent stew of irrelevance and innuendo” and the evidence failed to show that any fraud had been committed. “All these allegations are so patently inadequate that the court can only conclude that they were brought solely for the purpose of harassment or embarrassment,” Judge Kornreich said. The lawsuit was filed in 2010, two years after Mr. Perls died. His wife, Dolly, and employees of his gallery have also died. Calder died in 1976, leaving Judge Kornreich to conclude, “Plaintiffs are attempting to litigate issues that necessarily stretch back decades without any personal knowledge or contemporaneous records, where nearly all of the people who had personal knowledge of the facts of the case are dead.” Perls represented Calder for more than 20 years, and they were considered friends who frequently dined and traveled together and visited each other’s families. The Calder Foundation, which is devoted to collecting, cataloging and archiving Calder works, could not be reached for comment on Sunday.
667 2013-12-30 But some analysts in Cambodia describe the past few months here as a watershed for Cambodian society, which for years has been dominated by the highly personalized rule of Mr. Hun Sen, whose party has tight control over major institutions in the country, including the army, the police, the judiciary and much of the news media.

Protesters blocking traffic and marching through downtown Phnom Penh remain a jarring sight after years during which the main message from the government has been that people should be grateful for the unity and development that Mr. Hun Sen brought to Cambodia after many years of war.

“It seems like a turning point in the history of civil society,” said Yeng Virak, the executive director of the Community Legal Education Center, a Cambodian human rights organization. “People feel more free to join protests and to identify themselves as part of the opposition.”

The continued vigor of the protest movement five months after the elections appears to be a reflection of the deep pool of resentment in the country toward Mr. Hun Sen.

One woman who took part in the march on Sunday, Meng Phang, 59, shouted to onlookers, including stone-faced police officers, that “Hun Sen and his family are getting richer, but everyone else is getting poorer.”

Ms. Meng Phang’s participation also represented another crucial factor of the protests: the sustained financing of the movement. Ms. Meng Phang said she had donated about $1,000 to the protest movement from money she had saved while working in a factory in Japan.

Kem Sokha, one of the protest leaders, singled out contributions “from our people abroad” in a speech to protesters on Sunday evening. There are large Cambodian populations in Australia, France and the United States, among other countries.

The grievances among protesters on Sunday were varied. Sok Heng, a middle-aged carpenter, lamented the lack of justice in the country and mentioned the case of his brother-in-law, who he said was killed by a thief. The police asked for a bribe before agreeing to arrest the suspect, he said.

Touch Vandeth, 24, was one of thousands of garment workers on strike who demanded a doubling of the minimum wage to $160 a month, a sharp increase that would put wages well above those of Cambodia’s regional economic competitors, including Bangladesh, Myanmar and Vietnam. Ms. Touch Vandeth, who assembles Adidas footwear at a factory on the outskirts of Phnom Penh, said she had been unable to save much money on her current salary, $80 plus overtime.

Chay Soheaktra, one of the many Buddhist monks taking part in the demonstration, said he was angry that Mr. Hun Sen’s government had given a forestry concession to a Vietnamese company. Anti-Vietnamese talk has been a mainstay of the protest leaders, who portray Mr. Hun Sen as a puppet of Vietnam. (Mr. Hun Sen is Cambodian but came to power with the aid of an invading Vietnamese Army that pushed the Khmer Rouge from power in 1979.)

The Buddhist hierarchy is closely aligned with Mr. Hun Sen, but younger monks have joined the protests — sometimes in defiance of their elders — and are particularly angry at the theft this month of precious Buddhist relics from a Buddhist shrine. Monks question how a national treasure was so poorly guarded, especially when hundreds of security officers guard the residences of Mr. Hun Sen and other top officials.

Ou Virak, the president of the Cambodian Center for Human Rights, an independent advocacy organization in Phnom Penh, said the theft of the relics might be among the biggest problems for Mr. Hun Sen. In a country where superstition plays an important role, the theft could be taken as a supernatural sign.

Mr. Hun Sen is unpopular with a broad portion of the Cambodian electorate, Mr. Ou Virak said. But many people, especially business leaders, are not convinced that the opposition is ready to govern the country. He cited the opposition’s embrace of the doubling of the minimum wage, claiming that the country could lose tens of thousands of jobs to neighboring countries.

“The majority of the people want change,” Mr. Ou Virak said. “But they don’t know what that change would look like.”
668 2013-12-30 Spanish business schools, several of them highly ranked in global lists, are responding to the demand by building ever closer ties with the Latin American region and by making Spanish class time more widely accessible.

Esade, where some 19 percent of this year’s graduating class hails from Latin America, has just started a study program called Doing Business in Latin America. To better accommodate students who will be working chiefly in a Spanish business environment, the school’s general M.B.A. program — until now taught in English — will offer a full-time Spanish course, starting next year.

IESE, another top-ranked school based in Barcelona, where this year 15 percent of students are from Latin America, started offering an executive M.B.A. in São Paolo, Brazil, in August 2012, offering courses for business professionals from Brazil and neighboring countries in English, Portuguese and Spanish.

Major reasons for the renewed interest in Spanish schools include existing economic ties, a shared business culture and, for many Latin Americans, a shared language.

Sergio Vera, a Chilean M.B.A. student at IESE, said his course material often focused on Latin American examples: “That’s the thing about the Spanish business environment: There are a lot of Latin American cases,” he said.

As the number of Latin American M.B.A. students in Spain rises, so too does the number who say they plan to return to Latin America after graduation, said Javier Muñoz, who runs M.B.A. career services at IESE.

With business in much of Latin America booming, “there are a lot more opportunities in Latin America,” he said.

Xavier Gimbert, recently appointed to oversee Latin American programs and initiatives at Esade, agrees.

Citing Colombia as an example, he said qualified M.B.A.s were more sought after than ever before as countries in the region opened up to big Latin American-based multinational companies. “If you compare Colombia with five or 10 years ago, it is another country,” he said.

At IE — another prestigious Spanish business school, based in Madrid — Latin Americans make up about 22 percent of the current student population. With the exception of those from Venezuela and Argentina, many of whom hope to stay in Europe, most say they hope to parlay their degrees into Latin American careers. The numbers rise as high as 95 percent among Brazilian students and 97 percent among Peruvians, according to IE student polls.

This is a marked change from just a decade ago, according to several experts.

“Ten years ago, during the Spanish boom years, many Latin Americans came to study and to stay here,” said Gonzálo Garland, the vice president for external relations at IE.

Now, said Carlos García Pont, second-year M.B.A. academic director at IESE, “there has been an opening in interest because Peru, Brazil and Chile have increased their economic standing in the world.”

The schools note that their connections to the region are not new: They have run Latin American offices, maintained links with the region’s universities and co-taught courses for decades.

These longstanding links are among the reasons why Ms. Fratini thinks her degree will be valued on the Brazilian job market. “I felt like the companies I’ve been speaking to are aware what an Esade M.B.A. means,” she said after talking with potential employers in Brazil.

In October, IESE joined with the French business school Insead and the London Business School to bring big Latin American employers to their campus for a two-day Latin American job fair.

It was at a similar career fair organized by Esade in Barcelona last year that Ms. Fratini found a summer internship with Votorantim, a multinational industrial and financial group based in Brazil.

Another advantage of Spanish schools is the strength of their Latin American alumni networks.

“I was looking for four things: academics, a strong network in Latin America, career development opportunity and to get a job in the region,” said Mr. Vera, who came to IESE in Barcelona last year and expects to graduate in May.

Mr. Vera, who considered pursuing an M.B.A. in the United States, said that another argument for IESE was its network in his home country: “I saw that IESE were very committed to Chile,” he said.

Beside professional reasons for getting a Spanish M.B.A., Ms. Fratini also said life for a Latin American in Spain was easier than in other European countries.

“We can relate to the culture and the people here,” she said.

Still, the prime factor was what a Spanish degree would do for her when she went home, she said: “It definitely helps me leverage my future plans in Brazil.”
669 2013-12-31 Denounced by the Syrian government as a “spokesman for terrorists,” she went into hiding in Douma, a “liberated” town in the eastern Ghouta region now under siege by government forces. She was among the first to document the Aug. 21 chemical attacks on rebel-held neighborhoods.

More recently, Ms. Zaitouneh opened a center for the women of Douma, where they can learn the skills they need to survive a war. It is part of a broader effort to help civil initiatives in “liberated” zones.

“What Razan was doing in Douma was a good example, proof that there is still room for peaceful activities,” said Ms. Assabalani. “She wanted to let these women learn something, let them build something. It’s a country we’re talking about, not just a crisis.”

Now Ms. Zaitouneh has vanished into the yawning black hole of the Syrian war, where lines between friend and foe have become treacherously blurred, where to be “liberated” no longer means to be safe.

Yassin al Haj Saleh, a Syrian journalist married to one of Ms. Zaitouneh’s kidnapped colleagues, has publicly accused the Army of Islam, part of the broader non-Qaeda-linked Islamic Front, a possible partner in future peace talks, of her kidnapping. Muhammed Aloush, who heads the group, has denied any role in it.

“There’s no evidence that he’s behind it, and there’s no evidence that he isn’t,” said Ms. Assabalani, who worked with Syrian human rights activists in Damascus before she had to flee in 2012. “There’s no place you can go and ask.”

Friends and colleagues thought Ms. Zaitouneh would be safe in Douma, where she continued to document violence after the chemical attacks last August. “I thought no one would touch her; it’s a matter of respect,” Ms. Assabalani said. “She stayed neutral and went ahead with documentation, no matter who was guilty. It is a moral issue.”

But in Syria today, moral issues, and political allegiances, are being pushed aside as the war moves to a more unforgiving phase. Samira al-Khalil, one of the four kidnapping victims and wife of Mr. Saleh, had also thought she would be safe in Douma — where she had once served prison time as a political prisoner of the Assad regime. Instead of finding shelter, both she and Ms. Zaitouneh found themselves in a trap.

Ms. Zaitouneh has never left Syria; she didn’t go to Europe or the United States to collect the several human rights prizes awarded her during the past three years. That loyalty has won her a big following, said Ms. Assabalani.

“Razan is a hope for every single Syrian,” she said. “Talk to anyone and they will says she’s our hope. She’s a candle in the dark.”
670 2013-12-31 Despite turbulence in Washington, China and Europe, which threatened to pull the world into another recession, stock prices just kept rising in 2013....
671 2013-12-31 The hedge fund billionaire and trader Steven A. Cohen originally put the four-bedroom, five-and-a-half bathroom duplex up for sale in the spring. Its pricetag then: $115 million....
672 2013-12-31 Apple said it would continue to try to defend customers from security attacks “regardless of who’s behind them.”...
673 2013-12-31 With on-camera interviews, behind-the-scenes footage and exclusive access to fashion designers and insiders, T Magazine explores the vast world of fashion.
674 2013-12-31 Questions about Zilmax, a feed additive made by Merck, show the market dangers of an increasingly complicated global food chain, Kevin Allison of Reuters Breakingviews writes....
675 2013-12-31 Japan’s monetary expansion is an overdue effort to revive the economy and should be welcomed by the United States, even if it poses a challenge for some American companies, an economist writes....
676 2013-12-31 The director of “The Broken Circle Breakdown,” on the shortlist for best foreign-language film, explains why he thinks observers liken this Belgian film to an American indie project....
677 2013-12-31 What you need to know for Tuesday: a farewell to the mayor, the de Blasio inauguration and New Year’s events....
678 2013-12-31 Southern set an N.C.A.A. record by scoring the first 44 points of the game en route to a 116-12 rout of Champion Baptist College. The Jaguars (4-9) broke the all-divisions record by Seton Hall, which scored the first 34 points against Kean College in 1998. Champion Baptist finished 3 for 44 from the field (6.8 percent).
679 2013-12-31 Michael R. Bloomberg, in one of his last moves as mayor, on Monday installed one of his top anti-corruption watchdogs as the city’s next Campaign Finance Board chairwoman.

Rose Gill Hearn, the commissioner of the Department of Investigation throughout Mr. Bloomberg’s mayoralty, will lead the Campaign Finance Board for a five-year term, through the end of 2018.

She succeeds the Rev. Joseph P. Parkes, the president of Cristo Rey New York High School, whose term as the head of the five-person board ended last month.

Since Ms. Gill Hearn, a former top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, took office, cases begun by the Department of Investigation resulted in three times the number of arrests annually. More recently, the agency played a key role in highlighting one of the biggest failures of Mr. Bloomberg’s tenure: the CityTime automated payroll scandal, which has led to the convictions of eight people. On Monday, it released a report highlighting the shortcomings of the city’s Board of Elections.

In her new role, Ms. Gill Hearn will become the face of an agency that provides public matching funds to candidates running for city office and publishes details about their fund-raising and spending. The agency has played a crucial role, in the wake of the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, in disclosing more fully the extent of spending by outside groups.

The board has also been aggressive in investigating and penalizing campaigns for financial improprieties. This year, it withheld as much as $3.5 million in public money from the mayoral campaign of the city’s comptroller, John C. Liu, after two former associates were convicted in an illegal fund-raising scheme. And in 2009, the board — together with Ms. Gill Hearn’s agency — collaborated with federal prosecutors in an investigation of former City Councilman Miguel Martinez, who was sentenced to five years for stealing $106,000.
680 2013-12-31 When President Lyndon B. Johnson yearned to cut taxes in 1964, he knew he could not succeed without tirelessly wooing Senator Harry Byrd of Virginia, the Democrat who held the Finance Committee job for a decade before Mr. Long.

“As powerful as Lyndon Johnson was, he was powerful because he knew how to play the committee chairs,” said Richard A. Baker, a former Senate historian.

Mr. Baker says he sees power ebbing from the Finance Committee because of a consolidation of control in the offices of the floor leaders. That is where most of the main decisions on policy and legislative priorities are made these days — in suites on the second floor of the Capitol rather than in the committee rooms of the Senate office buildings.

“It has been a gradual accretion through the ‘80s and ‘90s in the direction of the floor leader,” said Mr. Baker, a co-author of the book “The American Senate: An Insider’s History.”

While all the committees have surrendered influence in recent years, the Finance Committee had typically been considered above all others since its creation in the early 1800s.

“The Finance Committee is second to none in the Senate in terms of the legislative responsibilities entrusted to it,” declared a 1981 history of the committee commissioned by Mr. Dole when he became chairman.

When a special committee led by Senator John F. Kennedy was formed in 1959 to select five outstanding senators through history, all five — Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Robert M. La Follette Sr. and Robert A. Taft — had served on the committee and Webster, Clay and Calhoun were chairmen.

The committee has traditionally been viewed as a microcosm of the Senate, with the notion that a measure that could clear the Finance Committee with a bipartisan majority stood a solid chance of success in the Senate because members of the panel were representative of the whole Senate.

The committee also had a deep history of working in a bipartisan fashion to push its major legislation. But with the decline of the spirit of bipartisanship and trust between members of the Senate, some of the power of the Finance Committee and its chairman has dissipated with it.

“You have an eclectic mix of people on the committee who have become less and less bipartisan,” said Tom Daschle, the former Democratic Senate leader, who also served on the committee. “The environment is so different regardless of leadership.”

As control of the Senate — and of the committee leadership — has shifted between parties, the power of the chairman has diminished. Senate Republicans have put a six-year limit on how long a member can serve as chairman of a single committee.

Senator Ron Wyden, the policy-driven Oregon Democrat who is in line to become chairman, has tried the bipartisan route in the past. He first wrote a bipartisan tax overhaul with Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, and then with Senator Dan Coats, Republican of Indiana, after Mr. Gregg left the Senate. The plan has gotten little traction but stands to get more attention now.

Mr. Wyden was burned by his reach across the aisle when he joined Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin in promoting a major Medicare overhaul. Republicans, in defending Mr. Ryan’s privatization plan after he became their vice-presidential candidate in 2012, often cited Mr. Wyden’s support, forcing Mr. Wyden to back away from it.

Mr. Baucus also drew criticism for working too closely with Republicans on both taxes and social policy. Fellow Democrats thought Mr. Baucus ceded too much and was being used by Republicans to stall health care legislation. The law ended up drawing no Republican support despite Mr. Baucus’s determined overtures even though Republicans had originated some of the central policy ideas.

Still, a seat on the Finance Committee remains a sought-after post and the chairmanship a coveted slot even in a Senate environment that limits its reach.

“It is the most powerful and most important committee, but it is the most powerful and most important committee in a dysfunctional Senate,” said Lawrence O’Donnell, an MSNBC host and political analyst who served as the committee’s staff director for two years when Mr. Moynihan was chairman.

“Every job in the Senate is less enviable,” he said. “The best job you can have in the Senate is chairmanship of the Finance Committee, but it is the worst version of the job that has existed in my life.”

At least Mr. Wyden does not have to worry about breaking any news to Mr. Baucus, whose nomination as ambassador to China is likely to cause him to leave before his term expires.

Mr. Dole, in a later speech, said he never worked up the nerve to inform Mr. Long. And he recounted that when the committee voted for the first time after his takeover, he steeled himself for his inaugural vote as the man in charge.

Instead, when the clerk called, “Mr. Chairman,” Mr. Long voted aye before Mr. Dole could speak. Such was the power of the Finance Committee chairman, even when he was the ex-chairman.
681 2013-12-31 After a rush of 11th-hour interest, 230,624 people had enrolled in either private or public insurance through New York State’s health insurance exchange by the Dec. 24 deadline, qualifying them for coverage on the first day of the new year, state officials said on Monday.

The burst of interest in New York continued even after the deadline, with enrollments rising to 241,522 as of Monday, officials said.

Of those enrollments, 175,146 are in private commercial insurance plans, and 66,376 are in Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poor, which has spurred enrollment by raising its income limit.

Enrollment in the exchanges remains open through March 31. According to federal rules, individuals who apply by the 15th of the month will have insurance coverage on the first day of the following month, but the original Dec. 15 deadline for Jan. 1 coverage was extended because of early troubles on the website of the federal health exchange.

About 75 percent of those enrolling in individual plans on the New York exchange qualify for a subsidy to reduce the cost of coverage.
682 2013-12-31 BERLIN — Switzerland has granted a three-month visa to the former Russian oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, entitling him to visit the country where his wife has reportedly lived for at least part of the decade that he spent in Russian jails, a spokeswoman for the Swiss Embassy said Monday.

The application for the visa was made last Tuesday, and the visa was collected on Monday, said Alexandra Baumann of the Swiss Embassy. She said that was not an unusually swift procurement and declined to confirm that Mr. Khodorkovsky’s wife, Inna, and the couple’s twin sons live in Switzerland.

A statement on Mr. Khodorkovsky’s website said he was “very grateful to the Swiss authorities for the speed and efficiency with which they have dealt with his visa application.”

“So soon after his decade of unjust imprisonment, Mr. Khodorkovsky is delighted that Switzerland will be the second country in which he can breathe the air of freedom,” the website said.

Mr. Khodorkovsky was freed so suddenly from jail in Russia after being granted clemency by President Vladimir V. Putin that Germany, which used back channels to broker the deal, had issued only an entry permit for a hastily issued Russian passport.
683 2013-12-31 BERLIN — Switzerland has granted a three-month visa to the former Russian oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, entitling him to visit the country where his wife has reportedly lived for at least part of the decade that he spent in Russian jails, a spokeswoman for the Swiss Embassy said Monday.

The application for the visa was made last Tuesday, and the visa was collected on Monday, said Alexandra Baumann of the Swiss Embassy. She said that was not an unusually swift procurement and declined to confirm that Mr. Khodorkovsky’s wife, Inna, and the couple’s twin sons live in Switzerland.

A statement on Mr. Khodorkovsky’s website said he was “very grateful to the Swiss authorities for the speed and efficiency with which they have dealt with his visa application.”

“So soon after his decade of unjust imprisonment, Mr. Khodorkovsky is delighted that Switzerland will be the second country in which he can breathe the air of freedom,” the website said.

Mr. Khodorkovsky was freed so suddenly from jail in Russia after being granted clemency by President Vladimir V. Putin that Germany, which used back channels to broker the deal, had issued only an entry permit for a hastily issued Russian passport.
684 2013-12-31 But in interviews conducted over several months, supervisors and other employees from Phantom Tac said work to make samples for Mango had already begun when Rana Plaza collapsed. Fabric was being marked and cut, and some workers say some sample shirts were already being stitched.

“There was an urgency among the bosses,” said Mohammed Mosharuf Hossain, 28, who worked in a cutting section. “The managers told us to finish the Mango products urgently. They said if we could finish this work quickly, we might get more orders from Mango.”

For global brands and retailers, Rana Plaza has forced a reckoning over how to reconcile the mismatched pieces in their supply chains. Technology and investment are transforming the upper end of the industry, enabling Mango and other brands to increase sales, manage global inventories with pinpoint precision and introduce new clothes faster than ever — all as consumers now expect to see new things every time they visit a store.

But these brands depend on factories in developing countries like Bangladesh, where wages are very low and the pressure to work faster and cheaper has spawned familiar problems: unsafe buildings, substandard work conditions and repeated wage and labor violations. Consumers know little about these factories, even as global brands promise that their clothes are made in safe environments.

Phantom Tac could be regarded as an unlikely attempt to prove that a Bangladeshi factory could be socially responsible and make a profit. It was partly owned by a Spaniard, David Mayor, who had won orders from several Spanish brands. He had teamed up with a Vatican missionary in rural Bangladesh to offer a training program for female workers. And he had experimented with creating a website to allow consumers in the West to connect virtually with the workers sewing their clothes.

But the pressures on Phantom Tac to meet deadlines and make money made those social goals difficult to achieve. Employees said the factory was busy but had suffered setbacks: Inditex, the global clothing giant that owns Zara and Lefties, had canceled orders a year earlier after the factory failed a social compliance audit. And several employees said other problems had arisen after underage workers were discovered working as helpers.

Now, Mr. Mayor has disappeared. He did not respond to email requests for interviews, and his family in Spain declined to reveal his whereabouts. His Bangladeshi business partner, Aminul Islam, is in jail in connection with the collapse.

Factories like Phantom Tac in Bangladesh and the Mango operations in Spain are part of the same supply chains, but might as well be from different worlds.

In Spain, visitors to Mango’s design center, a short drive from the distribution warehouse, are greeted in the lobby by an installation from the Spanish artist Jaume Plensa. A Picasso hangs in the office of Mango’s chairman, Isak Andic. Employees eat in a light-filled cafeteria or can relax in an upstairs area filled with ferns called “the greenhouse.”

These state-of-the-art facilities are just the beginning: Mango already operates other distribution centers in China, Hong Kong and Turkey, and it has broken ground for a massive new complex in Spain. Last year, Mango produced a total of 110 million garments and accessories; within a decade, company officials say, the company hopes to produce 300 million garments and roughly quintuple annual sales to 10 billion euros, or about $14 billion.

This growth strategy comes after Mango responded to the global recession by slashing prices, expanding offerings and opening stores in countries like China and Russia. This increased sales but has placed a premium on efficiency, cost and speed. In the past, Mango sent new items to stores every four to six weeks; now it is every 15 days. Technology has enabled Mango’s distribution center in Spain to track global sales, down to a single item in a single store, and then ship out boxes of refill orders within eight hours.

“The new facility will be faster, bigger and more efficient,” said Jordi Torra Marin, a project manager.

In Bangladesh, the business environment presents a sharp contrast. Phantom Tac was on the fifth floor of Rana Plaza, which was named after the family of the building’s owner, Sohel Rana. Mr. Rana, now in jail awaiting charges in the collapse, was a local political strongman, with close ties to elected officials in Savar and a reputation for criminal activities. Workers inside Rana Plaza say that when Mr. Rana needed people to stage a political march or a protest, he demanded that factory bosses release some workers from each factory to participate.

Mr. Rana also extracted profits: He controlled food services that served snacks to workers during overtime. Several workers complained about the foul taste of the food. Mr. Rana also claimed the leftover remnants of fabric produced by each factory and sold them into the lucrative local recycling market. And, workers say, he took any garments that did not meet quality standards and sold them in local markets.

“He was so powerful,” said Mohammad Liton, 25, a quality controller at Phantom Tac. “He had his own gang. They used to operate businesses.”

David Mayor was a buyer when he met Aminul Islam, who was operating a different factory in the center of Dhaka, the national capital. They started Phantom Tac together, which seemed like a good fit, since Mr. Mayor had connections with foreign brands, especially those in Spain. Soon, Mr. Mayor was bringing in orders, workers said, or leading foreign buyers on tours of the factory.

Mr. Mayor also had a social agenda. In 2007, Mr. Mayor joined with Brother Massimo Cattaneo, a Roman Catholic missionary, and financed a training program for young girls from rural Bangladesh. He eventually hired about a dozen of the graduates into his own factory.

He also wanted to give consumers a better understanding of how their clothes were made. Ashley Wheaton, who had worked for a nonprofit group in Dhaka, was hired to develop a website where consumers could type in a code taken from the sales tag of an item and then learn about the Bangladeshi women who made the garment they had bought. As an experiment, Mr. Mayor opened a shop in Dhaka where the clothes were marked with the codes.

“He had this idea about what he wanted to accomplish,” Ms. Wheaton said. “He really did want to change the way things are done. But he was pragmatic. He knew it had to make money and be sustainable.”

But money became a problem. Ms. Wheaton left after about seven months, as the factory began tightening expenses. Eventually, Mr. Mayor also stopped funding the training program, which Brother Massimo has kept afloat through church money and donations.

Workers at Phantom Tac said deadline pressures were relentless. Margins were so tight that several workers say midlevel managers used two sets of accounting ledgers to hide excessive overtime or other wage violations. Workers also said a problem with child labor arose in 2012 after a buyer discovered several teenagers working as helpers, the lowest-level position in the factory.

By January 2013, Phantom Tac had corrected the child labor issue and was trying to win new business, including from Mango. Mango had sent buyers to the factory as well as inspectors to conduct an audit of working conditions, workers say.

“We all knew about Mango’s audit team,” said Mr. Hossain, the man from the cutting section. “There was an announcement on the loudspeaker. They told everyone to work properly. They wanted to impress them.”

It worked. Labor activists searching the rubble of Rana Plaza found order forms from Mango to Phantom Tac for adult polo shirts and some children’s items. By April, but before the collapse, the fabric for the Mango order had already arrived, several employees say. Work was underway on samples to be sent to Mango for approval. One worker, Mohammed Sohel, said some sample shirts had already been sent for quality testing by Mango, only for Phantom Tac to be told of a flaw in the collar.

“David came to the factory and explained how to correct the collar,” Mr. Sohel said.

Another employee, Mohammed Sumon Prodhan, who worked in quality control, said seamstresses had been making samples of green polo shirts for Mango the day before Rana Plaza collapsed.

In a recent interview at Mango’s design center in Spain, Jose Gomez, vice president of international business development, cited Mango’s involvement in a major consortium of brands that have agreed to help finance safety upgrades to Bangladeshi factories as evidence of the company’s commitment to improve conditions.

But on the separate issue of compensation for victims, Mr. Gomez denied that Mango had started production at Phantom Tac because, he said, the company’s auditing process was not complete.

Asked if he was certain no work was underway, Mr. Gomez said, “What I understand is what I told you.”

Eva Kreisler, a coordinator for the anti-sweatshop group Clean Clothes Campaign in Spain, said that Mango’s explanation was unconvincing and that the company had a moral obligation to help the victims of Rana Plaza.

Another Spanish retailer, El Corte Inglés, is one of four brands that have agreed to contribute to the $40 million fund. Officials say other brands must come forward if full funding is to be achieved.

“Definitely, they should contribute to the fund,” Ms. Kreisler said of Mango. “It is quite shameful that they still won’t contribute to bring justice to the workers.”

On the day before Rana Plaza collapsed, cracks appeared in the third floor of the building. It was temporarily closed, and an engineer, upon inspecting the cracks, said the building should remain closed. But Mr. Islam, the co-owner of Phantom Tac, called a longtime factory supervisor and implored him and others to return to work, citing pressing deadlines.

Mr. Islam even went to the building himself and made his ritual evening prayers.

“He called me,” said Mohammad Minhaj Uddin Nannu, the longtime supervisor. “He said, ‘Why are you all scared? You shouldn’t be. I’m here.’ ”

The next morning, Rana Plaza collapsed, before Mr. Islam arrived at his office.
685 2013-12-31 The spot illustrates, the voice-over continues, “the story of where every great idea begins. Where those with endless vision and an equal amount of audaciousness believed they had the power to do more. Time and time again.”

Similarly, a print ad features a variety of images depicting the businesses of many well-known Dell customers, including Salesforce.com, Gilt.com and The Knot. The copy says, “The power to do. Dell helps companies of all sizes do more for their customers every day. See the stories at Dell.com/DoMore.”

Online advertising focuses on individual customers. One group of ads features images of fresh produce, with copy that says, “Foods that are free of artificial preservatives, colors and flavors. So millions can enjoy what is fresh. Wholesome and safe. The power to do. Dell helps power Whole Foods Market.”

The campaign will begin on New Year’s Eve, with the TV spot running on “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve With Ryan Seacrest” on ABC. In addition, starting on New Year’s Eve and running through Jan. 20, four billboards in Times Square will run animated ads similar to advertising appearing in other media. At the same time, New York taxis will carry a 30-second version of the TV spot.

After the Dec. 31 kickoff, TV advertising will run on network and cable news programs through Jan. 26, while another version of the spot will air on NBC during the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. The print ad will run in January and February in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post and Forbes, while online advertising will run through April on the websites of CNN, The Atlantic, IDG and others. Billboard advertising will also run from Feb. 24 through April at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport in Austin, Tex.

The New York office of VML, the digital marketing agency of Y&R, helped create the campaign; both are part of WPP.

In a blog post scheduled to be released with the campaign’s introduction, Karen Quintos, chief marketing officer of Dell, said 2014 would be a “new year and a new beginning for Dell.” The campaign, she added, “celebrates the dreamer and the visionary, the person who knows that game-changing innovation begins with an idea coupled with unrelenting passion.”

She declined to say how much Dell would spend on the new campaign. According to Kantar Media, in recent years the company’s largest advertising expenditures were approximately $307 million in 2009. In the first nine months of this year, it spent $73.5 million.

Sharmila Chatterjee, a senior lecturer at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management who studies business-to-business marketing, said the new campaign’s message was “completely consistent with our values and culture. America is the land of second chances; we have a culture of taking pride in falling down, and then getting up and learning from our mistakes.”

Matt Eastwood, a group vice president at IDC, said that by using the names of start-ups instead of established companies, Dell was “trying to appeal to the next generation of buyer constructing and building an enterprise infrastructure from end to end.”

The message is aimed at small businesses, which will be “very important to Dell’s future,” said David Johnson, a principal analyst at Forrester Research. “Small businesses do not have the resources to do what large enterprises can do. They need vendors that can help them level the playing field with technology.”

Tim Calkins, a professor of marketing at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, suggested the campaign was also directed at Dell’s own employees. “I suspect it’s a difficult time for employees at Dell — it needs its employees to be proud of the brand, too,” he said.

Andrew C. Frank, an analyst for Gartner, warned that “an ad campaign can’t be the whole story for how Dell changes perception.” He said there must be a balance “between getting people’s interest through advertising and delivering something on the product side to make people believe the messaging is not just feel-good stuff.”
686 2013-12-31 MADRID — The Swatch Group, the world’s largest watchmaker, said on Monday that production of some watch components would be delayed for as long as two months after a fire destroyed one of its Swiss workshops.

Nick Hayek, the company’s chief executive, said that the damage was limited and that the production delay would have more of an impact on watchmakers that buy components from the company than on watch retailers. Mr. Hayek estimated that the overall cost of the fire, including production delays, would be 20 million to 25 million Swiss francs, or $23 million to $28 million, part of which was likely to be recouped once production returned to normal.

The fire broke out on Sunday and swept through a workshop at a factory in Grenchen, in northwestern Switzerland, that galvanizes metal components to protect them from rust. Another workshop also had some damage because of smoke from the fire. The factory is operated by ETA, a manufacturing subsidiary of Swatch. It was closed on Sunday, so nobody was hurt in the blaze.

Swatch is best known for its extended portfolio of watch brands, including Omega, Tissot and Longines and its playful plastic watches. But Swatch also produces more than half of the watch movements made in Switzerland and sells them and other inner workings through ETA and other subsidiaries to makers of some of the world’s most expensive timepieces.

“Such a fire is very rare, but when you have over 150 factories, you know that you can also have flooding and all sorts of accidents,” Mr. Hayek said by telephone.

The Swiss police are investigating the accident, but Mr. Hayek suggested that the most likely explanation was “a technical issue with a machine that could have started the fire.” Mr. Hayek said the fire had created “a big bottleneck” for galvanizing, but he added that he was confident delayed orders could be handled by some of the other workshops within the Swatch Group that specialize in the process.
687 2013-12-31 “We gave Riek Machar four days to respond, and if he doesn’t we shall have to go for him, all of us — that is what we agreed in Nairobi,” Mr. Museveni told reporters, referring to a meeting of East African leaders in the Kenyan capital last week.

That raised the prospect of an escalation or even cross-border spillover, adding to a worrying picture for a region already suffering from bloodshed in the Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

Mr. Museveni and Mr. Kiir have been close for years, and the Uganda People’s Defense Force provided significant support to the Sudan People’s Liberation Army during the civil war against the Sudanese government in Khartoum, analysts said.

“The U.P.D.F. has always been a very good friend of the S.P.L.A.,” said Mareike Schomerus, a researcher on South Sudan at the London School of Economics. “Some would say without U.P.D.F. the S.P.L.A. would never have been able to fight the war in that way.”

Mr. Machar has said Ugandan aircraft have bombed rebel positions, an assertion Uganda has denied.

“That remains speculative, and I have no idea that we’ve engaged in such an action at all,” said Lt. Col. Paddy Ankunda, a spokesman for the Ugandan military. “But our briefing is very clear. Should we be attacked, our soldiers have a right to defend themselves.”

There have been conflicting reports about the advance of the White Army, called that because of the white ash that fighters rub onto their skin. South Sudan’s information minister said last week that 25,000 Nuer youths had gathered; others have put the number at a few thousand, saying that elders from their community had persuaded many to turn back.

The United Nations confirmed through a helicopter surveillance flight Sunday that a group was marching toward Bor, saying in a statement that it was “extremely concerned” about the reports. Many of the fleeing civilians have crossed the river into a neighboring state. The Nuer fighters were carrying AK-47s and had several heavy machine guns and 30 vehicles and trucks, Colonel Aguer said.

South Sudanese officials said Mr. Machar controlled the White Army, which he has denied. “This is a group of loyalists to Riek Machar,” Colonel Aguer said. He added that Malakal, the capital of Upper Nile State, where the two sides have clashed in recent days, was calm and under the control of the military. Bentiu, the capital of Unity State, was also peaceful but under rebel control, he said.

The question is what kind of casualties might occur if the South Sudanese Army, alone or with assistance, tried to retake places like Bentiu that lie in rebel hands.

“Regional armies need to assure that their use of force stays firmly within international law, and that civilians are under no circumstances targeted,” Ms. Schomerus said. “It is right now unclear which actors are committing what kind of atrocities — but what is already clear is that civilians are not being sufficiently protected by anybody, and quite possibly even targeted.”
688 2013-12-31 With just one trading day left in the year, 2013 is looking to be a memorable one for investors. The S.&P. 500 is up 29.09 percent so far, on pace for its best year since 1997. The Dow is up 25.95 percent, the most since 1996.

With 2013 in the books, investors have turned their attention to the beginning of 2014. Few expect next year to be as good to investors as 2013 was.

“After a year like this, people start to think a 30 percent-plus year is normal,” said Ron Florance, deputy chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. “We need to be realistic going into next year.”

The next big piece of news awaiting investors will be the December employment report, which will be released Jan. 10. There is also corporate earnings season, which will start in the second half of January and encompass the closely watched holiday shopping period.

“The market is rallying on the idea that economic growth is picking up globally and in the U.S., so investors need to see those expectations matched,” Mr. Young said.

The bond market was quiet as well on Monday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note slipped to 2.97 percent, from 3 percent late Friday, while its price increased 8/32, to 98 4/32.

The stock market is expected to be in a holding pattern until next week, when the midweek holidays are over, Mr. Florance said. Both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq will be closed on Wednesday for New Year’s Day.

Among the stocks on the move on Monday, Walt Disney rose $1.88, or 2.53 percent, to $76.23, the most in the S.&P. 500. Analysts at Guggenheim Securities upgraded Disney to a buy from a hold on Friday.

Twitter fell $3.24, or 5.08 percent, to $60.51, following a 13 percent drop on Friday. Shares of the social media company, which went public for $26 in early November, had hit a closing high of $73.31 on Thursday.

Crocs jumped $2.81, or 21.08 percent, to $16.14, after the Blackstone Group said it was investing $200 million in the clog maker.