1 2009-05-01 Beth Zak-Cohen of Newark writes of her decision to attend Rutgers University, and the lessons learned along the way....
2 2009-05-01 Deliberations on the fate of Chrysler shifted from Washington to a Manhattan courtroom on Friday as lawyers for the automaker sought to clear the way through bankruptcy, sell or transfer Chrysler’s operations, and keep paying its workers their s...
3 2009-05-01 Chrysler is the first major automaker since Studebaker in 1933 to try to reorganize in bankruptcy and emerge as a viable company. The process can be complicated. The New York Times’s Micheline Maynard takes a quick look at how it is likely to pl...
4 2009-05-01 The federal bankruptcy judge assigned to the Chrysler case is used to dealing with complicated high-profile cases in which every decision is dissected by legal analysts and the news media. In fact, he has done two at once. The judge, Arthur J. Gon...
5 2009-05-01 On the heels of the tenor Rolando Villazón’s announcement that he would withdraw from performing until at least the end of the year to undergo surgery on his vocal cords, the Los Angeles Opera said that it had cast Giuseppe Filianoti to replace...
6 2009-05-01 Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, wants the authority to regulate what hedge funds can buy and how much money they can borrow to maximize their bets, saying registration falls short of what is needed to po...
7 2009-05-01 Berkshire Hathaway's vice chairman, Charlie Munger, said Friday that he supported an outright ban of credit default swaps to prevent speculators from profiting on the failure of companies....
8 2009-05-01 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said Friday that his office had issued more than 100 new subpoenas to investment firms and intermediaries who broker deals with public pension funds, in the latest expansion of his pension corruption in...
9 2009-05-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
10 2009-05-01 Bill Watkins, the former chief executive of Seagate, is now at a start-up that is trying to shrink the stack of memory chips inside mobile devices....
11 2009-05-01 New York on Less: A look at the practices some restaurants, both the less expensive and the finer spots, are taking to cut their prices and win back customers....
12 2009-05-01 Heightening the competition among cable television channels for children, Hasbro and Discovery Communications plan to jointly reformat a channel with programs based on G.I. Joe, My Little Pony and other classic toy brands.

The venture, announced Thursday, reflects Hasbro’s efforts to turn its toys into multimedia brands and Discovery’s attempts to wring more money from its cable channels.

The 13-year-old Discovery Kids Channel, an afterthought among children’s channels, will be replaced in late 2010 by the new venture, which has yet to be named.

Brian Goldner, the chief executive of Hasbro, said the company would produce “new stories and new programs around a number of Hasbro brands that have been enjoyed by generations of consumers.” The company will pay $300 million for a 50 percent stake in the new network, and will form a team to produce programs.

Hasbro has already moved aggressively to feature its products in movies, including “Transformers” in 2007. Another “Transformers” film will be released in June, and films based on the Candy Land, Monopoly and Stretch Armstrong franchises are being developed. The company has also released dozens of video games in a partnership with Electronic Arts.

Executives said a television channel is another natural extension. On cable television, children’s programming is dominated by Cartoon Network, the Disney Channel and Nickelodeon. “We saw a big opportunity in the kids’ space,” said the Discovery chief executive, David M. Zaslav.
13 2009-05-01 Naked short-selling. In some circles, those are fighting words, The New York Times's Floyd Norris writes in his latest High & Low Finance column. There are companies, he notes, that blame all their problems on that kind of trading, which is illega...
14 2009-05-01 Intelius, a company that performs background checks on people, has acquired Spock, a people search engine, for an undisclosed amount, VentureBeat reported. Spock has been looking for a buyer after burning through the $8 million it had raised in ve...
15 2009-05-01 The stock market slouched lower on Thursday, giving up its early gains as investors weighed how Chrysler's bankruptcy filing would ripple through the financial system, The New York Times's Jack Healy reported. In remarks from the White House, Pres...
16 2009-05-01 In this lesson, students engage in an inquiry into influenza A (H1N1), considering the virus and the pandemic from multiple perspectives and acting as advisers to share factual information they learn with their classmates and school communities. C...
17 2009-05-01 China has reopened its land border to tourists traveling to North Korea after a three-year break, with a group of 71 tourists visiting the isolated country, state news media reported. The Chinese tourists left the city of Dandong, in northeastern Liaoning Province, this week for a one-day tour of Sinuiju, on the other side of the Yalu River, which marks the frontier, the official news agency Xinhua reported.
18 2009-05-01 Dr. Brooks, who spent many years in the area, said that it had some trees but that it also had deep sand and was not particularly garden-like. The area is a homeland of the Bushmen or San people, whose language is distinguished by its many click sounds.

But the San in the past might not have been restricted to where they are now, she said. The San are thought to have once occupied a much larger area, one that probably stretched from southern Africa up the east coast to as far as present-day Ethiopia.

Since the geneticists’ calculations refer to people, not geography, the San — and therefore the site of greatest human diversity — might have been located elsewhere in the past.

Christopher Ehret, an expert on African languages at the University of California, Los Angeles, and a member of Dr. Tishkoff’s team, has detected traces of words borrowed from click languages in East African languages. This suggests that proto-Khoisan, the inferred ancestral language of all click-speakers, may have originated in East Africa, Dr. Brooks said.

The language of the first modern humans may have undergone a very early branching, Dr. Ehret said, with the Khoisan click languages on one branch and the other three language groups of Africa — Nilo-Saharan, Niger-Kordofanian and Afroasiatic — on the other branch. Clicks are difficult to pronounce fluently and with a single exception no click languages are known outside Africa.

Another finding of the Tishkoff-Ehret team is that African languages tend to be highly correlated with the genetics of their speakers, a finding that helps indicate cases of language replacement. The various Pygmy groups in Africa, the team has found, show distant genetic relationships to the San and other click-speakers, suggesting the pygmies, too, once spoke Khoisan languages but have now adopted those of their neighbors.

Another instance of a mismatch between language and genetics concerns the Luo, an ethnic group in Kenya to which President Obama’s father belonged. The Luo speak a Nilo-Saharan language and are thought of as a people of Sudanese origin, but genetically they have a heavy mixture of Bantu speakers’ genes, Dr. Tishkoff said.

Dr. Tishkoff’s team has also calculated the exit point from which a small human group — maybe a single tribal band of 150 people — left Africa some 50,000 years ago and populated the rest of the world. The region is near the midpoint of the African coast of the Red Sea.

Dr. Tishkoff and her colleagues found that the 14 ancestral African populations they detected are now highly mixed, with the exception of the Bantu speakers.
19 2009-05-01 The federal bankruptcy judge assigned to the Chrysler case is used to dealing with complicated high-profile cases in which every decision is dissected by legal analysts and the media. In fact, he has done two at once.

The judge, Arthur J. Gonzalez, oversaw the reorganization of Enron in 2001, which set a record by filing for bankruptcy with $63 billion in assets, and WorldCom in 2002, which topped Enron with $107 billion assets when it filed.

Like the Chrysler case, the Enron and WorldCom cases were drawn by Judge Gonzalez in a sealed envelope system colloquially known as “the wheel.” The system is meant to assure that cases are assigned randomly to judges in the Manhattan court.

On Thursday, lawyers on both sides of the Enron case said Judge Gonzalez was prepared to take up Chrysler’s Chapter 11 filing.

“I think it’s a good thing for everyone involved — the creditors, the company,” said Luc A. Despins, who represented Enron’s creditors. “He’s just a very efficient and very organized judge. He’s used to dealing with huge cases with huge dockets.”
20 2009-05-01 The Police Department says its practice of stopping, and sometimes frisking, thousands of people a year in high-crime neighborhoods has helped keep those areas safe.

But the growing use of so-called stop and frisks has also irritated some of those communities, so the police are adding a step to the procedure: “Explain.”

Any officer stopping a person in the street must tell the person “the reason, or reasons, why it occurred,” according to a letter from Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly. The policy took effect April 23, according to a departmental order to revise the police patrol guide.

Mr. Kelly said on Thursday that in a pilot program, officers in three precincts — in Harlem, the South Bronx and East New York, Brooklyn — were handing out baseball card-size slips of paper explaining both the legal foundation for the stops (reasonable suspicion that the person “has committed, is committing or is about to commit” a crime) and some common reasons for them, including “carrying what appears to be a weapon,” and “sights or sounds suggestive of criminal activity (ringing alarm, running from crime scene).” The cards also include directions in several languages for accessing the department’s Web site.

While Mr. Kelly was discussing the new policy, at a news conference devoted mainly to the introduction of hybrid patrol cars, the department was skipping a City Council Public Safety Committee hearing about the “stop and frisk” practice. Instead of attending himself, Mr. Kelly sent an assistant commissioner to read his letter but to take no questions.
21 2009-05-01 Such quirks are common in disease genetics. In the 1980s, for example, it was not known that the AIDS virus was sweeping Africa because the illness was first found in a few gay men in California, and it took years to find the source virus in chimpanzees.

Now, scientists say, the hunt is on for what is jokingly being called Pig Zero.

“No one that I’m aware of has swabbed pigs for this yet,” Dr. Juan Lubroth, chief of veterinary investigations for the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, said Wednesday.

An international team, including Dr. Lubroth’s investigators and some from the World Organization for Animal Health, is in Mexico, planning to go to La Gloria, the location of the first known case involving a human, 5-year-old Édgar Hernández.

Mexican investigators have already visually inspected herds of pigs at the vast factory farms there, Dr. Lubroth said. But a flu strain that sickens humans may not bother pigs, just as the H5N1 avian flu kills chickens but usually not ducks.

It will take some time to swab the pigs’ snouts, fly the samples to a world-class laboratory and sequence it. And even then, Dr. Lubroth said, the La Gloria pigs may not be the key, so his team will scour Mexico’s library of routine swine swabs for matches. The only viral sequences on public databases thus far are human.

The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced last week that the new virus had pieces of North American swine, bird and human flus and of Eurasian swine flu. Although rumors questioning that are circulating on the Internet, most geneticists believe it is correct.

It is essentially a blend of Eurasian swine flu and North American swine flu, but Western hemisphere strains have had an avian segment on the PB2 gene for at least 10 years and a human component on the PB1 gene since 1993, said Henry L. Niman, a biochemist who tracks flu mutations. “The original report is correct,” Dr. Niman said of the C.D.C.’s analysis. The rumors, he added in an e-mail message, stem from “someone who really doesn’t know how to analyze sequences (or is being misquoted.)”

It presumably is in pigs somewhere, perhaps in Mexico. The 1918 human H1N1 established itself in pigs by 1930. But, as Dr. Niman pointed out, it could be only in humans now — or even in a ferret.

The next question, said Dr. Robert G. Webster, a virologist at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, is: “How did this virus get in? Is Mexico importing swine from Europe?”

While movement of live pigs between Canada, the United States and Mexico for fattening and slaughter is routine, legal movement of pigs across oceans is rare. Pigs carry many diseases, so importation requires expensive tests and quarantines. The only reason to bother would be for breeding, not meat.

Even pig semen is restricted, said Kent Parker, swine facility manager at the University of California, Davis. “The boars have to be tested and the facility they live in has to be authorized,” Mr. Parker said. Frozen semen can transmit blue-ear pig disease, he said. It cannot transmit flu, said a spokeswoman for the National Pork Board.

Peter Daszak, president of the Wildlife Trust, found records showing that Mexico imported two pigs from France in 2007, the United States imported a few from Britain and Ireland, and Canada imported hundreds from Europe. “And surely this isn’t the whole truth,” he said. “There must be a hidden illegal trade.”

While some scientists looking at the virus genome debated its origin, Peter Palese, chairman of microbiology at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, found cause for optimism about the future. All the pandemic viruses of the last century — the 1918, 1957 and 1968 flus — had a mutation in the gene coding for a protein known as PB1-F2 that is thought to make a virus more lethal. The mutation, he said, is not in the new strain.

Dr. Niman, looking at the same sequences, saw a mutation that, at the same position in H5N1, appeared to speed the virus’s spread in Egypt.
22 2009-05-01 LOS ANGELES  Each afternoon this spring, Brennan Jackson, an A-student who ranks near the top of his high school class, has arrived at his guidance counselor’s office to intercept the latest scholarship applications, as if they were a newspaper landing on his front stoop.

Because his father is out of work and his mother works only part time, Brennan has set an ambitious goal for himself: to raise the $25,000 he still needs for his freshman year at the University of California, Berkeley, by stitching together a quilt of merit scholarships.

“We need to spread our resources as far as possible,” he said the other night, over a family dinner of reheated eggplant parmigiana. “I guess I feel a little responsible.”

The stress has taken its toll: Brennan’s guidance counselor blames it for the boy’s thinning hair, and Brennan points to his scholarship search as the cause of a recent outbreak of acne.

While Brennan’s situation, and the remedy he is pursuing, may sound extremely ambitious, guidance counselors across the country say they can recall no prior year in which so many applicants’ families have been squeezed by so many financial pressures.

Not only have families’ incomes been falling as their savings have dwindled, but also tuition has been rising  including proposed increases of nearly 10 percent next year throughout the University of California system. (Brennan would face bills nearly as high as Berkeley’s at the University of California campuses in Los Angeles and Davis, the only other colleges to accept him; Stanford, a private university that typically offers full scholarships to families with incomes under $60,000, rejected him. Berkeley offered him only $212 in scholarship money.)

While private colleges have vowed to protect financial aid in hard times, some of the most reliable independent scholarship programs have been reduced or discontinued this year  including some that lost parts of their endowments to Bernard L. Madoff’s vast Ponzi scheme  further raising the competition for those that remain.

Interest rates on student loans, including on popular federal programs like the unsubsidized Stafford (now nearly 7 percent) and Parent Plus (8.5 percent), are running several percentage points higher than the rates on secured loans, like home equity lines of credit.

“The difference of rates between secured and unsecured loans is higher than I have ever seen,” said Scott White, director of counseling services at Westfield High School in New Jersey. “This is one further impediment to access to post-secondary education for all but the well-to-do.”

Judy Campbell, Brennan’s guidance counselor at Hollywood High School, where three of every four students qualify for a free or reduced-price lunch, suggested that his family was “not poor enough for need-based aid and not rich enough to write a check.”

When asked over dinner whether she felt guilty that Brennan had taken so much upon himself, his mother, Caryn, began to cry. “We didn’t expect to end up in this situation,” she said.

Tuition, board and other expenses at Berkeley are estimated at $27,000 a year. Last year, the family’s income was $58,000, when Ms. Jackson’s wages from teaching were combined with revenue from a part of a rental property. The family cannot sell the property because it does not own it outright, and Ms. Campbell believes that the investment reduced the direct aid Brennan might have received.

Brennan’s father, Aaron, who was laid off as an accountant more than a year ago, acknowledged that his son had few options. He said his lack of steady income prevented the family from refinancing the $500,000 mortgage on its cramped, nearly 90-year-old, two-bedroom home or taking on additional debt.

Mr. Jackson said his job search had been frustrating: he said he had been deemed overqualified for some jobs in recent months, and underqualified for others. His previous job with a real estate company paid about $75,000 annually.

Which is not to say that the family has not been doing its part to offset its expenses.

They have reduced visits to the dentist from twice a year to once; saved $45 a month in groomers’ fees by trimming their two dogs themselves; returned one of their cars, a Honda CRV on a lease, to the dealer; stopped eating in restaurants; and deferred home repairs.

As May 1, the day his $100 deposit was due at Berkeley, was drawing near, Brennan said he had netted about $1,500 in outside scholarships, mostly from the California Scholarship Federation, a statewide organization. He is also a finalist for a scholarship from the Rotary Club of Los Angeles that could be worth $2,000. And he was preparing to submit his application for a $5,000 grant from an organization called D.R.E.A.M.S. (Developing a Responsible, Educated and Moral Society). “Five thousand dollars isn’t a small contribution,” Brennan said. But even with that infusion, he said, his situation “would still be problematic.”

He said he had been filling out two applications a night, most of them requiring original essays, for more than month.

The only part-time jobs he has found are as a baby sitter and as a student poll worker in a statewide special election in mid-May. (His pay for that day’s work  which, a form letter from the county clerk assured, “looks great on college/scholarship applications”  will be $105.)

While many of the scholarship organizations will not send out their decisions until later this spring, or even in the summer, Brennan said he knew he could tap one additional source should he come up short: the $15,000 remaining in a college savings account his father had established for him, which had been worth upward of $30,000 less than a year ago. The problem, he said, was that the account had been intended to last four years.

Then there is the matter of his sister, Elise, 16, a junior who will be applying to college next year, meaning his parents will have two children in college at the same time for three years.

Asked whether she had a preliminary plan of attack, Elise said she did: to gain admission to a wealthy, highly selective private college that, unlike the California system, might pay her tuition in full.
23 2009-05-01 The stock exchanges publish “threshold lists” every day of stocks where there are substantial failures — at least one-half of 1 percent of the outstanding shares. Overstock spent months on the Nasdaq list, and at the height had 3.8 million failures to deliver in one day, a huge figure in comparison to the 22.8 million shares outstanding.

But it has not been on the list since Sept. 2, 2008, a few weeks before the S.E.C. imposed its new rules. On some days this year, there have been virtually no failures to deliver Overstock shares.

Over all, the threshold lists, which once had hundreds of companies on them each day, now list few companies. Of the handful of companies still remaining, few stay on the lists for more than a few days. That indicates that failures, when they occur, are quickly corrected.

So are those who used to bitterly complain about naked shorting praising the S.E.C. for solving the problem?

Not a bit. Dozens of letters blaming naked shorting for the decline in share prices have poured into the S.E.C. in recent weeks, in response to a request by the commission for comment on the possibility of imposing rules to make it harder to sell stocks short when share prices are falling.

“Why has the SEC not addressed the NAKED SHORTING issue?” asked one such letter, from an investor named Edwin J. Jewell. “It has hurt the average investor by this type of manipulation.”

Mr. Byrne told me this week that he thought there were numerous ways for Wall Street to hide failures to deliver. The list he offered ranged from the plausible to the dubious, but the evidence that there are many such failures is not easy to come by. When I asked Jonathan E. Johnson III, Overstock’s president, if he believed there was substantial naked shorting of his company’s shares despite the low number of failed trades, he declined to answer. He said such information was likely to come out in the trial of the suit Overstock filed against the brokerage firms, but there is no date set for that trial.

The S.E.C. rule that seems to have won the war against naked short-selling was one that simply eliminated an exemption previously available for those who made markets in stock options. The fact that fails soon plunged is evidence that that exemption was being abused.

That rule is set to expire July 31, but it seems probable that the commission will make it permanent before that.

The commission will hold a roundtable discussion this week on the wisdom of making it harder to sell stocks short, either by allowing such sales only at prices higher than the last different one, or by barring such sales at all when either the stock in question or the entire market has fallen by a large amount.

The participants in that roundtable will be asked to discuss evidence that short-selling is or is not responsible for the slide in prices, and what impact came from the temporary bans on short-selling imposed on financial stocks at the height of the panic last year.

To many people who wrote to the S.E.C., it is obvious that short-selling is evil and the cause of their losses. To a smaller number of others, it is obvious that short-sellers make the market more efficient. The S.E.C. clearly would like to find some real evidence on the subject, but there is heavy political pressure to do something whether or not such evidence can be found.

Wall Street historically defended the practice of short-selling, but the tune changed last summer when heads of investment banks demanded halts to short sales of their stocks, and the S.E.C. complied. The banks argued that short-sellers were driving down prices and destroying investor confidence — an argument heard for years from executives of smaller companies.

To many economists, such arguments, whether applied to normal short-selling or to naked short-selling, ring hollow. They believe in efficient markets and argue that if a share price is driven to excessively low prices, other investors will step in to buy the stock. An offer to acquire a company with a large short position can produce immediate and painful losses for those who bet against the stock. The failure of anyone to make such an offer may be an indication that the company lacks much fundamental value.

As for Overstock, the apparent end to naked short-selling has not led to higher prices of shares in the perennially unprofitable Internet retailer. The share price, around $28 when the number of failed trades hit its peak in 2006, had fallen to about $20 by the time it came off Nasdaq’s threshold list in September. Now it is under $14.
24 2009-05-01 On Wednesday, the new disease affecting thousands of people in Mexico and more than 100 in the United States and other countries was called swine influenza. By Thursday, the “S word” had been banned: A sentence in a box at the very top of the home page of the World Health Organization said, “From today, W.H.O. will refer to the new influenza virus as influenza A(H1N1).”

At the organization’s news conference in Geneva on Thursday, its deputy director general, Dr. Keiji Fukuda, dutifully referred to the virus as “H1N1,” slipping only once. Just two days earlier, Dr. Fukuda had declared that the new virus was a swine influenza virus and that the organization had no plans to call it anything other than what it was.

Officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have also started to shun the word “swine,” and a hapless reporter who used it during a radio interview was roundly scolded by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

The name may have changed, but the virus has not. Scientists who have examined its genetic material say that most of it comes from viruses known to infect pigs. But for various reasons, it seems, that is better left unsaid.

“There were some issues regarding the name ‘swine flu’ that were brought to the attention of the scientific community,” said Thomas W. Skinner, a spokesman for the C.D.C. “Sensitive issues in other parts of the world. Among the issues were cultural ones.”
25 2009-05-01 “Play Pause,” Sadie Benning’s new stop-action animation, is a small, multifaceted gem. On view in the lobby gallery of the Whitney Museum of American Art, it uses an avalanche of simple, almost naïve gouache drawings to prowl the margins of urban society. It also returns her talent to the museum where she first became famous.

Ms. Benning’s work was first seen at the Whitney in 1993, when, barely 20, she became the standout discovery of that year’s biennial. Success, however, was not entirely new. Ms. Benning had started to make films several years earlier and had already received a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation.

Her contributions to the ’93 biennial were short black-and-white films that had been shot in her bedroom using what was, more or less, a toy camera. Spare and diaristic, with an irresistible hands-on charm, they were in essence stop-action puppet shows made with an array of drawings, handwritten notes, cut-out silhouettes and in-camera editing.

They gave voice to the age-old adolescent longing for knowledge — of self, of love, of the world. While evoking the spirit of Joseph Cornell, they also extended the implicitly tender set-up photography of artists like James Casebere and Laurie Simmons into film.

In “Play Pause,” Ms. Benning’s work continues to wear its heart on its sleeve, if more covertly, along with a sewn-on patch reading “Do it Yourself.” It is the film of an artist who has become sadder and wiser about life, while greatly expanding her capacity for intimacy and understanding.

“Play Pause” is a low-key picture of what might be called the everyday sublime. Solveig Nelson has provided its beautifully accurate (yet largely electronic) soundtrack of city sounds, whether a subway singer or traffic noises, a jackhammer or squirrels rifling through a garbage can, people talking in a bar or gates being called in an airport.
26 2009-05-01 During the nearly six years that Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri spent in isolation in a Navy brig as the last enemy combatant held on United States soil, he denied the government’s charges that he was a sleeper agent for Al Qaeda, his lawyers said. But on Thursday, in a federal courtroom in Peoria, Ill., that denial fell apart when Mr. Marri reached a deal with the government to plead guilty to conspiracy to provide material support to Al Qaeda.

In the 20-page plea agreement  which substantially reduced the possible prison sentence against him  Mr. Marri admitted having attended terrorist training camps from 1998 to 2001 and taking courses in the “use of various weapons and basic operational security tradecraft.”

He admitted meeting with Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who was at the time the external operations chief for the Qaeda organization, and “offered his services.” Mr. Mohammed, according to the agreement, told Mr. Marri “to enter the United States no later than Sept. 10, 2001” and await further instructions.

Mr. Marri, a native of Qatar, and his family did arrive in the United States on Sept. 10, and he enrolled at Bradley University in Peoria, which he had attended on an earlier stay in the United States. While there, he admitted, he “researched online information related to various cyanide compounds” and communicated in code with Qaeda operatives; investigators found an almanac with bookmarked pages showing dams, waterways and tunnels in the United States.

Mr. Marri was initially indicted this year on two counts related to providing material support and resources to a terrorist organization, each of which carries a maximum 15-year sentence; the plea to a single count means that his sentence could be cut in half, after which he could be deported to Qatar.

In a statement issued after the plea, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said, “Without a doubt, this case is a grim reminder of the seriousness of the threat we as a nation still face.”

Mr. Holder also took the opportunity, however, to distinguish the criminal proceeding from the indefinite detention under which Mr. Marri, 43, had been held without charges as an “enemy combatant” during the Bush administration, when he was kept in solitary confinement in a Navy brig in Charleston, S.C., for nearly six years. That detention had been challenged by the American Civil Liberties Union.

The switch to criminal court and the agreement, Mr. Holder said, “reflects what we can achieve when we have faith in our criminal justice system and are unwavering in our commitment to the values upon which the nation was founded and the rule of law.”

Lawrence S. Lustberg, who served on Mr. Marri’s criminal defense team, said that his client pleaded guilty “because he wanted to go home,” and that a jury trial would have exposed him to the emotions of jurors and the possibility of a 30-year sentence.

Some of the time served by Mr. Marri since his arrest in December 2001 could be subtracted from the sentence, particularly the 18 months he served in prison after his initial arrest. Whether the years in detention will also be considered is up to Judge Michael M. Mihm of Federal District Court, who has presided over the case. Sentencing is scheduled for July 30.

Several rounds of plea negotiations have occurred since Mr. Marri’s initial appearance in federal court in Peoria in March. A person familiar with the negotiations said that those negotiations had come close to agreement, but that Mr. Holder rejected the earlier tentative agreements because they did not hold Mr. Marri to at least a 15-year sentence.

Talks on Thursday went down to the wire, and Judge Mihm delayed the beginning of the hearing from 1 p.m. until 3 p.m. to allow the talks to come to fruition.
27 2009-05-01 When outlined his plan to restructure under bankruptcy-court protection, we shared his view that keeping a company “afloat on an endless supply of dollars” was no solution to the cratering of even iconic American companies.

We also admired his supreme confidence that the Chrysler bankruptcy will be a quick, official and controlled process. We just wished we were as confident as the president.

If the process is prolonged, the costs and complexity would likely ensure that the company would never emerge from bankruptcy proceedings, with dire implications for employment and economic recovery.

For the administration, the Chrysler bankruptcy filing became inevitable when a holdout group of the carmaker’s lenders rejected the government’s final offer to settle their debts, for about 33 cents on the dollar. The union had already agreed to concessions to help keep the company afloat, as had large that hold most all of the company’s debt. Chrysler and the Italian carmaker, , had also agreed to a partnership that would enable Chrysler to tap into Fiat’s technology, designs and management.

By pushing the matter into bankruptcy court, the administration is assuming that the judge will also reject the holdouts’ demands. That would allow for a quick restructuring while keeping intact the previous agreements with the union, the big bank lenders and Fiat. In short order — 30 to 60 days by the administration’s estimate — Chrysler would emerge from bankruptcy with all the pieces in place to become in Mr. Obama’s words, “stronger” and “more competitive.”
28 2009-05-01 Mr. Biden’s office later issued a clarification, saying that “the advice he is giving family members is the same advice the administration is giving to all Americans: that they should avoid unnecessary air travel to and from Mexico.”

In response, the travel industry issued a statement pointing out that all-out travel bans had not been issued. “According to the , swine influenza should not discourage people from traveling to or within the United States,” Roger Dow, president and chief executive of the U.S. Travel Association, said in a statement. “Elected officials must strike a delicate balance of accurately and adequately informing citizens of health concerns without unduly discouraging travel and other important economic activity.”

The Air Transport Association of America, which represents airlines, took a similar tack. “The airlines have been working daily with government agencies, none of whom suggest people avoid air travel, unless they are not feeling well,” James C. May, the group’s president and chief executive, said in a statement. “The fact is that the air onboard a commercial aircraft is cleaner than that in most public buildings.”

Because the concerns about the flu outbreak have been raised just in the last few days, it is too soon to have definitive numbers on the impact on air traffic. “I wouldn’t be surprised certainly if bookings had dropped significantly to Mexico,” said Philip A. Baggaley, an airline analyst for Standard & Poor’s. “But whether it has moved beyond that to any material degree is an open question.”

Travel agents said Wednesday that people continued to plan trips. “People are still booking airline tickets,” said Brian Hoyt, a spokesman for Orbitz, the online travel agency.

Yet some travelers are weighing the risks of flying, as recent reader posts on the Web site suggest.

“My husband and I are 75 and 74 respectively, both of us recovering from ,” wrote one reader, Lorraine Robertson. “We are scheduled to fly from , Fla., to Newark, N.J., next week. Tampa airport is a hub for people flying from Mexico to other parts of the United States. We do have the option of driving, which we are in good shape to do. Which is the better choice at this time? I want to make a rational decision, not an emotional one. Can you help us decide? Thanks.”
29 2009-05-01 WASHINGTON — The Senate handed a victory to the banking industry on Thursday, defeating a Democratic proposal that would have given homeowners in financial trouble greater flexibility to renegotiate the terms of their mortgages.

The House of Representatives, meanwhile, overwhelmingly approved a bill backed by the Obama administration that would limit the ability of credit card companies to charge high fees and penalties. The bill, approved 357 to 70, still faces obstacles in the Senate, where — as the action on Thursday illustrated — the industry has more clout, particularly among Republicans and moderate Democrats. In recent days the White House, partly in response to polls showing the significant public outrage over high fees charged by credit card companies, has begun to work for its passage.

The mortgage provision garnered only 45 votes in the Senate, falling well short of the 60 votes necessary to break a threatened filibuster to a measure sponsored by Senator Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, that would give bankruptcy judges greater flexibility to modify mortgages. In recent weeks, major banks and bank trade associations worked closely with Senate Republicans to stop the measure. Twelve Democrats joined all the Republicans in voting against it.

The defeat clears the way for a final vote as early as Friday for the legislation, which has several features that the banking industry has sought. One provision would have the effect of reducing a proposed special premium the banks would owe the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation later that year by more than 50 percent — a $7.7 billion saving. A second provision would make permanent the temporary increase in deposits guaranteed by the F.D.I.C., to $250,000, from $100,000.

Once the Senate completes its action on the legislation, it will have to be reconciled with a similar measure already adopted in the House before it can become law.
30 2009-05-01 Chrysler is the first major automaker since Studebaker in 1933 to try to reorganize in bankruptcy and emerge as a viable company. The process can be complicated. Here is a quick look at how it is likely to play out.

Q. Is Chrysler going out of business?

A. No. Chrysler is reorganizing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The law allows companies to shed assets, restructure debt, cancel contracts and close operations that normally would have to continue running. Once they secure financing to emerge from bankruptcy, these companies are reconstituted as new legal entities.

Should Chrysler fail to successfully reorganize, it might turn to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which would mean a liquidation.

Q. How long will this take?

A. The Obama administration spoke of a “surgical bankruptcy” that it said could be completed in 30 to 60 days. It plans to use Section 363 of the bankruptcy code to sell assets, rid the company of liabilities and restructure its debt, creating a new Chrysler.

In reality, most bankruptcies take much longer. United Airlines spent more than three years under bankruptcy protection. Delphi, the auto parts supplier, has been in Chapter 11 since 2005. The bankruptcy by LTV, a steel maker, took seven years to resolve.

Bankruptcy law changed in 2005 to give management of a company the exclusive right to draft a plan of reorganization. A judge can extend that period exclusivity for 18 months, but creditors or potential buyers for a company can present a competing plan once that period expires.

Q. What happens to Chrysler dealers?

A. Chrysler is able under bankruptcy to cancel franchise agreements with its dealers, and the government said that would happen. Dealers can sue to block the action, but a final decision would be up to the judge. In the meantime, Chrysler will continue to provide dealers with vehicles to sell.

Chrysler Financial will cease making consumer loans for Chrysler vehicles; GMAC, with support from the government, will provide financing through Chrysler dealers.

Q. What happens to Chrysler employees?

A. The White House said it did not expect any reductions in white- or blue-collar jobs as a result of the bankruptcy. However, Chrysler employees who are not union members do not have any job security. The company can ask a judge for an immediate pay cut for its salaried employees, and can announce job eliminations and close offices, just as it can outside bankruptcy,

Contracts covering members of the United Automobile Workers union and other unions will remain in force, until the company asks a judge to void them. U.A.W. members approved changes to their contract on Wednesday that presumably would mean the contract would stay in place.

But if the company asked for contracts to be terminated and replaced with terms it can more readily afford, the union would have a chance to respond in court. Negotiations would take place before any cuts were imposed. This process could take months.

A. Companies have the right under bankruptcy law to ask to terminate their pension plans. If such a request was made, a judge would convene a brief trial on the subject and hear both sides. If pensions were terminated, employees would still receive reduced benefits through financing from the federal pension agency.

A company also can eliminate retiree health care benefits for nonunion employees; they would subsequently be covered by Medicare. The U.A.W. and Chrysler agreed in 2007 to transfer responsibility for union retiree health care to a special fund, and the fund would administer those retiree benefits.

Q. What happens to Chrysler suppliers?

A. In its bankruptcy filing, Chrysler listed its 50 biggest creditors holding unsecured claims, meaning those that would have to get in line behind creditors whose debt is secured by collateral, like the company’s plants, brands and other assets. The unsecured creditors include its advertising agency, BBDO, and parts suppliers, like Johnson Controls, Magna International and Cummins Engine.

The White House said supplier contracts would remain in force, and it has created a program to provide federal help to parts makers. But in bankruptcy, supplier contracts can be canceled.

Chrysler is likely to tell the court which suppliers it wants to keep doing business with, and which contracts it wants to reject. Suppliers could challenge the rejection of their contract, but most likely they would have to reach a settlement with Chrysler.

Q. What happens next in the bankruptcy case?

A. Chrysler filed its initial paperwork with the federal bankruptcy court in New York on Thursday. On Friday, it will ask a judge to issue a series of rulings called the first day orders, which allow the company to keep operating. They may include authorizing the payment of routine expenses, like salaries and payments to vendors, including its lawyers, and whatever else Chrysler needs to run its business. Chrysler said it would halt production while it completes a deal with Fiat.

Once the case begins, Chrysler can ask a judge to issue an emergency order to temporarily reduce salaries, which is meant to conserve its cash. A committee will also be formed that represents Chrysler’s creditors.

Q. Should owners of Chrysler cars and trucks be concerned?

A. The federal government said it would back the warranties on vehicles bought from Chrysler while it is operating in bankruptcy. So, effective Thursday, warranties are underwritten by the government.

Owners of Chrysler vehicles bought before Thursday should expect their warranties to be honored until they expire. But the work may not be performed by a Chrysler dealer. Companies operating in bankruptcy sometimes ask a judge to let them assign warranty repairs to outside vendors, who charge the company less for their work than a dealer would expect to be reimbursed.

Owners whose vehicle warranties have run out are liable for any problems with their cars and trucks, as they are now.
31 2009-05-01 It was a humbling moment for the nation’s third-largest automaker, which recovered strongly after a near bankruptcy in 1979 with help from the Carter administration before entering its latest, dangerously fallow period under the ownership of the German auto company Daimler-Benz and, as of 2007, .

Bringing to bear his White House megaphone on Thursday, Mr. Obama laid out the terms of a deal that he said would save well over 35,000 jobs. And with a hint of anger, he railed against the holdout lenders, now effectively a hostile group of business partners, whom he called “speculators.”

“They were hoping that everybody else would make sacrifices, and they would have to make none,” Mr. Obama said of the creditors, among them several hedge funds and boutique funds. “I don’t stand with them.”

As the most visible investor in the newly formed Chrysler, Mr. Obama also donned his presidential sales cap, emphasizing that Chrysler’s warranties would now be backed by the United States government — addressing a potential concern for those in the market for a new car.

“If you are considering buying a car, I hope it will be an American car,” he said. “I want to remind you that if you decide to buy a Chrysler, your warranty will be safe.”

The crisis in the auto industry has presented an early test for Mr. Obama, who has had to wrestle with the limits of federal involvement in private industry as few presidents have since . Save for crucial moments of decision, officials said he left the automotive task force he formed in February to work through sticking points with the participants, with its main leaders, the financiers Ron Bloom and , handling the late-night phone calls.

Mr. Rattner and Mr. Bloom both have experience with corporate turnarounds and were able to wring critical concessions from the U.A.W. The union, for example, agreed to accept company stock for 50 percent of what Chrysler owes its retiree health care fund. Most of the major debtholders, led by , agreed to write down the debt owed to them by more than two-thirds.

That put the onus on the remaining holdouts — including units of OppenheimerFunds, Xerion Capital Fund of Perella Weinberg Partners and Stairway Capital Management — which argued they were falling victim to the willingness of their big banking partners in Chrysler to play nice with a government that had helped bail them out as well. Perella Weinberg decided late Thursday that it would accept the government’s terms.

Administration officials said the holdouts’ position left them no option but to force Chrysler into bankruptcy.

The hope now is that Chrysler will come out of bankruptcy quickly, perhaps as soon as late June, and serve as a model for , which has to produce its own lifesaving plan in the next 30 days.

But court documents filed by Chrysler in New York on Thursday showed that Chrysler’s re-emergence from bankruptcy could take until Aug. 28, or four months from now. Bankruptcy always contains some element of unpredictability, and the minority of debtholders who oppose the new arrangement could argue in court that the company is worth more to them in liquidation.

But administration officials said they believed that it was highly unlikely that a bankruptcy court judge would side with the minority when those holding 70 percent of the debt had signed off on the arrangement.

Chrysler said its factories would go mostly idle starting Monday, and remain so for the bulk of the process. Auto workers will receive about 80 percent of their base pay during the shutdown. The Treasury is providing $3.3 billion in so-called debtor-in-possession financing, and administration officials said during a conference call with reporters that no jobs would be lost during the bankruptcy.

Any future cuts, they said, would be decided by the new company’s board — which is to include representatives appointed by the union, the administration and the government of , which also lent money — and the successor to the Chrysler chief executive, , who said he would leave the company at the bankruptcy’s end.

In Auburn Hills, Mich., groups of Chrysler workers watched the president’s speech on television Thursday at the Red Ox Tavern on their lunch break. While they welcomed Mr. Obama’s endorsement of Chrysler’s future, they worried about the stigma associated with bankruptcy.

“It seems like an ugly word — bankruptcy,” said Christopher Whiteman, an engineering supervisor at the company. “It puts a lot of doubt in people’s minds.”

That sort of trepidation is common in politically important , which is bracing itself for General Motors to submit its restructuring plans some 30 days from now.
32 2009-05-01 Exxon said that the drop in prices would not change its spending plans for the year. The company said it still expected to spend a record $29 billion this year to expand production and develop new projects. But in a bid to preserve some of its cash, it also signaled that it would reduce its share buyback program by $2 billion in the second quarter.

“In spite of the dramatic changes to the global economic environment, Exxon Mobil is maintaining its long-term focus and disciplined approach to capital investment,” the company said in a statement.

While other oil companies are trimming or ending their share-buyback programs, Exxon spent $7 billion in the first quarter to purchase shares. In the second quarter, it plans to spend $5 billion buying back shares. Exxon had $25 billion in cash at the end of the first quarter, down from $31 billion at the end of last year.

Despite the market’s decline and the drop in gasoline consumption, Exxon recently regained its position as the largest American corporation in the Fortune 500 list of companies, overtaking Wal-Mart. The company’s shares have lost 25 percent of their value in the last year, compared with a 37 percent drop on the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Exxon’s report caps a week of weaker earnings for major oil companies. Royal Dutch Shell and BP both reported lower profits in recent days.

Shell’s net income for the first quarter fell 62 percent, to $3.49 billion. At BP, profits fell by 64 percent, to $2.56 billion, prompting the company’s chief executive, Tony Hayward, to scale back spending this year by 9 percent, to $20 billion.

“This is a very difficult condition for the oil industry, and we need to be clear about it,” Shell’s chief financial officer, Peter Voser, said on a conference call on Wednesday.

ConocoPhillips said last week that its profit plunged by 80 percent, to $840 million. Chevron is scheduled to report its results for the quarter on Friday.

Even as it outperforms its peers, Exxon faces stark strategic questions about its future. The Obama administration’s goals of cutting carbon emissions and reducing oil consumption threaten Exxon’s profits and its business model. The cap-and-trade policy, which is being considering by the administration, would raise production costs and increase energy prices.

Exxon, which has long fought policies to reduce carbon emissions, has recently championed the idea of setting a carbon tax to reduce emissions, a measure favored by some economists. Many analysts do not consider a carbon tax to be politically realistic, while environmental advocates prefer the certainty offered by a declining cap on carbon emissions.
33 2009-05-01 It was a soft end to a second good month for Wall Street. The Dow rose 7 percent in April, and the S.& P. 500 was up more than 9 percent. Although the stock indexes are still lower for the year, they are now higher than they were on Inauguration Day, propelled by hopes the recession was loosening its grip.

Two new reports on consumer spending and job losses offered investors more fodder to gauge the economy’s health.

Workers earned less in March and consumers spent less, the government reported on Thursday, as people who were worried about job losses put more money into savings accounts.

A day earlier, the government said there was an unexpected increase in consumer spending in the first quarter. But a report on Thursday showed that while consumer spending rose sharply in January, the gains tapered off in February and reversed themselves in March, declining by a larger-than-expected 0.2 percent.

Consumer spending, which accounts for some 70 percent of economic activity, tumbled as the financial crisis erupted late last year. The increased spending in the first quarter was partly a result of higher-than-normal tax refunds and lower energy prices.

“There should be great concern on this front as we enter the summer months,” Dan Greenhaus, an analyst in the equity strategy group of Miller Tabak & Company, wrote in a research note. “Unemployment continues to move higher, and it’s very clear that as of now, businesses are simply not hiring and virtually every metric on the labor front has yet to get better.”

The Commerce Department reported that personal incomes fell 0.3 percent in March. Incomes have fallen in four of the last five months as employers try to weather the recession by cutting pay, furloughing workers and cutting jobs.

The personal savings rate, which dipped to zero as Americans maximized their use of credit cards and tapped big home equity lines of credit, grew to 4.2 percent in March, from 4 percent a month earlier. People saved $455.3 billion, an increase of $22.7 billion from February.

For a family, saving more money is a way to pay down debt, increase financial stability and guard against future hardships and job losses. But when millions and millions of people forsake spending for saving in economic hard times, they can collectively prolong a recession.

The spending report came as the Labor Department reported that first-time claims for unemployment insurance fell by 13,000, to a seasonally adjusted 631,000. The number of continuing jobless claims kept rising, to 6.3 million for the week ending April 18 from 6.1 million a week earlier.

The country has lost more than five million jobs since the recession began in December 2007, and unemployment has climbed to 8.5 percent.

The Treasury’s 10-year note fell 3/32, to 96 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.12 percent, from 3.11 percent late Wednesday.

Following are the results of Thursday’s Treasury auction 70-day cash management bills:
34 2009-05-01 The grass, one year on, has finally taken hold in the salty soil of the cemeteries. The bodies, nearly 85,000 of them, have been fished from the rivers, dug from the mud, cleared from the ponds, and put to rest.     In addition, about 54,000 peopl...
35 2009-05-01 CHRYSLER IN BANKRUPTCY  The Obama administration forced Chrysler into federal bankruptcy protection so it could pursue an alliance with Fiat. The retirement plan of the auto workers' union will take control of the carmaker, with Fiat and the Unite...
36 2009-05-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
37 2009-05-02 You might not meet a nicer couple than the retired high school principal Tom McCarthy and his wife, Patricia....
38 2009-05-02 Joe Nocera writes about Thursday's New York Revie/PEN event on the economy, but fails to mention what I found the most depressing aspect of the whole thing: further confirmation that we're living in a Dark Age of macroeconomics, in which hard-won ...
39 2009-05-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
40 2009-05-02 Dr. Mark Gendreau answers reader questions about safe air travel in a time of flu....
41 2009-05-02 Shares of the Simon Property Group, the biggest American shopping mall owner, fell 8 percent after the company cut its dividend and 2009 earnings forecast. The dividend will be 60 cents a share in the next three quarters, down from 90 cents, Simon Property said in a statement. Simon Property lost almost half its stock market value in the past year as the recession reduced consumer spending and spurred job losses. “We’re optimistic that we’ll reinstate the full cash dividend” as the capital markets improve, the chief executive, David Simon, said.
42 2009-05-02 A federal judge in Los Angeles has ordered the government to reopen the immigration cases of dozens of foreign widows whose American-citizen spouses died before the women could get their green cards. The judge, Christina A. Snyder, ruled that the Department of Homeland Security could not deny the widows’ applications to remain in the United States legally because the agency did not process the paperwork before their spouses died. The ruling paves the way for the widows in Western states to have their applications for green cards reopened. The Citizenship and Immigration Service has argued that the law requires that residency applications be rejected for immigrants whose American spouses die within two years of marriage.
43 2009-05-02 On Friday, after repeating that he signed Gary Sheffield and Alex Cora to add attitude to the team, Minaya said: “Let’s be clear. We have an edge.” Asked to compare the Mets’ mentality with the Phillies’, Minaya said: “I believe in respecting the world champions. I feel our players are passionate, I feel that we have leadership, I think that we play hard.”

Beltran, who reached base in four of his five plate appearances Friday, reacted to Minaya’s comments by saying: “That doesn’t matter if I’m a mean guy or not. What matters is being able to go out there and play the game of baseball and do my job.”

Beltran was a big part of an offense that scored three runs on sacrifice flies and two on a first-inning homer by Daniel Murphy. (“I love this park,” Murphy said.) The Mets, who have had trouble scoring add-on runs, tallied two more on fifth-inning singles that impaired the Phillies’ chances at mounting another of their patented comebacks.

One of those run-scoring singles was from the struggling Wright, who finished with two hits and a run batted in. The other was from Mike Pelfrey, who pitched five and one-third adequate innings that paled beside his performance at the plate. Pelfrey also drove in the Mets’ third run on a sacrifice fly that was caught at the left-center-field fence.

The Phillies’ resilience stands in stark contrast to the Mets, who are 0-10 when trailing after seven innings. By tacking on those two insurance runs Friday, and by watching their bullpen limit the Phillies to one run (a Chase Utley homer in the seventh) in the final three and two-thirds innings, the Mets showed signs of progress.

“I felt good about how we approached the game tonight,” Manager Jerry Manuel said. “It’s one of those things that we have to bring every night regardless of who we play. We have to bring that level of concentration, that focus, every night.”

The Mets were undeniably better than the Phillies in one category: pitching. As poorly as the Mets’ rotation has looked this season, the Phillies’ pitchers have been worse. The Phillies’ staff began Friday with a National League-worst 5.63 earned run average and was tied with Baltimore for allowing the most home runs in the majors (40).

The Phillies returned four of their five starters from last season, but Friday’s starter, Chan Ho Park, was not one of them. He spent part of 2007 with the Mets, making one awful start for them in April, and the Mets pounded him Friday as if they knew what pitches were coming. Alternately showing patience and aggressiveness, the Mets battered Park for seven runs in four and two-thirds innings, drawing six walks.

Another poor showing with runners in scoring position (2 for 8) was mitigated by the Mets’ surge in productive outs, hitting three sacrifice flies in the second and third innings that gave them a 5-0 lead. Their lineup, still without Delgado (sore right hip) and Luis Castillo (back spasms), had a flow not seen recently, as every starter but Reyes and Ryan Church reached base.

“I hope that this team really understands this feeling, the intensity that we have here, and that carries over to Atlanta,” Wright said. “And that carries over back home because this is the kind of intensity and focus we need every day.”

Jerry Manuel said Carlos Delgado (sore right hip), who missed his fourth straight game, could be placed on the disabled list if he did not improve by Saturday. The prognosis is more favorable for Luis Castillo (back spasms), who said he felt much better but was given another day off anyway. ... The Mets announced that tickets for their June to October games at Citi Field will go on sale Sunday at 10 a.m. and can be purchased online at mets.com, and losmets.com, and by phone at (718) 507-8499. ... Tim Redding is scheduled to make his first start for Class AAA Buffalo on Tuesday.
44 2009-05-02 LOS ANGELES  If Republican candidates for governor of California are hoping for an automatic high five from the sitting governor, they ought not to get too comfortable.

When asked Friday after giving a speech on health care in which he praised President Obama and other Democrats to the highest of heavens whether he would ever consider endorsing a Democrat to replace him, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said, “It could happen, yes.”

The governor offered no specifics on any particular candidate.

Mr. Schwarzenegger, estranged from the leaders in his state party and at odds with some national Republicans on fiscal and environmental matters, remains a powerful figure in the national party, with his celebrity status and engaging speaking style. While currently low in the polls, he remains a governor voters are highly attuned to.

The field for 2010 Democratic candidates for governor includes Jerry Brown, a former governor and current state attorney general; Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco; and Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, who spoke at the Beverly Hilton at the same event Mr. Schwarzenegger appeared at, the 40th anniversary celebration of the community health care network AltaMed. Mr. Villaraigosa praised Mr. Schwarzenegger for his work on changes in state health care.

Candidates mulling the Republican line include Meg Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay, and Steve Poizner, the state insurance commissioner.

Do not expect Arnold to pull an Arlen. In his speech at the hotel to employees of AltaMed, Mr. Schwarzenegger ruled out switching parties as Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania did this week.

“I’m not going to become a Democrat,” said Mr. Schwarzenegger, noting that he had been among the first Republicans to support the federal stimulus package. “I think the Kennedy family has enough Democrats.”

But he shall sit in praise of them. What helped form (the failed-for-now) state health care legislation? The “great leadership” of former Speaker Fabian Núñez.

And President Obama? “I love the guy,” said Mr. Schwarzenegger in remarks to the workers.

A large cut-out of the president, a vestige of the fall campaign, when the governor’s wife, Maria Shriver, supported Mr. Obama and Mr. Schwarzenegger supported Senator John McCain, remains in his family living room.
45 2009-05-02 Mr. Menendez predicted that voters would not be moved.

“People wanted to see a change in our policy,” he said. “They wanted to see a change in Iraq; they want us to stand for our principles. We can have security and still stand for the Constitution. They understand that. That’s the way they voted in the last election. Republicans are wasting their time and money.”

But Republicans say the issue of national security resonates outside the bubble of Washington, from New York City, where the unannounced flyover by Air Force jets this week stoked panicked memories of the terror attacks and drew the wrath of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, to Virginia and Kansas where high-security prisons are being eyed for the transfer of detainees from Guantánamo.

Senior Republicans say the focus on security is part of a broader effort to return the party to its core values: smaller government, lower taxes and spending, and a strong national defense.

In recent days, the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has regularly used his opening remarks on the Senate floor to explore the thorny question of what will happen to detainees when the detention facility in Cuba is closed, as Mr. Obama has promised to do by the end of the year.

On Thursday, Mr. McConnell hammered the administration for requesting $80 million for closing Guantánamo as part of an $83.4 billion war spending bill without explaining what would happen to the terror suspects being held there.

“Rather than appear before the Senate to explain why these funds are necessary and what the administration plans to do with the terrorists housed at Guantánamo, Attorney General Holder chose to deliver a speech in Berlin yesterday in which he reiterated the administration’s intent to close it,” Mr. McConnell said.

“It is clear from these remarks that the administration is putting symbolism ahead of safety,” he said.

Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., Mr. McConnell added, “clearly realizes what most Americans realize: closing Guantánamo is not a good option if no safe alternative exists.”

Shutting down the Cuba prison is a top priority for many Democrats, who see it as necessary to close a sad chapter in American policy. Democrats counter that even some prominent Republicans have backed Mr. Obama’s effort to expand the war against terrorists in Afghanistan.

But some of those lawmakers, including Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, say the administration has put itself in a bind on Guantánamo.

“I think they made the announcement without understanding there’s a number of really difficult issues associated with it,” Mr. McCain said.

Some Democrats who otherwise staunchly support the administration are uneasy about moving the terror suspects to American soil. Their reluctance, coupled with Republican opposition, could force the White House to strip the money for closing Guantánamo from the larger war funding bill in order to win its quick approval.

When the small town of Hardin, Mont., offered this week to place the detainees in an empty jail that it built two years ago, the state’s two Democratic senators, Max Baucus and Jon Tester, swiftly denounced the idea.

And Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said in an interview that he was deeply concerned about the possibility of some detainees being moved to the Marine base at Quantico in his home state, which, he said, “is in a very populated area in the greater capital region.”

“Some of my local communities have expressed concern,” Mr. Warner said, adding that he would wait to see the administration’s plan before making a judgment.

“Even President Bush agreed we needed to close Guantánamo,” he said. “The question is, How do you do it, and you do it in a way that provides the appropriate level of security for the detainees and safety for folks?”

Still, Mr. Warner said he believed the Republican efforts to put Democrats on the defensive on national security would fail, particularly tactics like distributing the video showing the Pentagon shrouded in smoke.

“I think Americans are appropriately turned off by people who try to use images of 9/11 in any kind of political format,” Mr. Warner said.
46 2009-05-02 The last two Stanley Cup winners were evenly matched in their Western Conference semifinal series opener Friday night. But the Detroit Red Wings, the defending champs, pulled out a 3-2 victory over the visiting Anaheim Ducks when Nicklas Lidstrom scored his second goal of the game with 49.1 seconds left.

Lidstrom also gave Detroit a 2-1 lead with a power-play goal 14 minutes 24 seconds into the second period. And he assisted on Johan Franzen’s goal that tied the score at 1-1 less than two minutes earlier.

Franzen scored on a power play after Ducks forward Mike Brown was ejected for hitting Jiri Hudler with what appeared to be an elbow to the head. Hudler had a cut above his left eye.

Afterward, Brown said: “I just hit him with my shoulder. My elbow wasn’t up.”

Jonas Hiller stopped 34 shots, and Corey Perry and Teemu Selanne scored for the Ducks.

BRUINS 4, HURRICANES 1 Marc Savard scored twice and Tim Thomas stopped 26 shots to win his 11th consecutive game for host Boston in Game 1 of its Eastern Conference semifinal series against Carolina.

Both of Savard’s goals came at 7:21 — into the second period to break a 1-1 tie, and into the third to complete the scoring. Michael Ryder scored for the fourth game in a row, and David Krejci scored on the Bruins’ first shot.
47 2009-05-02 Fortune Brands, a consumer products company, said that net income tumbled 94 percent in the first quarter, but that the company expects the rest of the year to be easier as cost-cutting and marketing efforts start to bear fruit. The maker of Moen faucets, Jim Beam bourbon and Titleist golf equipment also reported quarterly earnings in line with its recent forecast and affirmed its full-year outlook, saying the stability of its spirits business helped temper the impact of the challenging economy. First-quarter net income tumbled 94 percent to $7.4 million, or 5 cents a share, from $120.5 million, or 77 cents a share, a year earlier.
48 2009-05-02 “Chrysler Files for Bankruptcy; U.A.W. and Fiat to Take Control” (front page, May 1) makes it urgently clear that American industry must immediately re-examine how it does business in the 21st-century economy.

Our automobile companies have been going through a precarious debacle for many years as the businessmen who led them fiercely resisted making needed changes in the types of cars they made for a consumer population that has become increasingly more apt to buy fuel-efficient and “cleaner” cars made in Japan, South Korea and other countries.

Whether the actions taken to save Chrysler will work are less important than whether the long-term lessons are learned by General Motors, Ford and a host of other American companies in various sectors of the economy: adapt and change the way you do business, or go the way of business dinosaurs.

In the coming years, our government cannot keep stepping in to save every large failing enterprise. The next 10 years will be very telling regarding how our system adjusts or fails to adjust to how business must be transacted in the new economy.

President Obama, in announcing the bankruptcy of Chrysler, said that filing for bankruptcy is not a sign of weakness but that the company will come out stronger for it. So can somebody please explain why our government would spend billions of our tax dollars to stave off the inevitable, only to tell us after its plan failed that this would make the company stronger?
49 2009-05-02 The president’s comments came at the end of a weeklong balancing act in which his public words and actions were carefully measured to summon a sense of urgency without setting off a panic. It was no coincidence, his aides said, that he played golf the day his administration declared a national emergency. And there were behind-the-scenes worries about whether he would be ridiculed for using a presidential news conference to urge people to wash their hands.

As the outbreak spread around the world, the administration fended off critics who called on the president to ban international travel and close the borders. And aides moved quickly to quash questions about whether Mr. Obama himself had been exposed to the virus while in Mexico last month.

In coming up with his public management of this crisis, the president’s aides said, he was being guided by science. But this science is not new to him. And while many in the country might not have seen the potential for a pandemic, Mr. Obama’s political record suggests he did.

“I don’t know if ironic is the right word, but that this should come into play 100 days into his administration, it’s helpful that he was ahead of the curve,” said David Axelrod, his senior adviser. “He pushed very hard on everyone right away because he understood that these things untended can be extraordinarily damaging.”

As a freshman senator in 2005, Mr. Obama took the lead on a bill devoting $25 million to help prevent an avian flu outbreak. It was one of his first pieces of legislation — and, arguably, his most substantial — in his brief time on Capitol Hill. He decided to take on the threat of killer viruses after reading a magazine article about the avian flu and a book about the 1918 pandemic. It was the perfect bipartisan cause. And because it had not been taken on by any other members of the Senate, it was one that could help get Mr. Obama, the junior senator from Illinois, some national attention.

He enlisted the support of Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, and the two of them visited laboratories in Russia and Ukraine that were working on cures for some of the world’s most lethal pathogens.

At his news conference Wednesday night, Mr. Obama praised the Bush administration for stockpiling antiviral drugs and establishing a detailed plan for responding to international outbreaks like this one.

Aides said he had been briefed three times a day since he was notified last Friday about the outbreak.
50 2009-05-02 The Chevron Corporation posted its lowest profit in five years Friday after the global recession cut fuel demand, dragging down energy prices.

First-quarter net income fell 64 percent to $1.84 billion, or 92 cents a share, from $5.17 billion, or $2.48 a share, a year earlier, Chevron said. Excluding divestiture gains, profit was 72 cents a share, 9 cents below the average of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.

The company’s earnings from oil and natural-gas wells in the United States fell 99 percent, to $21 million, as crude futures in New York traded 56 percent lower than a year earlier, the biggest decline in more than a quarter century.

“Prices have come down so far that nobody’s showing a higher profit,” said William J. Andrews, a money manager at C. S. McKee & Company in Pittsburgh.
51 2009-05-02 Mr. Price was later indicted for contempt of Congress, along with Alden Whitman and Robert Shelton, who were then copy editors at The Times (Mr. Whitman became a noted obituary writer and Mr. Shelton a music critic at the paper); Seymour Peck, a Sunday editor at The Times who was later its culture editor; Herman Liveright, a former program director at WDSU television in New Orleans; and Mary Knowles, a librarian in Plymouth Meeting, Pa. The others had appeared before the subcommittee on separate occasions.

Mr. Price was found guilty, fined $500 and sentenced to three months in jail.

His difficulties with the government did not end there. In April 1972, the F.B.I. placed a wiretap on Mr. Price’s home telephone on the suspicion that he might be in contact with fugitive members of the Weather Underground. Five years later, he filed suit against the agents who carried out the wiretaps, and in 1981 the Justice Department awarded him, and others, $10,000 in damages for the violation of their civil rights.

William Addison Price grew up in Montclair, N.J., and earned a bachelor’s degree from Principia College in Elsah, Ill. He started out in the newspaper business as a part-time feature writer for The Santa Paula Chronicle in California and a sports reporter for The Springfield Sun in New Jersey. In 1940 he joined The Daily News as a copy boy.

During World War II he flew air-rescue operations in the Aleutian Islands, attaining the rank of lieutenant. He emerged from the war a committed socialist. Mr. Price returned to The Daily News, where he was a reporter on the police beat. He was also pilot of the newspaper’s airplane, which was used to take aerial photographs. Later, he was assigned to cover the fledgling United Nations.

He displeased his superiors by working with a team of newspaper reporters investigating the death of his cousin, George Polk, who was murdered in Greece in 1948 while pursuing stories unfavorable to the right-wing government, which was supported by the United States.

His career at The Daily News came to an abrupt end the day he appeared before Senator Eastland’s subcommittee. Richard Clarke, the executive editor of The Daily News, informed him in a telegram that his conduct had “destroyed” his “usefulness to The News” and that he was fired.

Mr. Price’s conviction, and those of seven others, were set aside by the Supreme Court in 1962 on the narrow ground that the subcommittee had not specified the subject of its inquiry. He was re-indicted and found guilty, and sentenced to 10 days’ probation.

Mr. Price drove a bus and did carpentry work after losing his job, but went on to write for The National Guardian, a left-wing newspaper, for which he covered social issues in New York City and the civil rights movement in the South. Beginning in the 1970s, he worked with community organizations on the Upper West Side to defend tenants’ rights and stop the urban renewal plans of the city’s housing authority.

He is survived by two brothers, George J. Price of Miami and Henry Price of Brooklyn.
52 2009-05-02 In a major cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday, Ahmet Davutoglu, the official who has shifted Turkish foreign policy toward a greater focus on the Middle East, was made foreign minister. Mr. Davutoglu previously served as a foreign policy adviser to the prime minister. Ali Babacan, who had served as foreign minister, became the new finance minister. In all, eight ministers lost their posts in the reorganization. Mr. Erdogan, left, had promised to reorganize his cabinet after his party, Justice and Development, won a narrow victory in municipal elections that held in March. Many attributed the party’s decline in support to the economic downturn and to allegations of widespread corruption among members.
53 2009-05-02 “They’ve put a lot of political capital into this nuclear deal; they have to push it through,” said Christopher M. Davidson, a scholar who has written extensively on the Emirates. “But to do so, they may have to sacrifice one of their own, and that will damage the myth of the ruling family.”

The videotape, made in 2004, emerged in a separate lawsuit filed by Bassam Nabulsi, a former business partner of Sheik Issa. Mr. Nabulsi, an American citizen from Houston, claims he was later tortured by Emirates police officers after he refused to hand over the videotape.

The tape was made by Mr. Nabulsi’s brother on orders from Sheik Issa, who liked to film torture sessions and watch them later in his palace, said Anthony G. Buzbee, Mr. Nabulsi’s lawyer.

In its statement, the government of Abu Dhabi — the emirate to whose ruling family Sheik Issa belongs — promised a “comprehensive review” of the matter. It also said the government “understands that the matter depicted on the video was resolved between the two parties and that no criminal charges were brought by either party.”

The man being tortured in the video is Mohammed Shah Poor, an Afghan grain merchant who Sheik Issa believed had cheated him, Mr. Buzbee said. Mr. Poor was gravely injured but survived, Mr. Buzbee said.

ABC News reported that the Abu Dhabi authorities had acknowledged Sheik Issa’s role in the torture, and that they had said it was “not part of a pattern of behavior.”

A spokesman for the Abu Dhabi government declined to comment, and sent a text message saying, “All we have is now public knowledge.”

Mr. Buzbee says he has two additional videos showing Sheik Issa torturing other men, including Sudanese immigrants. In those tapes, 15 to 20 Abu Dhabi police officers can be seen assisting in the torture, he says.

“These videotapes capture behavior that went on for some time and was well known to Sheik Issa’s brothers,” who include the president, interior minister and foreign minister of the Emirates as well as other high-ranking officials, Mr. Buzbee said. Sheik Issa does not hold a government position.

Daryl Bristow, Sheik Issa’s lawyer, said in a statement that “Bassam Nabulsi and his lawyer are attempting to use a videotape of a third party to influence the court and public opinion” about the lawsuit. He added that he could not comment on details because of the suit, but that “when all the facts are known, the one-sided ‘story’ being told by Nabulsi and his lawyer will be completely addressed and Nabulsi will be discredited.”

Last year, another member of the ruling family, Falah bin Zayed al-Nahyan, was convicted by a Swiss court of beating an American man with a belt in a Geneva hotel bar in 2003. He has appealed that verdict.

Under the pending nuclear agreement, the United States would share expertise, technology and fuel in exchange for a promise by the Emirates to abide by international safeguards and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. The United States has already signed agreements with India, Egypt and Morocco, and is planning nuclear pacts with other states in the Middle East even as it leads efforts to stop Iran’s nuclear program.

Some American lawmakers have concerns about the deal, saying Dubai — one of the seven parts in the Emirates federation — has been used as a transit point for technology bound for Iran. The torture video could add to those reservations.

“How can we move forward with such a delicate agreement in the face of such an atrocious human rights violation?” said Representative James P. McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, the co-chairman of the House Human Rights Commission. “If it were brought to Congress now, I would certainly ask that it be rejected.”
54 2009-05-02 Senator , the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said he had urged Mr. Obama to meet with Republicans and Democrats to discuss prospective nominees before making his selection. Mr. Leahy, Democrat of , said he intended to have confirmation hearings completed before the court convenes in the first week of October.

Asked whether he expected a reprise of the contentious nomination battles, Mr. Leahy replied: “I would hope not. But lately they have always seemed to be.”

Mr. Obama faces intense pressure to choose a woman for the vacancy, and lesser pressure to pick a black or Hispanic justice. There is only one women on the court now, Justice , who underwent surgery in February for .

Among the candidates under consideration — a group that includes white, black and Hispanic judges and lawyers — are Sonia Sotomayor, who sits on the federal appeals court in New York, and Judge , who is on the federal appeals court in . Other leading candidates include Leah Ward Sears, who is the chief justice of the Supreme Court; , a professor at the Stanford Law School and former dean there, and , a judge on the appellate court based in .

Mr. Souter, 69, announced the end of his Supreme Court career, which began in October 1990, in a two-sentence note that was devoid of any sentiment. The vacancy leaves the White House facing another big task, at a time when Mr. Obama and Congress have been grappling with the worst economic downturn since , two wars and a potential pandemic. By occupying the Senate and the White House with an ideological battle, the drama of filling a Supreme Court position seemed likely to risk complicating what Mr. Obama had intended to be his major initiative in the months ahead: passing health care legislation.

Supreme Court battles have proved fertile ground for conservative and liberal groups to raise money and rally the troops, and conservatives leaders said they were heartened by the prospect of this fight.

“There could not be a better issue to latch on to for a Republican renaissance to start building on — drawing some distinctions on issues,” said Wendy Long, counsel to the Judicial Confirmation Network, a conservative organization. “I hope for and I expect a fight.”

A coalition of conservative legal activist groups has spent the first months of the Obama administration researching the backgrounds and records of prospective nominees and charting the best ideological line of attack, said Curt Levey, the executive director of the Committee for Justice, one of the conservative groups.

Mr. Levey said the groups now expected Mr. Obama to nominate a candidate who supports rights, and were focusing on other “the issues that are really in play,” like , gun rights, religious rights and the death penalty, in preparing for the nomination battle.

The conservative groups have agreed to divide up responsibilities for researching potential nominees and have completed about 30 dossiers, he said.

As a senator, Mr. Obama voted against President ’s two nominees, and , and backed unsuccessful efforts to their nominations.

“I trust the president will choose a nominee for the upcoming vacancy based on their experience and even-handed reading of the law, and not their partisan leanings or ability to pass litmus tests,” said Senator of , the Republican leader.

Senior White House officials said they had been aware for weeks that Mr. Souter intended to step down at the end of the term. They said preparation for filling a vacancy had begun in the early part of the transition process, and that Mr. Obama had given them a list of names to check even before his .

On Thursday, before receiving official word from Justice Souter of his intention to step aside, senior White House officials met in the West Wing to begin mapping out a strategy for how to get a nomination through, officials said. Vice President , who voted on six Supreme Court nominations during his time in the Senate, will advise Mr. Obama as he makes his choice, aides said, but his role will largely be limited to helping the nominee through the confirmation process.

Mr. Obama’s advisers said they were prepared for this fight and were ready to use the resources of Mr. Obama’s political organization, including its expansive e-mail list, to rally support for whoever he nominates. Liberal groups said they were gearing up not only to fight conservatives but also to make certain Mr. Obama puts forward a liberal choice.
55 2009-05-02 Among the firms being scrutinized in the latest round of Mr. Cuomo’s inquiry is Wetherly Capital Group, according to people with knowledge of the inquiry. Investigators are scrutinizing whether employees of Wetherly and other firms were properly licensed when they arranged deals with pension funds in New York.

Wetherly is a Los Angeles-based placement agent firm run by Dan Weinstein, a prominent Democratic fund-raiser. In a statement, Wetherly said it was fully registered with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the S.E.C.

Wetherly has come under scrutiny in California for paying a firm affiliated with Hank Morris, a top aide to Alan G. Hevesi, the former New York State comptroller, as part of an investment deal it brokered for Calpers, the giant California pension fund.

Another California firm being scrutinized in the latest round of the investigation is Gold Bridge Capital, which has acted as a placement agent on at least one deal involving the New York State pension fund.

The inquiries by Mr. Cuomo and the S.E.C., under way for two years, have focused on the millions of dollars that friends, relatives and aides of Mr. Hevesi’s gained by selling access to the $122 billion New York State pension fund. Mr. Morris and David Loglisci, another former top aide to Mr. Hevesi, have been indicted on a variety of corruption-related fraud charges, and Raymond B. Harding, the former head of the state Liberal Party, has also been charged in the case. All three have pleaded not guilty. Mr. Hevesi has not been charged.

The inquiries took on more national relevance on Thursday when Mr. Cuomo charged a top consultant to pension funds around the country, Saul Meyer, with a fraud-related felony. Mr. Meyer and his firm, Aldus Equity, which is based in Dallas, were also charged in a civil complaint by the S.E.C. Both Mr. Meyer and Aldus denied wrongdoing.

The new phase of the inquiry focuses on lobbyists, political consultants and others who brokered deals between investment firms and the New York pension funds but were not properly registered to do so.

In a preliminary investigation, Mr. Cuomo’s office found that from 2003 to 2006 — the period when Mr. Hevesi was comptroller — 22 of the 45 intermediaries used in deals at the state pension fund were not registered. In the New York City pension funds, 17 of 41 intermediaries were unregistered in deals from 2003 to this year, a review found.

While acknowledging that there could be exceptions, Mr. Cuomo said during a separate teleconference with reporters on Friday, “If you’re brokering a security, you need to be regulated.”

Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York State comptroller, and William C. Thompson Jr., the New York City comptroller, both said this week that they would move to ban placement agents from deals with their pension funds.

Mr. Cuomo also highlighted a shortcoming in state lobbying rules, which do not require lobbyists to register with the state’s Commission on Public Integrity when they appear before the state comptroller.

The increased scrutiny on placement agents in recent years has led to concerns that lobbyists and political consultants are trying to find ways to perform similar services without registering as placement agents.

In 2007, Mr. DiNapoli met with the chief partner of the private equity firm InterMedia Partners, Leo J. Hindery Jr., and Roberto Ramirez, a lobbyist and former colleague of Mr. DiNapoli’s from the Assembly. The goal for the meeting was to convince the state comptroller’s office to increase its investment with InterMedia, which it later did. A spokesman for Mr. Ramirez has said he was not paid by InterMedia and appeared only as a friend of Mr. Hindery’s.

Mr. Cuomo would not say which lobbyists or consultants were being scrutinized, but said the intersection of unregistered agents and the pension fund was potentially “the Wild West of government relations.”
56 2009-05-02 As part of its reorganization, Chrysler said Friday that it planned to shut eight plants permanently, lay off about 6,500 workers and close an unspecified number of dealerships.

Judge Gonzalez granted Chrysler’s request to use its existing cash management system, which would enable the company to transfer money to other subsidiaries to keep operating.

Lawyers for various constituencies, including banks, car dealerships, hedge funds, parts makers and others have been working around the clock readying their arguments to make sure their interests are protected in court.

Thomas E. Lauria of the law firm White & Case, who represents a committee of the secured creditors, declined to comment to reporters and did not raise any objections to the motions at the hearing. It is still unclear whether the group, which includes Oaktree Capital Management, OppenheimerFunds, Stairway Capital Management, Schultze Asset Management, Group G Capital Partners and the TCW Group, will object to Chrysler’s restructuring plan at the continuation of the case next week.

The lenders, who say they believe they are being treated unfairly in the process, may request that Chrysler be liquidated. But, according to the company’s own analysis, a liquidation would cost more than $2 billion and there are unlikely to be many buyers for Chrysler’s assets.

More than a dozen photographers and television crews swarmed lawyers and others as they were leaving the courtroom after the hearing.

Chrysler’s chief financial officer, Ronald E. Kolka, and other executives quickly jumped into a minivan waiting outside the courthouse.

Ms. Ball and her team of lawyers from Jones Day attracted a swarm of reporters and photographers, who followed them down into a subway station after the hearing. As they stepped on the train, other riders began asking whether a celebrity had just come aboard.

Judge Gonzalez has experience with major bankruptcy cases, having overseen the reorganization of Enron in 2001, which set a record by filing for bankruptcy with $63 billion in assets, and WorldCom in 2002, which topped Enron with $107 billion assets when it filed.

Court documents filed by Chrysler in New York on Thursday showed that Chrysler’s re-emergence from bankruptcy could take until Aug. 28, or four months from now.

Bankruptcy always contains some element of unpredictability, and the debtholders who oppose the new arrangement could argue in court that the company is worth more to them in liquidation.

No light was shed at Friday’s hearing on how quickly the proceedings might play out.

Administration officials said they believed that it was highly unlikely that a bankruptcy court judge would side with the minority when those holding 70 percent of the debt had signed off on the arrangement.
57 2009-05-02 WASHINGTON  Justice David H. Souter plans to retire at the end of the term in June, giving President Obama his first appointment to the Supreme Court, and has written to the president to tell him so, senior Democrats said on Friday.

They said the letter was on its way to the White House, and one Democrat said it was likely to be released by the White House as soon as Friday afternoon.

Justice Souter, who was appointed in 1990 by a Republican president, the first George Bush, but became one of the most reliable members of the court’s liberal wing, has grown increasingly sour on Washington and intends to return to his home state, New Hampshire, according to the people briefed on his plans. One official said the decision might be announced as early as Friday.

The departure, first reported late Thursday, will open the first seat for a Democratic president to fill in 15 years, and could prove a test of Mr. Obama’s plans for reshaping the nation’s judiciary. Confirmation battles for the Supreme Court in recent years have proved to be intensely partisan and divisive moments in Washington, but Mr. Obama has more leeway than his predecessors because his party holds such a strong majority in the Senate.

Replacing Justice Souter with a liberal would not change the basic makeup of the court, where he and three other justices hold down the left wing against a conservative caucus of four justices. Justice Anthony Kennedy, a moderate Republican appointee, often provides the swing vote that controls important decisions.

While the White House Counsel’s office prepared privately to step up its efforts to search for a replacement, Mr. Obama said through a spokesman on Friday that he had no direct knowledge of Mr. Souter’s plans.

“The president has not received a formal communication from Justice Souter,” Bill Burton, a White House spokesman, said Friday morning, “and he deserves the right to make his own announcement.”

But Mr. Obama and his team have been thinking for a long time about whom he might put on the court. Among the people whose names have been floated in recent months are Elena Kagan, whom Mr. Obama named as his solicitor general, and two federal appeals court judges, Sonia Sotomayor and Diane Pamela Wood.

Mr. Obama might feel a need to name a woman, given that the only female justice is Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who is 76.

Other names who might be considered by President Obama include Kathleen M. Sullivan of the Stanford Law School, a former dean there, and Judge Kim M. Wardlaw of the federal appeals court based in California.

During the campaign, Mr. Obama spoke of his admiration of former Chief Justice Earl M. Warren, citing as a special virtue his practical political experience as a former governor of California. If Mr. Obama were to look to a political figure with a strong legal background, he could turn to an old friend, Deval Patrick, now the Massachusetts governor, Christine Gregoire, governor of Washington, or Jennifer M. Granholm, governor of Michigan.

Justice Souter, 69, has been the subject of intense speculation in recent weeks because his discontent in Washington has been no secret. He was the only justice who had not hired clerks for the fall term.

On Friday morning, Mr. Souter drove to work at the Supreme Court, leaving his apartment building near the waterfront in southwest Washington. He was behind the wheel of a green Volkswagen Passatt with New Hampshire plates, which he also is known for driving to and from the capital. He made no comments as he left his home.

Friends said Thursday evening that he had often spoken of his intentions to be the court’s first retirement if Mr. Obama won the election last fall. He told friends he looked forward to returning to New Hampshire while he was young enough to enjoy climbing mountains and other outdoor activities.

One senior administration official said Mr. Obama’s aides had gotten a hint of Mr. Souter’s plans, which were first reported by National Public Radio. “He indicated he may a while ago,” the official said. But many senior officials contacted Thursday night said they had not yet been informed.

Mr. Obama is getting his first court opening early in his tenure. President George W. Bush had no seats to fill until deep into his second term, when he appointed Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., bolstering the conservative side of the court.

While Democrats will be happy to have a chance to put another liberal on the court, a confirmation battle could prove to be one more challenge for a president already engaged on multiple fronts to pass health care, energy and other legislation. Mr. Obama would need to name a nominee early enough for the Senate to hold hearings and vote by the beginning of October to fill the seat in time for the next term.

During a campaign debate last fall, Mr. Obama said the selection of a new justice would be “one of the most consequential decisions of the next president.” He said he would look for judges who had a strong judicial record and “who hopefully have a sense of what real-world folks are going through.”

On the always explosive issue of abortion, he said he would “not provide a litmus test,” but added, “I am somebody who believes that Roe versus Wade was rightly decided.”

Justice Souter was confirmed as the 105th justice on Oct. 2, 1990. He replaced Justice William J. Brennan Jr., the court’s liberal leader, who abruptly retired on July 20, 1990, at age 84 after suffering a stroke.

The nominee was little known even in Washington legal circles when the president introduced him to the country. He was a 50-year-old Harvard Law School graduate and former Rhodes scholar who had been confirmed to a federal judgeship only two months earlier and had barely moved into his chambers at the federal appeals court in Boston. For 12 years before that, he had been a state judge in New Hampshire.

Mr. Souter became a favorite of liberals during his tenure and a source of enormous frustration to conservatives who believe he betrayed them.

During his confirmation hearing, Judge Souter said that he had no agenda on abortion and that he had not made a decision on how he would vote if the issue of Roe v. Wade was put before him.

A major abortion case, Planned Parenthood v. Casey, arrived at the court in his second term and was argued on April 22, 1992. It was widely expected that Roe would be formally or functionally overturned because by then another abortion rights supporter, Justice Thurgood Marshall, had retired, and he was replaced by Justice Clarence Thomas.

But the result was just the opposite. Justice Souter, joined by two other Republican-appointed justices, Sandra Day O’Connor and Anthony M. Kennedy, who had earlier both expressed strong doubts about Roe, collaborated to produce a highly unusual joint opinion that reaffirmed the constitutional right to abortion. With Justices Harry A. Blackmun and John Paul Stevens joining the central parts of the joint opinion, the vote was 5 to 4.

Justice Souter was in the minority, and a bitter dissenter, in the case of Bush v. Gore, the 5-to-4 decision that ended the disputed Florida recount in the 2000 presidential election and effectively declared George W. Bush the winner.

“There is no justification for denying the state the opportunity to try to count all disputed ballots now,” he wrote.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, praised the justice on Thursday night. “Justice Souter is a first-rate legal talent,” Mr. Leahy said, “and I am very proud of him.”
58 2009-05-02 Senator , the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said he had urged Mr. Obama to meet with Republicans and Democrats to discuss prospective nominees before making his selection. Mr. Leahy, Democrat of , said he intended to have confirmation hearings completed before the court convenes in the first week of October.

Asked whether he expected a reprise of the contentious nomination battles, Mr. Leahy replied: “I would hope not. But lately they have always seemed to be.”

Mr. Obama faces intense pressure to choose a woman for the vacancy, and lesser pressure to pick a black or Hispanic justice. There is only one women on the court now, Justice , who underwent surgery in February for .

Among the candidates under consideration — a group that includes white, black and Hispanic judges and lawyers — are Sonia Sotomayor, who sits on the federal appeals court in New York, and Judge , who is on the federal appeals court in . Other leading candidates include Leah Ward Sears, who is the chief justice of the Supreme Court; , a professor at the Stanford Law School and former dean there, and , a judge on the appellate court based in .

Mr. Souter, 69, announced the end of his Supreme Court career, which began in October 1990, in a two-sentence note that was devoid of any sentiment. The vacancy leaves the White House facing another big task, at a time when Mr. Obama and Congress have been grappling with the worst economic downturn since , two wars and a potential pandemic. By occupying the Senate and the White House with an ideological battle, the drama of filling a Supreme Court position seemed likely to risk complicating what Mr. Obama had intended to be his major initiative in the months ahead: passing health care legislation.

Supreme Court battles have proved fertile ground for conservative and liberal groups to raise money and rally the troops, and conservatives leaders said they were heartened by the prospect of this fight.

“There could not be a better issue to latch on to for a Republican renaissance to start building on — drawing some distinctions on issues,” said Wendy Long, counsel to the Judicial Confirmation Network, a conservative organization. “I hope for and I expect a fight.”

A coalition of conservative legal activist groups has spent the first months of the Obama administration researching the backgrounds and records of prospective nominees and charting the best ideological line of attack, said Curt Levey, the executive director of the Committee for Justice, one of the conservative groups.

Mr. Levey said the groups now expected Mr. Obama to nominate a candidate who supports rights, and were focusing on other “the issues that are really in play,” like , gun rights, religious rights and the death penalty, in preparing for the nomination battle.

The conservative groups have agreed to divide up responsibilities for researching potential nominees and have completed about 30 dossiers, he said.

As a senator, Mr. Obama voted against President ’s two nominees, and , and backed unsuccessful efforts to their nominations.

“I trust the president will choose a nominee for the upcoming vacancy based on their experience and even-handed reading of the law, and not their partisan leanings or ability to pass litmus tests,” said Senator of , the Republican leader.

Senior White House officials said they had been aware for weeks that Mr. Souter intended to step down at the end of the term. They said preparation for filling a vacancy had begun in the early part of the transition process, and that Mr. Obama had given them a list of names to check even before his .

On Thursday, before receiving official word from Justice Souter of his intention to step aside, senior White House officials met in the West Wing to begin mapping out a strategy for how to get a nomination through, officials said. Vice President , who voted on six Supreme Court nominations during his time in the Senate, will advise Mr. Obama as he makes his choice, aides said, but his role will largely be limited to helping the nominee through the confirmation process.

Mr. Obama’s advisers said they were prepared for this fight and were ready to use the resources of Mr. Obama’s political organization, including its expansive e-mail list, to rally support for whoever he nominates. Liberal groups said they were gearing up not only to fight conservatives but also to make certain Mr. Obama puts forward a liberal choice.
59 2009-05-03 Sunday's games at the I.I.H.F. World Championship....
60 2009-05-03 "X-Men Origins: Wolverine" overcame bad reviews and pirates to kick off the summer movie season with an $87 million opening weekend....
61 2009-05-03 The defending champion Novak Djokovic rallied after a rain delay Saturday to beat Roger Federer, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, in the semifinals of the Rome Masters, extending Federer’s title drought to seven months.

Djokovic will face top-ranked Rafael Nadal in Sunday’s final, after Nadal cruised past Fernando González, 6-3, 6-3. Nadal extended his clay-court winning streak to 29 matches, stretching back to an opening-round loss at the Rome tournament last year.

Federer wasted service breaks in the second and third sets. He has not won a tournament since taking the title in October at home in Basel, Switzerland.

“I feel like this is not a match I should have given away,” Federer said. “I usually don’t give away opportunities like this.”
62 2009-05-03 Woman Describes Riot at Adana - Chefket Suppresses Mutinous Marines - Black Hand Mars Petrosino Benefit - Shot by Policeman in Sunday Law Row - Battle in the Camp of Striking Bakers - Hebrew Charities Drop Old Pensioners - Suffragists Hear Sermons...
63 2009-05-03 Tomas Fleischmann scored the winner 1 minute 46 seconds into the third period Saturday and Simeon Varlamov stopped 34 shots for the Washington Capitals in a 3-2 victory over the visiting Pittsburgh Penguins in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference semifinal series.

Washington has won four consecutive playoff games for the first time since 1991. Game 2 is Monday night.

Capitals left wing Alex Ovechkin and Penguins center Sidney Crosby each scored in the first period: Crosby gave Pittsburgh a 1-0 lead at 4:09, and Ovechkin broke a 1-1 tie with a power-play goal 2:57 before the period ended.

But the Capitals also received scoring from Fleischman, a second-line wing, and from David Steckel, who had only eight goals in the regular season. Steckel tied the game at 13:50 of the first.

“You need secondary scoring in the playoffs, and it was our time to step up and help the guys out and get some points,” Steckel said.

BLACKHAWKS 6, CANUCKS 3 Patrick Sharp scored two goals less than three minutes apart in the second period to begin a string of five consecutive goals by visiting Chicago in Game 2 of its Western Conference semifinal series against Vancouver.
64 2009-05-03 Switzerland’s president has offered a deal. He said it would be easier to complete a new bilateral tax treaty if Washington dropped its legal action against UBS, the Swiss bank that tens of thousands of wealthy Americans have used to hide their money from the I.R.S.

The offer looks tempting. Under international pressure, Switzerland has indicated a willingness to relax its bank secrecy rules and abide by new global guidelines. A new tax treaty, which Treasury officials were negotiating last week, would give the Internal Revenue Service access to information it needs to collect taxes from Americans with secret accounts. It is still a bad deal.

It would let off the hook thousands of people who have used UBS to avoid billions in taxes. This money is owed. The Treasury certainly needs it. And it is doubtful that Switzerland, no matter what it claims, would jeopardize a treaty that all Swiss companies that do business in the United States need, for reasons including protecting themselves from possible double taxation.

The Swiss government claims that the American demand that UBS hand over the names of 52,000 United States customers with secret accounts is not far from a fishing expedition, forbidden under international guidelines. But UBS has already been caught soliciting illicit business in the United States. It admitted in court that it sent dozens of bankers on thousands of trips with devious stratagems to hide money from tax authorities.

According to court documents, by the middle of the decade these American accounts held about $15 billion in assets and generated revenues for UBS of more than $120 million a year.

We understand that the Swiss government is worried about the future of its biggest bank, in which it recently sunk taxpayer money. We welcome its newfound openness — however reluctantly given. But the United States need not condone the illegal tax evasion of the past for a shot at stopping illegal tax evasion in the future. The Obama administration should, politely, say no.
65 2009-05-03 ALL epidemics are different in their own way, and the current swine flu outbreak — which by Friday had sickened 141 people in 19 states, and caused deaths and illness in Mexico and 13 other countries — is no exception. Yet, as you can see from the chart below, which provides details on a selected handful of epidemics in American history, all outbreaks share certain themes. While some of these events killed many thousands and others affected only a few, in each case public health officials felt a grave threat was imminent and did what they could using the science of the day.

History also shows us, unfortunately, that epidemics lead to reflexive scapegoating of those thought to have caused the problem. Just as European immigrants were blamed for importing cholera in the late 19th century, we are now seeing reports of American politicians saying that Mexican migrant workers should be turned away from hospitals and a rash of scurrilous posts on the Internet attributing the outbreak to their “dirty” ways of life. Another common feature is misinformation. There are now boycotts around the world of Mexican pork, despite well-established science that humans do not contract swine flu from eating pork. And then there was Vice President Joe Biden’s premature suggestion that we all avoid airplanes and the subway.

Confusion and blame games aside, we can take heart that our public health professionals are working around the clock to prevent this crisis from getting out of control. One thing the history of epidemics teaches us is that given our remarkable arsenal of treatments, public health measures and rapid surveillance and communications ability, there’s never been a better time to have a pandemic than today — except, that is, tomorrow.
66 2009-05-03 “I think it’s great,” she said of the ban. “In my building there’s a pit bull. He looks at Dobie like he wants to eat him.”

The new policy has stirred passions among dog owners and others at some of the city’s 340 public housing complexes.

Some residents say the ban is a kind of dog profiling that unfairly singles out three entire breeds and treats owners of those dogs as potential problem tenants. Others support the ban, saying that other tenants fail to control big dogs both inside and outside the buildings and encourage aggressive behavior in their pets.

In numerous public housing developments where a gang culture predominates, an aggressive dog can be a kind of status symbol, particularly among youths who view their pet as a means of protection or intimidation.

The three banned breeds are responsible for a number of vicious attacks around the country and the New York region. Last month, a 5-year-old Dutchess County boy was attacked by a pit bull and required 1,000 stitches. Last year, a police officer shot and killed a stray pit bull in the Bronx after it attacked the officer and a pregnant woman selling newspapers. And in June 1997 at a Brooklyn public housing complex, two pit bulls mauled a 12-year-old girl, who survived the attack.

At the La Guardia Houses on Saturday, Lilliana Madonia, 17, said Coco, a pit bull and German shepherd mix, looks more intimidating than she really is. Coco is a service dog for Ms. Madonia’s mother, who is in a wheelchair. “She’s the most loving thing,” said Ms. Madonia, who was taking Coco on her morning walk. “Sometimes she thinks she’s a cat.”

A man tried to walk by Ms. Madonia at about that moment, and Coco barked. Then she led Ms. Madonia on a chase — not after the man, but after a squirrel off in the distance.

Ms. Madonia said the Housing Authority was unfairly taking aim at pit bulls like Coco.

“They shouldn’t ban them,” she said. “Dogs will be dogs. It depends on how they’re brought up and trained.”

Howard Marder, a spokesman for the Housing Authority, said in a statement that the policy was modified “to address the concerns repeatedly raised by our residents and resident leadership” and does not affect “those individuals who have demonstrated responsible ownership of dogs and who have registered their dogs.”

Mr. Marder said the decision to ban the three breeds was based on the agency’s research and experience, as well as information gathered from other public housing authorities around the country about their pet policies.

Relations between the agency and dogs have long been difficult.

When the Harlem River Houses opened in 1937, dogs were barred from the premises. By the 1960s, tenants in all public housing complexes were prohibited from owning dogs or cats, except guide dogs for the blind, because of concerns about cleanliness, noise and the danger of dog bites. “It’s not that we aren’t sympathetic,” Gerald J. Carey, the agency’s general manager, told a reporter for The New York Times in 1964, after an effort to rescind the pet ban had failed in Albany. “But we have to consider the safety and comfort of the majority of our tenants, instead of the wishes of a few.”

In 1994, managers responding to complaints about aggressive dogs mailed notices to all tenants urging them to get rid of their dogs, or risk losing the roof over their heads. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the proud owner of Goalie, a yellow Labrador, took exception, and the notices were withdrawn.

It was not until 1998 that Congress gave public housing residents nationwide a federal right to own pets.

Since 2002, the Housing Authority has allowed tenants to have either a cat or a dog as long the pet is registered with the agency.
67 2009-05-03 JERUSALEM (AP) — Michael Oren, an American-born academic who frequently appears as a commentator on Middle Eastern affairs, has been picked as Israel’s next ambassador to Washington, a government official said Saturday.

The selection was made in an agreement between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, the official said.

The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because a formal announcement has yet to be made.

Mr. Oren’s commentaries have appeared in leading United States newspapers and on CBS television. He is a senior fellow at the Shalem Center, a Jerusalem research institute with a reputation for relatively hawkish views on the Mideast conflict.

The position of ambassador to Washington is seen as Israel’s top diplomatic posting, but it often goes to a political appointee, like Mr. Oren, instead of a career foreign service officer.

Mr. Oren was born in 1955 in upstate New York and raised in New Jersey. He moved to Israel in 1979 and enlisted in the paratroopers brigade.
68 2009-05-03 Detroit was racing to put more powerful engines in its biggest cars when General Motors’ Pontiac division took a detour in 1964 and created a $296 option for its midsize Tempest. By adding a bigger V-8 engine to Aunt Martha’s economy car, Pontiac created the prototype of the all-American muscle car  the rocket-powered family sedan.

Forty-five years later, the car christened the GTO (a name filched from the Ferrari Gran Turismo Omologato) still stands as a symbol of the days when Detroit made and marketed vehicles that fired imaginations as effectively as they swilled high-test.

Now Detroit is merely trying to live another day. The announcement on Monday that Pontiac would be sacrificed as part of G.M.’s plan to survive was the start of a grim week for the auto industry. On Thursday, Chrysler filed for bankruptcy, its survival resting largely in the hands of the United Automobile Workers and the Italian automaker Fiat. The chances that G.M. will stave off Chapter 11 are slim.

The GTO’s birth can be traced to the musings of Bill Collins, a member of Pontiac’s advanced engineering group in the 1960s, at one of the informal Saturday morning get-togethers organized by John Z. DeLorean, Pontiac’s larger-than-life chief engineer. Mr. Collins pointed out that the husky V-8 from a Bonneville or Grand Prix would fit into the same space occupied by the Tempest’s tame engine. It was a head-slapping moment for engineers in search of performance.

Soon they were building a prototype. Mr. DeLorean’s team had to work covertly. Bowing to safety concerns, G.M. had prohibited its divisions from designing models with big V-8s in not-so-big cars. Making the GTO package an extra-cost option rather than a distinct model allowed the Pontiac rebels to offer up to 348 horsepower without corporate approval.

They added performance features that helped to conceal the GTO’s hand-me-down origins, doing their own late-night market research along Detroit’s Woodward Avenue, a legendary strip where street racers faced off. There they learned which high-performance features would give the GTO street cred. Naming it after a Ferrari that had blazed to racing victories across Europe added to the GTO’s allure.

A glowing review in the March 1964 issue of Car and Driver helped to cement the GTO’s reputation for tire-shredding power. The magazine’s $3,378 test car sprinted through a zero-to-60 mile an hour acceleration run in 4.6 seconds. The GTO imagery was quickly swept up by the popular culture: a hit single in 1964 by Ronny and the Daytonas implored listeners to “C’mon and turn it on, wind it up, blow it out, GTO.” Fans quickly morphed the car’s name from GTO to Goat.

Over the next half-dozen years, the GTO was instrumental in transforming a brand once known for blandness into one that G.M. could promote for its excitement. By the late 1970s, Pontiac was selling nearly 900,000 vehicles a year.

Mr. Collins said in an interview that G.M.’s divisions were both independent and distinctive in those days; leaders like Mr. DeLorean “could stretch the rules and try things” without getting tangled up in corporate politics.

But then changes were imposed on the auto industry by the Clean Air Act and federal fuel economy standards. To meet those requirements, G.M.’s brands began sharing not only parts but engineering strategies, in the process forfeiting much of their personality.

The original run of the GTO ended in 1974 with its once-hallowed name attached to a Chevy Nova clone. “Once the car divisions got melded, it eliminated individuality,” Mr. Collins said. “You can’t show me one exciting car after the ’70s.”
69 2009-05-03 TEHRAN (Reuters) — Iran has executed a woman convicted of murdering her father’s cousin when she was 17, Iranian news media reported Saturday.

Human rights groups criticized Iran for having executed the woman, 23-year-old Delara Darabi, in the northern city of Rasht.

The newspaper Etemad reported that she “was executed on Friday morning in Rasht Prison without her lawyer and family being informed of her execution.”

Etemad said that she had been in prison for five years and had initially confessed in the belief that she would be pardoned because the crime was committed when she was a minor.

Human rights groups have criticized Iran for sentencing minors to death. Iran says it carries out the death penalty only when a prisoner reaches the age of 18.
70 2009-05-03 In each case, the scare’s significance is further confirmed by electronically counting in news databases the number of articles containing the word pair “great depression.” There were huge peaks in the count during these periods.

A study of the Michigan survey data published in 2004 by Nicholas Souleles at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania has confirmed that individual answers to the depression question can help in consumer-spending forecasts. He concluded that people who answered this question more positively tended to have bigger increases in spending.

The good news is that from March to April this year, the score on this question jumped to 81, from 63, implying that the scare has ended, at least for now.

But that upward trend cannot be trusted to continue. Historically, big jumps in the score have tended to reverse themselves in later months. When people’s fear reaches depression level, the underlying emotion seems to persist for years, despite occasional oscillations.

That is probably because fear of a depression seems to be related to a fundamental world view, and not just to the latest economic indicator, which may temporarily reduce anxiety.

A review of prominent events in the depression scares of 1974-75 and 1978-82 suggests that they stemmed at least in part from a sense that inflation was dangerously out of control. During both periods, inflation moved into the double-digit range. There was widespread concern that the Federal Reserve had no good options and might need to plunge the economy into a depression to control inflation.

And in these two periods, energy crises — the first and second “oil shocks” — contributed to the negative outlook.

The scare of 1990-92 had a different profile. Ravi Batra’s best-selling 1987 book, “The Great Depression of 1990,” did not cause that scare, but some of its predictions were vindicated by events: There was the biggest one-day stock market crash ever, in 1987; a real estate bust after a boom; widespread savings-and-loan failures; and a government bailout. The financial system seemed unstable, and there was concern that domestic jobs were threatened by the new trend of outsourcing.

LIKE its predecessors, the current depression scare is characterized by serious problems that won’t easily go away. After the bursting of bubbles in the stock market and housing market, balance sheets everywhere are out of whack, and millions of people are insolvent. So it’s hard to expect that there will be a sudden and impressive recovery of confidence.

But why is this new depression scare apparently weaker than the others, as measured by the confidence scores? Why aren’t people reporting more fear these days, since there are far more stories of business failure or near failure than there were during the other scares?

One can only speculate. Now that oil prices have moderated, it’s possible that most people have less vivid worries than they did in 1974-75 or 1979-82 because their economic problems are not evident every time they shop or drive their cars.

During those earlier two scares, out-of-control inflation was widely visible, but today many people haven’t personally experienced rising unemployment and foreclosures. And it’s possible that the optimistic tone of the president and the Fed has assuaged some fears, and that people might believe that the government is fixing their problems.

This time, the reasons to fret about a possible depression may seem less concrete. For most people, the worries that consume economists and accountants, about things like bank stress-test results or the “OIS-Libor spread,” are rather hard to comprehend.

As Franklin D. Roosevelt famously said during the Great Depression, “the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.” Let’s hope that is true, and that the relative complacency in the general population is good news for the economy. Let’s not expect any sudden return to full confidence, but instead hope that a real crisis of fear may be avoided if government policy succeeds.
71 2009-05-03 A departure from P.& G.’s corporate style of design, the new approach starts with the elevator lobby. Sustainable oak lines the walls, and the elevator doors are painted a shimmering abalone gray, framed in cream-colored lacquer. The white terrazzo floor is inset with a darker rectangle, distinguishing it from the main reception area visible through glass doors, where the terrazzo floor is all white.

The doors open onto a long, wide corridor created by the glass walls of four large conference rooms. The architects placed the walls to give the reception area a “V” shape that widens from 12 feet at the entrance to about 20 feet at the back, where there are skyline views, facing south over East 54th Street, behind the reception desk. Overhead, a chandelier fashioned from Murano glass balls shimmers like bubbles in the light.

The whole area is punctuated by a line of low benches covered in a vinyl satin the color of new spring leaves.

“We wanted a bit of a ‘wow’ factor when people arrived,” Mr. Blackadder said. IA Interior Architects has 14 offices worldwide, 12 of which are in the United States, and collaborates with more than 50 partners around the globe.

Each of P.& G.’s four main conference rooms seats 18 people and is enclosed in frosted glass for privacy. White dominates the color scheme to better highlight products on display in horizontal lighted shadowboxes on a wall in each conference room. Above the boxes are a changing assortment of soft-focus photographs of models in diaphanous dress. Each room is equipped for teleconferencing and has a projection screen that comes down from the ceiling.

The footprint of the 21st-floor space is a perfect rectangle that stretches all the way from Second to Third Avenue, with the elevator core at the center of one side. The 20th-floor space is also a rectangle, though half the size.

In addition to the four principal conference rooms on the main floor, each level has a series of smaller ones, called huddle rooms, and other open spaces for more spontaneous meetings. Enclosed offices around the core have plain glass to maximize the flow of light.

There is only one private office on the two floors — for Frédéric Fekkai, the hair stylist whose name appears on a range of products. All other staff members occupy work stations in the vicinity of the windows. In the former space, only 50 percent of staff members had work stations, but Mr. Blackadder wanted everyone to profit from the natural light. To that end, he also designed low-rise partitions for the work stations.

Office layouts on both floors adhere to a certain rigid geometry, but fluid curves and gauzy images have been incorporated into the design to soften it. There are large portraits of models clad in soft billows of fabric (including the actress Cate Blanchett posing for the SK-II skin care line), and wavy walls serve as a foil to the straight walls elsewhere. A curved partition defines the kitchen-cafe area on the 21st floor, two of the four large conference rooms have curved walls, and another curved wall with partitions on the 20th floor creates private bays where visiting employees can set up shop and work.

Christopher Martorana, an IA associate who collaborated on the project with Mr. Blackadder, and Susan Leone, also an associate, said the curves help to bring the look more in line with the concept of the P.& G. beauty and grooming lines.

“The curves soften it like the feeling of the long, wavy dresses in the photos and help it fall in line with the idea of the beauty products,” Mr. Martorana said.

The 20th-floor cafeteria helps to soften the atmosphere, too, with white midcentury-style dining tables against a backdrop of bold green and purple patterns on an upholstered banquette. The adjacent lounge is downright whimsical, with a curved wall covered in a big bold field of plastic strips that appear to be woven together like the vinyl bands of a 1950s lounge chair.

P.& G. Beauty and Grooming has more than 170 brands of products geared to men and women. The products it markets under the banner of P.& G. Global Prestige also include the Clairol and Wella hair color lines. Fragrances under the Prestige banner include Dolce & Gabbana, Escada, Burberry, Hugo Boss and Valentino.

The parent company, Procter & Gamble, had net sales of $83.5 billion last year.

According to Ms. Denison, the new headquarters for the Prestige family reflects the products themselves.

“The light and the glow of the space make it really look like a prestige office that reflects the brands that live within,” she said. “If you are a beauty company, you have to live the dream.”
72 2009-05-03 Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston, pointed out that recent dividend increases haven’t been concentrated only in defensive areas of the market, like health care and utilities, where one would expect generous payouts under any market conditions.

Many of the increases, in fact, have come from economically sensitive areas, like the consumer discretionary, industrial and technology sectors. Among the companies that have recently raised or started payments are Coach, the retailer; Qualcomm, the wireless equipment maker; and Norfolk Southern, the railroad transportation company.

“I like the fact that it’s showing up in cyclical sectors,” said Mr. Kleintop, adding that this could be a sign that the economy might not be in as bad a shape as investors assumed earlier this year — or that corporate executives were starting to see enough hopeful signs for a future recovery that they were willing to part with cash.

At the very least, the positive ratio of dividend increases to cuts shows that “there are pockets of the economy that are actually weathering this mess surprisingly well,” Mr. Arnott said.

Still, the statistics on dividends hardly suggest that the overall economy is strong.

Dividend increases usually outnumber cuts in the S.& P. 500, partly because, under normal economic conditions, only a handful of companies have to resort to pulling the plug on their payouts. In 2007, for example, there were only 12 decreases to 298 increases. Even last year — a terrible one for the financial sector, which once supplied a huge percentage of corporate dividends — there were 62 cuts to 241 increases. So this year’s tally of 70 increases to 59 decreases looks pale by comparison.

What’s more, when translated into dollars, the dividend cuts this year have swamped the increases, because many companies that lowered their payments eliminated them altogether. So far this year, the 70 dividend increases raised payouts by $5.1 billion, while the 59 cuts reduced payments by $45.1 billion, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S.& P.

“The decreases are geometric in scale, while the increases are significantly less dramatic,” Mr. Silverblatt said.

But Mr. Arnott said that this was to be expected. “When you’re cutting dividends, you don’t want to trickle out the bad news — you want to get it out there and get it done,” he said.

On the other hand, “when you’re raising dividends, you want to be cautious, because you want to leave yourself some operating cushion in case you’re wrong,” he said. “And you want to leave yourself room for future additional hikes.”

The real test is to come: Will the trend continue into the next quarter — and will companies that raised their cash payments avoid having to reverse course if liquidity issues resurface?

Mr. Silverblatt cautions that the dividend outlook remains decidedly mixed. For example, he says it’s worrisome that not even halfway into the year, the number of dividend cuts among S.& P. 500 companies rivals the 2008 total of 62. And on a dollar basis, the $45.1 billion in payment reductions just among companies that cut their dividends has already set a record for a full calendar year.

This makes dividend investing tricky. Market strategists suggest spreading one’s dividend bets across the broad market, rather than concentrating on just a handful of sectors.

Consider the experience of investors who recently focused their bets on dividend-paying financial stocks. At their peak in 2007, financial stocks accounted for around a third of all the dividend payments in the S.& P. 500.

But as the sector plummeted in the global financial meltdown, the dividends didn’t cushion the blow. Instead, financial stock prices and dividend payments sank in unison. Today, financial stocks generate less than 10 percent of total S.& P. 500 dividends.

In addition to seeking greater diversification, investors might look to stocks that have consistently managed to raise their dividends over several years, rather than just gravitating toward stocks with the biggest cash payments. That’s partly because companies that have the financial wherewithal to consistently raise dividends are likely to have strong cash flows and balance sheets.

And the market often favors such companies. For example, Mr. Kleintop has found that the shares of companies that have increased their dividends this year were up 0.3 percent, on average, so far in 2009. By comparison, the shares of companies that cut their payments this year were off by 12.9 percent.
73 2009-05-03 It makes sense: Detect diseases early, and they often cost less and take less of a physical toll. But more people are delaying or canceling their health care visits, according to the Pulse health care survey, conducted annually by Thomson Reuters.

Cost was the biggest reason, according to the most recent survey. In 2006, by contrast, lack of time was the foremost reason cited.

A majority of the deferred services this year were for doctor visits. People were also putting appointments for imaging, non-elective procedures and lab/diagnostic tests on the back burner.

About 30 percent of the respondents this year said that the economy was making it harder for them to pay for health care. Among households making less than $25,000 a year, that figure jumped to about 45 percent.

All of these are signs that the recession is affecting not only people’s finances, but also their health.
74 2009-05-03 “I will be resistant to giving the nominee an unfair hardship,” said Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a Republican member of the judiciary panel. “But they do need to be challenged on their philosophy and experience.”

Senator John Cornyn of Texas, another Republican committee member, said, “That is our responsibility.”

The Supreme Court opening comes as the Senate is already contending with major health care and energy legislation, the national economic crisis and a Pentagon procurement overhaul sought by the president, to name just a few issues.

Congressional officials suggested that the hearings and confirmation vote, which Democrats would like to hold by August, could slow any new immigration legislation, which is also in the purview of the Judiciary Committee. And should the nomination review turn ugly, lawmakers and others said, the tension could spill over to other policy matters.

There is another wild card. Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who as a Republican was chairman of the two most recent Judiciary Committee confirmation hearings — for Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. in 2005 and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. in 2006 — became a Democrat as of last week.

Still, Mr. Specter said his support for a nominee picked by Mr. Obama should not be taken for granted, making him a potential pivotal figure in the outcome of the first Supreme Court nomination by a Democrat since President Bill Clinton sent the name of Stephen G. Breyer to the Senate in 1994.

“It depends on who the nominee is,” Mr. Specter said. “I am not in anybody’s pocket on this.”

At the same time, Mr. Specter’s defection to the Democratic Party has caused complications for Republicans because he was the senior party member on the Judiciary Committee. Now, other Republicans are jockeying to fill that void and the opportunity to be the party’s leading voice on the pending nomination.

The three Republicans who could get the job — Senators Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah and Jeff Sessions of Alabama — would bring distinctly different styles and experience to any confirmation battle. Mr. Sessions, the most conservative of the three, saw his own nomination to the federal bench rejected by the committee in 1986.

Republicans expect to sort out the Judiciary Committee issue this week.

Democrats said they were confident Mr. Obama would make a strong choice and were hopeful of avoiding the rancor that had become a staple of Senate review of Supreme Court nominees.

“I have faith the president will pick someone who is qualified and up to the challenges of the court,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota. “I would hope Republicans give the president the opportunity to put his person on the court with some civility.”

Republicans said they understood that Mr. Obama was not going to nominate a conservative, but they said a selection seen as leaning too far left would draw heated opposition even if they no longer held the votes to block such a nomination. They said such a choice could provide a rallying point for their beleaguered party and help them emphasize the theme that Democrats were unchecked in their tightening control of the federal government.

Some Republicans also said a liberal nominee would pose risks for Senate Democrats representing conservative states

“It puts a lot of pressure on Democrats in red states, particularly those running for re-election in 2010, if it is someone who is dramatically outside of the mainstream,” said Mr. Cornyn, who, as chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, has a deep interest in the politics of the nomination.

As for their treatment of any court candidate, Republicans said Democrats had hardly been shy in confrontations with nominees of Republican presidents, noting that Democrats forced a vote to cut off a filibuster of Mr. Alito, who was opposed overwhelmingly by Democrats.

They are also well aware that Mr. Obama, while a senator, was one of 22 Democrats to vote against Mr. Roberts and was one of 25 who voted to filibuster Mr. Alito.

“President Obama should hope,” Mr. Graham said, “that Republican senators are fairer than he was when he was a senator.”
75 2009-05-03 Emily Elise Murphy, a daughter of Sharon E. Murphy and Dr. George F. Murphy of Dover, Mass., was married in Philadelphia Saturday to James Christopher Beaver, the son of Lorraine C. Beaver and James J. Beaver of Marlton, N.J. The Rev. Alan Neale, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at the Church of the Holy Trinity, where he is rector.

The bride and bridegroom met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they both graduated, she cum laude and he summa cum laude.

The bride, 26, is keeping her name. She is a fourth-year medical student at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia. In July, she is to begin a residency in psychiatry at Butler Hospital in Providence, R.I.

Her father is a professor of pathology at Harvard Medical School and the director of dermatopathology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. Her mother is a docent at the Boston Athenaeum.

The bridegroom, 28, is completing a master’s degree in English at the University of Delaware. In the fall, he is to begin studying for a doctorate, also in English, at Brown.

His parents work in Philadelphia. His mother is a financial analyst for the Food and Drug Administration, and his father is a senior manager for the Internal Revenue Service.
76 2009-05-03 “Most of the people and some officials have no respect for heritage,” he went on. “They think archaeological sites are just a bunch of bricks that have no value at all.”

Now with the support of some officials in Baghdad, the local government has reopened the excavated ruins of Babylon’s ancient core, shuttered ever since the American invasion in 2003. It has done so despite warnings by archaeologists that the reopening threatens to damage further what remains of one of the world’s first great cities before the site can be adequately protected.

The fight over ancient Babylon is about more than the competing interests of preservation and tourism. It reflects problems that hinder Iraq’s new government, including an uncertain division between local and federal authority and political rivalries that consume government ministries.

“The political situation in our country is not stable,” Mr. Rashid said. “The federal government is weak.”

Mr. Rashid’s board, part of the Ministry of Culture, is at odds with the newly created State Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, its priorities made clear in its name — and the dispute is not their first.

The agencies clashed over the reopening of the National Museum in Baghdad in February, and then as now, the tourism ministry, which favored reopening, prevailed. Its power stems not from the Constitution, but from proximity to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, who has pressed for reopening historic and cultural sites as symbols of the country’s stability and progress. His government made control of ancient sites a provision in the security agreement with the United States that took effect in January. Next month, the American military will turn over the last of them, Ur, the ancient Sumerian capital in southern Iraq.

“Our goal is that these sites will be tourist attractions — to convey the real, civilized image of Iraq and to bring as many tourists as possible,” said the tourism ministry’s director, Qahtan al-Jibouri. “Iraq needs another source of funding in addition to oil.”

The ruins at Babylon have long suffered. Mud bricks lack the durability of the marble of Greece or the limestone of Egypt, leaving behind little more than heaps of earth. “You need to be kind of a romantic to love the Mesopotamian sites,” said Elizabeth C. Stone, an archaeologist at Stony Brook University on Long Island.

In the 1980s Mr. Hussein ordered the reconstruction of Nebuchadnezzar’s palace and other buildings, using cheap bricks on foundations built 2,600 years ago. Many were stamped with a tribute to the “Protector of Great Iraq” in the way Nebuchadnezzar marked bricks with his own stamp in cuneiform, still visible today.

Archaeologists were appalled, but could hardly complain at the time. Such is not the case with the American and Polish troops who occupied the site from 2003 to 2004. The work they carried out to turn the area into a base, as reported by a British Museum study, provoked international outrage, though the extent of the damage is a matter of debate and perspective.

One thing officials agree on is blaming the Americans. Mr. Rashid, in a conspiratorial and anti-Semitic vein, suggested that Jews stationed with the Polish troops might have deliberately singled out the site because of their captivity in Babylon. The director of the ruins, Maryam Musa, who has worked in Babylon for 30 years, said the damage could never be repaired or adequately compensated for.

Asked who did worse by Babylon, Mr. Hussein or the Americans, however, she became taciturn. “Is it necessary to ask such a question?” she said uncomfortably, and declined to answer.

Mohammed Taher, an archaeologist and former director of the ruins who opposes reopening Babylon, said what was being done now was little better than what had been done before. “I would like to rebuild Babylon again for scientific research, not like Saddam,” he said as he guided visitors through the remains of Ishtar Gate with bas reliefs of Babylon’s gods; the Temple of Ninmakh; the Processional Way, with brick paving stones mortared with bitumen; and a symbol of Iraq itself, the Lion of Babylon, a 2,600-year-old sculpture.

What was clear during his tour was that nothing had been done to prepare the place for its official opening, now scheduled for June 1. No gates or fences prevent rambunctious tourists from rambling over ruins that can crumble like sand. The site’s shops, cafe and museum remain abandoned, shuttered and dusty.

A $700,000 project by the World Monuments Fund, financed by the State Department, was supposed to address both conservation and tourism at Babylon, but has not yet begun work at the site.

Security in Iraq has improved immensely, allowing the Iraqis to once again think about the past as part of the country’s future, even if Iraq is not yet ready for tourism as most of the world knows it. One visitor, Esma Ali, a university student from Hilla, said she had grown up in the shadow of Babylon, but had never visited it before, and she did so with a sense of awe.

“I feel our history is coming back,” she said.
77 2009-05-03 Anna Katharine Weiss, a daughter of Dr. Elizabeth L. Auchincloss and Dr. Richard Weiss of New Rochelle, N.Y., was married Saturday to Daniel Anthony del Portal, the son of Carmen R. del Portal and Dr. Oscar A. del Portal of Metairie, La. Judge Alice Beck Dubow of the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County, officiated at the Union League of Philadelphia.

The bride, 29, and the bridegroom, 27, met at the University of Pennsylvania, where they are medical students. She is in her third year and he is in his fourth.

The bride, who is keeping her name, graduated from Harvard magna cum laude and was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University, from which she received a master’s degree in Russian and East European studies.

Her parents are both psychiatrists and psychoanalysts and each has a private practice in New York. Her father is also a clinical associate professor of psychiatry at Weill Cornell Medical College and the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. Her mother is also a vice chairwoman for graduate medical education in the department of psychiatry at Weill Cornell, where she is also a professor of clinical psychiatry; she is also an associate director at the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research.

The bridegroom is to begin his residency this summer in emergency medicine at Temple University Hospital in Philadelphia. He graduated with high honors from the University of Georgia.

His father is an obstetrician and gynecologist at New Orleans East Family Health Care Center.
78 2009-05-03 To Bleiler, the process of getting the combination down felt like one long headache.

“With any new trick, I’m always frustrated because it takes a lot more energy to do it than an easier, simpler trick,” she said. “It’s frustrating in a good way, though, because I am pushing myself.”

She added, “This is when you kind of just need to keep going, keep plugging away, keep pushing past your boundaries and then all of the sudden it’s just natural.”

That line of thinking is prevalent among snowboarders during the spring. Once the competitive season winds down and the temperature begins to rise, the race heats up among the sport’s elite athletes to come up with the next wave of tricks.

To facilitate that process, Mike Jankowski, U.S. Snowboarding’s halfpipe coach, said the team camp was the obvious next step.

At Buttermilk, the riders not only had the huge pipe to themselves, but also the services of two snowmobile drivers to ferry them up the mountain. There were also staff members on site to salt the snow when it got too soft or to add blue dye when the lighting was flat, as well as to recut the walls of the halfpipe each night.

Although the setting was ideal, Jankowski said advances in the sport were fostered not by the pipe but by the riders. Already motivated individually, they also pushed each other to do more.

Riders got as many as 25 runs a day during the camp.

Among those filtering in and out of the daily sessions included Steve Fisher, a two-time Winter X Games champion, and Kevin Pearce. Both have beaten the sport’s star, Shaun White, in competition.

And to keep up with White, both were hard at work on tricks that were once seemingly pipe dreams before edifices like the one at Buttermilk came into being. One trick Jankowski said to watch for next winter was a double-corked 1260, a spin cycle of three and a half rotations and two off-axis flips.

The last two Olympic champions in women’s halfpipe, Hannah Teter and Kelly Clark, were also training in Aspen, leaving White as the only noticeable absentee, despite invitations from the United States team.

He certainly had a good excuse. While his competition was trying to keep in step, White was reportedly taking a break after his camp at perhaps the only pipe in the world that could rival Buttermilk’s: a private halfpipe built on the backside of remote Silverton Mountain in Colorado. Red Bull reportedly contributed $500,000 to the halfpipe’s construction.

Among other things, the pipe was reportedly accessible only via helicopter or snowmobile and featured a foam pit at the base of one end to allow White to try whatever new tricks he could dream up.

Jankowski did not want to speculate about what those were, but he did say tricks like the double-corked 1260 would probably be much more prevalent during next winter’s Olympic qualifying Grand Prix, much the way back-to-back 1080s were the must-have combination before the 2006 Winter Olympics.

Although the addition of another revolution showcases evolution, Jankowski said the real progress was in the subtle way tricks were refined to look natural. It is not about the spinning so much as how it looks. And to get it down perfect, it takes a lot of practice and snowmobile trips back up the mountain.

“There’s the obvious progression from a 10 to a 12 or from a 12 to a 14, but one of the key things our guys and girls have done is make sure that we’re not upping the ante and we’re not upping the rotation level unless we’re grabbing and it’s smooth and it looks good,” Jankowski said.

Jankowski said he hoped the effort would pay off. The United States took four of the six medals in halfpipe at the last Olympics in Turin, Italy, but Jankowski said he expected stiffer competition next winter in Vancouver.

“We don’t take anybody lightly, but we definitely want to maintain our position as the ones to beat, as the ones who set the bar,” he said.

“We don’t want to be playing catch-up.”
79 2009-05-03 Re “Equal-Pay Agitator Meets the New Her” by Patrick Healy [April 26]:

Mr. Healy writes that the character of Violet “emerged during the Reagan era as a symbol for women seeking equal treatment in the marketplace.”

The character of Violet was created in December 1980, when the film of “9 to 5” was released, a month before Reagan took office. Apparently the behaviors deplored in the film predated his Republican administration, as they were set during the Carter years, when the Democratic Party had overwhelming control of government at almost all levels in the United States.

If Violet “emerged” as a “symbol” afterward, she was not a very persuasive one: Democrats controlled the White House for eight of the years since the film was released and the Congress for 16 of those years, without the political measures embodied in the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act being enacted.

The implication that Violet became a symbol in opposition to the “Reagan era” is an example of the use of cultural narrative in the service of rather small-minded political partisanship — a trend that is limiting the usefulness of much commentary seeking to relate artworks to the real world. Mark Richard
80 2009-05-03 WHILE the swelling inventory of apartments decreases the risk of being singled out online, the consequences may be more severe if your place is the subject of an uncomplimentary critique.

Michael Waxenberg, a prolific poster on StreetEasy.com, noted that buyers confronting many choices don’t have time to visit every one.

“If you see someone write up a property on your long list in a negative way, it’s not going to make your short list,” said Mr. Waxenberg, 46, an information technology director and renter who, in the course of shopping for a three-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side, reviews the many open houses he attends.

“As a seller, you want to make sure that the first person to see your property comes away with a positive impression,” he said. “There’s a multiplier effect. Who knows how many other lookers will Google that address and see that terrible write-up about a broker walking around barefoot and roach droppings in the linen closets?”

Mr. Waxenberg rattled off a list of mistakes he has encountered offline and reported online: dishes in the sink, evidence of pets (“brings up concerns about whether the floors are damaged under the rugs”), cigarette odor and menacing extension cords (“they give people reason to think your apartment isn’t equipped for modern living”).

Basically everything besides the owner’s name and family situation is fair game to report online, he said.

“Hide anything that hints at financial distress,” he advises sellers. “You’d be amazed at the stuff people leave out, like overdue tax notices and bank statements. I went to an open house where there were bankers’ boxes with the Merrill Lynch logo stacked waist high in the foyer. You got the feeling the guy had just been laid off that Friday.”
81 2009-05-03 IN chaos there is opportunity.

Or so goes a catch phrase in finance, according to Roy Sheinberg. He should know. He was in finance for a decade, earning a high-six-figure income working for hedge funds and investment banks and, among other things, trading that alchemist’s brew known as credit default swaps. But a year ago, UBS, the Swiss bank, laid him off. Rather than leap into a comparable job, with draining hours and cutthroat politics, Mr. Sheinberg decided to pursue an enthusiasm that had long tugged at his heart: fine wines.

Today he is working on nailing down a large importer to sell a line of Swiss wines — a breed seldom found in American stores. A shipment of 400 bottles is on its way for the importer to taste. Mr. Sheinberg has this idiosyncratic notion — untested, he admits — that Americans who greeted Australian and Chilean wines with gusto may be ready for a wine from another land whose grapes are unfamiliar and are grown not that far from the Matterhorn.

“I got a chance that I always wanted,” he said. “So you have to seize the opportunity.”

There are more than a few people like Pleasantville’s Mr. Sheinberg who have lost jobs during the recession but have seen a pink slip as a lottery ticket of sorts that lets them shift gears into some long-harbored enthusiasm. Rather than sulk over their rotten fate or grab an equivalent job, they are pursuing an ambition that life’s twists never allowed them to realize. Their stories have no happy endings yet but offer something to think about for those who have lost less-than-beloved jobs.

After working as an insurance agent in a listless economy, Maggie Carrel, 59, of Ardsley, is trying to make a living milking two hobbies: coaching people in the mysteries of gardening and selling weavings she makes on a home loom. Ted Berkowitz’s headhunter business in Hartsdale collapsed, stifled first by the 9/11 downturn, then the death in 2003 of his wife, who worked alongside him, and the economy. So at 64 he is tending to that nagging itch he long had for painting. His acrylic sketches of jazz and folk musicians pop up at galleries and libraries all over Westchester, and some have sold.

“There’s a fire in my belly for this,” Mr. Berkowitz said, “and hopefully if you go after your passion, that passion will pay for itself.”
82 2009-05-03 It is hard to define sculpture these days. Artists continue to make three-dimensional objects, but the range and variety of materials they employ defy classification. This is enchantingly evident in a show by the Armenian artist Karen Sargsyan at the Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art.

Mr. Sargsyan, 36, makes figurative sculptures from cut paper. The works in the current show were created during his stay in Peekskill last fall as the center’s artist in residence. Depending on how you look at it, the exhibition consists of either hundreds of individual cut paper sculptures arranged across the mezzanine gallery or a single installation made up of many parts.

Immediately eye-catching is a figure trailed by a black dog on the landing outside the show’s entrance. The figure is leaning over the railing, looking down at the galleries below. Both dog and figure are intricately constructed from layers of colored paper and are remarkable for their playfulness and dynamism; from certain angles, it looks as if the dog is getting ready to bite the man’s bottom.

Dominating the exhibition is the sculpture of an outsize figure sunken into a collapsed throne with a scepter across his right leg. He is a king, or at least has the trappings of royalty. To his left is a kneeling knight, while surrounding him is a group of jesters who seem to be performing for his entertainment. It is a theatrical scene reminiscent of baroque paintings of life in princely courts.

Especially interesting about this grouping of figures is the way in which each of them is engaged in some sort of dramatic gesture, highly suggestive of movement, yet frozen in space and time. I like this tension, for it invites deeper contemplation of the symbolism of the scene. Why is the king sacked out on the floor? Has he been deposed and is living in exile? Are these additional figures that surround him all that remain of his once loyal and devoted subjects?

Viewers looking for guidance on how to interpret this installation will find little relief in the oblique title, “Abroad Understanding.” Nor is there an exhibition catalog or brochure to narrow things down a little. Still, clues can be found in the work itself. The clothes on the figures appear frayed, even chewed up or eaten away, suggesting that the king has been out of power for some time. He and his entourage are living in exile.
83 2009-05-03 WHEN Jerramiah T. Healy was elected as mayor here, this former railroad town had been transformed into an extension of Lower Manhattan’s financial district, with skyscrapers along the waterfront housing major financial firms that employed tens of thousands in white-collar jobs.

In November 2004, Mr. Healy, a former city councilman and municipal court judge, handily won a special election to fill the unfinished term of Mayor Glenn D. Cunningham, who had died after a heart attack. Mr. Healy just as easily won a full term the following May, with 75 percent of the vote.

But now, Wall Street’s woes have come to roost in Jersey City. The city’s unemployment rate rose to 9.5 percent in February, according to the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, up from 5.5 percent in April 2008. Many of the job losses were in the lucrative financial sector that had created a demand for new housing and supported a lively dining and entertainment industry in the city’s downtown.

It is in this context that the mayor is seeking a second four-year term in the city’s elections on May 12.

Mr. Healy is facing a large field of opponents for the job, among them Louis M. Manzo, a former state assemblyman making his fifth bid for mayor, and Assemblyman L. Harvey Smith. Others include Dan Levin, a civic activist, and Phil Webb, a former city police detective. The city’s steep job losses have made Mr. Healy, 58, a better target for his rivals, but he is not acting like he’s worried about winning re-election.

“We’re not expecting to get those kinds of numbers this time around,” Mr. Healy said about his winning margin with 75 percent of the vote last time around. “Hopefully, the voters and the citizens will think we’ve done a good enough job to merit another four years.”
84 2009-05-03 One is that the lowest rates are only for mortgages of up to $417,000 — rarer in New York than elsewhere, because of high house prices — made to applicants with stellar credit, plenty of equity in the home and a steady, documentable income. Mortgages of up to $417,000 are known as “conforming” loans.

Fannie and Freddie also accept bigger mortgages — known as agency-jumbo loans — in costlier areas like Manhattan and some New York City suburbs. In Manhattan and Hudson County, N.J., for instance, the loan limit is $729,750, and in Fairfield County, Conn., the limit is $708,750. The limits earlier this year were lower.

But even those who can refinance a home with a loan of $417,001 to $729,750 cannot get the best deals, because lenders view such borrowers as riskier than those below the $417,000 threshold. Lenders charge as much as a quarter of a percentage point more for such loans.

And that’s just a starting point. Fannie and Freddie will add other fees for borrowers who, for instance, have credit scores of less than 720, or for co-op owners with less than 25 percent equity, to name just two factors. Lenders typically build those fees into a loan’s interest rate — which is how an advertised rate of 4.5 percent can quickly turn into an actual rate of 5.25 percent or more.

But Connecticut and New Jersey also have substantial areas of high-cost housing, where agency-jumbo loans would come into play, and refinancing there has risen sharply. Connecticut’s refinance rate has jumped 73 percent from last year, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, and New Jersey’s 72 percent.

One explanation is New York State’s mortgage tax, which generally has to be paid each time there is a new mortgage, even to the same owner. That makes the cost of refinancing higher than it is in most other states. The tax varies by county; in New York City, it is 2.05 percent on loans under $500,000. Borrowers who refinance can sometimes avoid the tax if the lender agrees to treat the new loan as essentially an extension of the old one. These so-called “consolidation and extension” arrangements have been harder to arrange recently, however. Without one, a borrower refinancing a mortgage just under $500,000 in Manhattan would face about $10,000 in taxes.

Richard J. Biondi, president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers, said that many people who want to refinance owe more on their homes than they are worth. In industry parlance, this is known as being “underwater” on one’s loan.

Until recently, such owners had few good prospects for refinancing. But Mr. Biondi says that is changing, with the introduction last month of the Refi Plus program from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

Under this program, borrowers who are slightly underwater can qualify for new loans covering the amount of the remaining mortgage at the best-prevailing rates, if they have a history of on-time mortgage payments and are otherwise financially sound.

Mr. Biondi says one limit of the program is that borrowers with Freddie Mac loans have a harder time qualifying for a refinance than those with Fannie Mae loans.
85 2009-05-03 Every now and then, with a thrill of connection, you come across a passage in a book that feels as if it had been written with exact foreknowledge of your state of mind: a soothing, specific prescription for unquiet thoughts. During a long-ago solo trip to Rome — a self-­assigned distraction after a difficult breakup — I remember opening George Eliot’s “Silas Marner” while sitting at the window of a high room in a cold albergo (once a nuns’ cloister) as strains of conversation floated up from the courtyard. Describing her protagonist’s new start in a new town, Eliot wrote of the relief that “minds that have been unhinged from their old faith and love” may feel on finding themselves in a “new land, where the beings around them know nothing of their history, and share none of their ideas — where their mother earth shows another lap.” In such a setting, she wrote, “The past becomes dreamy because its symbols have all vanished, and the present too is dreamy because it is linked with no memories.”

For Silas Marner, this “exile” was self-sought. But for Eilis Lacey, the biddable daughter at the center of Colm Toibin’s new novel, “Brooklyn,” her leave-taking from Enniscorthy, in Ireland’s County Wexford, and her resettlement in New York in the fall of 1951 are imposed on her by her energetic, well-meaning older sister, Rose. Young, docile and incurious, unscarred by heartbreak or reversals of fortune, Eilis has no desire or need to quit her widowed mother, her friends, her familiar surroundings. Her “old faith and love” are intact, and she seeks no distance from her memories. But she submits to Rose’s plan for her transplanting, bending to a superior force of will, wishing to do what her mother and sister expect of her, wishing to please. “Eilis had always presumed that she would live in the town all her life, as her mother had done, knowing everyone, having the same friends and neighbors, the same routines in the same streets,” Toibin writes. “She had expected that she would find a job in the town, and then marry someone and give up the job and have children. Now, she felt that she was being singled out for something for which she was not in any way prepared.”

Confused by her family’s “almost unnaturally happy” mood in the days before her departure, Eilis is relieved to hear her mother, in response to a friend’s casual inquiry, blurt, “Oh, it’ll kill me when she goes.” But go she must, Eilis assumes, even though she “would have given anything to be able to say plainly that she did not want to go, that Rose could go instead.” But the Lacey women cannot speak plainly to one another. “They could do everything,” Toibin writes, “except say out loud what it was they were thinking.” And so, too young to understand the consequences of her reticence, too obedient to bolt at the dock, too humble to imagine that her own life is her own business, Eilis boards the liner for America, an irrevocable step that her mother, her sister and Eilis herself might never have wished her to make had they thought it through. America is peopled, for the most part, by the descendants of immigrants who had the resolve, the daring and the detachment to leave behind the places and people they had formerly known. But Eilis isn’t such a person; detachment isn’t part of her makeup. It has been thrust on her by women who are as attached to home and family as she is. What were they thinking? They wouldn’t, or couldn’t, say.

Colm Toibin, born, like Eilis, in Enniscorthy, is an expert, patient fisherman of submerged emotions. His characters and plots vary widely. In his beautiful, painful novel “The Blackwater Lightship,” he coaxed a touchy, lone-wolf woman to ­stiffly re-embrace her mother, their reconciliation precipitated by her brother’s battle with AIDS. In his best-known novel, “The Master,” he animated the inner world of Henry James. And in his story collection, “Mothers and Sons,” he tapped the hidden bonds and vexed motivations of diffident men and women — from thieves, shop owners and farmers to a grandmother who plays favorites and gay men who rally to the side of a friend whose mother has died. In one of these stories, “Famous Blue Raincoat,” a woman listens to a song, recorded by her long-dead sister, taken from an album her son has found in the garage. The song “gave her a hint, in case she needed one, of her own reduced self, like one of her negatives upstairs, all outline and shadow, and gave her a clear vision of her sister’s face.” She did not want that clarity, Toibin adds. “She hoped she would never have to listen to it again.”

In another story, “A Priest in the Family,” an aged mother accepts the fact that her son, a priest, will go on trial for molesting teenage boys. “When people stopped to talk to her, she was unsure if they knew about her son’s disgrace, or if they too had become so skilled at the plain language of small talk that they could conceal every thought from her, every sign, as she could from them.” Yet when her son urges her to leave town during the trial, to “spare” her, she refuses. “When he lifted his head and took her in with a glance,” she observes, “he had the face of a small boy.” She tells him: “Whatever we can do, we will do, and none of us will be going away. I’ll be here.”

Through all these books and stories, intimations of attachment, abandonment and strong feeling (felt but rarely spoken) fall like a plumb line. Toibin’s new novel stands apart because its protagonist has such an uncritical nature that she doesn’t see she has grounds for complaint, much less possess any impulse to initiate confrontation. But slowly, equably, and without malice, Eilis exacts a bittersweet revenge for the expatriation she never intended — or, rather, one unfolds for her unsought, organically.

In tracking the experience, at the remove of half a century, of a girl as unsophisticated and simple as Eilis — a girl who permits herself no extremes of temperament, who accords herself no right to self-assertion — Toibin exercises sustained subtlety and touching respect. He shows no condescension for Eilis’s passivity but records her cautious adventures matter-of-factly, as if she were writing them herself in her journal. Accompanying her on the ghastly voyage from Ireland to America, where the sea swell has all the passengers green and reeling, he soon brings her to a Brooklyn boarding house run by a respectable Irishwoman. Eilis numbs herself against nostalgia until letters from home awaken her homesickness. Then she grieves. “She was nobody here,” she thinks. “It was not just that she had no friends and family; it was rather that she was a ghost in this room, in the streets on the way to work, on the shop floor. . . . Nothing here was part of her. It was false, empty.”
86 2009-05-03 CLOSED for nearly two years for a major overhaul, the popular Rye Grill and Bar — redecorated and supersized — has opened its doors again to its constituency. The original building, reminiscent of a summer-camp mess hall, has been replaced by a two-story, 14,000-square-foot, dandelion-green structure. Neo-Victorian details include a wide front porch with trim white railings and a cupola with a big, round clock.

The restaurant, which has sweeping views of the train-station parking lot, Metro-North tracks and I-95, can seat 300, and on the two weekend nights I visited, things were at or near capacity. And here I defer to Dr. Seuss: “Oh, the noise! Oh, the Noise! Noise! Noise! Noise!”

Noise, of the ear-splitting variety, is what you get when the formula hinges on 300 patrons, low ceilings and liquor. The management has good intentions — the upstairs dining room is for adults only, remote from the singles scene and chattering children — but if you’re seated up there next to a table of eight, all of them working on a second round of cocktails, you might as well throw up your hands and join the fun down in the bar.

So stand warned: You can get a very good meal at the Rye Grill, but the literal roar of approval might just spoil the pleasure of your night out.

A holding of the Pearl Management Restaurant Group (which also owns Ruby’s Oyster Bar and Morgan’s Fish House, both in Rye), the Rye Grill has a populist appeal — although “populist” is relative in Rye. Both the food and the décor suggest a not very exclusive country club. The burgers, crab cakes and iceberg wedges are happily familiar, as are the wainscoting, tufted leather couches and gas fireplaces. Photos of golfers, racing sloops and water skiers gently remind us of who we are, and where we live.
87 2009-05-03 1 The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 prohibited commercial banks from engaging in investment banking. The act was repealed in 1999, but even before the repeal, large financial “supermarkets” like Citigroup combined insurance companies, investment firms and consumer banks into a single entity.

2 Canada is home to 5 of the world’s 50 most valuable banks, according to The Financial Times; it had none a decade ago. Banks in Canada are more tightly regulated and have invested more conservatively than many American and European banks.

3 The pay gap between college graduates and everyone else reached a record high last year. Four-year-college graduates made 54 percent more, on average, than people who attended college but did not graduate, for example.

4 In “Dreams From My Father,” Obama describes an argument between his grandmother, whom he called Toot, and his grandfather (who never graduated from college). Afterward, Obama’s grandfather had “a look of dejection and rage,” Obama writes. “Such exchanges became familiar to me, for my grandparents’ arguments followed a well-worn groove that originated in the rarely mentioned fact that Toot earned more money than Gramps.”

5 Smart grid is a broad term that typically refers to a more efficient system of transmitting and using energy, both nationally and locally.

6 The Lilly Ledbetter Act, signed on Jan. 29, 2009, extends the period during which a discrimination claim can be filed. Nearing retirement as a supervisor at a Goodyear tire factory in Alabama, Lilly Ledbetter discovered that her male colleagues were earning much more than she was. The Supreme Court ruled against her discrimination claim in 2007 because the statute of limitations had expired.
88 2009-05-03 On April 14, President Obama gave a speech at Georgetown University , trying to explain why he was taking on so many economic issues so early in his administration. He argued that the country needed to break its bubble-and-bust cycle and cited the New Testament in calling for a new economic foundation for the nation. This foundation would be built on better schools, alternative energy, more affordable health care and a more regulated Wall Street, he said. Later that afternoon (shortly before the Obama family introduced its new dog, Bo , on the South Lawn of the White House), I sat down with the president to talk about how his agenda might change daily life in this country.

This was our third interview about the economy, the first two occurring during last year’s campaign. And while the setting was decidedly more formal this time — the Oval Office — the interview felt as conversational as those earlier ones. We sat at the far end of the office from his desk and spoke for 50 minutes. None of his economic advisers were there. As the conversation progressed, Obama spoke in increasingly personal terms. What follows is a lightly edited transcript of that interview.

At the end of our conversation, when I asked him if he was reading anything good, he said he had become sick enough of briefing books to begin reading a novel in the evenings — “Netherland,” by Joseph O’Neill.

Q: The idea here is to look beyond the current moment and try to think about what American life is going to be like on the other side of the so-called Great Recession. And so I thought it might make sense to start where the trouble started — finance. People who want to get a sense for how you think about education and jobs and all sorts of other issues can get a really good sense for your thinking by reading “The Audacity of Hope,” or by reading your old speeches, where you basically lay out your learning curve. But there’s no chapter on finance in “The Audacity of Hope.” And so I wonder if you would be willing to describe a little bit of your learning curve about finance, and what you envision finance being in tomorrow’s economy: Does it need to be smaller? Will it inevitably be smaller?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, first of all, I think that we should distinguish between finance as the lifeblood of our economy and finance as a significant industry where we have a comparative advantage — right? So in terms of just growing our economy, we’ve got to have enough credit out there to fund businesses, large and small, to allow consumers the flexibility to make long-term purchases like cars or homes. So that’s not going to change. And I would be concerned if our credit market shrunk in ways that did not allow for the financing of long-term growth.

What that means is not only do we have to have a healthy banking sector, but we’re going to have to figure out what we do with the nonbanking sector that was providing almost half of our credit out there. And we’re going to have to determine whether or not as a consequence of some of the steps that the Fed has been taking, the Treasury has been taking, that we see the market for securitized products restored.

I’m optimistic that ultimately we’re going to be able to get that part of the financial sector going again, but it could take some time to regain confidence and trust.

What I think will change, what I think was an aberration, was a situation where corporate profits in the financial sector were such a heavy part of our overall profitability over the last decade. That I think will change. And so part of that has to do with the effects of regulation that will inhibit some of the massive leveraging and the massive risk-taking that had become so common.

Now, in some ways, I think it’s important to understand that some of that wealth was illusory in the first place.

So we won’t miss it?

THE PRESIDENT: We will miss it in the sense that as a consequence of 25-year-olds getting million-dollar bonuses, they were willing to pay $100 for a steak dinner and that waiter was getting the kinds of tips that would make a college professor envious. And so some of the dynamic of the financial sector will have some trickle-down effects, particularly in a place like Manhattan.

But I actually think that there was always an unsustainable feel about what had happened on Wall Street over the last 10, 15 years, and it’s not that different from the unsustainable nature of what was happening during the dot-com boom, where people in Silicon Valley could make enormous sums of money, even though what they were peddling never really had any signs it would ever make a profit.

That doesn’t mean, though, that Silicon Valley is still not a huge, critical, important part of our economy, and Wall Street will remain a big, important part of our economy, just as it was in the ’70s and the ’80s. It just won’t be half of our economy. And that means that more talent, more resources will be going to other sectors of the economy. And I actually think that’s healthy. We don’t want every single college grad with mathematical aptitude to become a derivatives trader. We want some of them to go into engineering, and we want some of them to be going into computer design.

And so I think what you’ll see is some shift, but I don’t think that we will lose the enormous advantages that come from transparency, openness, the reliability of our markets. If anything, a more vigorous regulatory regime, I think, will help restore confidence, and you’re still going to see a lot of global capital wanting to park itself in the United States.

Are there tangible ways that Wall Street has made the average person’s life better in the way that Silicon Valley has?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think that some of the democratization of finance is actually beneficial if properly regulated. So the fact that large numbers of people could participate in the equity markets in ways that they could not previously — and for much lower costs than they used to be able to participate — I think is important.

Now, the fact that we had such poor regulation means — in some of these markets, particularly around the securitized mortgages — means that the pain has been democratized as well. And that’s a problem. But I think that overall there are ways in which people have been able to participate in our stock markets and our financial markets that are potentially healthy. Again, what you have to have, though, is an updating of the regulatory regimes comparable to what we did in the 1930s, when there were rules that were put in place that gave investors a little more assurance that they knew what they were buying.

There was this great debate among F.D.R.’s advisers about whether you had to split up companies — not just banks — you had to split up companies in order to regulate them effectively, or whether it was possible to have big, huge, sprawling, powerful companies — even not just possible, but better — and then have strong regulators. And it seems to me there’s an analogy of that debate now. Which is, do you think it is O.K. to have these “supermarkets” regulated by strong regulators actually trying to regulate, or do we need some very different modern version of Glass-Steagall, (1)
89 2009-05-03 For collectors of sculpture by Alberto Giacometti, the dog is king, but some might say cats run a close second. This one happens to be one of the most expensive works in Sotheby's sale on Tuesday.      Although Giacometti was best known for his de...
90 2009-05-03 During Cannes, the local restaurants introduce a curious cuisine, nectar for the stars. They must cater to every whim, to the impossible and absurd. But that's the way it is. At the Hôtel du Cap, which has been the area's most popular address eve...
91 2009-05-04 The president of the United Automobile Workers union, Ron Gettelfinger, said Monday evening that concessions granted to Chrysler would leave the U.A.W.’s new retiree health care fund “on life support initially.”...
92 2009-05-04 From Micheline Maynard, a DealBook colleague: An adviser to Chrysler disclosed in a court filing Monday that the company expected the bankruptcy case to last for nine weeks, meaning it would emerge from court protection in early July. The automake...
93 2009-05-04 Veterans of the original Woodstock festival, including Levon Helm, Paul Kantner and Country Joe McDonald, will play a new show on Aug. 15 to mark the concert’s 40th anniversary....
94 2009-05-04 What did the Yankees say to their fans by making them sit in the rain for hours before starting a game against the Red Sox?...
95 2009-05-04 The bailout plan would merely help avert service cuts and fare increases scheduled to take effect at the end of May....
96 2009-05-04 Living with a power supply that only a dog could appreciate: scraps of electricity for people, scraps of spoiled food for the dog....
97 2009-05-04 Skechers, the footwear company known for its inexpensive but fashionable shoes, has expensive taste when it comes to some things -- like cars....
98 2009-05-04 Apple scores high on the consumer magazine's test sheet....
99 2009-05-04 Monday's concluding games in the qualifying and relegation phases of the I.I.H.F. World Championship....
100 2009-05-04 Filene's Basement filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in Delaware for the second time in 10 years, with plans to sell 17 of its 25 stores to Crown Acquisitions for $22 million....
101 2009-05-04 My version of granola bars, power bars, and a few things in between. Start with good granola and it's really easy -- the "binder" is a combination of honey and sugar....
102 2009-05-04 Documents filed in a Manhattan court allege that a livery driver raised $14.9 million for a phony hedge fund and wired about $12 million banks in Ukraine....
103 2009-05-04 St. Francis Preparatory School, the Catholic school that was the epicenter of the swine flu outbreak in New York City, reopened for classes on Monday after being closed for a week....
104 2009-05-04 Also in Morning Buzz: the plight of the mentally ill in detention centers; an effort to help people who hoard; and more headlines from papers in the region....
105 2009-05-04 Work to produce goods and services for one's own consumption is way up in the United States, an economist writes. What if those activities were included in the gross domestic product?...
106 2009-05-04 Asian stock markets on Monday rallied to some of their highest levels since mid-October as investors focused on the latest signs of economic stabilization in China and shrugged off concerns about a global swine flu pandemic and the fallout of Chry...
107 2009-05-04 The European Union's hotly debated proposals to regulate hedge funds will also affect other classes of alternative investment, such as real estate funds and investment trusts, The Financial Times reported, citing lawyers. As part of the proposed l...
108 2009-05-04 Electricite de France, France's main electricity provider, is considering selling its U.K. distribution network, The Financial Times reported on Monday. The Financial Times said that while no decision has been taken on the matter, the reflection i...
109 2009-05-04 Zurich Financial Services has held talks with RSA Insurance Group boss Andy Haste in its quest to find a successor to C.E.O. James Schiro, who leaves at the end of 2009, the Telegraph reported. Mr. Schiro, who has been at the helm of Zurich for se...
110 2009-05-04 New York on Less: Single people still seem to be looking for romance in New York, but City Room wondered if the downturn has changed dating habits....
111 2009-05-04 Ms. French continued publishing novels as well as books of essays and literary criticism with the common theme of male subjugation of women, whether the arena was Shakespeare or modern history. “Men’s need to dominate women may be based in their own sense of marginality or emptiness; we do not know its root, and men are making no effort to discover it,” she wrote in “The War Against Women” (1992).

Critics accused her work of being anti-male, frequently citing a female character in “The Women’s Room” who declares, after her daughter has been raped: “All men are rapists, and that’s all they are. They rape us with their eyes, their laws, and their codes.”

In 1992 Ms. French, a longtime smoker, was given a diagnosis of esophageal cancer and told she had just months to live. She chronicled her winning battle against the disease, which included a 10-day coma, in “Season in Hell: A Memoir” (1998).

“I cannot say I am happy I was sick,” she wrote. “But I am happy that sickness, if it had to happen, brought me to where I am now. It is a better place than I have been before.”

Nevertheless, the disease and its treatment took such a sharp physical toll that, friends said, for a while afterward she questioned whether she should have survived. “She was in pain for 15 years but she was extremely brave,” said Carol Jenkins, a friend who runs the Women’s Media Center, an advocacy group in New York. “She fought through it, she wrote through it and carried on her life. The printed word was a source of life for her.”

In the years since her supposed death sentence, Ms. French continued to publish prolifically; she has a novel scheduled for release this fall and was working on a memoir at the time of her death. Her most significant work since her illness was the four-volume “From Eve to Dawn: A History of Women,” published by Feminist Press and built around the premise that prevailing histories had denied women their past, present and future.

Despite carefully chronicling a long history of oppression, the last volume ends on an optimistic note, said Florence Howe, who recently retired as director of the publishing house. “For the first time women have history,” she said of Ms. French’s work. “The world changed and she helped change it.”

In recent years Ms. French struggled to get published, partly because of the gains in women’s rights she had helped bring about. “It was a source of embitterment to her and outrage to me,” said Robin Morgan, a writer, feminist activist and close friend.

Marilyn French was born on Nov. 21, 1929, in Brooklyn, the daughter of E. Charles Edwards, an engineer, and Isabel Hazz Edwards, a department-store clerk. She studied philosophy and English literature at Hofstra College in Hempstead, on Long Island, earning a bachelor’s degree in 1951 and a master’s in 1964. She was an English instructor at Hofstra from 1964 to 1968, then earned a doctorate from Harvard. She was an assistant professor of English at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., from 1972 to 1976.

She married Robert M. French Jr., a lawyer, in 1950. They divorced in 1967.

Ms. French is survived by her son, Robert, of East Brunswick, N.J., and a daughter, Jamie French, of Cambridge, Mass.

While Ms. French was pleased by significant gains made by women in the three decades since her landmark novel, she was also just as quick to point out lingering deficiencies in gender equality, friends recalled.
112 2009-05-04 has correctly refocused American attention on and , the real front in the war on terror. But the recent surge in bombings is an alarming reminder of all of the unfinished business from President Bush’s unnecessary war in .

As American troops begin to hand combat posts over to the Iraqi Army, Sunni insurgents are trying to exploit any weakness. In April, more than 300 Iraqis died, up from under 200 in January. Eighteen American troops were killed, the highest toll in six months.

The problem isn’t Mr. Obama’s order to end America’s longest-running war. It is the failure of Iraq’s Shiite-led government to make the political changes that are the only chance for holding the country together.

We had hoped that the clear timetable for an American withdrawal would focus the attention of Iraq’s leaders. So far it hasn’t — or at least not enough. Washington needs to be pressing them a lot harder, using all of the levers it has, including aid and Baghdad’s appetite for American-made military equipment.

Prime Minister has reneged on a commitment to find government jobs for tens of thousands of members of the , the former insurgents whose decision to switch sides helped change the course of the war. His government has also failed to implement a year-old law that would allow former members of the Party — who were banned from government service after the 2003 invasion — to return to their positions or collect pensions.
113 2009-05-04 Finance Commissioner Martha E. Stark defended Mr. Patricof at the time, saying he had worked the extra hours from his home or his car. But in March, as questions resurfaced about the matter, she announced the agency would no longer use him as a judge.

It was the first in a series of events that raised questions about Ms. Stark’s stewardship of the Finance Department and ultimately resulted in her resignation on Tuesday.

In response to a Freedom of Information Law request in March, the Department of Investigation released documents showing that it had received several complaints over the years from parking judges about the potential conflict of interest in having Mr. Patricof provide services to an agency largely supervised by his wife. Parking judges are technically not employees of the agency but are paid an hourly wage to preside at hearings.

Agency officials have said that the city’s Conflicts of Interest Board did not object to Mr. Patricof’s work as a judge as long as his wife had no role in any matters involving him.

The Queens district attorney’s office recently asked city investigators for their records on the Patricof case so as to conduct its own review, according to people briefed on the inquiry who said they could not speak publicly because of the nature of the investigation.

Mr. Patricof declined comment for this article. However, a spokesman for the Department of Finance said that Mr. Patricof had not earned any more than the salaried agency employees who typically do the job that he did, as the managing judge at a hearing center.

Managing judges in 2006 earned between $88,000 and $113,000, according to the agency. For reasons that remain unclear, Mr. Patricof was allowed to serve as a managing judge in Queens, a supervisory position. Administrative law judges are independent contractors, rather than full-time city employees, so as to preserve their independence.

In earning $110,000 in 2006, Mr. Patricof put in for 2,315 hours of work, an average of 8.9 hours a day every weekday of the year, including holidays.

The second-highest-paid judge billed for 381 fewer hours. The average judge billed for 847 hours and collected roughly $33,000 for the year.

The city’s records indicate that investigators first began reviewing Mr. Patricof’s service for the Finance Department in 2003, when, in response to a complaint, the investigators determined that Rochelle Patricof should have recused herself from a matter that related to her husband’s employment.

Though the conflicts board had approved Mr. Patricof’s work for the agency, the investigators said Mrs. Patricof had participated in a meeting in which she and her subordinates discussed the criteria for promoting judges. Mrs. Patricof told investigators she played no role in selecting the judges who were promoted. The investigators, in a memo, did not dispute that, but noted that Mr. Patricof had been one of 11 judges promoted after the meeting.

The conflicts board found that Mrs. Patricof’s actions did not warrant discipline. But in 2007, the Department of Investigation reiterated that having Mr. Patricof as a managing judge while his wife served as a deputy finance commissioner “continues to be a lightning rod for criticism and allegations.”

Department of Investigation officials said they chose not to pursue their findings about Mr. Patricof’s billings because Ms. Stark found that the judge had not acted inappropriately. Ms. Stark said that while the judge’s time sheets did not accurately reflect the time he was physically present at the Queens hearing office, they accurately reflected the amount of time he had worked.

This year, though, when questions about the matter resurfaced, Ms. Stark said she would seek to reassign Mr. Patricof.

Within weeks, Ms. Stark began to draw fire for her outside work on the board of a private real estate company; her romantic relationship with a former subordinate; and the employment of relatives in her department. When it became clear last week that she no longer had the support of the mayor, Ms. Stark turned in her resignation.
114 2009-05-04 Mr. Wind recalled that most of the escapees wore sandals and by the time they reached Austria, their feet were covered in blisters. He said that one of his neighbors cleaned some people’s wounds. Others opened their homes, offering the refugees food and water. One man let them use his phone so that they could call relatives in the West.

“I was there to see it all,” Mr. Wind said.

The event on Sunday, at the Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park in Dumbo, began with brass-band music, like that heard at the picnic that preceded the crossing. Back then, the celebration was part of a peace demonstration organized by Hungary’s opposition party in an attempt to weaken the Communist regime. The celebration on Sunday was part of a literary event, the fifth annual PEN World Voices Festival, and meant to stir reflection about what freedom means.

The festival’s theme this year is evolution and revolution, “and in a way, one of the questions of the events of 1989” — the picnic at the Austrian-Hungarian border, the rise to power of the trade union federation Solidarity in Poland, the collapse of the Berlin Wall — “is, which was it: evolution or revolution?” mused Kwame Anthony Appiah, a Ghanaian philosopher and novelist who is the president of the PEN American Center.

Mr. Wind, who still lives in St. Margarethen, was the day’s honored guest; he spoke in heavily accented English, his dark glasses resting near the tip of his nose. There were remarks by others, like the Hungarian essayist Eszter Babarczy, who was not at the picnic but shared her memories of the day the Berlin Wall fell.

Assembled in the audience were people like May Coffin, who lives in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, and Luca Mihaly, who lives on the Lower East Side. Ms. Coffin, 29, strolled under the tent with her parents, who were visiting from South Carolina, and said she had no idea what the event was about.

“We came in because we heard the music,” she said.

Ms. Mihaly, 26, was born in Budapest, but moved to the United States with her parents while still a child, soon after the Iron Curtain fell. She found out about the event by accident, but made sure to mark it on her calendar.

“I’d never heard about the picnic. It was just on the drive over here that I read a little bit about it,” she said. “It’s all so fascinating.”

It is said that at the time, the Hungarian government had quietly spread word about the picnic, saying that if anyone wished to cross into Austria, all they had to do was show up for the festivity. The border gate, a heavily guarded structure made of wood and barbed wire, stood open for three hours. Once they entered the West, the East Germans were greeted by a sign that read: “You are in Austria. No more danger. We are helping.”

Those like Mr. Wind, who witnessed the crossing, went home that day in 1989 with a memento: a piece of barbed wire from the gate. Those who attended Sunday’s event left with a souvenir of their own: a goody bag with Austrian pastries, like hazelnut and pecan-and-coffee cakes.
115 2009-05-04 Now 35, she has spent more than a year in jail, often in solitary confinement, sinking deeper into the mental illness that makes it impossible for her either to fight deportation or to obtain the travel documents needed to make it happen, according to a pending habeas corpus petition that seeks her release. It contends that she is suicidal, emaciated and deprived of proper medical treatment.

Had she been the Xiu Ping Jiang linked to a mass killer, her story would have made instant news around the world. Instead, she is a kind of Internet-era doppelganger, lost in one of the dark places of immigration law, where the only life at stake may be her own.

“I’m afraid my sister will commit suicide in the detention,” said her older sister, Yun, 37, who found Ms. Jiang too ill to recognize her when she visited the jail in February.

Ms. Jiang’s journey — from a village in China to restaurants in Brooklyn to a bare jail cell in South Florida in the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement — illustrates the vulnerability of the mentally ill in the immigration system, advocates say.

“It’s a really stark, really dire issue, and it’s a growing problem,” said Sunita Patel, a lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York who is part of an international working group of legal advocates and mental health providers seeking more protective rules. No one keeps count of such cases, but she added that “with all these enforcement measures being put into place by ICE, more and more people with mental illness are being put into the detention system. And sometimes these people disappear.”

Federal immigration officials said they could not comment on an individual case. But Elaine Komis, a spokeswoman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review, which oversees the nation’s immigration courts, said there were no rules for determining competency in deportation proceedings, and no way to ensure representation for a mentally ill person facing deportation.

“There is no right to government-paid representation in immigration court,” Ms. Komis said in a statement, “so no attorney is appointed when a respondent is believed to be incompetent.”

The nation’s immigration detention practices are under a comprehensive review ordered by Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, said a spokesman for the agency, Richard Rocha, adding, “ICE recognizes the need to address mental health issues among its detainees.”

The exact nature of Ms. Jiang’s illness is unknown, and immigration authorities would not release her medical records, even to her lawyers, saying she had refused to sign a privacy release. Her two sisters, who live in New York, describe her as a sweet, quiet woman whose mind broke under the strain of life as an illegal immigrant seeking asylum.

She was traveling to Florida to start a job at a Chinese restaurant in December 2007 when immigration agents arrested her at a Greyhound bus station in West Palm Beach on suspicion that she was in the country without a visa.

She was luckier than many mentally ill detainees. After Judge Ford issued an order of deportation in January 2008, Ms. Jiang’s older sister, now a United States citizen, hired a lawyer who managed to have it overturned by the Board of Immigration Appeals last May. But Ms. Jiang had to face the same judge in July, and by then, after half a year in jail, her symptoms of mental illness had become so severe that she was unable or unwilling to communicate with the lawyer. He withdrew from the case.

She was on her own at a November hearing before a second immigration judge, Scott G. Alexander, who again ordered her deported and again returned her to jail, after noting that a government psychiatrist had deemed her competent to participate in the hearing. The record shows that she sat through the hearing in silence, her arms folded, her eyes downcast.

In February, Ms. Jiang’s sisters — one a waitress, one a cashier — found Theodore Cox, a New York immigration lawyer, who took the case without fee. So far, he and his associate, Andrew Wong, have not had much success with their emergency habeas petition, filed in March in federal court in Fort Myers, Fla.

In the last dozen years, immigration laws have sharply narrowed the grounds for federal court review of such cases, and a federal magistrate judge directed Ms. Jiang’s lawyers to remove all allegations concerning her arrest, medical care, conditions of confinement and the denial of opportunity to apply for asylum protection at her hearing. Their motion urging reconsideration has not been answered.

The one issue the court seems prepared to review is whether Ms. Jiang is being unconstitutionally subjected to indefinite detention, defined under a 2001 Supreme Court decision as more than six months. But the six-month clock begins to run only after the final order of removal, which was in November 2008 in Ms. Jiang’s case. And a deportation officer stopped the clock in January, the lawyers said, because Ms. Jiang would not speak with immigration agents seeking a travel document for her.

Ms. Jiang goes without eating for days, or vomits after meals for fear of poison; she mumbles to herself and tears up letters from her family, the petition says. While her risk of dying in detention seems to grow each day, her sisters say, they also fear that she will die if she were deported to China, since nobody there is able to take care of her.

“To save her, I would change places with my sister,” her sister Yun proposed in an interview at Mr. Cox’s law office, speaking through a translator. “Take me to detention.”

In their home village in Fujian Province, in southeastern China, the sisters said, Ms. Jiang was married under age. She hid in their mother’s house when she was pregnant with her second son, they said, because under China’s one-child policy, the village government would have forced her to have an abortion.

“She did not deliver in a hospital, and she almost died,” said the younger sister, Yu, 33, the first to emigrate. A few days after the birth, she added, officials found Ms. Jiang, sterilized her and imposed a heavy fine. Later, divorced and desperate, Ms. Jiang borrowed the equivalent of $35,000 to be smuggled by boat to the United States, hoping to find political asylum and bring over the young sons she left with their grandmother.

But grueling months at sea left her emotionally fragile, and in the summer of 1997, about a year after her arrival, she became so despondent about her separation from her children, and the burden of her debts, that she tried to kill herself by drinking bleach, her sisters said. The police took her to Bellevue Hospital Center.

“She was afraid of being arrested, so the next day she ran away,” Yu recalled.

At times over the next decade Ms. Jiang seemed better, as she moved from work in Manhattan garment factories to waitress jobs in Chinese restaurants across the country. But an effort to bring her younger son into the United States through Canada when he was 8 or 9 backfired: he was caught by Canadian officials and placed in foster care.

“He intended to join up with her,” the younger sister said of the boy, now 16. “Now it’s impossible, because he’s being adopted.”

By the winter of 2007, Ms. Jiang’s mental illness had cost her many jobs, the sisters said, but as a favor, some of their former employers would still hire her. She had lost a job in Alabama and was on her way to another in Florida when immigration agents stopped her.

One of the mysteries of Ms. Jiang’s life remains a brief marriage in Des Moines to a Vietnamese man. Her sisters said the family had never even learned his name because she was ashamed to talk about the episode. When they learned from a reporter in April that a woman named Xiu Ping Jiang had been married to the Binghamton gunman, they were seized by doubt: Could this have been their sister’s Vietnamese husband?

They made a flurry of phone calls, then raced through Chinatown streets in the rain to show a photo of the killer to Ms. Jiang’s former boss from Des Moines, who was visiting New York. But he took one look and said with finality, “That’s not him.”

By then, the sisters seemed to have been hoping for a different verdict, for a link that could suddenly turn the world’s gaze to their Xiu Ping Jiang — long enough, at least, to save her from the dark.
116 2009-05-04 Thomas Levet became the first Frenchman to win five PGA European Tour titles, shooting a four-under-par 68 to win the Spanish Open in Girona by two strokes over Fabrizio Zanotti of Paraguay.

John Daly, who is serving a six-month suspension from the PGA Tour, closed with a 69 for his best round of the tournament. He tied for 31st at three under.

¶Seve Ballesteros made his first public appearance since having four operations to remove a cancerous brain tumor. Ballesteros, 52, attended a Spanish league soccer match at Racing Santander’s El Sardinero stadium.(AP)
117 2009-05-04 The American Composers Orchestra practices truth in advertising. As its name implies, its mission is to perform new, recent and neglected works by American composers. On Friday night at Zankel Hall it offered a program of premieres by Lukas Ligeti and Derek Bermel and the New York premiere of the Guitar Concerto by Robert Beaser. A piece from 2007 by the Austrian composer Thomas Larcher was slipped in, proving that this open-minded orchestra is willing to reach beyond America for a worthy piece now and then.

But the other purpose of the evening was to honor artistic leaders who have been crucial to the orchestra’s success: Mr. Beaser, its artistic director; Mr. Bermel, just finishing his tenure as composer in residence; and Dennis Russell Davies, the conductor laureate, who founded the orchestra 32 years ago and looked elated to be back.

Mr. Bermel’s work, “A shout, a whisper, and a trace,” was particularly effective and often exhilarating. Mr. Bermel draws from myriad genres: jazz, rock, gospel, cerebral modernism, you name it. That his interests are so wide-ranging could prevent him from forging a distinctive voice were his ear not so keen and his technique so assured.

Mr. Bermel says that this 20-minute piece was inspired by his reflection on Bartok’s final five years, as a transplant to New York. Though relieved to have left Hungary, his homeland, under the Nazis, Bartok maintained a personal connection to his musical roots.

Mr. Bermel’s piece begins with earthy, foursquare tunes and rhythmic riffs that seem reminiscent of Bartok works that incorporate Eastern European folk music. The tunes alternate with clattering instrumental outbursts that could be frenzied ritornellos in a neo-Baroque concerto.
118 2009-05-04 Las Vegas may now have Bette Midler. But New York has Sherie Rene Scott, who is putting on the kind of sensational diva-as-trash-goddess show this city hasn’t seen since Ms. Midler last played Radio City Musical Hall. It is called “Everyday Rapture.” And while this singing pseudo-memoir, which opened on Sunday night at Second Stage Theater, is tiny by Broadway standards, it easily qualifies as one of the year’s most extravagantly entertaining new musicals.

Like Ms. Midler, who came to fame singing in gay clubs and bath houses three decades ago, Ms. Scott is a brass-and-butter chanteuse with an out-there alter-ego, a couple of trampy but precision-tooled backup singers and a song list of inventively rejiggered standards and oddities. She is also one of those rare, wry and passionate performers who bring out the inner show queen in people, even folks who didn’t know they had one.

Ms. Scott is, by her own description “a semi, semi semi-star” who has appeared as the second lead in a string of Broadway semi-hits: as a shopaholic Egyptian princess in the Disney “Aida,” as a galumphing con artist in “Dirty Rotten Scoundrels” and, most recently, as the many-tentacled underwater villainess in “Disney’s ‘The Little Mermaid.’ ” While she brought a semi-starry comic radiance to these parts, they only hinted at the heights (and depth) on display in what turns out to be the role Sherie Rene Scott was born to play: Sherie Rene Scott.

This does not mean that Ms. Scott is merely portraying herself in “Everyday Rapture,” which has been assembled by a crackerjack team that most semi-stars can only dream about, including Michael Mayer (“Spring Awakening”) as her director and the composer Tom Kitt (“Next to Normal”) as her arranger and orchestrator. The character named Sherie Rene Scott who emerges in the script created by Ms. Scott and Dick Scanlan (“Thoroughly Modern Millie”) is an exaggerated construct who just happens to share much of the back story of the actress who embodies her.

Like Ms. Scott, this character was raised as “half-Mennonite” (in reference to the austere religious sect that people tend to confuse with the Amish) in Kansas. (Henceforth, I will refer to the show’s character, as opposed to its performer, as “Sherie.”) She grew up, she tells us, “torn between two lovers: Jesus and Judy.” That’s Judy as in Garland, as if you didn’t know.

The church was fine with her singing but only as part of a choir, which, she says, “was not fine with me.” She adds, “I think I was searching, searching, searching for a way to be one with God while a lot of other people clapped.”
119 2009-05-04 The two met in Milan in 1980, when she was an actress in a play called “The Magnificent Cuckold” and he was a married, up-and-coming real estate tycoon. Mr. Berlusconi left his first wife for Ms. Lario. They had three children before marrying in a civil ceremony in 1990.

The news of the impending breakup came after days of drama. On Tuesday, Ms. Lario wrote an open letter to the ANSA news agency complaining about her husband’s roving eye, her second such public declaration in recent years.

Ms. Lario criticized reports that Mr. Berlusconi’s center-right coalition planned to nominate a slate of attractive young women for the European Parliament, including the star of a reality television show. Choosing candidates seemingly on the basis of their headshots more than their political experience is “shamelessly trashy,” Ms. Lario said.

She was also angered by press reports that Mr. Berlusconi had attended the 18th birthday party in Naples of Noemi Letizia, who has said in several recent interviews that she called the prime minister “Daddy” and that he gave her a gold and diamond necklace. “That surprised me,” Ms. Lario told ANSA. “Because he never attended the 18th birthday parties of his own children, even if he was invited.”

Mr. Berlusconi countered that his wife has been subject to the “manipulations” of the left-wing press. “I’m afraid that the ‘signora’ believed what she read in the newspapers,” ANSA quoted him as saying last Wednesday.

In the ensuing days, the national conversation has been dominated by speculation about the nature of the relationship between Ms. Letizia and the prime minister.

Mr. Berlusconi told the Italian press that Ms. Letizia was the daughter of a business acquaintance and that he stopped by the large party “to raise a glass.”

On Sunday, La Repubblica said that Ms. Lario had been contemplating divorce for years. In hiring a lawyer and opening proceedings, “I would like to avoid conflict,” La Repubblica quoted her as saying.

Mr. Berlusconi and Ms. Lario are rarely seen in public together, and there has been palace intrigue for years.

In 2007, La Repubblica published a letter from Ms. Lario in which she demanded an apology from Mr. Berlusconi after news reports quoted him as praising the beauty of a showgirl whom he later named equal opportunities minister.

Ms. Lario, at the time, wrote: “These are statements I consider damaging to my dignity.”

The same day, Mr. Berlusconi, who was running for a third term as prime minister, quickly issued a public apology, which political analysts speculated was aimed at winning over female voters.

“Your dignity should not be an issue: I will guard it like a precious material in my heart even when thoughtless jokes come out of my mouth,” Mr. Berlusconi wrote then. He added: “Forgive me, however, I beg of you, and take this public testimony of private pride that submits to your anger as an act of love. One among many. A huge kiss. Silvio.”
120 2009-05-04 A French “three strikes” plan for digital piracy is getting its second chance.

As expected, the government of President last week revived a proposal to crack down on online piracy by cutting off the Internet connections of people who ignored two warnings to stop unauthorized downloads of copyrighted movies and .

Even though some members of the governing UMP party remain vocal in their opposition to the plan, passage appears likely, given the party’s strong parliamentary majority. Still, last month UMP suffered an embarrassment when several lawmakers from the Socialist opposition sneaked into a nearly empty National Assembly at the last moment to outnumber the handful of supporters in the chamber.

“Artists and the creative industries are massively on our side,” the culture minister, Christine Albanel said as she introduced the latest version of the bill in the assembly. The same could not be said for some of the lawmakers in the chamber, who interrupted her speech with raucous boos.

Longer-term prospects for the measure remain unclear, analysts say, in part because of a continuing lack of clarity in legislation dealing with such matters. Last week in , representatives of the , the and E.U. member governments reached a compromise on a measure setting out the terms under which the authorities would be allowed to restrict Internet access.

Some members of Parliament were hoping to use a broad overhaul of European telecommunications legislation to ban proposals like the French one. They proposed adding a provision requiring governments to obtain court orders before cutting off anyone’s connection.
121 2009-05-04 BANKS' STRESS RELIEF The results of the bank stress tests are expected to be highly detailed, and using these results, the Obama administration seems prepared to argue that the broad financial system is on the road to recovery.      MEDIA IN CHINA...
122 2009-05-04 Bill Watkins, the outspoken former chief executive of Seagate, wants to make a thinner iPod.     Mr. Watkins, right, a Silicon Valley veteran, has joined the board of Vertical Circuits, a start-up company that has devised a technique for cramming ...
123 2009-05-05 Cliff Asness, the outspoken managing partner of AQR Capital Management, a $20 billion hedge fund in Greenwich, Conn., has penned a scathing letter striking back at President Obama for his harsh words blaming hedge for Chrysler’s bankruptcy....
124 2009-05-05 The group of dissident Chrysler debtholders appears to be shrinking by the day....
125 2009-05-05 This year’s Tony Awards had more than its share of wallflowers who won’t be going to the big dance (unless they attend as someone else’s date)....
126 2009-05-05 I've written occasionally about Bernard Krisher's work in Cambodia, building schools and keeping girls in school through American Assistance for Cambodia. Bernie is a former journalist who developed a passion for Cambodia and has devoted his life ...
127 2009-05-05 A commercial for Intel's advertising campaign, Intel: Sponsors of Tomorrow, features Ajay Bhatt, one of two chief architects on USB 1.0.
128 2009-05-05 With less than a month before a deadline for its restructuring, General Motors disclosed Tuesday that it was considering a reverse stock swap as part of the steps it might to settle its debt with the Treasury Department....
129 2009-05-05 An economics-themed country song....
130 2009-05-05 The construction of Hudson River Park is more than halfway complete, with the opening of Pier 64 in Chelsea and a stretch of park between West 24th and 26th Streets....
131 2009-05-05 A day trader involved in the insider trading case against the husband of former public relations executive Nina Devlin pleaded guilty on Tuesday to making millions of dollars trading on confidential information about pending mergers....
132 2009-05-05 Apple may introduce an age-rating system for iPhone applications that would presumably make it easier for developers to win approval for adult-oriented apps....
133 2009-05-05 Duke University Press plans to publish the research of the president's mother....
134 2009-05-05 Leaders suggested that a Metropolitan Transportation Authority bailout plan authored by Senate Democrats did not raise enough revenue to meet the authority's immediate needs....
135 2009-05-05 A clear-eyed analysis on the pros and cons of Brett Favre's possible return to football with the Vikings....
136 2009-05-05 In what the agency describes as its first insider trading case involving credit default swaps, the Securities and Exchange Commission has charged a former hedge fund portfolio manager and a salesman at Deutsche Bank with sharing nonpublic informat...
137 2009-05-05 Spokes: How to get away for some off-road biking, from a city rider who knows....
138 2009-05-05 Many details are still to be worked out in the State Senate's bailout plan for the M.T.A., but fare and toll increases will very likely be smaller than previously planned....
139 2009-05-05 A survey of 1,150 four-year colleges identifies more than 250 that still have room for applicants for the incoming freshman class....
140 2009-05-05 GMAC Financial Services, the largest financier of General Motors vehicles, said Tuesday its lost more money in the first quarter than a year ago as the troubled home and automotive loan markets continued to weigh on results....
141 2009-05-05 The Farsi phrase for "we can" - Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's (curiously familiar) re-election slogan....
142 2009-05-05 Betsy F. Perry, a marketing consultant, had come under fire for making disparaging comments about Mexico in an online article in The Huffington Post....
143 2009-05-05 The Kentucky Derby's top 10 television markets....
144 2009-05-05 Malcolm Gladwell suggests that overconfidence, not incompetence or regulatory failure, caused the current crisis -- precisely because bankers are experts in finance....
145 2009-05-05 The wireless industry had modest growth despite the recession, but most of it was in cheap prepaid accounts that may soon eat away at its profitable business....
146 2009-05-05 The Federal Trade Commission has begun an inquiry into whether the close ties between the boards of two of technology's most prominent companies, Apple and Google, amount to a violation of antitrust laws, The New York Times's Miguel Helft and Brad...
147 2009-05-05 The Obama administration's plan to restrict or shut down several widely used tax loopholes takes away many - but not all - of the sophisticated tax moves commonly used in corporate America, The New York Times's Lynnley Browning writes. The most wi...
148 2009-05-05 American International Group is expected to post a first-quarter loss on Thursday, but the embattled insurer's results will not trigger a new capital injection from the U.S. government this time, Reuters reported, citing a source familiar with the...
149 2009-05-05 For many investors, breaking even never felt so good. After a four-month melodrama of brutal losses and heady gains, a steep plunge in financial markets early in the year was all but erased Monday, The New York Times's Jack Healy reported. The S.&...
150 2009-05-05 Connecticut added its name on Monday to the list of public entities that have fired Aldus Equity Partners, the pension advisory firm whose founder was accused of securities fraud by federal and state authorities last week, The New York Times's Les...
151 2009-05-05 “There’s a framework that we believe we have agreed upon,” Mr. Smith said. “However, as I will always tell people, the devil’s in the details.”

The authority has said that to overcome a huge deficit, it must raise fares and tolls by 20 to 30 percent and make deep service cuts.

The rescue is intended to keep the fare and toll increase to about 8 percent and stop most or all cuts in service.

Senate leaders also said that their plan would include money to pay for at least a portion of the authority’s capital spending needs, which include the costs of maintaining and modernizing the transit system.

The plan has been bogged down for weeks in the Senate, where Democrats hold a 32-to-30 majority.

Republicans have refused to support the rescue, leaving Democratic leaders to attempt to wrestle unanimous support from a fractious conference. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Foley were the last two Senate Democratic holdouts, objecting to the payroll tax to be paid by employers in the 12-county region served by the transportation authority.

The men had said the tax was too much of a burden on school districts, hospitals, nonprofit organizations and businesses.

The payroll tax would generate nearly $1.5 billion a year. The version of the rescue favored by the Senate also includes a series of charges on motor vehicles and drivers, a 50-cent surcharge on yellow cab rides and increases in motor vehicle registration charges, drivers license fees and the tax on rental vehicles. All together, those charges would raise about $270 million a year.

A spokesman for Mr. Smith said that a quarter of the money raised through the plan, or about $440 million a year, would be set aside for debt payments needed to support the authority’s long-term capital spending program, which pays for things like station renovations and the purchase of new buses and train cars.

The Senate plan would still need the Assembly’s support; a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said that he was encouraged by the progress toward a deal in the Senate.

Mr. Paterson caused a stir over the weekend when he said that he would support the Senate version of the rescue plan even though he did not expect it to contain money for the capital program. It was not clear why the governor and the Senate had different interpretations of how the plan would affect capital spending.

The governor’s words brought a sharp rebuke on Monday from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has long insisted that the rescue sustain capital spending.

“As discussions for a permanent funding plan for the M.T.A. continue, stopgap measures that kick the big problems down the road must be rejected,” Mr. Bloomberg said in a written statement distributed by his office.
152 2009-05-05 I CAN imagine the Treasury secretary’s face turning pale as he is told by the attorney general that one of the financial institutions on government life support has been indicted by a grand jury. Worse, I can imagine the attorney general facing not too subtle pressure from the president’s economic team to go easy on such companies.

This situation is hypothetical, of course, but in March, the F.B.I. director, Robert Mueller, warned Congress that “the unprecedented level of financial resources committed by the federal government to combat the economic downturn will lead to an inevitable increase in economic crime and public corruption cases.” Yet no one has discussed the inherent conflict of interest that the government created when it infused large sums of money into these companies.

The government now has an extraordinarily high fiduciary duty to safeguard the stability and health of companies that received hundreds of billions of bailout money. At the same time, the Justice Department has the duty to indict a corporation if the evidence dictates such severe action — and an indictment is often a death sentence for a corporation. The quandary is obvious. How, then, does the Justice Department bring charges against a corporation that is now owned by the government?

The tsunami of corporate scandals that shook our economy in 2001 — Enron, WorldCom, Adelphia and others — provides us with an instructive example. The Justice Department moved swiftly to bring corporate wrongdoers to justice. But we also learned that when dealing with major companies or industries, we had to carefully consider the collateral consequences of our prosecutions.

Would there be unintended human carnage in the form of thousands of lost jobs? Would shareholders, some of whom had already suffered a great deal, lose more of their investment? What impact would our actions have on the economy? We realized that we had an obligation to minimize the harm to innocent citizens.

Among the options we pursued were deferred prosecution agreements. These court-authorized agreements were not new but under certain circumstances offered more appropriate methods of providing justice in the best interests of the public as well as a company’s employees and shareholders. They avoid the destructiveness of indictments and allow companies to remain in business while operating under the increased scrutiny of federally appointed monitors.
153 2009-05-05 No one in Sacramento is predicting that local housing prices, which have been cut in half from their mid-2005 peak, are going to reclaim much of that ground anytime soon.

Instead, this is what passes for wild-eyed optimism: a belief that things have finally stopped getting worse. “A period of price stagnation would boost a lot of spirits,” Mr. LePage said.

When a market bottoms, foreclosures usually stop piling up and become more willing to make , confident the collateral backing them will not fall in value.

Nationally, signs of progress in real estate are still faint at best. Existing home sales in March were down 7 percent from last year, according to the .

The supply of unsold homes was about 10 months, a number that has changed little over the last year and is abnormally high. But first-time buyers were an impressive 53 percent of the market — and that was largely before a first-time buyer’s of $8,000 became available.

With the tax credit in place and interest rates low, the pace of sales may be picking up. The Realtors’ group said Monday that the number of houses under contract in March was up 1 percent from a year earlier. Those pending deals will be reported in the existing-home sales for April and May.

Sales volume tends to recover long before prices. In fact, some analysts think price declines in many markets are accelerating. First American CoreLogic, a real estate data firm, reported that “the depth and breadth of price declines continued to worsen in February.” recently revised its estimate of future declines to 12.5 percent, from 10 percent, saying the drop would extend to the end of next year.

Amid the uncertainty, Sacramento is drawing scrutiny as a test case. The area boomed in the first part of the decade; the population of Sacramento County increased 10 percent, to 1.4 million, as San Franciscans sought cheaper places to live.

When the market peaked and the ability to refinance all those costly dried up, the carnage began. There have been 28,898 foreclosures in Sacramento County since 2005.

Sales in the top half of the market remain slow. The Federal Reserve reported on Monday that half of all banks recently tightened their lending standards on prime mortgages. Many would-be buyers, here as elsewhere, simply cannot get financing.

Sellers, meanwhile, are reluctant to lower their prices, preferring to bide their time. New construction is nearly nonexistent.

What drives the market here, then, are all those foreclosures. Two-thirds of the 2,092 existing single-family houses and condominiums sold here in March were bank repossessions, up from 8.5 percent two years ago, according to MDA DataQuick, a real estate research firm.

These cut-rate properties are engendering the same frenzy and frustration that symbolized the boom, as Rebecca and Chris Whitman discovered when they started looking for a house in December. Ms. Whitman’s new job as an athletics director at Sacramento State required an immediate move from Chico, two hours north.

In two months the couple looked at 100 houses, nearly all foreclosures priced under $200,000, making verbal offers on 20. Only rarely did they get a response. Banks trying to unload large numbers of properties are less interested in traditional transactions with individuals than all-cash offers from investors.

As interest rates fell, the Whitmans were able to increase their price limit. They ended up buying from investors. A syndicate had bought a three-bedroom foreclosure on a cul-de-sac in eastern Sacramento last fall for $172,000, made a few improvements and was flipping it — another boom-era element that is back. The Whitmans bought it three weeks ago for $224,500.

“We think we got a good deal,” said Ms. Whitman, 31. Their monthly payment, including property taxes, will be about $1,200. Renting an equivalent house, with space for their two dogs, two cats and the baby they are expecting, would have been hundreds of dollars more.

When buying is cheaper than renting, markets begin to turn. At the current rate of sales, there is less than three months of inventory in the Sacramento market. In normal times, that would indicate a seller’s market.

Except these are not normal times. The unemployment rate in the county is 11.3 percent, the highest in decades. That will prompt more foreclosures all by itself. Furthermore, banks have lifted various processing moratoriums that lowered foreclosures last fall.

These two factors yielded a rise in the number of default notices filed in Sacramento County in March to 2,819, a record. Thousands more bank-owned houses are likely to come to market this summer and fall.

“That will stall any progress toward stability,” said Michael , chief executive of Lyon Real Estate. “The prospects for a recovery are fool’s gold.”

Mr. Lyon expects further price declines and slowing sales. But David Berson, the chief economist for the mortgage insurer PMI, argues that such bleakness from the people whose livelihood is selling houses is itself a positive sign. “Things are awful at the bottom, and we’re at the bottom,” Mr. Berson said. “No question about it. But the trend going forward should be higher sales, and that will eventually affect prices.”
154 2009-05-05 Not too long ago I was on a flight from Rio de Janeiro to Porto Seguro to visit one of our member properties.

In the back of the plane, a group of young, energetic South Americans was clearly in a celebratory mood. They were singing loudly, dancing samba and playing the drums. I was wearing a suit and tie, my usual travel attire, and I felt very conservative by comparison.

I was trying to ignore the revelry and focus on my work, so I took out my laptop and put on my iPod to block the noise.

My seatmate was a Brazilian woman. And for the life of me, I couldn’t figure out why she was staring at me.

I eventually stopped working and struck up a conversation with her. This woman looked as if she was exposed to many harsh, outdoor conditions. Even though she said she was only 40 years old, she looked quite a bit older.

I asked her what she did for a living. And she told me that she was a nurse and happened to be stationed in a remote village in the Brazilian rain forest. She explained that once we landed, her journey was far from over. To get to her destination, she would have to make a two-day trip up the river in a canoe all by herself. Then she would have to take the canoe out of the water and carry it to the village.

I thought this woman was amazing. I finally asked her why she was staring at me so intently before our chat.

It turns out that she had no idea why I had those little earbuds in my ears. Apparently, she had never seen an iPod, and once I explained what it was, she was absolutely fascinated and entranced by the technology. When I told her to place the buds in her ears, she broke out into a beautiful smile, just like a child on Christmas morning.

I asked her if she wanted it. She said yes, and was so excited that there were tears in her eyes. I gave her the charger, too, and she said she would have to make a short journey to another village to find the proper outlet.

I don’t know if she is going to be able to download music, though. So I do hope she likes my choices: Elton John, Sting and some Spanish pop.
155 2009-05-05 Connecticut added its name on Monday to the list of public entities that have fired Aldus Equity Partners, the pension advisory firm whose founder was accused of securities fraud by federal and state authorities last week.

The Connecticut treasurer, Denise L. Nappier, announced the termination of Aldus’s contract with the Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Funds, which invests the pension money for 160,000 teachers and municipal employees.

Ms. Nappier said she ended the state’s relationship with Aldus “in order to protect Connecticut’s interest out of an abundance of caution.”

Aldus is one of the several public pension consulting firms caught up in a criminal and civil investigation into what the Securities and Exchange Commission has called a “multimillion-dollar kickback scheme” involving the New York State Common Retirement Fund.

Last week, Saul Meyer, the 38-year-old founder of Aldus, was charged with a fraud-related felony by the office of the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo. Mr. Meyer was accused at the same time by the S.E.C. of securities laws violations, as was Aldus Equity. Mr. Meyer has pleaded not guilty.
156 2009-05-05 The Obama administration’s plan to restrict or shut down several widely used tax loopholes takes away many — but not all — of the sophisticated tax moves commonly used in corporate America.

The most widely used tactic not covered by the plan is known as transfer pricing, which multinational corporations employ routinely to reduce the taxes they owe to the United States by keeping their profits offshore in low-tax or no-tax havens.

The highly complex tactic has become a cause of growing concern within the Internal Revenue Service in recent years because it deprives the Treasury of billions of dollars a year, according to private-sector estimates. One senior government official briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he said he was not authorized to comment publicly, said on Monday that transfer pricing abuses were the single largest source of tax avoidance in corporate America.

Rosanne Altshuler, an economics professor at Rutgers, called transfer pricing “the elephant in the room” that was not addressed under the Obama plan.

Corporate America “will still have the ability to do and use transfer pricing — it’s still there,” said Robert Willens, an independent tax and accounting expert in New York.
157 2009-05-05 An analysis by the Capstone Advisory group, a restructuring adviser to Chrysler, that was submitted to the bankruptcy court said that while Chrysler lost nearly $17 billion in 2008, it was on track to be profitable by 2012. That analysis assumes certain sales increases and the timely completion of the Fiat deal.

Chrysler expects to emerge from bankruptcy in early July. It does not expect to receive dealer orders or reopen its plants until the bankruptcy is concluded.

Mr. Gettelfinger said he had thought that the union’s deal with Chrysler, which workers ratified by a 4-to-1 margin one day before Chrysler filed for bankruptcy, would be enough to let the company restructure outside of court.

But he said workers did not approve the deal in vain: “The fact that we do have ratified agreements puts us in a better position.” And he was thankful that Chrysler filed for Chapter 11 protection, rather than liquidating as executives had warned.

“Of all the alternatives that were out there,” he said, “clearly this is head and shoulders above anything else.”

Yet that reorganization plan came under fire from some dissident Chrysler lenders in Monday’s hearing, and clashes between lawyers for the company and for that group of about 20 investment firms foreshadowed a battle in court on Tuesday. That is when Judge Gonzalez is scheduled to hear arguments about the proposed Fiat deal. The group of dissident lenders have filed a motion to halt the reorganization plan, claiming it runs afoul of federal law.The lawyer for that group, Thomas E. Lauria of White & Case, objected on Monday that the $4.5 billion debtor-in-possession loan was too closely linked to the Fiat proposal.

Mr. Lauria argued before a packed audience — one that spilled into two overflow rooms at the Manhattan courthouse — that approving the loan would have set Chrysler on an irreversible course, one that his clients said would violate their lending contracts with the carmaker.

Judge Gonzalez pointed out that to have rejected the loan would have consigned Chrysler to certain liquidation. Several company executives testified on Monday that Chrysler needed the money to pay its parts suppliers and its dealers, many of whom are themselves on the brink of shutting down.

Earlier in the day, an adviser to Chrysler, Robert Manzo, a Capstone executive director, said that he failed to find alternatives to the $4.5 billion government loan. Judge Gonzalez’s ruling late Monday lets Chrysler access about $1.8 billion of that money.

In a court filing, Mr. Manzo projected that Chrysler would need about $4.1 billion in bankruptcy financing for a nine-week period. The loan from the governments, which is set to mature in 60 days, is unlikely to be repaid, Mr. Manzo said. It would fall behind Chrysler’s secured lenders, who hold what is called “first-lien” debt and are supposed to be first in line for repayment.

Mr. Manzo also conducted a liquidation analysis of Chrysler and concluded that selling the company’s assets, including its various brands and warehouses, would cost $1.9 billion to $2.7 billion.

The first-lien lenders, who hold claims totaling $6.9 billion, would most likely recover 9 to 38 percent, or $654 million to $2.6 billion, of their claims, according to the analysis.

Mr. Lauria, the lawyer for the Chrysler debtholder group, disagreed with the analysis, saying that his clients would probably recover more money in a liquidation. He argued that many of his clients were being coerced into accepting a Chrysler reorganization plan that would give them about 29 cents on the dollar for their holdings.

Mr. Lauria criticized President Obama for derisory remarks he made last week calling his clients speculators. In the wake of those comments, two members of the dissident group, Perella Weinberg Partners and Oaktree Capital Management, signed on to the government’s plan, joining the four major banks that hold about 70 percent of the $6.9 billion in secured debt. Lawyers representing Chrysler and JPMorgan Chase, the company’s agent bank, said holders of about 90 percent of that debt had agreed to the Fiat deal.

When pressed to submit a list of his clients, Mr. Lauria asked to do so under seal, saying that some of them had received death threats. Judge Gonzalez is scheduled to rule on that motion on Tuesday as well.
158 2009-05-05 Mr. Schmidt campaigned for then-Senator Barack Obama during his presidential campaign and advised the transition team and the administration on various matters. He was recently appointed to President Obama’s advisory council on science and technology.

Christine A. Varney, who was recently confirmed as the head of the antitrust division of the Justice Department, last year singled out Google as a probable source of future antitrust concerns because of its near monopoly on Internet search and advertising.

Some antitrust experts said they did not expect Google’s ties to the administration to play a role in antitrust issues.

“I expect the administration to be aggressive, generally, on antitrust enforcement,” said Sanford Litvack, a partner at Hogan & Hartson. Last year, while working for the Justice Department, Mr. Litvack built a case to block a prominent advertising partnership between Google and Yahoo. “I don’t expect Google to either be singled out or to receive a free pass because of Schmidt’s relationship with the administration,” he said.

Antitrust experts say that investigations of interlocking directorates rarely lead to major confrontations between companies and the government. Executives typically choose to resign from the board of a competitor if it poses a problem rather than face a lengthy investigation or a bruising legal fight.

Like many companies in the technology industry, Google and Apple are both allies and competitors. Google, for instance, worked with Apple to design early versions of some its services, like Gmail and Google Maps, for Apple’s iPhone.

But the areas in which the companies are bumping up against each other as rivals have been increasing.

Mobile phones, in particular, loom large in the future of both Google and Apple. Much of Apple’s fortunes these days are tied to the success of the iPhone. Google, for its part, has said repeatedly that one of its biggest strategic opportunities is to expand its online advertising empire into mobile phones.

While Google benefits from the success of the iPhone, which drives more traffic to its mobile services than any other device, it also produces the Android operating system for mobile phones that compete with the iPhone. The system currently powers the T-Mobile G1, a phone that some analysts say is the most capable of a number of rivals.

Other phone makers are planning to roll out devices powered by Android later this year. And the Android operating system is being built into lightweight portable computers known as netbooks, which may compete with some Apple laptops.

Google and Apple compete in a variety of other areas. Apple makes the Safari Web browser while Google makes the competing Chrome. Apple’s iTunes and Google’s YouTube are increasingly competing as venues for distribution of music and videos. And the two companies have photo-editing services.

It is not clear whether regulators have singled out any of these areas of competition as particularly troubling. Under the Clayton Act, interlocking directorates are not considered a problem if the revenue from products in which the companies compete is less than 2 percent of either company’s sales.

“Government actions under Section 8 are rare, but they are brought under circumstances when the presence of a common director on competing boards is likely to be anticompetitive,” said Andrew I. Gavil, an antitrust expert and a professor at the Howard University School of Law.

Both Google and Apple share a rival in Microsoft, which competes with the two companies in some areas. But Professor Gavil said regulators were not likely to see that as a problem, even if the two Silicon Valley companies were discussing ways to compete more effectively with Microsoft.

Mr. Schmidt joined Apple’s board in 2006, about five months before it unveiled the iPhone. Google announced its plans for Android, its mobile phone operating system, nearly a year later. Since then, analysts have speculated that Mr. Schmidt’s position on Apple’s board could become untenable. Google has said he recuses himself when Apple’s board discusses mobile phones.
159 2009-05-05 Veterans of the original Woodstock festival, including Levon Helm, Paul Kantner and Country Joe McDonald, have organized a scheduled flashback of sorts: they and several other musicians who performed at that 1969 concert will play a new show on Aug. 15 to celebrate the festival’s 40th anniversary, The Associated Press reported. The new concert, whose lineup also includes the Woodstock alumni Big Brother and the Holding Company, Ten Years After, Canned Heat and Mountain, will be held at the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts in upstate New York, where the first Woodstock festival took place. Mr. Helm, who played at Woodstock as a member of the Band, will be appearing with his Levon Helm Band, and Mr. Kantner, who performed at Woodstock with Jefferson Airplane, will appear at the anniversary concert with the upgraded Jefferson Starship.
160 2009-05-05 Locomotives and other equipment often include a fail-safe mechanism known as a dead-man switch. If the operator lets go of the engine throttle for more than a prescribed amount of time, for example, the locomotive will shut down — the assumption being that the operator is dead (or otherwise incapacitated) and there’s a risk of a runaway train.

A study in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences shows that Argentine ants have a dead-man switch of sorts. As long as an ant produces certain chemicals, the other ants know it’s alive. Once it stops producing the chemicals, the other ants realize it is dead and haul it outside to a refuse pile.

Corpse-ridding behavior, or necrophoresis, is common to many ants and other social insects, and helps maintain good sanitation in the colony. Dong-Hwan Choe, Jocelyn G. Millar and Michael K. Rust of the University of California, Riverside, studied it in Argentine ants because they are an increasingly bothersome pest, and corpse-hauling offers an opportunity to spread insecticide around.

The prevailing theory of necrophoresis had been that ants were responding to fatty acids and other chemical cues from the decomposing corpse. But the researchers noticed that ants would haul a corpse away within an hour after death — before much decomposition began.

So the researchers looked for other chemicals, ones that might be associated with life rather than death. They found two compounds that were produced in large amounts on the ants’ cuticle but that dissipated within about an hour of the insect’s death.

The researchers say other chemicals that stimulate the corpse-hauling behavior are always present on the ants, but they are masked or repressed by the two “life” compounds. Once the ant dies and the masking compounds dissipate, these “death” chemicals set off the behavior.
161 2009-05-05 A slump in corporate hospitality sales means that more tickets will be available to the public for the United States Open golf tournament from June 15 to 21 at Bethpage State Park, the United States Golf Association said Monday.

The tickets, available by the day and in a weekly package, will go on sale at 10 a.m. June 11 at the will call window at Bethpage State Park in Farmingdale, N.Y. The association said the tickets had been reserved for corporate sales, but it did not say how many tickets would be released.

The association recently made 1,000 tickets available through local golf associations. The first allotment of public tickets sold out in August in a random drawing.

“Since it will be a number of years until the U.S. Open returns to the New York area, we hope that New York sports fans take advantage of the opportunity to be part of the U.S. Open experience,” the association’s executive director, David Fay, said in a statement.

The weekly tickets cost $400. The daily competition-round tickets are $100. Daily tickets for a practice round are $40. They will be available June 11 to 14 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., or until they sell out.

Tickets for children ages 13 to 17, are $30 daily and $15 for a practice round, when the child is accompanied by an adult ticket holder.
162 2009-05-05 As more and more Americans tattoo their bodies, some have wondered whether there may be a hidden risk (other than the risk of regretting the tattoo a few years down the road).

Many inks are made with metals; blue, for example, contains cobalt and aluminum, and red may contain mercury sulfide. That, along with the fact that tattooing can be traumatizing to the skin, prompted suspicion that tattoos might lead to skin cancer. Studies in recent years have documented a few cases of cancer at a tattoo site.

But Dr. Ariel Ostad, an assistant clinical professor of dermatology at N.Y.U. Langone Medical Center in Manhattan, says that does not mean the tattoo caused the cancer. Indeed, he said, the ink is unlikely to do any harm because it is confined to cells in the skin called macrophages, whose job is to absorb foreign material.

More likely, he said, the tattoo was placed on an existing mole, making any changes in the mole hard to spot. Several case studies have dealt with melanomas that were overlooked because they arose from moles hidden by tattoos. Dr. Ostad says he is often asked whether tattoos can lead to cancer, and the answer “is unequivocally no.”

“But people should know that they should always leave a rim of healthy skin around a pre-existing mole.”

There is no evidence that tattoos lead to skin cancer.
163 2009-05-05 “The fact that we’re not going down and not correcting is important,” said Richard Sparks, vice president of research at Schaeffer’s Investment Research. “It shows the persistence of the rally.”

Financial stocks jumped 10 percent, leading the day’s gains, as investors clung to a belief that the financial system was in better shape than they had once feared. Regional banks gained ground, and shares of Bank of America, Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp rose by double digits. The results of the government’s health check of the nation’s 19 largest banks, scheduled to be unveiled Thursday, are expected to show that the financial system is broadly sound, even if a handful of banks must raise billions in new capital as fresh insurance against the recession.

Energy companies and materials producers climbed higher as the prices of oil and copper rose, pushed by hints of an economic thaw.

The S.& P. 500 jumped 29.72 points, or 3.4 percent, to close at 907.24 points on Monday. The surge gave the index a 2009 gain of 0.44 percent after a grinding start to the year.

The Nasdaq composite index is up 11.8 percent since the beginning of January, buoyed by gains in technology companies. On Monday, the Nasdaq rose 44.36 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,763.56.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 214.33 points, or 2.6 percent, to 8,426.74. It remains down nearly 4 percent for the year.

Some companies have soared in the roller-coaster start to 2009. The cellphone provider Sprint Nextel is up 173 percent since Jan. 1. Shares of Ford, the only big American automaker that did not seek government aid, are up 158 percent. Whole Foods and Goodyear Tire have more than doubled, but from low levels.

Others, including many big banks, are still lagging. Citigroup, whose stock has recovered from a dizzying earlier plunge below $1, is still down more than 52 percent since Jan. 1, while Bank of America is down 26 percent.

And while the broader S.& P. 500, which has risen 34 percent from a 12-year low in March, may have its head above water, its progress has been built on gains in three sectors: technology businesses, producers of basic materials and consumer discretionary companies. The other seven major market sectors, including financial and industrial companies, are down for the year.

As markets have climbed, analysts say large institutional investors and even some smaller retail investors are starting to edge back into stocks and away from safe investments like government bonds.

“The fear has shifted from being in to being out,” said Frederic Dickson, chief market strategist for D. A. Davidson & Company. “We’re starting to see people come back in, knock on our door. The flow is picking up.”

But polls of investor sentiment continue to show bearishness and skepticism, and much money was still lingering on the sidelines. Many analysts remain worried about the ability of the financial system to survive without government life support, and how vigorously the economy will recover once it hits bottom.

Interest rates were steady. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note was unchanged at 96 20/32, with the yield at 3.15 percent.

Following are the results of Monday’s Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
164 2009-05-05 KATMANDU, Nepal — Plunging Nepal into a fresh political crisis after a decade of war, the prime minister resigned Monday in a power struggle over his dismissal of the army chief.

In a televised address to the nation, the prime minister, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, who goes by the name Prachanda, said he was stepping down, one day after Nepal’s president overruled his decision to fire the army chief, Rookmangud Katawal.

“I announce, through this address, my resignation from the cabinet I have chaired so as to put an end to this difficult situation and create a positive environment for salvaging democracy, nationalism and the peace process that are currently at risk,” Prachanda, a former Maoist guerrilla fighter, said in his 13-minute address.

Clusters of people gathered in front of television shops in the capital, Katmandu, to watch the prime minister give his address as a continuing power crisis left many parts of the city without electricity.

Prachanda’s party entered into competitive politics after signing a peace deal in 2006, ending a decade-long Maoist rebellion. He became prime minister in August after four months of political wrangling; in May, the nation’s elected Constituent Assembly declared the nation a federal republic, ending 239 years of Hindu monarchy.
165 2009-05-05 In the past, American shoppers have famously elbowed each other in the aisles of Filene’s Basement for bargains on designer clothes. But lately, the retailer has been struggling to drum up sales and generate sufficient cash.

Sales at Filene’s Basement stores open at least a year, an indicator of retail health known as same-store sales, fell 9.8 percent in the three months ended Jan. 31, and the chain closed 11 weak stores in January amid growing concerns about its viability.

On April 21, the chain’s owner, Retail Ventures, of Ohio, essentially gave Filene’s away to the liquidator Buxbaum Group for a $1.3 million fee and $375,000 in expenses. A few days later, the Buxbaum Group said it was considering “all options” for Filene’s, and now it has picked one: bankruptcy reorganization.

Crown Acquisitions hopes to take over Filene’s locations in Boston, Baltimore, New York and elsewhere, capitalizing on the chain’s well-known brand name and a pivot to thriftiness among American consumers.

“This is a time when the high-end guys have no credit, have no money,” said Stanley Chera, chairman of Crown Acquisitions. “This is a tremendous opportunity. You sell a $2,000 garment at Bergdorf’s, and I’m going to sell it for $299. They’ve got a problem.”

The deal between Filene’s and Crown is still subject to an auction in bankruptcy court. The court will solicit other bidders for the 17 stores Crown wants to buy, as well as for the other locations, Filene’s said.

Edward A. Filene founded Filene’s Basement in Boston in 1909 to clear out excess merchandise from Filene’s, his father’s fancy department store upstairs. Eventually, the basement store began selling goods from other retailers and manufacturers too. The chain distinguished itself as one of the pioneers of automatic markdowns — reducing prices on merchandise by certain percentages after it lingered for defined periods of time.

Filene’s Basement continued drawing on its low-price roots with its “Running of the Brides” events, where $900 to $9,000 designer bridal gowns are marked down to $249 to $699.

But legendary bargains were not enough to keep the troubled chain going. A stalled renovation on the Filene’s Basement flagship in Boston, which was a major tourist attraction, kept the lucrative store shut for two years.

While discount chains have performed far better than their upscale peers in the recession, Filene’s faced competition from much lower-price chains as well as by high-end chains like Saks and Neiman Marcus, which suddenly began offering the latest designer fashions at deep discounts.
166 2009-05-05 PARIS — The European Commission on Monday lowered its growth forecast for the European Union as a result of job losses, a weak housing market and a slump in global trade.

The commission, the executive arm of the European Union, forecast in its spring quarterly economic forecasts that gross domestic product in both the European Union and the euro area would contract by 4 percent this year and by 0.1 percent next year.

The forecast was a revision of its previous prediction for a contraction this year of 1.8 percent and growth next year of 0.5 percent.

“The downswing is affecting not only all member states but also almost all demand components,” the report said, adding private investment in particular was suffering, reflecting depressed expectations of future demand as consumers reacted to a deteriorating job market.

Exports have contracted sharply as world trade flows dwindle.

The European Union has not yet released its estimates of first-quarter growth, but the report said data suggested a “further deterioration” for the period.

The more upbeat outlook for 2010 was based on the effect of tax and interest rate cuts and the stabilization of financial markets.

“The European economy is in the midst of its deepest and most widespread recession in the postwar era,” said Joaquín Almunia, the commissioner for monetary affairs. “But the ambitious measures taken by governments and central banks in these exceptional circumstances are expected to put a floor under the fall in economic activity this year and enable a recovery next year.”

To facilitate a recovery, Mr. Almunia said, authorities need to proceed rapidly “with the cleaning up of the ‘impaired assets’ on bank balance sheets and recapitalize banks when appropriate.”
167 2009-05-05 In the latest installment of the soap opera gripping Italy, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, 72, on Monday demanded an apology from his wife, Veronica Lario, 52, a day after she told Italian newspapers that she wanted a divorce. Mr. Berlusconi, l...
168 2009-05-05 Fear not the pacifier. Mothers who worry that letting their babies use a pacifier will reduce the chances of successful breast-feeding should relax, a new study says.     Writing in The Archives of Pediatric & Adolescent Medicine, researchers say ...
169 2009-05-05 BLEIWEISS--Grace, on May 3rd. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Martin and the late Rena Chasin. Delighted grandmother of Jeff, Larry, Marni, Emily and Amy. Devoted great-grandmother. Graveside services at Beth David Cemetery, toda...
170 2009-05-05 LET THE BATTLE BEGINPresident Obama's call for curbing offshore tax havens could open a big battle with some giants in American commerce.       Transfer pricing is not regulated under the Obama plan. [A3.]...
171 2009-05-06 After learning that he was being sued by a former bandmate, Wilco’s Jeff Tweedy has responded as the front man of a mellow alternative band might be expected to, with more bemusement than rage....
172 2009-05-06 Photo: Isaac Brekken for The New York Times
173 2009-05-06 There are many reasons to admire Michael J. Fox, to adore him even, reasons originating with “Family Ties” and extending to his current guest role on “Rescue Me,” as well as his long-term work as a patient advocate for those who, like him, have Parkinson’s disease. Whenever there’s a window offered into his personal life — he is married to the actress Tracy Pollan, and they have four children — he seems like the husband you wish you could find or the father you wish you had had.

And yet for all of his comic talent, affability and virtue, I can think of no good reason to spend the 43 minutes 6 seconds required to see the shiny-happy-people documentary “Michael J. Fox: Adventures of an Incurable Optimist” through to its entirety. The special, to be shown Thursday night on ABC as a companion to his new memoir, “Always Looking Up,” is a kind of road trip (involving at least one flight to Bhutan) in which Mr. Fox goes about looking for people who seem to be congenitally cheerful. It would be nice if that sentence could have a final clause that said “no matter the adversity of their circumstance,” but our host and navigator limits his visits largely to those who have good cause for their Pollyanna-ism.

Mr. Fox’s first stop is with Lance Armstrong, who claims that his struggle with testicular cancer was ultimately a blessing, an argument more likely to be made by one of the most famous cancer survivors in the world than by an anonymous mailman say, with no chance of winning even his county bike race, and only 18 months to live.

But Mr. Armstrong is a more viable subject at least by a factor of 100 than the comedian Bonnie Hunt, who is marshaled to talk about the burdens of being a lifelong Chicago Cubs fan. Mr. Fox is his own most moving case study, but he glosses over his own story. When he spends some time with an actual member of the working class, a guy who hands out free newspapers in front of a subway station on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, he starts to sound vaguely as if he were reading from Rush Limbaugh’s personal-responsibility playbook: “Oscar works two jobs, but he says he chooses to make every day uplifting.”

That is just one of the countless platitudes doled out here like dollops of Marshmallow Fluff. I also learned: “Happiness is about connecting with people,” “Optimism is contagious,” and “It’s O.K. just to be striving.” But it’s better than O.K. just to be a crank.
174 2009-05-06 The results of the bank stress tests have been trickling out for days, in drips from Washington and drops from Wall Street, and the leaks seem to confirm what many bankers feel in their bones: despite all those bailouts, some of the nation's large...
175 2009-05-06 Democrats and Republicans hit each other this week with advertisements featuring dogs and elephants, feeding speculation that bipartisan dialogue in Washington has gone to the birds....
176 2009-05-06 Among the many applications for the iPod and iPhone are some that are designed to make it easier to fight a war....
177 2009-05-06 Paul Kangas, the co-anchor of "Nightly Business Report" on PBS, will step down at the end of the year, ending a 30-year tenure on the nation's most-watched business newscast, The New York Times's Brian Stelter reports....
178 2009-05-06 Walt Disney Pictures looks forward, a day after a public dressing down from the boss....
179 2009-05-06 T-Mobile's quick-start guide has an interesting and compelling new feature: humor....
180 2009-05-06 Wednesday's Russia-Belarus and Finland-U.S. quarterfinals at the I.I.H.F. World Championship....
181 2009-05-06 Paul Kangas, the co-anchor of "Nightly Business Report" on PBS, will step down at the end of the year, capping a thirty-year tenure on the nation's most-watched business newscast....
182 2009-05-06 As the House and Senate move toward an independent inquiry into the current financial downturn, the history of a legendary panel during the Depression warrants exploration....
183 2009-05-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
184 2009-05-06 A company run by a former state comptroller is among those subpoenaed by the state attorney general in a growing pension inquiry....
185 2009-05-06 Around the horse-racing blogs....
186 2009-05-06 Clifford S. Asness, the outspoken managing partner of AQR Capital Management, has written a scathing letter striking back at President Obama for his harsh words blaming hedge funds for Chrysler's bankruptcy....
187 2009-05-06 Boost Mobile, the prepaid cellphone arm of Sprint, says its unlimited-everything plan is doing better than expected, and the company plans to open 50 retail stores to raise Boost's profile....
188 2009-05-06 The Wall Street salesman sounded cryptic: "You're listening to my silence, right?" But those few words, spoken to a valuable client in 2006, over a recorded telephone line, have now led to a landmark case of insider trading. Winks and nods are com...
189 2009-05-06 The Securities and Exchange Commission has made progress in tightening its procedures for managing its caseload of enforcement investigations but internal communications and use of resources still must be improved, congressional auditors have conc...
190 2009-05-06 Filene's Basement lost its edge when it moved to the suburbs, its new owner contends. In an interview with The New York Post, Crown Acquisitions's chief, Stanley Chera, said that he plans to refocus the retailer, which sells unwanted luxury clothi...
191 2009-05-06 Investors in the Asia-Pacific region and in Europe on Wednesday - much like their counterparts in the United States - were holding their breath for the American government's assessment of leading financial institutions on Thursday, leaving stock m...
192 2009-05-06 Aviva, the British insurer, is exploring the sale of its Australian business, valued at as much as 1 billion Australian dollars ($735 million), Reuters reported, citing sources with direct knowledge of the process. Aviva has tapped advisers Morgan...
193 2009-05-06 The International Olympic Committee said the global economic crisis had reduced its financial investments by $34 million. The fall in financial markets has sliced about 8 percent off the I.O.C.’s overall reserves of about $400 million since January 2008, Jacques Rogge, the I.O.C. president, said in an interview with the Web site insidethegames.com. The I.O.C. also said it could lose up to $4.8 million in the Ponzi scheme tied to the disgraced financier Bernard L. Madoff.

¶Darryl Seibel announced his resignation as the chief communications officer of the United States Olympic Committee. He is the fourth executive to leave the organization since the end of the Beijing Games. Seibel, 41, said he would leave June 5 to pursue new professional opportunities, but would offer consulting help on some projects.
194 2009-05-06 WASHINGTON — Insurance companies offered Tuesday to end the practice of charging higher premiums to women than to men for the same coverage.

Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, made the offer in testifying before the Senate Finance Committee.

It was the latest concession by insurers as Congress drafts legislation to overhaul the $2.5 trillion health care industry.

In November, insurers said they would accept all customers, regardless of illness or disability, if Congress required all Americans to have coverage. In March, insurers offered to stop charging higher premiums to sick people.

Ms. Ignagni said the industry would accept aggressive federal regulation, but would resist creation of a government-run insurance program of the type proposed by President Obama and many Democrats in Congress. The government-sponsored program would compete with private insurers.
195 2009-05-06 A marketing consultant who was appointed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to the New York City Commission on Women’s Issues and came under fire after making disparaging comments about Mexico in an online article for The Huffington Post has resigned from the commission.

The appointee, Betsy F. Perry, announced her resignation on Monday, in a letter to the city’s first deputy mayor, Patricia E. Harris. The resignation from the unpaid, voluntary position became effective immediately, a spokesman for Mayor Bloomberg said.

“Rather than become a distraction to Mayor Bloomberg, I think it best if I resign from the women’s commission,” Ms. Perry wrote in the letter, of which City Hall released excerpts.

She also wrote, “I have enjoyed the work and the many fine friends I made and continue to be a great fan of the mayor’s and the wonderful work he has done for our city.”

Ms. Perry’s resignation was revealed minutes before Mayor Bloomberg’s re-election campaign issued a news release announcing his endorsement by Mexican business and community leaders. The event was timed to coincide with Cinco de Mayo on Tuesday.

In Ms. Perry’s article, posted on April 28, she described Mexico as a country dominated by “guns, drugs, kidnappings and swine flu.” The virus has stricken more than 1,000 people worldwide, including 802 in Mexico, where it had resulted in 26 fatalities as of Monday.

Ms. Perry also wrote that the best thing Mexico had going for it right now was the movie “Beverly Hills Chihuahua,” which tells the story of an ultra-pampered dog that gets separated from its owner during a trip to Mexico. A marketing consultant, she advised Mexico to make sure “ ‘Beverly Hills Chihuahua 2’ was rushed into production mucho pronto.”

Ms. Perry was married in 1994 to Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the architect of a plan, currently debated in Albany, to bail out the authority. That marriage ended in divorce.

A graduate of the Brearley School and Barnard College, Ms. Perry previously worked for the Milken Institute, a nonpartisan economic think tank; Faster Cures, a medical action foundation; Bloomberg L.P., the financial information company owned by Mr. Bloomberg; Cosmopolitan magazine, where she was a senior editor; and WNYW-TV, where she was a producer and a movie critic.

City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., who is challenging Mr. Bloomberg in the race for mayor, said in a statement on Tuesday that Ms. Perry’s resignation was “more than welcome to the millions, including myself, who were offended by her insensitive and callous remarks.”

Mr. Thompson added about Mr. Bloomberg’s handling of the episode: “Once her remarks were published, the mayor should have immediately dismissed her from the appointed position. Instead, he showed a clear lack of sensitivity to the immigrant community by simply deeming the remarks inappropriate and affording her the opportunity to remain in her position.”
196 2009-05-06 But the prosecutors’ swift action to dismiss the charge against Ms. Althouse raised new concerns about the convictions of hundreds of illegal immigrants from Postville. In a statement, the American Immigration Lawyers Association praised the Supreme Court decision and called on Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to order a case-by-case investigation of the prosecutions.

“The federal prosecutors used the law as a hammer to coerce the workers,” said David Leopold, a vice president of the association. He said Mr. Holder should dismiss the charges in cases where the threat of prosecution under the statute “was a miscarriage of justice.”

The aggravated identity theft statute carries a mandatory added sentence of two years in prison, above any other sentence imposed. Fearing that they would be convicted in a trial, most of the immigrants pleaded guilty to lesser charges of document fraud and also agreed to summary deportation. They served five months in prison, and most have been deported.

The Postville cases were the toughest application to date of criminal charges against illegal immigrants whose main offense was that they were working without authorization.

Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California and chairwoman of the House immigration subcommittee, went further than the immigration lawyers. The Justice Department should “start from scratch and pretend these cases never happened,” she said. “They did not comport with the requirement of the law.”

Bob Teig, a spokesman for the United States attorney in Cedar Rapids, declined to comment on the Postville cases because some are still making their way through the court. The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, covering Iowa, had upheld the interpretation of the identity theft law that prosecutors applied to the immigrant workers from Postville.

The immigration lawyers group also raised new questions on Tuesday about the recommendation for the post of United States attorney of Stephanie Rose, an assistant United States attorney in the Northern District office who was a leading prosecutor in the Postville cases. Ms. Rose has been recommended for the position by Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, although she has not yet been nominated by the White House.

Some Iowa defense lawyers have said that Ms. Rose was the main prosecutor in charge of securing guilty pleas from hundreds of Postville immigrants.

In a statement Tuesday, Senator Harkin said Ms. Rose “had no role in deciding what charges to bring or what plea agreements to offer.” He said Ms. Rose, who has been an assistant United States attorney in Iowa for 12 years, “has demonstrated great intellect and judgment, outstanding leadership and strength of character.”

Eleven criminal defense lawyers who represented immigrant workers from Postville wrote in an open letter that Ms. Rose “worked incredibly long hours and exhibited a level of competence and ability that would be hard to overstate.”
197 2009-05-06 It will be the lowest cotton acreage since 1983, an anomalous year when farmers cut acreage after a string of bountiful harvests that created a surplus.

Nowhere has the slump been greater than in Mississippi, where farmers decreased their cotton planting to 365,000 acres in 2008, from 1.2 million acres in 2006. A survey suggested that could fall to 268,000 acres this year.

Meanwhile, the number of gins in the state has dropped to 71, from 89 in 2006, said Darrin Dodds, an extension service agronomist at Mississippi State University, who predicts this year, “we may lose a few more.”

Cotton acreage has been declining in Mississippi for decades, but it remained the crop of choice for many farmers in the Delta, the fertile region in the northwestern part of the state, where the Mississippi and Yazoo Rivers share a flood plain.

Not everyone is likely to feel nostalgia for a crop long associated with abject work conditions and low wages. Though a source of wealth, cotton was also a source of back-breaking work for slaves and sharecroppers, and later for poor farm laborers.

Early in the 20th century, the travail of picking cotton in the blazing Delta sun was a touchstone theme for the blues musicians of the region. Later, mechanization in the cotton fields contributed to several waves of black migration from the South to industrial cities of the North, and to high rates of unemployment for those left behind. These days, cotton is rarely picked by hand — machines do the work.

Cotton’s cultural roots are still on display around Greenwood, where visitors are welcomed by a sign proclaiming it “Cotton capital of the world.” Some people plead with farmers to keep planting cotton beside the roads, considering it prettier than other crops, and fearing that corn stalks will obstruct drivers’ vision on curved roads.

“It’s a funny sense, a different sense, not seeing the cotton crop,” said Mike Sturdivant Jr., a farmer who has cut his cotton crop to 2,400 acres this year, from 4,900 in 2007. “I don’t like it.”

The rapid slump of cotton in the United States has been influenced by numerous factors, including weather and the plummeting fortunes of the American textile industry. But lately, the most important factor has been the declining profitability of cotton farming, in contrast to the rising profitability of corn and soybean farming.

Poor canola harvests in Europe and dietary changes in several countries produced a world shortage of vegetable oil, pushing up the price of soybeans, which are crushed for their oil. Meanwhile, as middle classes grew in China, India and other developing countries, demand for feed grains grew, and world corn prices rose.

“Globalization has dethroned King Cotton without question, not only in Mississippi, but throughout the South and the United States,” said O. A. Cleveland, professor emeritus of agricultural economics at Mississippi State.

Expanding federal mandates for ethanol prompted farmers to plant more corn to keep up with its growing role as an energy feedstock. Also, new corn strains have made the crop more practical in Mississippi’s hot climate.

Since 2003, cotton prices have declined nearly 23 percent, while prices for soybeans are up more than 38 percent and corn nearly 65 percent. Cotton surpluses have been stacking up around the globe in part because of rising yields from genetically modified cotton seeds and other technological improvements.

Those trends are leaving farmers and cotton gin owners feeling pessimistic.

With the textile mills that make clothes “leaving the country to where the labor is cheaper, it’s not very smart to think we can grow the commodity here so they can make a shirt in China,” said Walter Reese Pillow IV. He followed in the footsteps of his father, grandfather and great-grandfather in growing cotton — until 2006, when he and his family converted their cotton fields to corn and soybeans.

“The prospects for cotton coming back here are about as good as the mills coming back to South Carolina,” Mr. Pillow said.

Jason Colquett, owner of the Crossroads Gin, said his plant ginned 33,000 bales of cotton in 2006, 24,000 in 2007 and 15,000 in 2008. He does not expect to reach 10,000 this year. That has meant a loss of jobs, as it has at other gins across the state. Mr. Colquett’s repair crew has dropped to four full-time workers, from nine, and his ginning season has been reduced to 30 days, from 90.

“I can imagine Mississippi without cotton gins,” Mr. Colquett said. “It’s not a pretty picture.”
198 2009-05-06 The Wall Street salesman sounded cryptic: “You’re listening to my silence, right?”

But those few words, spoken to a valuable client in 2006, over a recorded telephone line, have now led to a landmark case of insider trading.

Winks and nods are common currency on Wall Street, but this case, disclosed Tuesday by the Securities and Exchange Commission, is significant because it is the first to focus on the vast, murky market for credit-default swaps, considered by some to be among the most dangerous instruments of the financial crisis.

The S.E.C. claims Jon-Paul Rorech, a salesman at Deutsche Bank, tipped off a money manager at a prominent hedge fund, Millennium Partners, about a deal involving the company that controls Nielsen Media, the television ratings service. Based on that information, the money manager, Renato Negrin, then bought credit-default swaps that rose in value when the deal was made public, eventually earning him a $1.2 million profit, the S.E.C. claims.

“Rorech and Negrin checked their integrity at the door and schemed to engage in insider trading of C.D.S. to the detriment of investors and our markets,” Scott W. Friestad, the deputy director of the S.E.C.’s Division of Enforcement, said in a statement.

Mr. Rorech, 36, through his lawyer Richard M. Strassberg of the law firm Goodwin Procter, denied violating any securities laws. He has been placed on paid leave pending the results of the investigation, which the S.E.C. said was continuing.
199 2009-05-06 Appearing on national television late Tuesday, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi called his wife’s accusation that he had cavorted with young women a “lie,” and reiterated calls that she apologize for complaining to the press about his wandering eye. On Sunday, his wife, Veronica Lario, told Italian newspapers that she planned to file for divorce. Mr. Berlusconi also said there was nothing “spicy or secret or less than clean” in his relationship with an 18-year-old woman whose birthday party he recently attended in Naples, prompting criticism from Ms. Lario. On Tuesday, the first couple was criticized by L’Avvenire, a newspaper published by the Italian Bishops Conference. “We continue to cultivate the desire for a prime minister who with sobriety knows how to be the least distorted mirror of the country’s soul,” it wrote in a front-page editorial.
200 2009-05-06 WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Tuesday proposed rules to limit emissions of climate-changing gases from the manufacture of ethanol, a step that would probably curtail the expansion of corn ethanol production.

In its first major policy steps on ethanol, the administration said it would help producers of biofuels who could not get credit to refinance their operations, and assist them in selling their products through a growing network of retail fuel distributors and by encouraging the manufacture of vehicles to burn it.

It said it was forming a biofuels working group made up of the agriculture and energy departments and the Environmental Protection Agency to coordinate federal actions. A goal of the group is to quickly dispense money allocated in the federal stimulus package and two previous energy bills.

“It sends a really positive signal to investors,” said Brent Erickson, executive vice president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group.

But the Environmental Protection Agency also issued a draft rule Tuesday on a “renewable fuels standard,” including provisions on how much carbon dioxide can be released in the production of ethanol and other biofuels.

The rule is intended to force the industry to help meet targets set by Congress in 2007 for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions from ethanol, even as legislators encourage its production as an alternative to gasoline.
201 2009-05-06 Ballarò Caffè Prosciutteria, an inviting East Village space with brick walls, does double duty as cafe and Italian food shop.

Coffee drinks, including shakeratos made with espresso shaken over ice, are served at the generous bar.

To eat or take away are items like bread pudding; crostini topped with tomato or artichokes and pecorino, among others; salads and prepared dishes like grilled eggplant; and a long list of domestic and imported cheeses and cured meats. Italian products like olive oil, condiments, jams, soft drinks, coffees and canned tuna line the shelves.

Isabella Gligora, above, whose partner, Giusto Priola, is an owner of Cacio e Pepe and Cacio e Vino nearby, was inspired to open this place because the neighborhood did not offer a cup of Italian coffee that was up to her standards: 77 Second Avenue (East Fourth Street), (212) 228-2969.
202 2009-05-06 A recipe for Cannellini Beans with Tomatoes, Bulgur and Arugula....
203 2009-05-06 “I think it’s a good test,” Bryant added. “I’m, for one, anxious to see how we respond. Last year we kind of had a cakewalk to the N.B.A. finals, really. It feels good to be tested a little bit. If you want to be a champion, you’ve got to be tested. You’ve got to answer those bells, you’ve got to answer the call. I’m anxious to see how we do.”

Bryant described his teammates as edgy, eager and energetic. And they were, at least when questions were broached about the depth of their determination.

“We don’t have to answer questions about toughness,” guard Derek Fisher said. “We have to win games. You can continue to question that all you want to, but it doesn’t seem to come out until we lose. The 65 times we won, it was not as big a deal, but the 17 times we lost it was a big deal.

“And now, obviously, losing Game 1 on your home court, all those same questions start to come back up. The way you silence that is to win games and win a series, and that’s what we intend to do.”

That was not expected to be difficult. It has been suggested the Rockets did the Lakers a favor by beating Portland in the first round. The youthful, athletic Trail Blazers had given the Lakers fits in recent years, particularly in Portland, where they won seven straight against the Lakers. But the Rockets appear well equipped to make this a difficult series. Andrew Bynum, who has struggled in his first playoff season as a starter — particularly with foul trouble — was on the court for only 15 minutes, forcing the lithe Pau Gasol to defend Yao.

Neither Gasol nor Bynum made Yao, who had 28 points, 10 rebounds and 2 blocks, run the court, or move out of the lane.

“Make him work, that’s the thing I didn’t make him do, we didn’t do well,” Gasol said. “Make him work defensively.”

Bynum, who returned in April after missing 10 weeks with a knee injury, had his right knee wrapped Tuesday, which he said was to protect it from getting hit in practice. He said he was 85 to 90 percent healthy, and acknowledged that he was frustrated after picking up two fouls in the first three minutes Monday.

“He looks kind of tentative,” Bryant said. “Hopefully, he’s not having any issues with that. I expect him to come back tomorrow with a lot more energy.”

Battier and Ron Artest, two of the N.B.A.’s best defenders, were placed on Bryant and Lamar Odom. Bryant scored 32 points, but took 31 shots and reached the free-throw line just five times. Odom had 9 points and 5 rebounds, about half his first-round averages of 17.8 and 11.

The Lakers’ point guards, Fisher and Shannon Brown, could not contain Houston’s Aaron Brooks, who scored 19 points and got into the lane with ease. The Lakers had been able to mask Fisher’s lack of quickness by funneling guards to the baseline, then helping. That was not the case Monday. “You almost have to treat him like Tony Parker in terms of his speed and quickness and getting to the rim,” Bryant said of Brooks.

But Lakers Coach Phil Jackson said there would be no fiddling with his game plan — just a plea for better execution. The sky was not falling, he said, even if the local news media wants to “do that for us.”

“Until we play our game and we know that our game isn’t good enough to beat them,” Jackson said. “Then we’ll have to tinker around.”
204 2009-05-06 A Florida trader pleaded guilty Tuesday to criminal charges that he made trades based on inside information he got from a former Lehman Brothers broker.

The trader, Jamil Bouchareb, 27, of Miami Beach, entered the plea to charges of conspiracy and securities fraud in United States District Court in Manhattan.

As part of a plea deal with prosecutors, Mr. Bouchareb agreed to serve up to four years in prison. He also must forfeit more than $1.5 million in profits from trades. Sentencing was set for Aug. 5.

Prosecutors say Mr. Bouchareb made trades based on tips from a broker, Matthew C. Devlin, who got his information from his wife, a partner at a public relations firm, from 2004 to 2008.

Mr. Devlin pleaded guilty in December to conspiracy to commit insider trading and securities fraud, admitting that he passed along inside secrets he learned from his wife, enabling them to earn $4.8 million in profits.
205 2009-05-06 Two German art historians are challenging the legend of Vincent van Gogh’s ear, saying that the Dutch painter, top, did not slice off his left ear in a fit of madness but that he concocted the tale to protect Paul Gauguin, above, who cut off van Gogh’s ear with a sword, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. In a new book, “Van Gogh’s Ear: Paul Gauguin and the Pact of Silence,” Hans Kaufmann and Rita Wildegans say that van Gogh invented the story that his wound was self-inflicted to protect Gauguin, who they say attacked van Gogh during an argument as the two painters walked the streets of Arles, France. The historians also say that van Gogh’s suicide in 1890 was a result of his anguish over his falling out with Gauguin.
206 2009-05-06 Senator Arlen Specter, Republican-turned-Democrat of Pennsylvania, seems to be off to a bit of a rough start on the other side of the aisle.      In his first two big votes as a Democrat, Mr. Specter voted against his new party, opposing the budge...
207 2009-05-06 A BANKER AND HIS DREAM     J. Christopher Flowers, below, a billionaire private equity banker, bought the First National Bank of Cainesville, in Missouri, last year, hoping to start a banking empire. But Fed rules may stand in his way....
208 2009-05-06 Two German art historians are challenging the legend of Vincent van Gogh’s ear, saying that the Dutch painter, top, did not slice off his left ear in a fit of madness but that he concocted the tale to protect Paul Gauguin, above, who cut off van Gogh’s ear with a sword, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. In a new book, “Van Gogh’s Ear: Paul Gauguin and the Pact of Silence,” Hans Kaufmann and Rita Wildegans say that van Gogh invented the story that his wound was self-inflicted to protect Gauguin, who they say attacked van Gogh during an argument as the two painters walked the streets of Arles, France. The historians also say that van Gogh’s suicide in 1890 was a result of his anguish over his falling out with Gauguin.
209 2009-05-07 The story is based on a real incident in 1986, in which a Jordanian terrorist secreted a bomb in the hand luggage of his pregnant Irish girlfriend without her knowledge on an El Al flight from London to Israel. Had it exploded, 380 passengers would have died.

Morris, who despised his Lebanese son-in-law, Sami (Noam Jenkins), a luthier, leads his grandson to believe Sami deliberately crashed the car that killed his daughter (Simon’s mother) Rachel (Rachel Blanchard), a gifted violinist. Morris’s account has so tainted his grandson’s memory of his father that it easy for the boy to imagine that he is the son of the couple in the news story.

Sabine encourages him write it as a piece of fiction and present it to the class as a true story. He agrees, then takes it a step further and relates it via Webcam in Internet chat rooms where it kicks up a storm of debate among his peers and their parents.

Simon lives with his uncle, Tom (Scott Speedman), a tow-truck driver, who has inherited Morris’s hatred of Middle Eastern people. Tom is confronted with his prejudice when a mysterious woman in a beaded veil visits the house and asks pointed personal questions about his beliefs.

The words Christian, Jew and Muslim are never attached to the characters. Mr. Egoyan’s refusal to push those verbal buttons forces you to view the characters as human beings without labels and to draw your own conclusions about their cultural backgrounds.

If the plot outline of “Adoration” suggests a clanking mechanism that defies credibility and logic (especially a subplot involving Tom’s tow truck), to watch the movie is to be caught up in a detective story that operates on several levels. Mr. Egoyan conveys a voluptuous, slightly sinister apprehension of the material world in which people harbor secrets, and blind rage can suddenly erupt in the most placid setting for no apparent reason. Here the possibility of violence rears up in a shabby restaurant when three people argue over a sandwich that has just been consumed.

The lurking violence in “Adoration” coincides with scenes of ravishing beauty: Rachel playing the violin at the end of a pier overlooking a river while Sami observes her adoringly from afar; the wooden pieces of a Nativity being tossed into a fire along with a cellphone in which the image of a person fades from a likeness into digital rectangles, until the device itself begins to crumple.

As always in Mr. Egoyan’s films, technology has a life of it own. Wondrous but also scary, it has the potential to warp reality and to release demonic forces.

During Simon’s science-fiction-like chat sessions his computer screen divides into as many as nine squares; in each you see a different talking head; an old woman who survived a concentration camp bares her tattoo; a Holocaust-denying skinhead shows his pen-and-ink scrawled statement of disbelief. Does the technology unite us? Or are we blindly trapped inside our own squares?

The binding ingredient of “Adoration” is its rich, violin-soaked musical soundtrack by Mychael Danna. Its mood of sorrowful sensuality evokes the troubled histories of flesh-and-blood people whose complicated personal stories, if we knew them, might or might not provide reasons for heinous crimes against humanity.

The movie is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has strong language and mild violence.

Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.

Written and directed by Atom Egoyan; director of photography, Paul Sarossy; edited by Susan Shipton; music by Mychael Danna; production designer, Phillip Barker; produced by Mr. Egoyan, Simone Urdl and Jennifer Weiss; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes.
210 2009-05-07 A transcript of Kellen Clemens's session with reporters Thursday....
211 2009-05-07 Pixar's John Lasseter - His Waltness - goes into the wine business in Sonoma....
212 2009-05-07 This chart, showing the expansion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet, has received a lot of attention lately: Source: Federal Reserve; chart via Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Fed's balance sheet erupted in about September 2008 as offic...
213 2009-05-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
214 2009-05-07 Hedge funds posted gains of 3.8 percent in April as the stock market continued its rally and commodities began rising, according to a preliminary report from Hedge Fund Research....
215 2009-05-07 Google executives say that the close ties between Google and Apple's board do not pose an antitrust problem....
216 2009-05-07 Thursday's Canada-Latvia and Sweden-Czechia quarterfinals at the I.I.H.F. World Championship....
217 2009-05-07 After Elizabeth Edwards appears on Oprah, John Edwards also discusses the couple's future....
218 2009-05-07 A day after the House approved a measure that would create an independent panel with subpoena power, President Obama's spokesman said the president would support the legislation....
219 2009-05-07 From Claire Cain Miller at Bits: Venture capitalists have been sounding more and more optimistic about the initial public offering market for venture-backed companies. OpenTable, the online restaurant reservation service, could soon become the fir...
220 2009-05-07 A chart showing deaths from the 1918-19 Spanish flu pandemic in cities around the world....
221 2009-05-07 Cablevision said it was exploring the possibility of spinning off Madison Square Garden, which one analyst said could be worth anywhere from $755 million to $1.5 billion....
222 2009-05-07 It's awfully nice to have a husband in high places. Take Carla Bruni (also known as Carla Sarkozy) whose latest album, "Comme Si de Rien N'Etait" (As If Nothing Had Happened), isn't selling so well. Instead of having to go the Spencer and Heidi ro...
223 2009-05-07 BE Aerospace disclosed an array of fringe benefits for its chief and co-founder, including estate planning services, a car and jet use....
224 2009-05-07 General Motors could be one step closer to bankruptcy, after posting a $6 billion loss for the first quarter. The Obama administration's auto task force has given G.M. until June 1 to come up with a plan to prove its viability. After reporting a 4...
225 2009-05-07 Natural gas prices are about a third of what they were last summer, but energy companies are having a hard time slowing down production at enormous shale fields developed in recent years....
226 2009-05-07 Kristin Stockschlaeder was unprepared for how much she would miss her own mother when she became one herself....
227 2009-05-07 The Fed chairman's remarks to the Chicago Fed....
228 2009-05-07 OpenTable offers a price range for its I.P.O. as venture capitalists see signs of a thaw in the public markets....
229 2009-05-07 We have lots of expert answers to your questions on the science of paying attention....
230 2009-05-07 Barclays, the British bank, said first-quarter profit rose 15 percent as strong growth at its investment banking arm made up for a big jump in bad debts as economies worsen, sending its shares to a seven-month high, Reuters reported. Trading in Ap...
231 2009-05-07 The European Union and Canada agreed on Wednesday to liberalize airline travel between the regions in a pact that goes beyond a similar "open skies" agreement between Europe and the United States. The agreement will allow European Union investors ...
232 2009-05-07 Picking over the carcasses of bankrupt companies is tempting for private equity firms, but the more traditional buyout shops are showing caution bidding on assets entangled in the courts, Reuters says. While there could be great opportunity to get...
233 2009-05-07 The Japanese stock market shot up 4.6 percent Thursday after a three-day public holiday, catching up on this week's global markets rally as investors took an upbeat view of the world's economic prospects and the U.S. government's review of the nat...
234 2009-05-07 Microsoft's chief, Steven A. Ballmer, said he sees opportunities to work with Yahoo to create a "better search product" but would not comment on discussions that the two may be engaged in, Reuters reported. Mr. Ballmer's trip to the San Francisco ...
235 2009-05-07 President Obama's plan to return emissions to 1990 levels by the end of next decade may not be ambitious enough to meet other targets, said Stavros Dimas, the European Union climate chief....
236 2009-05-07 Everyone seems to have taken a stab at predicting which banks will need more capital as a result of the government's stress tests. Few have been on the money - witness the surprise of the public over Bank of America's $34 billion shortfall. But, B...
237 2009-05-07 We've become so caught up in our banking stresses and stress tests in the United States that we sometimes forget about what is happening in other parts of the world economy. This matters because, while the United States is the world's largest econ...
238 2009-05-07 David Pogue tests the Novatel MiFi 2200, a private hot spot that follows you everywhere you go.
239 2009-05-07 WASHINGTON — The top tax-writer in the House of Representatives said Wednesday that there was “no way” he would support taxing employer-provided health benefits, Americans’ leading source of coverage.

The comment came from Representative Charles B. Rangel, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, after a committee hearing with the new secretary of health and human services, Kathleen Sebelius.

Mr. Rangel’s remark was the clearest indication yet of the difficulties Democrats may have in raising money to fulfill President Obama’s campaign promise of offering health insurance to all Americans.

The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, has expressed interest in the idea of limiting the tax break for employee health benefits. Some politicians of both parties, as well as many economists, say the tax break is inequitable because its benefits go disproportionately to people with higher incomes.

“It’s too regressive,” Mr. Baucus said in March. “It just skews the system.”

Mr. Rangel, a New York Democrat, did not suggest any specific way to finance coverage for more than 45 million people now uninsured. In response to a question, he said, “I would not want to get involved in cutting hospital payments.”
240 2009-05-07 A central issue in the case for investigators has been determining which intermediaries were doing legitimate placement work and whether some were simply cronies or insiders who received fees but did no actual work. A second issue that emerged last week was whether all of the intermediaries were properly registered.

Last week, Mr. Cuomo’s office sent out more than 100 subpoenas to placement agents who made referrals to the pension fund but were not registered, and to investment firms.

Mr. McCall said in an interview that he referred one investment firm to the comptroller’s office in 2005, while Mr. Hevesi was in office, but had done no further such work.

“I understood the comptroller was looking for emerging managers, smaller firms that had not been involved with pension funds,” he said, adding that he did not believe that he needed to be registered “because I didn’t provide investment advice about whether this firm was good, I simply gave information to the firm about what they had to do to deal with public pension funds.”

He also said he talked to Mr. Loglisci in making the referral.

The firm referred by Mr. McCall was Steinberg Asset Management, which won a $25 million investment from the pension fund; Convent received $48,221 in fees as part of the deal. Mr. McCall said no one else received fees as part of the deal.

The subpoena could cause some waves in political circles; Mr. McCall defeated Mr. Cuomo in a bruising primary battle for the Democratic nomination for governor in 2002.

Another notable name on the list is that of Mr. McCabe, a developer and former aide to Mr. Vallone, who operated a company, Purpose L.L.C., along with Mr. Morris (Mr. McCabe’s involvement was previously reported by The Village Voice). Michael Dowd, Mr. McCabe’s lawyer, said Mr. McCabe did only a single deal with the state fund, facilitating an investment made with GKM Newport, a private equity firm, and believed that he did not need to be registered.

A recent court filing by the S.E.C., however, suggests that GKM Newport turned to an unnamed political operative because it was told to do so by Mr. Loglisci.

The S.E.C. filing cites an e-mail message written by a GKM executive to one of his partners, which said Mr. Loglisci “made it clear to me that this deal is happening for us for one reason and for one reason only” — because GKM was using Mr. McCabe. Mr. Dowd conceded that the unnamed operative was his client, but said that the executive’s e-mail message was not accurate. Whether politicians who earn fees for a single referral to the pension fund need to be registered is a matter of some legal debate. Speaking generally, John C. Coffee Jr., a securities law professor at Columbia University, said, “You could be in violation of the law if you are an unregistered broker/dealer,” but the wording of securities law could allow wiggle room for firms that did only a single deal and did not make referrals a recurring business.

“It probably requires you doing this professionally and recurringly,” he said.
241 2009-05-07 The lawsuit filed against Nevada by the former soccer coach Terri Patraw has been dismissed, with the judge saying the university was justified in firing her even though she reported N.C.A.A. recruiting violations. Washoe (Nev.) District Judge Patrick Flanagan said university officials produced substantial evidence that their decision was based on Patraw’s failure to follow directives, their lack of trust and her numerous threats to resign. Flanagan also ruled late Tuesday that Patraw failed to show that the university retaliated because she filed whistleblower complaints alleging discriminatory treatment of female athletes and claims she had been sexually harassed.
242 2009-05-07 Last month’s release of memos prepared by the Bush Justice Department and the disclosure of a report by the International Committee of the Red Cross on the brutal treatment of detainees expanded public knowledge of an ignominious chapter in the nation’s history.

But these and other related disclosures do not provide a complete record of the government’s abuse of detainees. One missing element is the words of those prisoners subjected to and other brutality.

Those voices remain muffled by a combination of Bush-era resistance to a reasonable Freedom of Information Act request by the , and the gag order imposed on lawyers representing detainees. Attorney General Eric Holder needs to promptly repudiate both.

For two years, the A.C.L.U. has been seeking complete transcripts of the hearings at Guantánamo for 14 men who were previously in custody, including , who has been described as an operative of and was waterboarded at least 83 times. But the publicly released version of these transcripts deleted all detainee statements about their ordeals.

The A.C.L.U. is appealing an ill-considered ruling by a federal trial judge in the , who refused to review the sought-after material before blindly upholding the bogus Bush administration claim that disclosure would damage national security.
243 2009-05-07 Militants in Gaza fired five mortar shells into a field in southern Israel on Wednesday, and Israel retaliated with airstrikes on three smuggling tunnels along Gaza’s border with Egypt, the Israeli military said. Palestinian medical officials said that four Palestinians were wounded in the Israeli strikes. The military wing of Hamas claimed responsibility for the mortar fire, according to the Palestinian news agency Maan. On Monday, the Syria-based leader of Hamas, Khaled Meshal, told The New York Times in an interview that his group was not firing at Israel currently as “part of an evaluation of the movement to serve the people’s interest.” Israel Radio reported Wednesday that Mr. Meshal had been criticized by other Palestinian groups for his remarks.
244 2009-05-07 VERONA, Italy (AP) — Lance Armstrong’s Astana team is in the midst of a financial crisis on the eve of his first Giro d’Italia.

The Astana spokesman Philippe Maertens confirmed reports out of Kazakhstan that the team had not been paying its riders lately.

“There are some financial problems,” Maertens said Wednesday, while adding that the team would still start the Giro on Saturday in Venice.

“Of course,” he said. “Why not? I don’t see any problem. The team is not going to default. “There is only a delay of payment.”

Pro Tour teams like Astana must meet financial parameters to stay active, or risk losing their International Cycling Union license.

Armstrong is unaffected by the problem because he agreed in September to ride for free for the first year of his comeback to professional cycling after three and a half years of retirement. Armstrong, the seven-time Tour de France winner, is planning to support his Astana teammate Levi Leipheimer in his bid to win the Giro.
245 2009-05-07 WASHINGTON  President Obama was noticeably silent last month when the Iowa Supreme Court overturned the state’s ban on same-sex marriage.

But now Mr. Obama  who has said he opposes same-sex marriage as a Christian but describes himself as a “fierce advocate of equality” for gay men and lesbians  is under pressure to engage on a variety of gay issues that are coming to the fore amid a dizzying pace of social, political, legal and legislative change.

Two of Mr. Obama’s potential Supreme Court nominees are openly gay; some advocates, irked that there are no gay men or lesbians in his cabinet, are mounting a campaign to influence his choice to replace Justice David H. Souter, who is retiring. Same-sex marriage is advancing in states  the latest to allow it is Maine  and a new flare-up in the District of Columbia could ultimately put the controversy in the lap of the president.

Mr. Obama’s new global health initiative has infuriated activists who say he is not financing AIDS programs generously enough. And while the president has urged Congress to pass a hate crimes bill, a high priority for gay groups, he has delayed action on one of his key campaign promises, repealing the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” rule.

Social issues like same-sex marriage bring together deeply held principles and flashpoint politics, and many gay activists, aware that Mr. Obama is also dealing with enormous challenges at home and overseas, have counseled patience.

But some are unsettled by what they see as the president’s cautious approach. Many are still seething over his choice of the Rev. Rick Warren, the evangelical pastor who opposes same-sex marriage, to deliver the invocation at his inaugural, and remain suspicious of Mr. Obama’s commitment to their cause.

In the words of David Mixner, a writer, gay activists are beginning to wonder, “How much longer do we give him the benefit of the doubt?” Last weekend, Richard Socarides, who advised President Bill Clinton on gay issues, published an opinion piece in The Washington Post headlined, “Where’s our fierce advocate?”

The White House, aware of the discontent, invited leaders of some prominent gay rights organizations to meet Monday with top officials, including Jim Messina, Mr. Obama’s deputy chief of staff, to plot legislative strategy on the hate crimes bill as well as “don’t ask, don’t tell.” Among those attending was Joe Solmonese, president of the Human Rights Campaign, who said afterward that while the gay rights agenda might not be “unfolding exactly as we thought,” he was pleased.

“They have a vision,” Mr. Solmonese said. “They have a plan.”

While Mr. Obama has said he is “open to the possibility” that his views on same-sex marriage are misguided, he has offered no signal that he intends to change his position. And as he confronts that and other issues important to gay rights advocates, he faces an array of pressures and risks.

Anything substantive he might say on same-sex marriage  after the Iowa ruling, the White House put out a statement saying the president “respects the decision”  would be endlessly parsed. If Mr. Obama were to embrace same-sex marriage, he would be seen as reversing a campaign position and alienating some moderate and religious voters he has courted.

And if he appoints a gay person to the Supreme Court, he would be viewed by social conservatives  including many black ministers, another of his core constituency groups  as putting a vote for same-sex marriage on the highest court in the land. Two gay women, Kathleen M. Sullivan and Pamela S. Karlan, both of Stanford Law School, have been suggested as potential nominees.

“That would be tantamount to opening the gate for the other side,” said Bishop Harry J. Jackson Jr. of the Hope Christian Church in Beltsville, Md., who is organizing protests in Washington, where the City Council passed an ordinance this week recognizing same-sex marriages in other states. “If he meant what he said about marriage then I think he has got to stand up and be a president who acts on his beliefs.”

Some say change is inevitable, not only for Mr. Obama but also for other Democratic politicians who have embraced civil unions but rejected same-sex marriage. Now that the Iowa ruling has pushed the battle into the nation’s heartland, the issue will inevitably come up during the 2010 midterm elections and the 2012 presidential campaign.

“We’ve elected probably the most pro-gay president in history; he’s very good on the issues but he is not good on gay marriage,” said Steven Elmendorf, a gay Democratic lobbyist. “From the gay community’s perspective, he and a lot of other elected officials are wrong on this. My view is that over time, they’re going to realize they’re wrong and they’re going to change.”

Mr. Obama has chosen a number of openly gay people for prominent jobs, including Fred P. Hochberg as chairman of the Export-Import Bank and John Berry to run the Office of Personnel Management. And he is the first president to set aside tickets for gay families to attend the White House Easter Egg Roll.

But on legislation, allies of Mr. Obama’s are not surprised that he is charting a careful course. In addition to calling for the repeal of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy in the military, Mr. Obama supports a legislative repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act, the 1996 law that said states need not recognize same-sex marriages performed in other states. Opponents of same-sex marriage say that is an inconsistency.

Tobias Wolff, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was Mr. Obama’s top campaign adviser on gay rights, said the president needed time to build political consensus.

“I think he has a genuine sense,” Mr. Wolff said, “that in order to move these issues forward you need broader buy-in than you are going to get if you poke a stick in too many people’s eyes.”
246 2009-05-07 The N.C.A.A. released its academic reform data Wednesday, and for the first time issued postseason bans for poor academic performance. The association penalized the Centenary men’s basketball team and the Jacksonville State and Tennessee-Chattanooga football teams. Jacksonville State is appealing its ban.

A total of 85 Division I teams were punished in football and men’s basketball, but only 10 came from the six Bowl Championship Series conferences.

“It’s an expensive ordeal,” Myles Brand, the N.C.A.A. president, said of providing adequate academic support. “Those schools who can’t afford it are more likely to run into trouble.”

Brand called the organization’s bans a “watershed.” Chattanooga was 1-11 last season and Centenary 8-23, so it is improbable that the bans will have any impact other than stigmatizing the programs. Both must improve their academic performances this year or face Division I membership restrictions.

Last year, the San Jose State football coach, Dick Tomey, called the system a “tax on the poor.”

An Inside Higher Ed report that Portland State and Delaware State dropped their wrestling programs because of poor academic progress performances was mentioned in a conference call with the N.C.A.A. Brand said he felt those instances would be rare.

Among the few high-profile programs hit with penalties were the Mississippi and Minnesota football programs. Each will lose three scholarships this season.

In men’s basketball, Indiana was the highest-profile program penalized. The Hoosiers had already implemented their two scholarship losses this season. Purdue, Tennessee and Colorado were among the other high-profile programs hit in men’s basketball.
247 2009-05-07 “Everybody is excited about it because it’s the first competitor to Botox in seven years,” said Dr. Z. Paul Lorenc, who practices in Manhattan and who views Dysport as a faster-acting, longer-lasting and potentially less-expensive option. “It’s also a softer look.”

Also pending are studies into topical versions of these muscle-numbing medications, although none are expected to come to market for years. Already, though, doctors here are debating how useful or practical it might be.

“There’s a concern that if you were to give the patient the cream to take home, they’d just keep putting more and more and more on, and you’d have a dosing problem,” Dr. Kinney said. “And patients might start putting it on other places, like around the mouth, and then they might not be able to move their mouths properly.”

Stem cell treatments were on the minds of many as well, although the potential applications are vague. The thinking seems to be that doctors may some day be able to extract stem cells from a patient’s own fat and use them in lieu of breast implants to produce self-regenerative tissue that would provide a more natural feel than silicon-gel or saline, now the standard. No one is sure yet if it will work and several doctors voiced concern as to whether it is safe and how they would be able to regulate the tissue growth.

Another potential growth area is in nonwhite patients, who have long been underserved, said Dr. Julius W. Few, a surgeon from Chicago who lectured at the conference on how to provide nose jobs for non-Caucasian patients while preserving their ethnicity.

“We know by our statistics that this is a growing group by interest in plastic surgery,” said Dr. Few, who performs as many as 40 nose jobs a year on nonwhite patients. “Being African-American, when I was growing up, it was said at my house and a lot of other houses that plastic surgery was only for wealthy white people. That seemed unfair to me.”

The four-day event was a serious medical conference of nearly 2,500 practitioners and exhibitors attending live demonstrations, listening to debates over newer techniques and browsing countless models of implants and needles that were on display.

Still, the convention offered provocative sessions like “137 Rhinoplasties in 20 Patients: What Went Wrong?” “The Weird Smile After Facelift Surgery: A Dynamic Investigation” and “The Role of Chin Augmentation in Achieving Facial Harmony.”

Doctors at the conference hoped to get out the message that they were far from the stereotypes of predatory practitioners who take advantage of patients’ insecurities. They resent portrayals like that from a “Sex and the City” episode in which Samantha Jones, played by Kim Cattrall, is worried about aging and wants a small operation but is told by a physician that she ought to consider several other procedures. She eventually decides on “aging gracefully.”

Of the fictional surgeon’s behavior, Dr. Robert Singer of San Diego said, “That never happens.” Dr. Singer added: “I generally will turn that question in a different way when a patient asks me what I think she needs done. It’s not a matter of what I say. It’s what bothers you.”

Dr. Singer said that part of the challenge was managing patient expectations.

“The public wants something that has essentially no down time, that has maximum improvement, that is non-invasive, that has no discomfort and that has no cost,” Dr. Singer said. “They want magic. That magic pill doesn’t exist.”
248 2009-05-07 A back-pain researcher, Dr. Richard Deyo recalls the uproar the last time federal officials tried to suggest how doctors should practice their profession.

It was in the mid-1990s, when Dr. Deyo helped develop federal guidelines urging surgeons not to perform spinal fusions to treat acute pain. The reason was simple: There was little evidence that the fusions worked in many patients.

Spine specialists quickly attacked the report, calling it flawed. One medical device maker, Medtronic, sued unsuccessfully to block its release. Republican lawmakers tried to kill the agency that issued the report. It survived, but its funding was drastically cut, and it decided to stop issuing guidelines.

Now, 15 years later, the Obama administration is entering this same medical minefield. And once again, opponents are gearing up for a fight.

The administration plans to spend $1.1 billion over the next few years on studies like the one conducted by Dr. Deyo, to compare the effectiveness of competing treatments for common conditions like back pain, heart disease and prostate cancer. The studies will be publicly released, to help doctors and patients decide which treatment options they want to pursue.

Supporters include many medical researchers, consumer groups, unions and insurers. They say such studies are essential to curbing the widespread use of ineffective treatments and to helping control health care costs, which totaled $2.2 trillion in 2007, or 16 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product.

The New England Journal of Medicine published several articles Wednesday supporting the federal effort and rebutting arguments raised by critics.

But potential opponents  which include medical products companies, some doctors and their political allies  warn that the comparative effectiveness movement could lead to inadequate treatment for some patients and even the rationing of health care.

“It is not difficult to see how you can get on a slippery slope very easily,” said Tony Coelho, a former Democratic congressman who is head of a new industry-backed Washington group called the Partnership to Improve Patient Care, formed to lobby on the comparative effectiveness effort.

The group’s backers include major trade organizations that represent producers of drugs, medical devices and biological treatments.

Critics like Mr. Coelho also point to a British government agency, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, or NICE, which considers costs in judging a treatment’s effectiveness. Based on NICE’s findings, the British government has denied some patients access to costly drugs like those used to treat cancer.

Whether cost should be a factor in this country was a hot-button issue during the Congressional debate in February, when the comparative-effectiveness funding was approved as part of the economic stimulus package. A legislative report by Congressional lawmakers who negotiated the final version of the bill said that they did not intend the research money to be used to “mandate coverage, reimbursement or other policies for any public or private payer.”

Despite that assurance, even supporters of the effort say one goal in identifying effective medical treatments is to stop wasting money on those of little value.

For now, proponents and critics are warily circling one another, as the first administrative steps of the process unfold.

A panel of government health experts is holding a series of public hearings at which people can suggest medical conditions for comparative effectiveness reviews. Then, in late June, that federal panel and the Institute of Medicine, a part of the National Academies of Science, will issue reports recommending priorities for comparative research. Past combatants like Dr. Deyo expect the fighting to start as soon as such studies start identifying winners and losers.

“If this research is done in a rigorous way and doesn’t pull strings, then a lot of pressure will come to bear,” on the process, said Dr. Deyo, a professor at Oregon Health and Science University in Portland.

Some conservative and libertarian research groups, as well as commentators like Rush Limbaugh, have attacked the comparative effectiveness effort as a step toward socialized medicine. Some medical experts have also raised concerns that the program may slow the drive toward so-called personalized medicine  an approach in which treatments are tailored to a patient’s genetic makeup. But for now, Mr. Coelho’s opposition group and drug and device makers are using more measured rhetoric.

Mr. Coelho, a former House Democratic whip who resigned in 1989 over a controversial junk-bond investment, says his organization does not oppose the concept of comparative effectiveness. But the group is concerned, he said, that such studies could lead to a type of cookbook medicine that will ignore the needs of specific patients, including members of minority groups.

His organization includes patient advocacy groups like the National Alliance for Hispanic Health and the National Alliance on Mental Illness, which also receive financing from medical products companies. Those groups argue that their members are underrepresented in formal clinical trials of drugs and treatments, and so there is not evidence enough on which to draw conclusions on what works for them and what does not, they say.

Mr. Coelho, a driving force behind the Americans with Disabilities Act, points to his own experience with epilepsy, which he has had since he was a teenager, as an example of how patients need to be treated individually.

Under the comparative effectiveness program, the Department of Health and Human Services and two agencies under it the National Institutes of Health and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality  will finance studies that will look at various treatments and will pay for the development of information-gathering tools, like databases of patients being treated for a certain condition.

Right now, “there is no place that helps you sort through a specific option and how that compares to another,” said Dr. Carolyn M. Clancy, the director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.

The agency, back when it was known as the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, was the federal body Dr. Deyo worked with in drafting the back-pain guidelines in the mid-90s.

More recently, officials of the Oregon Evidence-Based Practice Center began producing reports a few years ago comparing the effectiveness of competing drugs, both brand-name and generic, in treating specific conditions. The work was meant to help purchasers like state Medicaid programs lower their costs, said Dr. Mark Helfand, director of the center, which is part of the Oregon Health and Science University.

Wherever they went, Dr. Helfand said, he and his colleagues met resistance from drug makers and some patient groups that had rallied to the companies’ side, who raised the same arguments that critics of comparative effectiveness are raising today. The Practice Center’s research, which is continuing, is now used by 14 states. Dr. Helfand said groups representing African-American, Hispanic or elderly patients were right to argue that they were underrepresented in clinical trials. But he added that the whole point of comparative effectiveness was to move medical practice beyond the limits of such trials, by looking at a broader range of evidence that includes the actual experience of patients undergoing treatment.

“Ironically, the motivation for comparative effectiveness is to see what works in practice,” he said, “rather than overgeneralizing from a few unrepresentative studies.”
249 2009-05-07 Overshadowed by the Tony Award nominations on Tuesday morning were the 2009 New York Drama Critics’ Circle Awards, which were announced late on Monday night and went to “Ruined” (best play), “Billy Elliot: The Musical” (best musical), and “Black Watch” (best foreign play). ... Also on Monday, nominations were announced for the Astaire Awards, which honor dance onstage and in film. The nominees for Broadway choreography are Andy Blankenbuehler (“9 to 5: The Musical”), Karole Armitage (“Hair”), Peter Darling (“Billy Elliot”), Sergio Trujillo (“Guys and Dolls”) and Graciela Daniele (“Pal Joey”). Nominees for film choreography include Anthony Van Laast (“Mamma Mia!”), Longines Fernandes (“Slumdog Millionaire”) and Kenny Ortega (“High School Musical 3: Senior Year”). Allison Janney, above in “9 to 5,” was a nominee for best leading actress in a musical.
250 2009-05-07 Cormac McCarthy, the author of “The Road,” “Blood Meridian” and “No Country for Old Men,” has won the PEN/Saul Bellow Award, a lifetime achievement award given by the PEN American Center, the organization announced on Tuesday. The award comes with a prize of $25,000.
251 2009-05-07 Paul Kangas, the co-anchor of “Nightly Business Report” on PBS, will step down at the end of the year, ending a 30-year tenure on the nation’s most-watched business newscast.

WPBT, the PBS station in Miami that produces “Nightly Business Report,” plans to announce his departure on Thursday. Susie Gharib, who has co-anchored from New York for 10 years, will remain on the program; the producers have already started searching for a new co-anchor.

Mr. Kangas said he was leaving the anchor chair in part to reduce the pressure of the daily deadlines that come with a 6:30 p.m. TV program. “You have to be there at a certain time, at a certain place, five days a week,” he said in a telephone interview Wednesday. “It starts to wear on you after 30 years.”

He and Rodney Ward, the executive producer of the program, said it was entirely Mr. Kangas’s decision to depart.

Mr. Kangas, now 72, was hired to be a stock market commentator when the “Nightly Business Report” had its premiere in 1979. He became an anchor in 1990. The program is distributed to more than 250 PBS stations.

Like “The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer,” which is typically shown after the business program, the “Report” is a sober assessment of the day’s headlines. The program is a throwback to a slower-paced period of business news, before three cable channels competed with omnipresent stock tickers. Still, the “Report” draws about three-quarters of a million people on an average evening, according to Nielsen Media Research.
252 2009-05-07 Other companies are taking advantage of the weakness in the travel market to negotiate hotel rate deals as far ahead as two years from now, said Frank Schnur, vice president of global advisory services for American Express Business Travel, which tracks business travelers’ spending habits. “A buyer’s market emerged at the end of last year and is in full force today,” he said.

Still, for many business travelers, the difficult new environment has meant creative adjustments as well.

Tana Trichel, chief executive of the Northeast Louisiana Economic Alliance, likes to entertain guests at a pricey restaurant whenever she attends conferences to promote her region.

But on a recent trip to Chicago, Ms. Trichel took her guests to Smoque BBQ, a restaurant on the northwest side of town that is known for its Texas-style meats. The bill, which would have been hundreds of dollars at a typical white-tablecloth establishment, was only $50 for three heaping platters of ribs, brisket, coleslaw and peach cobbler. And the group drank beer, brought in from a nearby store, instead of a fine Bordeaux.

“A really fine dining experience historically has been a special treat as I travel all over the country,” Ms. Trichel said. “But you can have a really rich and fine experience at a barbecue house.”

Other adjustments can be more painful, especially for travelers used to ordering up the company plane. After years of flying privately, with special meals and attentive service, they find themselves in unfamiliar public territory.

That was true for Mr. Henderson, who like other auto industry executives was stung by a Congressional rebuke last fall, when it emerged that they traveled in their private planes to Washington to seek a bailout. “It’s almost like seeing a guy show up at the soup kitchen in high hat and tuxedo,” said Representative Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of New York, at the time.

G. M., Ford and many other companies have since rid themselves of their jets, to save face or money or both. And the situation has presented an opportunity not just for big airlines, but also for low-fare ones like JetBlue Airways.

The company has made a special effort to court business travelers in the last year, through an advertising campaign and a tongue-in-cheek instruction manual, posted on its Web site. It promises: “JetBlue’s fares start at very low prices. Let’s just say, they’re way, way, way less than the $5,300 an hour you used to pay for your private jet.”

It’s clear that business travelers are focusing on spending much less. Continental Airlines, which has a hub at Newark Liberty International Airport and whose flights blanket the country, is finding that the travelers it used to count on to book seats in first class are being told by their companies to reserve seats in coach.

It blamed the downgrades, as well as travelers’ decisions to forgo trips altogether, for its loss of $136 million during the first three months of 2009. Overall passenger revenue for the quarter fell 18.8 percent, compared with the first quarter of 2008.

The switch from the front to the back of the plane and from suite to single room is reflected in steep declines in the prices travelers paid during the first quarter for airfares and hotel rooms, according to American Express Business Travel.

Last year, airfares averaged $246 each way, the highest in the past five years, because of the steep climb in fuel prices over the spring and summer. But in the first quarter of this year, travelers paid only $213, after fuel prices came down and companies began to limit travel in the wake of the recession.

Likewise, hotel spending dropped both for domestic and international trips. At home, the average for a hotel room fell to $180 a night in the first quarter of 2009, from $208 in 2008. Overseas, travelers paid an average of $228 a night during the first quarter of 2009, down from $252 a night in 2008, American Express Business Travel said.

But Marriott, for one, has not been daunted by the economic downturn. It recently announced plans to introduce its Renaissance brand in Europe, the site of some of its most aggressive expansion, including a new hotel to open next year near London’s St. Pancras International station, home of the Eurostar train.

Marriott’s range of brands gives the company a variety of opportunities to hang on to business travelers, who can still book within the hotel chain even if they are forced to spend less.

Some smaller properties near major metropolitan areas are trying to capitalize on corporate willingness to look for bargains. They are pitching themselves as alternatives to high-end resorts and big-city hotels. One such region is the Berkshires in Massachusetts, a two-and-a-half hour drive from New York.

The region is dotted with small hotels and bed and breakfasts that corporate planners might have overlooked in the past as too modest or as lacking the facilities prized by business travelers.

“We are getting companies that normally would not look at our hotels consider us because we do not have resort or spa in our name,” said Brian Butterworth, director of sales for the Red Lion Inn in Stockbridge, Mass., and its sister hotel, the Porches Inn in North Adams, Mass.

Yet the Red Lion has a massage therapist on staff, emphasizes locally grown food in its restaurant and can provide extras like free Wi-Fi or breakfast as part of the room price, Mr. Butterworth said.

He and other hotel operators say last-minute corporate bookings have soared as companies and state governments wait to decide whether it’s necessary to send employees on the road.

Staff members at Wisconsin Public Radio, a network of 29 stations, are considered government employees and have been used to the limits that such workers face on business trips, said Michael Leland, the network’s news director.

Now, the bigger question is whether they can go at all. “It’s more that trips are being watched closely, rather than spending on the trips,” Mr. Leland said.

There’s no question that some businesspeople will be hitting the road, said Evelyn Hannon, editor of Journeywoman.com, a Toronto-based Web site that specializes in tips for women travelers. “If you’re the C.E.O., it’s important; you need to go and do,” she said. “But if you’re an underling, you’re not traveling as much as before, and if you do, you’re not going first class.”

Airfare deals are relatively easy to find. But economizing on the ground isn’t natural for many business travelers, to whom the opportunity to put a plush room or a pricey meal on an expense account made up for time spent away from loved ones.

This is where it behooves business travelers to become creative. In many cases, spending limits simply prohibit picking up the phone and ordering room service.

In that case, Ms. Hannon had one basic piece of advice: get out of the hotel room. Rather than spend $15 on a continental breakfast from room service, or even more on a hot meal, she advises taking an evening stroll, finding the nearest Starbucks or coffee shop, picking up yogurt, fruit and a muffin or bagel for the morning at a fraction of the room service price, and stashing them in the minibar.

Overseas travel offers even more opportunities for saving on a budget. European and Asian cities abound with department stores that have large food sections and even entire food floors.

Along with saving money, these outings provide a respite from the usual business travel routine. “Anyone can get in a taxi and say, ‘take me to the finest restaurant,’ ” Ms. Hannon said.

If venturing out is too much to ponder after a long day of meetings, another kind of room service has emerged: food delivery Web sites that offer a chance to sample local restaurants. Seamlessweb.com serves 14 cities, including New York, Boston and San Francisco; Labite.com serves Los Angeles; and Just-eat.co.uk covers London.

In any case, Ms. Hannon said, business travelers should shift their attitudes from complaining about new limits on meal and hotel spending to seeing what they can make of the situation.

“Believe me, even if this was the way it’s going to be for the rest of time, it’s still not bad. It’s just not the top, top, top that you’re used to,” she said. “And the longer this goes on, the more changes the industry will make to respond to the new reality.”

It may take some time for corporate jets, the most blatant symbol of company spending, to regain their stature, said Robert W. Mann Jr., an aviation industry consultant in Port Washington, N.Y.

“For people who really have a productive use for business jets, they continue to use business jets,” he said. “But the 35 percent of people who are just in it for the wow factor, they can’t justify it anymore. He defined the wow factor as corporate executives who use the company plane for a weekend trip home to Seattle or those who say, “Hey, honey, let’s go to Palm Beach.”

But Mr. Mann said he did not think corporate jets would be outcasts forever. “When the media starts writing about optimism instead of optics, the whole thing will reverse, and you’ll see pent-up demand shoot through the roof. It will be, ‘Why aren’t we using the jet?’ and ‘Can we get it back?’ ” he said.
253 2009-05-07 Ms. Clark released her debut, “Marry Me,” in 2007, to critical acclaim. Writing in The New York Times, Kelefa Sanneh called it “an extravagant collection of songs that show off everything at once.” It has sold about 30,000 copies. With the voice and bearing of a retro chanteuse and indie cred, she could have easily coasted on soft and palatable; instead “Actor” relies on more of the driving guitars and complex orchestration that have made her stand out.

“She doesn’t fall into one category, i.e., a singer-songwriter for example, so she’s not pigeonholed,” said Miwa Okumura, a senior product manager for Beggars/4AD. Ms. Okumura compared her to a diverse range of acts, from the folky Bon Iver to the indie rockers the National to the multi-instrumentalist Andrew Bird. “She rocks out,” she said.

Ms. Clark’s singular musicianship — what Mr. Andress called “her particular Annie thing” — was evident early on. “The first time I saw her perform — she must’ve been 15, maybe 14 — she got up in a club in Dallas, sat in with her guitar teacher’s band, played ‘The Wind Cries Mary’ and just blew everybody away,” he recalled in a phone interview, from his own tour stop in Japan. “At that time she was very shy and diminutive, except when you listened to her guitar playing.”

He added: “She’s physically a very intense player. She takes a kind of ferocious approach to the technique of the guitar, a real high energy.”

Ms. Clark was so taken by the guitar that before she got a real one, she made her own out of cardboard, with rubber bands for strings. She’s still crafty. “I still insist on putting frazzle-dazzle around my keyboard,” she said. “Nothing says class — or strip club — like a little bit of a rain curtain.”

She dismisses the notion that shredding can’t be girly. “Growing up, I was never made aware of the idea that because I’m anatomically female, my fingers and brain don’t work as well,” she said. “I never did feel like I was constantly having to overcome, ‘I’m a girl but I can play.’ That’s just silly.” She proudly calls herself a pedal nerd, having invented a “stomp board” to simulate drums when she’s playing solo.

“I’m really inspired by her commitment to work through getting what she wants out of a sound,” said Shara Warden, who performs as My Brightest Diamond and who shared hotel rooms with Ms. Clark while both toured with Mr. Stevens. “She’s very pro-active in the way that she even works in a studio and gets the mixes that she wants and the arrangements.”

“Actor,” which Ms. Clark arranged and co-produced, was inspired by her favorite classic films, like “Snow White,” “Stardust Memories” and “Badlands.” She rewatched her favorite scenes and imagined writing her own scores for them.

“I wanted to make something that had the whimsy and the sweet of something very pure, like the Disney films, but also something that was kind of bloody and gory and disgusting,” she said. “I tried to combine those two things, both things that I love in equal parts, and see what happened.”

Because of noise complaints from her neighbors she composed the entire thing on her computer — a first, and a bit of a shock when it came time to record. “There are entire songs that I never played a note of,” she said. The result is more prog-rocky and distorted than her debut, with guilelessly dark lyrics.

to scare the monsters out

we’ve got to teach them all a lesson.

The album’s title, she said, comes from the complicated notion of artistic self-invention.

“It’s about just the general sense of feeling like a fraud,” she said, “because I think anyone who is creative or self-aware in any way, there’s like a humility to it, or I should say a humiliation to it. But there’s also a self-delusion — the provisional ego, as my uncle would call it. The self-delusion is the thing that makes you go, oh you know what, all the music that I’ve ever loved in the world, I want to be a part of that — hey, listen to what I have to say, it’s really important, it’s going to matter.”

“You can’t apologize your way into people’s hearts,” she added. “You have to go full force.”
254 2009-05-07 Despite billions of dollars of bailout and stimulus money, the credit squeeze that kicked off our current economic crisis shows few signs of abating. Generally speaking, banks still aren’t lending, and small businesses are still struggling to find ways to finance their operations. To get a better feel for how business owners are coping, Darren Dahl recently spoke with Doug Tatum, co-founder and chairman emeritus of Tatum, an Atlanta-based consulting and executive search firm that specializes in helping growing companies with finance issues. In recent years, Mr. Tatum, the author of “No Man’s Land: What to Do When Your Company Is Too Big to Be Small and Too Small to Be Big” (Portfolio, 2007), has spent considerable time on Capitol Hill pitching a tax-deferral plan of his design that has had the support of two United States senators, John Kerry and Olympia J. Snowe, who have long been active in small-business issues.

Q. What’s your advice for businesses looking to borrow money these days?

A. Quit trying. The credit markets are tougher than I’ve ever seen them, aside from the Carter years.

Q. But it takes money to make money, right?

A. Entrepreneurs have a limited amount of bandwidth, and they have to quit wasting their time chasing the impossible. They need to think about how they can change their business model to become profitable. That’s where the capital to grow will come from. I just spent some time with a health care consulting company that pulls in $6 million in [annual] revenue with plans to grow to $10 million. They are just bobbing, weaving and growing despite how hard it is out there.

Q. Why hasn’t the government been able to open up the credit markets?

A. Banks have become cautious about what they have on their balance sheets. They still don’t know what their portfolios are worth. That means they’re waiting for the next shoe to drop, which could be the commercial markets. I talked to the C.E.O. of a community bank who told me that they have the regulators telling them when and where they can lend money. So while you might have politicians saying, ’Lend, lend, lend,’ the regulators are holding the banks back.

Q. What else should the government be doing?

A. Congress needs to be temporary, targeted and timely — three issues in a piece of legislation I supported called the “Bridge Act,” which stands for Business Retained Income During Growth and Expansion. The idea is to allow entrepreneurs to defer paying up to $250,000 in income taxes so they can reinvest that money in growing their business.
255 2009-05-07 The accord also opens the way for more code-sharing agreements, lifts most restrictions governing the setting of ticket prices and establishes a joint committee to adopt and monitor the deal. It will also avoid the need for double checks on safety and security by authorities in Europe and Canada, allowing for joint inspections.

It will take effect immediately, but the steps to open up the two markets will be carried out in four phases. No deadlines were immediately provided.

In 2007, nine million people traveled between Europe and Canada. Despite the current slump in air travel as a result of the economic downturn, the European Commission estimated that the deal could increase that number by half a million during the first year, generating 72 million euros, or roughly $95 million, in additional business and adding 1,000 jobs, as flights are added between the regions.

The agreement between the United States and the European Union, which came into force in March 2008, also allows airlines to serve any point-to-point trans-Atlantic route.

That agreement will allow any American carriers to fly among European cities, though not between a pair of cities within an individual country, while European airlines will not be allowed to fly between two American cities.

This accord is also being carried out in phases, the first of which will automatically end if there is no agreement between negotiators from the United States and the European Union on a second phase of the pact, which is scheduled to be in place by 2010.

At the meeting in Prague, Canada and Europe also agreed Wednesday to start talks on a broader trade pact, estimated to be worth more than $27 billion a year, despite a looming trade dispute between the two partners over a European Union ban on seal products.

Canada and the European Union first agreed in October 2008 to seek a "comprehensive economic partnership agreement” to lift two-way trade by lowering tariffs on goods and services, and encompassing areas like investment, regulatory cooperation and rules of origin.

The two sides set a deadline of two years in which to reach the broad deal. It would be the most significant trade agreement for Canada since the North American Free Trade Agreement.
256 2009-05-07 STRESS TEST FINDINGS  The results of the Obama administration's stress tests on financial institutions are to be officially released. The findings have been slowly trickling out for days, though, and it appears that the rescue funds already approv...
257 2009-05-07 The iPhone lost its spot as top-selling smartphone to the BlackBerry Curve in the first quarter of 2009, but that doesn't necessarily spell the end of the iPhone's market dominance, said Ross Rubin, an analyst with  the NPD Group, a research firm....
258 2009-05-07 The N.C.A.A. has talked about an increase in the academic progress of athletes in the high-profile sports of football, baseball and men's basketball, but when it released its academic reform data Wednesday,  an old story line reappeared. Almost ev...
259 2009-05-08 Updated: A group of Chrysler creditors opposing the carmaker’s reorganization will disband after two more investment firms withdrew from its membership, a lawyer representing the firms told DealBook on Friday....
260 2009-05-08 Apple has reversed itself and will allow a Nine Inch Nails-themed application to be carried in its iPhone Apps store after all....
261 2009-05-08 Leonard Nimoy talks about “Star Trek,” his famous role on the show and in the movies and an early encounter he had with candidate Barack Obama....
262 2009-05-08 Tailor files for bankruptcy....
263 2009-05-08 The cellphone provider says it will encourage legislation to make it illegal to text while behind the wheel....
264 2009-05-08 Satellite Asset Management LP, a big New York hedge fund founded by former employees of George Soros, is closing down after poor performance led to a rush of client withdrawal requests, according to a person briefed on the matter....
265 2009-05-08 Continued discussion about Verizon Wireless' MiFi portable Wi-Fi hotspot....
266 2009-05-08 Never write about a hot goalie on the eve of a game he's playing....
267 2009-05-08 Michael Lauer, the founder of the hedge fund Lancer Management Group, was ordered by a judge on Friday to pay $62 million to investors after being found liable for fraud last fall in a case brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission....
268 2009-05-08 The decision by the Obama administration, announced on Friday by Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, reverses a Bush-era policy....
269 2009-05-08 Nothing better reflects the difference in the way the Yankees and the Rays are constructed than the players at third base....
270 2009-05-08 Since the recession officially began in December 2007, the economy has had a net loss of about 4.2 percent of its nonfarm payroll jobs....
271 2009-05-08 As the number of traditional phone lines falls rapidly, the possibility is rising that the telephone industry will need a government bailout....
272 2009-05-08 You may comment here on my Market Place column today (which ran as the High and Low Finance column in The International Herald Tribune), on the strange tale of a company that manages to keep issuing stock despite having no other operations....
273 2009-05-08 It looks as if one more bank needs a bailout. And, four months ago, this bank was not even a bank. The company is GMAC, the onetime finance arm of General Motors, which itself seems to be hurtling toward bankruptcy. The results of bank stress test...
274 2009-05-08 Even after receiving $15.4 billion in federal loans, General Motors is once again on the brink of financial collapse. The automaker's first-quarter earnings released Thursday showed that G.M. was losing more money and sales than it was in late Dec...
275 2009-05-08 At one bank in Alabama, the problem is a construction bust. At two in Ohio, the trouble is real estate. And in San Francisco, at Wells Fargo, the worry is credit cards - a staggering 26 percent of that bank's card loans, federal regulators have co...
276 2009-05-08 The biggest regulatory changes since the 1930s are bearing down on the United States securities and investment industry, and many firms are ill-prepared, according to a new study by the research firm TowerGroup. From derivatives and hedge funds to...
277 2009-05-08 The decision reverses a policy of the Bush administration, which had insisted that visitors could not be permitted because the crown did not meet modern fire, building and safety codes....
278 2009-05-08 Here's an investment opportunity you might be able to pass up, The New York Times's Floyd Norris writes: The company has no operations, and no prospects of any. Its previous operations all failed, and the reports the company files with the Securit...
279 2009-05-08 Oracle Chief Executive Larry Ellison said he would not sell off the hardware business of Sun Microsystems, dispelling speculation that he only wanted the company for its software units, Reuters has reported. Mr. Ellison shook up Silicon Valley las...
280 2009-05-08 Hedge fund manager Douglas A. Kass is selectively shorting American financial stocks, which have more than doubled since hitting bottom in early March, on the belief that they were "priced to perfection" ahead of the results of the banks stress te...
281 2009-05-08 Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region greeted the results of the government stress tests of 19 leading American banks with neither relief nor horror on Friday morning, with major indexes remaining either flat or dipping only modestly, The New Y...
282 2009-05-08 An energy and environment expert at Stanford says using carbon offsets may have led to increases in industrial emissions in Europe....
283 2009-05-08 LONDON (Reuters) — British immigration officials told former Nepalese Gurkha soldiers on Thursday that they could not stay in the country despite a government pledge to relax rules limiting how many could retire here.

Gurkha soldiers have fought for Britain since 1815, and they still go into battle with traditional curved Kukri knives. Their advocates say they should have the same settlement rights as other overseas troops.

Opposition politicians said that letters had been sent to five Gurkhas rejecting their settlement applications, despite the government’s promise to be more accommodating.

The Home Office, or Interior Ministry, said the rejections were a legal formality and that the former soldiers’ cases would be reconsidered.

“This letter is not a letter of rejection,” Immigration Minister Phil Woolas said. “It is a letter explaining the legal process.”

Mr. Woolas said the government had been legally obliged to send the letters.

“I have been able to reassure the campaign by highlighting the final paragraph of the letter, which commits the government to reviewing these cases,” he said.
284 2009-05-08 Re “Rancor Where Private-School Parents Make Public-School Decisions,” by Peter Applebome (Our Towns column, April 26):

Some might find it outrageous that Orthodox Jews who pay for their own children’s educations have the temerity to run for positions on their local school boards. But by that strange outrage measure, only legislators receiving low-income public assistance should be permitted to make welfare policy.

The critics, it is reported, are asking how “yeshiva parents” would feel were decisions about their schools made by non-Jewish citizens. The question betrays either ignorance or prejudice, likely a bit of both.

There is a reason private schools are called that: they are supported by private citizens. Public schools, by definition, are supported by taxpayers and run by their democratically elected representatives, even if they happen to be Orthodox Jews.

(Rabbi) Avi Shafran 

 Director of Public Affairs

 Agudath Israel of America

 New York, April 26, 2009
285 2009-05-08 WASHINGTON — The Obama administration’s choice to lead the Food and Drug Administration breezed through her Senate confirmation hearing on Thursday while the administration proposed a budget that would give the agency more money.

Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg’s confirmation was all but assured when Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, strongly endorsed her. “I want you to know that I support you,” Mr. Hatch said, “and I intend to help you not only to get through this process but to do your job out there.”

Mr. Hatch’s endorsement was followed by those of Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, as well as every Democrat at the hearing of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.

One reason for the enthusiasm for Dr. Hamburg may be the unease many conservatives have expressed about Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, the agency’s acting commissioner, who will become principal deputy commissioner when Dr. Hamburg is confirmed.

Dr. Sharfstein once worked at the advocacy organization Public Citizen and served on the staff of Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is a fierce critic of the drug industry.
286 2009-05-08 In the heat of the credit market turmoil last fall, the Federal Reserve agreed to convert several nonbank institutions, including American Express, into bank holding companies. And, in a controversial move, it also bestowed that status on GMAC, even though the company fell short of certain requirements.

Days later, the Treasury Department injected $5 billion into GMAC and gave G.M. $1 billion to acquire additional equity in it as well.

“GMAC is integral to G.M., and without a functioning GMAC, you don’t have a functioning G.M.,” said John A. Casesa, managing partner in the Casesa Shapiro Group and a longtime industry analyst. “To the extent that the government has an enormous amount of money at risk in G.M., it’s essential to help GMAC to protect that investment.”

Last week, President Obama said that his administration would supply GMAC with money to take over the financing of Chrysler’s dealers, displacing Chrysler Financial.

GMAC must present a plan to the Treasury by June 8, outlining how it plans to raise that $11.5 billion, $9.1 billion of which must be new capital.

In a statement, the privately held firm said that it could issue new common equity or convertible preferred shares, which are debtlike securities that can be exchanged for common stock.

GMAC also said that it may exchange some of the government’s $5 billion in preferred shares.

“We support the government’s efforts to shore up the banking system and expect that the additional capital raised will further strengthen GMAC and aid in achieving our strategic objectives,” Alvaro G. de Molina, GMAC’s chief executive, said in a statement.

While people briefed on the matter said the government would most likely step in to help address GMAC’s shortfall, they cautioned that it was too early to determine what form that aid would take.

For nearly all of its 90-year history, GMAC served as G.M.’s financing arm, providing loans to car buyers and the automaker’s dealers.

But by the time G.M. had sold a majority stake in the business to Cerberus, GMAC’s Residential Capital arm held billions of dollars worth of subprime mortgages. Cerberus and G.M. agreed to reduce their stakes in GMAC as a condition of receiving bank holding company status.

Between the housing market’s collapse and the steep drop in auto sales, GMAC began running up losses, including a $675 million loss for the first quarter this year. The firm was forced to curtail its lending, costing it market share in its mainstay business, G.M. auto loans.

The turmoil that shook the credit markets last fall threatened to cut off GMAC’s ability to finance itself, forcing it to seek to assume the status of a bank holding company to qualify for low-cost borrowing from the Federal Reserve. As part of that effort, the firm was told to exchange 75 percent of its $38 billion in bonds, or $30 billion, into equity.

Yet GMAC extended deadline after deadline in an effort to persuade holdout bondholders, including the Pacific Investment Management Company, to tender their holdings.

Still, the Fed voted, 4 to 1, to approve its transformation into a bank.

Days later, GMAC disclosed that it had succeeded in exchanging only $21.2 billion worth of bonds, or 52 percent.

Now that the Obama administration has designated GMAC as the preferred lender for Chrysler as well, many analysts doubt that the firm will be allowed to fail.

“I haven’t thought about the implications because I don’t think it’s going to happen,” Mr. Casesa said of a potential GMAC receivership.

“Presumably, it could still be reorganized. You could create another finance company tomorrow, unlike a General Motors, which you couldn’t create tomorrow.”
287 2009-05-08 South Korean officials have detected “brisk” activity at a North Korean nuclear test site, a South Korean newspaper reported Thursday, citing an unidentified South Korean government official. Last week, the North said it would carry out a second nuclear test and test launch intercontinental ballistic missiles unless the United Nations Security Council apologized for criticizing the country’s April 5 rocket launching. The South Korean newspaper, Chosun Ilbo, reported that the authorities in Seoul were monitoring the movements of personnel and vehicles at a nuclear site in the northeastern county of Kilju, where the North conducted its first nuclear test in 2006. The paper quoted an unidentified South Korean government official as saying that the North was believed to be preparing to conduct a nuclear test soon. The paper did not say how South Korea obtained the intelligence. Officials at the Defense Ministry, Foreign Ministry and the National Intelligence Service said they could not confirm the report.
288 2009-05-08 An American man has been arrested for swimming across a lake to the home of the Nobel Peace Prize laureate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, an American diplomat in Yangon said Thursday. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader who has been under house arrest for 13 of the past 19 years, is rarely allowed visitors by Myanmar’s military junta. The street to her lakeside home is blocked by police barricades and checkpoints. The state-run Myanma Ahlin newspaper identified the man as John William Yeattaw. The diplomat, Richard Mei, the spokesman for the American Embassy in Yangon, confirmed Thursday evening that the man had been arrested and that American consular officials were trying to see him.
289 2009-05-08 Now, despite a few loud exceptions, including the recent protests of Gov. Rick Perry, Republican of Texas, and the Florida Legislature’s rejection of $444 million in stimulus money that would have required changing state rules for unemployment aid, the objections have proved muted as financially struggling states embrace federal help.

As many legislatures come to the end of their annual sessions, only four states have passed sovereignty measures through their full legislatures. The states that have — Alaska, Idaho, North Dakota and South Dakota — were successful in large part because of the strength of determined conservatives, who have long railed against an activist federal government.

“The stimulus money created a problem for us with the sovereignty thing,” said JoAn Wood, a Republican who is chairwoman of the House Transportation and Defense Committee in Idaho, which has overseen some legislative action on the stimulus money. “We’d like to stand on principle.”

Oklahoma had passed a sovereignty resolution that was later vetoed by Gov. Brad Henry, a Democrat. Mr. Henry said in a written statement that he had objected to the resolution’s suggestion that Oklahoma should return federal tax dollars and “that past and present U.S. leaders had violated the U.S. Constitution and committed crimes against the states.” The Legislature is expected to pass a new, less-strident measure that would not require the governor’s signature.

Despite the poor results, supporters insist that the paper protests signal that a movement is under way.

“Even though the bill didn’t pass, the message got out there,” said Matt Shea, a first-term Republican state representative from outside Spokane, Wash., who drafted a sovereignty resolution that never got a hearing in the Democratic-controlled Legislature.

Mr. Shea’s resolution was among the first filed in any state this year. After the measure was promoted on conservative Web sites, he said, “several hundred people,” including some from outside the state, contacted lawmakers to urge its passage. Parts of his resolution, cut and pasted, provided the framework for one that passed in Idaho, lawmakers here said.

Mr. Shea said legislative leaders in his state had rejected the resolution in part because “they did need the stimulus money” and approving the measure could have appeared contradictory.

“It doesn’t mean that the people aren’t behind it,” he added.

The sovereignty push has been fueled by Republican lawmakers and governors who say the Democratically controlled Congress and President Obama have attached too many strings to the stimulus package. Yet many supporters of sovereignty measures insist that party politics and the current economic climate are irrelevant. Some cite the No Child Left Behind education policy and the U.S.A. Patriot Act under President George W. Bush as flagrant acts of federal overreaching.

“This is about Washington, D.C., politicians in general,” said Randy Brogdon, a Republican state senator from outside Tulsa, Okla., who sponsored a sovereignty resolution this spring and is running for governor in 2010. Mr. Brogdon said he was motivated by longstanding issues like income tax rates and federal plans to require new restrictions on state driver’s licenses, though he said he was particularly vexed by the “feeding frenzy” he said the stimulus had created.

Michael Boldin, who runs a Web site called the Tenth Amendment Center, which tracks the resolutions, said the idea of state sovereignty, in its purist form, transcends partisanship. To some, he said, California’s aggressive environmental policies or its laws allowing medical marijuana might make it seem “the original sovereignty state.”

No sovereignty resolution has been proposed this year in California, and none has passed in any state dominated by Democrats. In some conservative states where the resolutions have had more support, some Republicans have been accused of exploiting the sovereignty issue to position themselves against moderates in the party.

In Texas, Mr. Perry, speaking at an anti-tax rally, seemed to endorse seceding from the union, though he later clarified that he had no such interest. Mr. Perry, who faces a re-election challenge from Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a more moderate Republican, has expressed support for a sovereignty resolution in Texas.

Here in Idaho, State Senator Elliot Werk, the assistant minority leader, said Republicans control the Legislature so overwhelmingly that their biggest political concern is primary challengers, not Democrats. Mr. Werk noted gun-rights bills that had passed, and a resolution that took a conservative stance on immigration. The stimulus package, he said, is another opportunity to express frustration, even as plenty of Republicans have voted to take the money.

Contradictions have been common here of late. Even Gov. C. L. Otter, a Republican known for vocal opposition to government expansion and strong support for states’ rights, has agreed to accept the stimulus money. (Mr. Otter has also angered many conservative Republicans by pressing to raise the gas tax.)

Aides to the governor say he believed he had no choice but to take the money, because money marked for Idaho would simply be steered toward other states.

Jon Hanian, a spokesman for the governor, said the concern was made vivid to Mr. Otter at a governors’ meeting in Washington this year. “Schwarzenegger told him, ‘Any money you don’t want, California will take,’ ” Mr. Hanian said, referring to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a California Republican.

Regardless of the complications of the moment, the sovereignty movement will continue, said Dick Harwood, an Idaho Republican who sponsored the resolution in the House.

“We’re going to have to come back next year,” he said.
290 2009-05-08 But the Internet has also made stock manipulation much easier. In the old days, a person — perhaps a broker for a penny stock firm — would have to contact an investor and talk him or her into buying the stock. That was expensive. Now, mass e-mail messages can be sent out — it appears that happened with MotivNation — and anonymous posters on bulletin boards can promote the stock at very low cost. One enthusiast signed his posts, “Cantgetmyname.”

Anyone who bothers to read the annual report filed by MotivNation can learn just how little fundamental value the company has, and how the company prints shares by the millions while it has no other business.

To be sure, the filing of that annual report was delayed past the due date, and by the time it arrived the stock promotion appeared to have settled down. In the weeks before the filing, the price of 100 shares of the stock leaped to a high of 37 cents, from 2 cents, and hundreds of millions of shares were traded. Now it is back to about 12 cents, still an amazing price given the company’s lack of a business.

Where did those shares come from? Many millions were newly printed by the company, sold to hedge funds at deep discounts to market value and almost immediately sold on to speculators. Others appear to have been sold by speculators who did not own any shares, and did not borrow any, but were placing bets that the stock price would decline. They were engaging in what is called naked short-selling, which is illegal if it is intended to manipulate the stock.

How many shares were created by each method? From the annual report, we know that MotivNation issued 28 million shares in the first quarter, but there is no way to know how many were issued after the end of the quarter, while volume was still high. As of the end of the quarter, the company had 134 million shares outstanding, up from 30 million last June, just before the company’s only operating subsidiary went into bankruptcy and ceased operations.

Under S.E.C. rules, stock markets each day release the name of any company where there have been failures to deliver at least one-half of 1 percent of the outstanding shares — a figure that for this company would be fewer than 700,000 shares. MotivNation went on the OTC Bulletin Board list a few days before the stock peaked in late March, and has stayed there since. From publicly available information, there is no way to know how many failures to deliver there have been.

A call to the phone number for MotivNation, in Irvine, Calif., was picked up by an answering machine that did not indicate whose number it was. The call was not returned.

Yoel Goldfeder, a lawyer for Corey Ribotsky, whose hedge funds were the buyers and distributors of the stock issued by the company, said his client had not promoted the stock he was buying and selling to the public. “We definitely would not have been involved in marketing anything, especially, as in this case, if there was nothing much to market,” he said.

Mr. Ribotsky’s funds have made similar investments in numerous other companies, and claim to be among the most profitable hedge funds in recent years. In this case, they have the right to buy MotivNation stock at any time they want — paying half of the lowest price the stock has traded for in any three of the most recent 20 days. There is a limit as to how many shares the funds can own, but that limit is irrelevant since they can purchase more shares as soon as they sell the ones already bought.

Who’s the villain here? Is it Mr. Ribotsky’s funds? They appear to have followed the rules. Is it the company? It has made the required disclosures, albeit sometimes on a tardy basis. Is it people who promoted the stock? Perhaps, but it is not easy to know exactly who they are. Is it the naked shorts? They have violated S.E.C. rules, but at the same time they have probably saved investors money by keeping the stock from rising to heights even more absurd than the ones it reached.

If the villain is not easy to spot, the victims are. They are the people who will end up owning worthless stock. Don’t be surprised if some of them conclude that they were victimized not by the people who promoted a company with nothing to recommend it, but by the naked short-sellers who figured out what was happening and, in effect, siphoned off some profits that would have gone to the promoters.
291 2009-05-08 The trustee gathering assets for the victims of Bernard L. Madoff’s fraud has sued a prominent New York City hedge fund investor, J. Ezra Merkin, to recover almost $500 million withdrawn from Madoff accounts in the last six years.

The case was filed on Thursday in federal court in Manhattan by the trustee, Irving H. Picard, who is liquidating Mr. Madoff’s brokerage firm and conducting a global search for assets to repay swindled investors.

According to the complaint, Mr. Merkin steered more than $1 billion into Mr. Madoff’s hands since 1995 through three large private hedge funds, Ascot Partners, Ariel Fund and Gabriel Capital. The Ariel fund is not related to Ariel Investments of Chicago.

Since 2002, Mr. Merkin’s funds withdrew at least $494 million from the Madoff scheme — returns that a financially sophisticated investor like Mr. Merkin “knew or should have known” were fraudulent, the lawsuit contends.

Among the warning signs ignored by Mr. Merkin were at least 500 instances in the last 10 years when his Madoff account statements showed large blocks of stock bought or sold at prices that did not match the stock’s trading range for the day when the transactions supposedly occurred.
292 2009-05-08 Much of “Outrage” consists of interviews with journalists and activists who reflect on that history, including Andrew Sullivan, the blogger and author; Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat; and Larry Kramer, the novelist and playwright who was a founder of Act Up. Their reflections are interwoven with allegations about the sex lives of several well-known current political figures, including Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, Representative David Dreier of California and Larry E. Craig, the former Idaho senator whose arrest on a charge of soliciting sex in a Minnesota airport bathroom provides Mr. Dick with his most complete case study.

The central claim of “Outrage” — advanced most ardently by Michael Rogers, a blogger who sees it as his mission to name names and reveal secrets — is that politicians who vote against gay interests while surreptitiously pursuing gay sex deserve exposure. There was a time when this position seemed much more radical than it does now, and I suspect that “Outrage” might create less of a furor than it would have a few years ago.

The reason for this may have less to do with the vicissitudes of electoral politics, which are Mr. Dick’s focus, than with the social changes his film quietly and powerfully documents. In other words, the real story is not in the discretion and possible dishonesty of the targets of outing, but rather in the openness and self-acceptance of nearly everyone else in the film, people who are able to assert their humanity, their normalcy, without shame or apology.

“Washington is a very gay town,” one of them says. “And it’s also a deeply closeted town.” A generation ago the first part of that statement would have sounded scandalous, but a generation from now the second part is likely to sound quaint, even a little outlandish, as parents patiently explain to their puzzled children that in the olden days gay people were supposed to be ashamed of themselves, just as black people were forced to use different bathrooms and women were not allowed to vote.

Which is not to say that the debates and issues raised by “Outrage” are by any means settled. But history moves fast, and this movie, haunted overtly by the 2004 elections and implicitly by the passage of Proposition 8 last year in California, when Republicans successfully rallied opposition to gay marriage, meets its audience in a notably changed world. Somewhat surprisingly, what was clearly intended as a culture-war call to arms feels more like a declaration of victory.

Opens on Friday in New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, San Francisco and Washington.

Written and directed by Kirby Dick; director of photography, Thaddeus Wadleigh; edited by Doug Blush and Matt Clarke; music by Peter Golub; produced by Amy Ziering; released by Magnolia Pictures. In Manhattan at the Chelsea Clearview Cinemas, 260 West 23d Street. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated.
293 2009-05-08 Under regulators’ worst-case assumptions, the 19 banks might suffer $600 billion in losses through 2010, on top of the hundreds of billions that have already vaporized in this financial crisis. About 9 percent of all loans might sour — a figure that is even higher than it was during the Great Depression. One in five credit card loans could go unpaid, more than double the typical loss rate. Approximately one in 10 mortgages could sour.

The tests also left some crucial questions unanswered, including the big one: What happens if this recession turns out to be even worse than that worst-case situation, and the banks’ losses start growing? The results suggest the big bailouts for the banks are over. But many wonder if banks will be in a position to make the loans needed to revive growth, even under rosier economic assumptions.

“Everybody should breathe a sigh of relief,” said Peter J. Solomon, who runs a boutique investment bank and early in his career worked at Lehman Brothers. “Now the question is, So what? Will they lend?”

The results shined an uncomfortable spotlight on the most troubled financial institutions: GMAC, the finance arm of General Motors; Bank of America; Wells Fargo; and Citigroup. Several large regional banks — like Regions Financial in Alabama and SunTrust Banks in Georgia, and Keycorp and Fifth Third in Ohio — were also deemed to need large sums of capital.

But many banking executives, free to discuss the results publicly for the first time, sought to put a positive spin on the tests. In a rush of conference calls with analysts, they generally characterized the results as a sign that their institutions could weather another downturn in the economy. Many said federal regulators were overly pessimistic in their assessments and insisted that they would move quickly to repay bailout money.

“Our game plan is to get the government out of our bank as quickly as possible,” said Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America.

But even Mr. Lewis acknowledged that his bank faced some serious challenges. Regulators determined that Bank of America needed to raise about $34 billion in equity capital. The bank hopes to raise half of that by selling common stock and converting preferred shares to common stock. It hopes to raise the rest by selling assets like First Republic Bank and Columbia Management, its Boston-based investment unit, and using its future earnings. If that fails, the bank will have to convert some of the $45 billion of preferred stock that the government owns into common shares, increasing the government’s stake.

Even before federal regulators announced the results of its stress tests, Wells Fargo announced that it would offer $6 billion in common stock. The government is requiring the bank to raise an additional $13.7 billion.

Wells executives — who balked at accepting bailout money last autumn — said they expected to raise the remainder largely through revenue growth that they say they believe will far exceed the expectations of government regulators.

But Wells Fargo officials also disputed the government’s conclusions, arguing that the government’s revenue forecasts were “excessively conservative.”

“In our analysis, we thought we didn’t need any capital,” said John Stumpf, the bank’s president and chief executive.

Citigroup, which for many has come to symbolize the problems plaguing the financial industry, has already been moving quickly to address its problems. Regulators determined that the bank must raise $5.5 billion, on top of recent efforts to raise capital by selling businesses and converting just over half of the $45 billion in bailout funds to common stock.

Vikram S. Pandit, the bank’s chief executive, said he would expand the company’s offer to exchange preferred shares of stock for common stock to a broader assortment of private investors. The moves will severely dilute the bank’s shareholders and will leave the government with a 34 percent ownership stake, slightly less than investors expected.

“We have had to make some very tough decisions,” Mr. Pandit said. “We are kind of happy we did them along the way.” But a handful of stronger banks are pulling away from their weaker peers and emerging as institutions that could dominate the industry.

Goldman Sachs, for instance, has said that it hopes to return the $10 billion it received from the government as soon as possible. On Thursday, regulators said Goldman did not need more capital.

JPMorgan Chase, which was also deemed to have enough capital, is pushing to return bailout money as well. Yet it, too, took issue with the results, arguing it was in an even stronger position than the results suggested.

“We think we can handle an even more significantly negative environment and still make a profit,” Michael J. Cavanagh, chief financial officer, said.

For Washington and Wall Street, the main question is whether investors and depositors will take solace from these results. Banks and administration officials are eager to persuade private investors that the banks are stable enough to invest in.

“The golden ring here, if you can catch it, is confidence,” said Tanya Azarchs, the bank rating analyst at Standard & Poor’s.
294 2009-05-08 The ill-fated bargain struck between the moneylender Shylock and the businessman Antonio evolves into a grim prison grudge match in the provocative new production of “The Merchant of Venice” that opened Wednesday night at the Brooklyn Academy of Music’s Harvey Theater. Directed by Edward Hall, this co-production between the all-male Propeller company and the Watermill Theater puts Shakespeare’s play on lockdown in a brutally violent men’s jail where rival gangs vie for supremacy.

The set by Michael Pavelka is a two-tiered construction of cells surrounding a central space, the prison yard where the men eat and brawl and make sexual and mercenary deals. The scream of a shrill bell marks the changes between scenes. Taunts and sniggering laughter echo in the smoky air, and the men ratchet up the tension with raucous music made by running spoons, cups and makeshift weapons against the bars of the cells.

In ways both good and bad Mr. Hall’s bold conceit works radical changes on our response to this troubling, sometimes troublesome play. The frank depiction of anti-Semitism on the part of ostensibly sympathetic characters can make watching it an unsettling experience for modern audiences. Here the play’s religious overtones are almost entirely obliterated.

Mr. Hall begins and ends the play with the Duke of Venice (Babou Ceesay) moving to center stage to confront the audience with a question: “Which is the Christian, and which the Jew?” — a variation on a line of Portia’s in the trial scene. The drama that takes place in between makes clear that there is little real difference between them. Shakespeare’s language is intact — the words “Christian” and “Jew” still sting — but their painful charge is obscured because literal meaning has been drained away.

Although the Christians outnumber the Jews, and have crosses tattooed on their flesh in various places, we are clearly watching two equally merciless gangs battle it out. Clothed in the same grimy gray uniforms, all are merely men banding together to gain strength, seeking to strike satisfying bargains in an economy whose limits drive them to desperate lengths.

Accordingly, this is the first production of “Merchant” I’ve seen that dares to present a wholly unsympathetic Shylock, played as a calculating, utterly ruthless schemer by the impressive Richard Clothier. Do not expect tears to fill your eyes with the usual anguished feeling during Shylock’s most famous speech, the quiet argument for Jewish humanity in which he asks, “If you prick us, do we not bleed?” and other rhetorical questions.
295 2009-05-08 General Electric is shifting the strategy in its $17 billion-a-year health equipment and technology business, seeking to broaden its reach with more lower-cost products.

The move is part of a wide-ranging marketing and business initiative announced on Thursday, called “healthymagination.” General Electric’s health business, known for its medical imaging and diagnostic machines, is struggling in a weak economy.

The hospitals and clinics that buy such sophisticated and costly equipment are reducing capital spending in the downturn. In the first quarter, revenue for G.E.’s health care business fell 9 percent, to $3.55 billion, and its operating profit fell 22 percent, to $411 million.

“The high end in health care is never going to go away,” Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.’s chief executive, said in an interview on Thursday. “But this will make us broader in terms of price points and offerings.”

As part of the new health strategy, G.E. said it would invest $3 billion to develop at least 100 product and services innovations by 2015. The criteria for the new products, G.E. said, will be that they lower cost, increase access and improve quality by 15 percent. The threshold measurements will be done by Oxford Analytica, a consulting and analysis firm.
296 2009-05-08 BERLIN — Microsoft will argue against a European Commission proposal that it promote competing browsers in its Windows operating system on the ground that such a move would strengthen its rival Google’s dominance in the global search-advertising market, according to a person with direct knowledge of Microsoft’s legal defense.

The company will make the argument at a June hearing in Brussels as part of an antitrust inquiry about the packaging of its Internet Explorer browser with Windows, which powers more than 90 percent of the world’s personal computers.

The person with knowledge of Microsoft’s legal strategy, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the case, said that Microsoft would outline what it saw as the damaging effects to the search-advertising industry of incorporating competing browsers — like Firefox from Mozilla or Chrome from Google — into Windows.

Mozilla derives the bulk of its income from the fees it receives for driving Web traffic to Google’s search engine. Google makes most of its revenue with advertising aimed at search results. Google dominates the search advertising sector.

“Not only would Google’s browser Chrome suddenly be on all Windows PCs, but it would strengthen Google’s dominance in search advertising,” said this person.
297 2009-05-08 LOS ANGELES — The boom times brought many things to Riverside County government — revenues, jobs and enhanced comfort of a private sort. But like most places in America, times are tough, and four-ply toilet tissue must go.

Two years ago, the county’s supervisor, Jeff Stone, responding to criticisms that the quality of the one-ply toilet paper used in the county’s 340 buildings was substandard, switched, with the board’s approval, to the softer two-ply.

This was good, and the people were happy.

“When he made that change from one-ply to two-ply, it was very well received,” said Verne Lauritzen, Mr. Stone’s chief of staff.

But then, as sometimes happens on the taxpayers’ dime, a bit of entitlement seemed to set in, and soon enough, the county’s 10 elected officials, the executive leadership and their staff members were being treated to Angel Soft four-ply toilet tissue. A sense of inequity set in: Among the 18,500 employees working over the 7,200 square miles of this county just east of Los Angeles, why was it that some — less than a 100 in all — were getting the extra soft?

“I can’t tell you when exactly,” Tom Freeman, a county spokesman, said of the decision to upgrade. “There was a texture test, and then the Facilities Management Department decided that Angel Soft would be utilized for elected officials and their guests. The remainder of the county facilities would be using two-ply.”

There was some whistle-blowing, and the whole toilet paper thing did not go over so well at a time when all county workers are taking a 10 percent pay cut in light of huge budget shortfalls. The county buys half a million rolls a year, its biggest volume purchase, and spent $270,000 on toilet paper in 2008.

It seems four-ply — though less than a third of a penny per sheet more expensive than two-ply — will have to go.
298 2009-05-08 Legal scholars have praised Justice Souter’s care, candor and curiosity. But they have said that he is, by temperament and design, a low-impact justice devoted to deciding one case at a time, sifting through the facts and making incremental adjustments in legal doctrine to take account of them.

Other justices have had more impact, gaining influence through personal and intellectual persuasion.

Justice Souter filled the seat left vacant by Justice William J. Brennan, a liberal lion who was also a master tactician. The first rule of the Supreme Court, Justice Brennan would say, holding up his open hand, is to get to five — meaning persuading five of the nine justices. Justice Brennan also took the long view, planting seeds in bland footnotes in the hope they would take root in other cases years later.

Other justices have gained influence through intellectual combat and commitment to a judicial philosophy. Justice Antonin Scalia’s views about the importance of adhering to the text and original meaning of the Constitution and statutes, for instance, has come to dominate conservative judicial thinking.

“The replacement to Souter is not going to make an ideological majority for progressives,” said Abner J. Mikva, a former federal judge who taught with Mr. Obama at the University of Chicago. “The new justice has got to be someone who can persuade Kennedy and maybe even Alito.” Justice Anthony M. Kennedy is the court’s swing justice; Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., a conservative, is its newest member.

Mr. Mikva said the other members of the court’s liberal wing — it includes Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and John Paul Stevens — had not been up to the task. “Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg are good justices,” he said, “but they can’t lead. They can’t bring people with them.”

If that is so, it has not been for lack of trying. Justice Breyer, in particular, has been an active intellectual adversary of Justice Scalia on the bench and in his book, ”Active Liberty,” which said the goal of constitutional interpretation should be to enhance democratic participation.

But Justice Breyer is a liberal in a different mold from larger-than-life figures like Justice Brennan, Justice Thurgood Marshall or Chief Justice Earl Warren, who led the court through what many liberals consider a golden age.

It is not clear, though, who might step into that role now. The lower courts are filled with judges appointed by Republican presidents or by President Bill Clinton, who tended to appoint moderates. Should Mr. Obama want a big liberal voice, he might have to look to the legal academy. Kathleen M. Sullivan and Pamela S. Karlan, both professors at Stanford Law School, are often mentioned as possibilities.

Justice Souter arrived at the court in 1990 as a presumptive conservative put there by President George Bush. Just two years later, he helped write a joint opinion with Justices Kennedy and Sandra Day O’Connor in Planned Parenthood v. Casey reaffirming the core constitutional right to abortion identified in Roe v. Wade in 1973.

Justice Souter went on to disappoint his conservative patrons in countless other cases. Indeed, had he been the conservative that Republicans were hoping for, scores of important 5-to-4 decisions in the last two decades would have flipped the other way, and a solid conservative majority would have fundamentally reshaped the court’s docket as well.

“Roe would have been overruled,” said Geoffrey Stone, a law professor at the University of Chicago, “and many more of the Warren Court decisions would have been completely undermined.”

Similarly, it is a little glib to say that Mr. Obama will not reshape the basic dynamic of the court in appointing a liberal replacement for a liberal justice. If nothing else, Mr. Obama has the opportunity to replace Justice Souter, who is 69, with someone perhaps two decades younger, meaning that the justice’s seat is likely to remain a liberal one for a long time.

John O. McGinnis, a conservative law professor at Northwestern, said Mr. Obama should be looking for Justice Souter’s opposite in one respect. “Justice Souter shows negatively the importance of trying to find a very good writer,” Professor McGinnis said. “That is a hugely important criterion.”

But Mr. Shapiro, the editor of the book of legal quotations, said Justice Souter’s shortcomings were not unique.

“The contemporary Supreme Court is woefully lacking in eloquence,” Mr. Shapiro said. “Justice Souter, despite being an intelligent jurist with a wry sense of humor, is as eloquence-challenged as the others, and there are few memorable lines in his opinions.”

Even Justice Souter’s resignation letter was punctilious and reserved. In her own resignation letter in 2005, Justice O’Connor said she left with “with enormous respect for the integrity of the court and its role under our constitutional structure.”

Justice Souter invoked nothing that grand. Instead, he told Mr. Obama that was retiring “under the provision of 28 U.S.C. Section 371(b)(1), having attained the age and met the service requirements of subsection (c) of that section.” He appeared to have signed it in fountain pen, in script that would not have looked out of place on the Declaration of Independence.
299 2009-05-08 Given the battered economy, increasing joblessness and collapse of the housing market, what is the state of the American dream?

Pollsters for The New York Times and CBS News set out last month to try to answer that question. And the results seemed somewhat contradictory.

Although the nation has plunged into its deepest recession since the Great Depression, 72 percent of Americans in this nationwide survey said they believed it is possible to start out poor in the United States, work hard and become rich  a classic definition of the American dream.

And yet only 44 percent said they had actually achieved the American dream, although 31 percent said they expect to attain it within their lifetime. Only 20 percent have given up on ever reaching it. Those 44 percent might not sound like much, but it is an increase over the 32 percent who said they had achieved the American dream four years ago, when the economy was in much better shape.

Compared with four years ago, fewer people now say they are better off than their parents were at their age or that their children will be better off than they are.

So even though their economic outlook is worse, more people are saying they have either achieved the dream or expect to do so.

We asked Barry Glassner, who is a professor of sociology at the University of Southern California and studies contemporary culture and beliefs.

“You want to hold on to your dream even more when times are hard,” he said. “And if you want to hold on to it, then you better define it differently.”

In other words, people are shifting their definition of the American dream. And the poll  conducted on April 1 to 5 with 998 adults, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points indicated just that.

The Times and CBS News asked this same open-ended question four years ago and again last month: “What does the phrase ‘The American dream’ mean to you?”

Four years ago, 19 percent of those surveyed supplied answers that related to financial security and a steady job, and 20 percent gave answers that related to freedom and opportunity.

Now, fewer people are pegging their dream to material success and more are pegging it to abstract values. Those citing financial security dropped to 11 percent, and those citing freedom and opportunity expanded to 27 percent.

Here’s some respondents’ answers that were put in the category of freedom and opportunity:

“Freedom to live our own life.”

“That everybody has a fair chance to succeed.”

“To become whatever I want to be.”

“To be healthy and have nice family and friends.”

“More like Huck Finn; escape to the unknown; follow your dreams.”

Those who responded in material terms were hardly lavish. Here’s a sampling:

“Basically, have a roof over your head and put food on the table.”

“Working at a secure job, being able to have a home and live as happily as you can not spending too much money.”

Mr. Glassner said, “For the vast majority of Americans at every point in history, the prospect of achieving the American dream has been slim but the promise has been huge.”

“At its core, this notion that anyone can be president or anyone can be a billionaire is absurd,” he said. “A lot of Americans work hard, but they don’t become president and they don’t become billionaires.”

Still, he said, Americans have always believed in possibilities. And they have consistently said over time that they can start poor in this country and become rich, regardless of the economy or their circumstances. The 72 percent who feel that way today is down from the 81 percent who felt that way in 2007, but 72 percent is still a very high percentage, especially given the downward economy.

“It would be hard to find another country where it’s as high,” Mr. Glassner said.

The percentage of people who say the American dream does not exist or is only an illusion has remained low  3 percent today and 2 percent four years ago. As one such person put it to our pollsters last month: “A bunch of hooey.”

By the way, the phrase “the American dream” is generally agreed to have been coined first in 1931, in the midst of the Depression. In his book, “The Epic of America,” the historian James Truslow Adams wrote, “It is not a dream of motor cars and high wages merely, but a dream of social order in which each man and each woman shall be able to attain the fullest stature of which they are innately capable.”
300 2009-05-08 Even if G.M. satisfies Mr. Obama’s other requirements — including reaching a new cost-cutting deal with its unions and persuading its bondholders to agree to sharply reduce debt — the company looks less viable, not more, than it did five months ago.

With Chrysler already in bankruptcy, many industry analysts say they think G.M. is next.

“It’s looking like a real high probability,” said Brett D. Hoselton, an analyst with KeyBanc Capital Markets. “Chrysler is the best indicator at this point of where we’re heading with G.M.”

Investors appear to be arriving at the same conclusion. G.M.’s stock dropped to $1.60, down 3 percent, on Thursday, and its market capitalization fell below $1 billion.

In the first quarter, G.M. lost $5.9 billion, excluding special items, during the three-month period that ended in March. Its revenue fell to $22.4 billion — a 47 percent drop compared with the first quarter of 2008. It was the company’s eighth consecutive quarterly loss.

G.M. said it built 1.33 million vehicles globally in the quarter, 903,000 fewer than it did in the same period last year.

The company’s chief financial officer, Ray Young, called the drop in production “a staggering number,” and said consumers were showing increasing concern about G.M. products because of the potential for bankruptcy.

If G.M. does have to file for bankruptcy protection, Mr. Young emphasized Thursday that the automaker would need to emerge quickly from court proceedings to keep sales from falling even more.

“Once you start losing revenues, you get yourself into a vicious cycle from which you cannot recover,” Mr. Young said in a conference call with analysts and reporters. “We prefer to restructure outside of bankruptcy, but if we have to go in, we need to go in and out quickly.”

G.M. ended the quarter with $11.6 billion in cash, roughly the level of liquidity it has said it needs to keep operating and paying its bills.

In late April, the government lent G.M. an additional $2 billion and committed to providing the company with enough working capital to reach the June 1 deadline.

During the quarter, G.M. depleted its cash reserves by $10.2 billion. That is twice the company’s rate of spending in the fourth quarter.

Industry analysts said the results would have been worse if the company hadn’t already taken drastic cost-cutting steps, including shedding 20,000 jobs since the middle of last year.

“It almost didn’t matter what General Motors’ first-quarter results looked like,” said Shelly Lombard, an analyst with the bond research firm Gimme Credit. “With auto sales off dramatically, the market expected G.M.’s results to be terrible and one good quarter wouldn’t have been enough to convince the market of a turnaround anyway.”

The quarterly results, once so closely watched for signs of progress at G.M., were viewed more as evidence of its slide toward bankruptcy.

“The numbers are almost inconsequential,” said Kip D. Penniman Jr., a credit analyst with KDP Investment Advisors. “We know that G.M. is presently unsustainable.”

G.M.’s chief executive, Fritz Henderson, said Thursday that the company was at a “defining moment” in its 100-year history, and was continuing to work toward fulfilling the government’s requirements for future assistance.

The automaker this week reopened talks with the United Automobile Workers on using stock to finance half of its $20 billion in retiree health care obligations.

The U.A.W. reached a similar deal with Chrysler before it entered bankruptcy last week. But G.M.’s plans to cut an additional 21,000 union jobs has drawn fire from union officials, and could make the negotiations tougher than at Chrysler.

G.M. is also offering stock to the thousands of individual bondholders who collectively hold $27 billion in the company’s debt. G.M. has said it needs to cut the debt by at least $24 billion.

Even Mr. Henderson has questioned whether G.M. has a realistic chance to get 90 percent of its bondholders to convert their debt to equity. Analysts discount the possibility almost entirely.

“G.M. will never get anywhere close to 90 percent of the bondholders,” Mr. Penniman said, adding that a determining factor on a G.M. bankruptcy might be how quickly Chrysler’s case moved forward.
301 2009-05-08 Prime Minister vowed Thursday to “eliminate” the militants who have taken over large parts of the country, publicly declaring a get-tough strategy that American officials have been urging on him since he took office last year.

“To restore the honor and dignity of our homeland and to protect our people, the armed forces have been called in to eliminate the militants and terrorists,” Mr. Gilani said in a nationally televised address. “We will not bow before extremists and terrorists.”

Mr. Gilani delivered the speech as Pakistani soldiers battled Islamic militants who had taken control of three districts northwest of the capital, Islamabad. In one of those areas, , Mr. Gilani said, the militants had reneged on a peace deal signed in February and had no one to blame but themselves.

“The militants have waged war against all segments of society,” Mr. Gilani said. “I regret to say that our bona fide intention to prefer reconciliation with them was perceived as a weakness on our part.”

The speech appeared to reflect a break with the Taliban, who have been supported by elements of the Pakistan military and intelligence services since the mid-1990s. That support, which has been provided covertly, has enraged a succession of American leaders, who have helped give Pakistan’s military more than $1 billion a year since 2001.

Pakistan’s military has fought a desultory series of campaigns against the Taliban since 2004, and the militants have only grown stronger. It has never been clear the degree to which the failures of those military campaigns has been caused by incompetence, and how much by complicity. Pakistan’s army is in many respects stronger than the civilian government, and military leaders have ruled the country more often than not since its birth in 1947.
302 2009-05-08 In the heat of the credit market turmoil last fall, the Federal Reserve agreed to convert several nonbank institutions, including American Express, into bank holding companies. And, in a controversial move, it also bestowed that status on GMAC, even though the company fell short of certain requirements.

Days later, the Treasury Department injected $5 billion into GMAC and gave G.M. $1 billion to acquire additional equity in it as well.

“GMAC is integral to G.M., and without a functioning GMAC, you don’t have a functioning G.M.,” said John A. Casesa, managing partner in the Casesa Shapiro Group and a longtime industry analyst. “To the extent that the government has an enormous amount of money at risk in G.M., it’s essential to help GMAC to protect that investment.”

Last week, President Obama said that his administration would supply GMAC with money to take over the financing of Chrysler’s dealers, displacing Chrysler Financial.

GMAC must present a plan to the Treasury by June 8, outlining how it plans to raise that $11.5 billion, $9.1 billion of which must be new capital.

In a statement, the privately held firm said that it could issue new common equity or convertible preferred shares, which are debtlike securities that can be exchanged for common stock.

GMAC also said that it may exchange some of the government’s $5 billion in preferred shares.

“We support the government’s efforts to shore up the banking system and expect that the additional capital raised will further strengthen GMAC and aid in achieving our strategic objectives,” Alvaro G. de Molina, GMAC’s chief executive, said in a statement.

While people briefed on the matter said the government would most likely step in to help address GMAC’s shortfall, they cautioned that it was too early to determine what form that aid would take.

For nearly all of its 90-year history, GMAC served as G.M.’s financing arm, providing loans to car buyers and the automaker’s dealers.

But by the time G.M. had sold a majority stake in the business to Cerberus, GMAC’s Residential Capital arm held billions of dollars worth of subprime mortgages. Cerberus and G.M. agreed to reduce their stakes in GMAC as a condition of receiving bank holding company status.

Between the housing market’s collapse and the steep drop in auto sales, GMAC began running up losses, including a $675 million loss for the first quarter this year. The firm was forced to curtail its lending, costing it market share in its mainstay business, G.M. auto loans.

The turmoil that shook the credit markets last fall threatened to cut off GMAC’s ability to finance itself, forcing it to seek to assume the status of a bank holding company to qualify for low-cost borrowing from the Federal Reserve. As part of that effort, the firm was told to exchange 75 percent of its $38 billion in bonds, or $30 billion, into equity.

Yet GMAC extended deadline after deadline in an effort to persuade holdout bondholders, including the Pacific Investment Management Company, to tender their holdings.

Still, the Fed voted, 4 to 1, to approve its transformation into a bank.

Days later, GMAC disclosed that it had succeeded in exchanging only $21.2 billion worth of bonds, or 52 percent.

Now that the Obama administration has designated GMAC as the preferred lender for Chrysler as well, many analysts doubt that the firm will be allowed to fail.

“I haven’t thought about the implications because I don’t think it’s going to happen,” Mr. Casesa said of a potential GMAC receivership.

“Presumably, it could still be reorganized. You could create another finance company tomorrow, unlike a General Motors, which you couldn’t create tomorrow.”
303 2009-05-08 SCHIFF--Anne (Weiss), 71, died peacefully at home in Los Angeles on May 6, 2009 surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of over 47 years to Ronald Schiff, adored mother to Mike and Dave Schiff, both of Los Angeles, and their wives Jennifer and Jenn...
304 2009-05-08 BANK TEST RESULTS  Announcing the results of the federal stress tests,  regulators ordered 10 of the 19 largest financial institutions to raise a total of $75 billion in extra capital.       The results of the examinations drew a line in the banki...
305 2009-05-08 KISSEL--Michael Case. Age 60 died at home on May 5 from brain cancer. Michael graduated from St. George's School and attended Yale University. He founded KMA Music, the writers studio and achieved widespread success in several genres of music incl...
306 2009-05-08 BENOIT--Etta Fleming, died peacefully on Wednesday, April 29, 2009 in Philadelphia, PA. She was the widow of Emile Benoit. A lifetime Quaker, she served for over two decades as an economist for the United Nations. She enjoyed cross-word puzzles, S...
307 2009-05-09 Paul Bowers, who has just completed his sophomore year at the University of South Carolina, is the winner of this year's win-a-trip contest, traveling with Nicholas Kristof through five countries of western Africa. BISSAU, Guinea Bissau - Maximian...
308 2009-05-09 AT&T, the country’s second-biggest wireless phone company, agreed Friday to pay $2.35 billion in cash to buy assets put up for auction by Verizon Wireless.

The network assets and mobile licenses are for 79 service regions in 18 states, mostly rural areas, AT&T said in a statement.

AT&T will be 1.5 million customers closer to closing the service gap with Verizon. Verizon surpassed AT&T to become the largest wireless carrier after it acquired the Alltel Corporation in January.

Verizon’s dominance in more than 20 markets led the Federal Communications Commission to demand the asset sale.

“It’s a competitor that has the scale to compete with” Verizon, said Christopher King, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Company in Baltimore. He advises investors to buy shares of both companies but does not own either.
309 2009-05-09 “After 10 Years and 2,000 Deaths, China Still Presses Its Crusade Against Falun Gong” (news article, April 28) notes that some persecuted Falun Gong practitioners in China have recently been represented by lawyers. But it should be noted that such lawyers themselves face severe repression for taking on these clients.

Urgent in this regard is the case of Gao Zhisheng, a human rights lawyer who was “disappeared” by police in China on Feb. 4 and has not been heard from since. Mr. Gao had represented members of Falun Gong and had written a letter to President Hu Jintao calling for an end to their persecution. He was later detained for two months and left a detailed account of torture he suffered at the hands of his captors.

Foreign governments and N.G.O.’s have called upon China to release Mr. Gao or at least to provide information about his health and whereabouts. The Chinese government has refused.

The writer, a professor of international human rights at Fordham Law School, is vice chairman of the Committee to Support Chinese Lawyers.
310 2009-05-09 “U.S. Plans Informal Meetings With Cuban Diplomats to Improve Communications” (news article, April 27) reported government officials as indicating the Obama administration to be quietly pushing to reopen channels of communication with Cuba. This simply makes sense. How, after all, do two countries resolve their disagreements without talking?

Further, I have just returned from Havana, where I accompanied the mayor of Galveston, Tex., Lyda Ann Thomas, to discuss with Cuban officials how our two countries might more effectively cooperate in defending against the hurricanes that seem to be striking us both with increasing frequency and ferocity. One can hardly argue against the need for or the logic of that!

We were also struck, however, by the way in which every Cuban official with whom we spoke, including those in the Foreign Ministry, emphasized Cuba’s interest in having a constructive dialogue with the United States on a much broader basis. As one official put it: “It’s been 50 years! Surely it’s time to begin to talk — about so many things!”

And after all, if we have normal diplomatic and trade relations with Communist China and Vietnam, surely we can at least begin a dialogue with the Cubans, a dialogue that can result in reduced tensions and a more propitious atmosphere for the kind of changes we’d hope eventually to see.

The writer, a senior fellow at the Center for International Policy, was chief of the United States Interests Section in Havana, 1979-82.
311 2009-05-09 I read “Student’s Goal Is College. The Hurdle Is Finding Financial Aid” (news article, May 1) with great empathy for the plight of the student admitted to our university and seeking ways to finance his education through scholarships.

The University of California, Berkeley, offered the student a financial aid package that included subsidized federal loans, work-study eligibility, a grant for mandatory health insurance and a scholarship. Between these awards and other unsubsidized federal loans, the student was offered enough aid to cover his full cost of attendance for the academic year.

The University of California follows federal formulas for calculating financial aid eligibility. Unfortunately, the amount of money that middle-income families with rental property are expected to pay under that federal formula can be daunting.

Our financial aid director has contacted the student to determine whether the family has experienced a significant change in its financial situation since submitting the aid application. If circumstances have changed, the family can submit a financial aid appeal.

All middle-class students and their parents should know that other avenues of assistance exist, including the Blue and Gold Opportunity Plan, which ensures that families with total income of less than $60,000 have their systemwide fees covered by grants and scholarships.
312 2009-05-09 Apple has reversed itself and will allow a Nine Inch Nails-themed application to be carried in its iPhone Apps store after all, the BBC News reported. Last weekend, Trent Reznor, right, the front man of the band Nine Inch Nails, posted on his Web site, nin.com, an e-mail message from Apple officials, who said the application had been rejected for what they called objectionable content because it offered a streaming version of the band’s song “The Downward Spiral.” Mr. Reznor said at the time that he had removed the song from his servers, and on Thursday he wrote on his Twitter feed that Apple had approved the application, adding, “The NIN iPhone app is unchanged, the ‘issues’ seem to have been resolved.” Apple did not immediately comment on why it had decided to allow the application.
313 2009-05-09 Federal prosecutors dismissed charges against one of the largest contractors in the Big Dig project in connection with a tunnel collapse that killed a woman, but the company pleaded guilty to lying about construction defects in another tunnel. The company, Modern Continental Construction, acknowledged that some of its field employees knew about poor workmanship on a slurry wall panel in the Tip O’Neill Tunnel on Interstate 93 before portions of the wall blew out in 2004. Modern Continental also acknowledged that it had overbilled the Big Dig by falsely charging higher journeyman rates for work really done by apprentices. But prosecutors agreed to dismiss the most serious charges against the company, related to the government’s accusation that the company knowingly used the wrong type of adhesive to hold up concrete anchors that failed in the collapse of the Interstate 90 connector tunnel in July 2006. Milena Del Valle, 39, of Boston was killed in the collapse.
314 2009-05-09 But the reduction has been a losing proposition. Although the effort saved Medicare roughly $5 million a year, Park Nicollet is not paid to provide the follow-up care. Meanwhile, fewer returning hospital patients mean lower revenue for Park Nicollet.

“We’ve kept it up out of a sense of moral obligation to these patients, but we’re getting killed,” said David K. Wessner, chief executive of Park Nicollet. “We will totally run out of gas.”

Another hospital system, Catholic Healthcare Partners in Cincinnati, has dropped a similarly successful follow-up program. The hospital said it did so because it could not afford the additional expense of keeping heart failure patients out of the hospital. Medicare officials argue that hospitals and doctors should already be doing what is best for patients. And they say some simple steps could be adopted at little expense, such as making sure patients get a list of the medications they should take after leaving the hospital. But Medicare, the Obama administration and some members of Congress now at work on health care legislation have acknowledged the need to change the payment system.

“Ultimately, we have a reimbursement system for health care that is not aligned all the time with providing high-quality care,” said Dr. Barry M. Straube, the chief medical officer for Medicare. “Unequivocally, there has to be payment reform.”

At Park Nicollet, the key to reducing readmissions is an early-warning system that signals when heart failure patients’ symptoms are starting to worsen.

All the heart patients in the program weigh themselves daily at home and answer a few simple questions, like whether they are short of breath. They punch this information into their telephone keypads. If the data indicate a possible decline in a patient’s condition, the software system alerts a nurse, who follows up with the patient.

Patients include Adeline Patyk, 85, and her husband, Chester, 83. If they begin to retain fluid, causing their weight to spike, or if they report that their ankles are beginning to swell, they can get help before their symptoms reach the point that they must go to the hospital. The nurse might suggest an adjustment to their medications, for example, or send them to a doctor.

“We don’t have to go to the hospital so often,” Mrs. Patyk said. “That means a lot.”

Judy Ryan, a nurse who helps oversee the program, says that it works. “We can really abort that terrible experience of the emergency room, ultimately the I.C.U.,” Ms. Ryan said.

As part of a Medicare experiment to reduce readmissions, Park Nicollet earned a bonus of $247,000 in 2008 — but that payment equaled only about a third of the cost of running the program that year. Park Nicollet, which a few years ago had 640 patients enrolled in the program, has reduced enrollment to 380 — the patients at highest risk of being readmitted.

Other hospitals have had similar success. With the help of a federal grant, from 2002 to 2006, Catholic Healthcare Partners hired six nurses to oversee the care of its high-risk heart failure patients. Return visits dropped sharply. But when that grant ended, officials at the hospital said, they could not persuade insurers to pay for the program, so they eventually ended it.

Pressed by the growing need to care for patients who cannot pay their bills, Michael D. Connelly, chief executive of Catholic Healthcare, said his organization had little choice. He says insurers need to develop new ways of paying hospitals, like bundling payments so a patient’s hospital stay includes follow-up care. “One of my frustrations is it’s taking so long to do this,” he said.

The problem with the current insurance system, some experts say, is that there is no payoff for hospitals and doctors who invest in new ways of providing care.

“The payer reaps the entire benefit,” said Harold D. Miller, the executive director for the Center for Healthcare Quality and Payment Reform, a nonprofit group in Pittsburgh.

Mr. Miller says there are payment models in which hospitals could share in the savings from better care, or could be paid more by providing some sort of warranty on their care — as the Geisinger Health System in Pennsylvania has tried to do with heart operations.

The Obama administration has already discussed reducing Medicare payments to hospitals with the highest readmission rates, and the Senate is discussing bundling payments.

Something has to change, said Mr. Wessner at Park Nicollet. He says he understands that health systems like his may eventually have to learn to live with more empty beds. But he says hospitals also need to be rewarded for investing in programs that keep patients out of the hospital — instead of pouring more money into new facilities meant to bring in more patients.

“There’s got to be a business case and a return on investment in new patterns of care,” Mr. Wessner said.
315 2009-05-09 DES PLAINES, Ill. — Workers at a suburban Chicago suit company, which calls President Obama one of its customers but has filed for bankruptcy protection, are getting support from the Illinois treasurer, who said Friday that if Wells Fargo liquidates the company, the bank could forfeit the state’s $8 billion portfolio.

Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias rallied Thursday with about 400 union workers at the Hartmarx factory in Des Plaines, saying that Wells Fargo, which got about $25 billion in federal bailout money, has a responsibility to protect the factory jobs.

“Wells Fargo is getting both state and federal taxpayer dollars, and it is imperative that they invest in American jobs and workers,” Mr. Giannoulias said. “We need to make sure we can do everything we can to save this 120-year-old company.”

Jen Psaki, a deputy White House press secretary, declined to comment Friday on whether Mr. Obama had been a customer of Hartmarx. But factory workers said they had made suits specially ordered for him, embroidering his name in the pocket.

In a letter sent to John G. Stumpf, Wells Fargo’s president, Mr. Giannoulias said Wells Fargo’s relationship with the state would be jeopardized if the bank declines to consider offers from two buyers intent on keeping the company running.

“We are not trying to be controversial, but we’re demanding that the bank does the right thing,” said Mr. Giannoulias, a Democrat who is expected to run for the Senate seat once held by Mr. Obama and now occupied by Roland W. Burris.
316 2009-05-09 Both events used the same cherry blossom flower arrangements, votives and candles, and sound and lighting equipment; and Raul Avila, whose company, Raul Avila Inc., plans and designs events, provided the décor at cost.

“You have to think outside the box,” Ms. Winston Wolkoff said. “You can’t just think in the old way based on the budgets we had in the past.”

David Stark, whose eponymous company designs, plans and produces events for charities and corporations, redeployed the wine bottles emptied during the Metropolitan Opera’s 125th anniversary gala as vases for New Yorkers for Children which provides services to children in foster care in New York City.

“I washed them out and took them back to the studio and painted them,” Mr. Stark said. “One organization ended up helping another without even really knowing it.”

He said he had been exploring ways to cut the waste generated by events, driven in part by environmental awareness and in part by the need to “be more inventive in the budgeting process.”

For the opera’s event, he scavenged in its archives and ended up anchoring the design for the party with historic marquee posters.

“We were looking for the appropriate thing for what was going to be a momentous occasion, the 125th anniversary, when the times are such that certain statements that were acceptable two or three years ago would be considered gauche,” Mr. Stark said.

Robert F. Sharpe Jr., a fund-raising consultant, said there were risks to hosting what he called “glitter balls” at all. “Organizations that throw a big party right now will have to answer questions about why they are spending money frivolously,” Mr. Sharpe said.

He said two large organizations, which he would not name, that threw lavish events last fall lost gifts that had been pledged previously because the donors were upset by the extravagance.

Many organizations anticipated the economic downturn and made plans to tailor their events. Only Make Believe, a small nonprofit that brings interactive theater performances to children in the hospital, decided in April 2008 that it would cancel its annual benefit last fall.

“Bear Stearns had started having issues at the time, and we anticipated things weren’t going to be great,” Katie Hall, the executive director of Only Make Believe, said, referring to the collapse of the investment bank Bear Stearns.

So last fall, Only Make Believe held a “Make Believe” gala, inviting donors and supporters to make a donation and stay at home. The benefit grossed $95,000 for the organization, which had grossed around $250,000 through its past benefits. “It was about 95 percent less expensive, and much more of the gift fell to the bottom line,” Ms. Hall said. “On top of that, it saved us the time of our limited staff.”

For its 10th anniversary event this fall, the organization is thinking of scrapping dinner in favor of cocktails. “Nothing is set in stone yet, but we’re thinking hard,” Ms. Hall said.

Similarly, Guide Dogs for the Blind decided late last summer to forgo large, elaborate events with dinners and auctions in favor of smaller, more intimate gatherings in donors’ homes.

“With the economy hammering philanthropy, that decision proved to be wise,” said Andy Eber, director of development at Guide Dogs. “Nonprofits like us are searching for ways to cultivate the emotional connection of our donors to our mission, and these donor-hosted events are the perfect setting for that.”

Guide Dogs estimates that its revenue from benefits and other events will drop 17 percent in the fiscal year that begins July 1. “We are seeing a dramatic decrease in the ability of many underwriters to support these events,” Mr. Eber said, “and event attendance is only one-half to two-thirds of normal.”
317 2009-05-09 Indeed, some researchers still question whether the vaccine did cause Guillain-Barré, particularly since flu vaccines in other years have been linked to little or no risk of the disease.

“It doesn’t make sense that one flu strain would cause Guillain-Barré syndrome where none of the others have,” said Dr. Paul A. Offit, a vaccine expert at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.

Still, many experts consider the matter settled. The Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences concluded after an extensive review in 2003 that the “evidence favored acceptance of a causal relationship” between the 1976 vaccine and the syndrome. It stopped short, however, of saying the evidence “established” a causal relationship.

“It’s really not all that controversial anymore,” said Dr. Lawrence B. Schonberger, who as a young epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 1976 gathered the initial evidence that led to the vaccination program being halted that December. Dr. Schonberger, who is still with the agency, found that for people who got vaccinated, the rate of getting a diagnosis of Guillain-Barré in the next six weeks was more than seven times as high as for those who did not get the vaccine.

In all, the vaccination resulted in nearly one extra case of Guillain-Barré for every 100,000 people immunized, which would translate into roughly 450 cases for the 45 million people who got the shot.

Some critics challenged the findings, arguing that some diagnoses were mistaken and that vaccinated people were more likely to self-report having Guillain-Barré than others because it was in the news.

But some studies canvassed health records for all diagnosed cases and had the diagnoses confirmed by experts. One of the leading critics worked on his own study, which confirmed the magnitude of the increased risk.

The more intriguing question is how the vaccine triggered the syndrome. One hypothesis was that the vaccine, rushed into production, was contaminated with Campylobacter, a type of bacterium that does cause Guillain-Barré. The Institute of Medicine said this was unlikely but could not be totally excluded.

A more likely explanation is that something in the vaccine resembled something in the nerve cells. When the body’s immune system mounted an attack on that component of the vaccine, it also then attacked the lookalike in the nerves.

Irving Nachamkin, a professor of pathology and laboratory medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, examined some 1976 vaccine that had been saved by a scientist in Texas. In a paper published last year in The Journal of Infectious Diseases, he and colleagues reported that mice given the vaccine made antibodies that reacted with gangliosides, which are components of nerve cells. An antibody attack on gangliosides is part of the disease mechanism of Guillain-Barré.

But when Dr. Nachamkin tested two flu vaccines from other years which were not linked to the syndrome, the mice also made those antibodies. So the mystery remains about what was unique, if anything, about the 1976 vaccine.

In particular, the most important question now would be whether the unique factor was that it was a vaccine against a swine flu rather than a human flu. If so, that could raise concern about a vaccine for the new flu strain, which is made mostly of swine virus.

Dr. Nachamkin plays down such worries. “There’s no evidence to suggest it’s a swine-derived-virus problem,” he said.

Others say there are lessons to be learned even without solving the mystery. One is that any medicine or vaccine given to tens of millions of people is likely to have side effects, so surveillance systems need to be in place.

Another is that risks have to be weighed against benefits. Had there been a swine flu epidemic in 1976, the number of lives saved by a vaccine would have dwarfed the small number of cases of Guillain-Barré. But in 1976, the vaccine was given even though the epidemic did not materialize.

“The math is overwhelmingly in favor of vaccine if there’s an epidemic,” said Dr. Harvey V. Fineberg, the president of the Institute of Medicine and co-author of “The Epidemic That Never Was,” a book about the 1976 episode. “It’s in the absence of disease that this rare effect looms large.”

This time, officials say the decision to make the vaccine will be divorced from the decision to use it. The manufacturing decision is likely in the next couple of weeks and will probably be yes. But the decision on using the vaccine will probably not be made until the fall.

For her part, Ms. Kinney, who says the syndrome left her unable to run down stairs, said she would not take the vaccine if offered. “I’m just not willing to take that chance,” she said.

Would she even need to? One intriguing idea is that if the new flu strain is similar to the 1976 strain, people who got vaccinated then might, possibly, have some protection now.

The C.D.C. says it will eventually study that question. Peter Palese, a flu expert at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, said he doubted that would be the case because the two viruses appear quite different.

Still, if it were the case, the oft-maligned 1976 vaccination campaign might end up having done some good after all.
318 2009-05-09 But the roofs at the Caja Mágica, which can open or close in 20 minutes, are a step beyond, in that they are all independent elements of the same structure and, unlike Melbourne’s roofs, they do not simply slide. They also are configured to be lifted like the lid of a box, which can make the top resemble kinetic sculpture.

“We can be 100 percent outdoors, and in that case, the roof slides,” Perrault said. “And then there are these intermediate positions which are very comfortable and which give the feeling of being outdoors but also protect the courts from the wind.

“The box is also not constructed with walls. It’s constructed with a metal casing that acts like a big curtain that lets the air pass through but stops the sun and the wind and also the rain. At night, the box is a magic lantern. The light comes from the interior of the building, and then, at that moment, it lights up the entire curtain and the facade disappears, and we see the structures of the stadium inside.”

The stadium court seats approximately 12,500 and has been named for the tournament director and former Spanish men’s champion Manuel Santana, known as Manolo. The second court seats approximately 5,000 and has been named for the former Spanish women’s champion Arantxa Sánchez Vicario. The third seats 3,000 and might already be named for Rafael Nadal if he were not still in his prime.

There are also four other match courts outside as part of the larger complex, with La Caja Mágica linked to the surrounding neighborhoods by a pedestrian pathway.

Perrault is no stranger to bold and symbolic projects. He was a youngster by architecture standards, still in his 30s, when he won the competition to design the new French National Library in Paris. His four high-rise towers on the left bank of the Seine did not lack for detractors, but Perrault has become one of the leaders in his field and has taken on projects as diverse as a theater in Japan, a hotel in Barcelona and the Olympic pool and velodrome in Berlin, which, until now, was his most prominent sports-related project.

Perrault sounds eager to do more. “I think an arena or stadium is one of the only places in a city where a crowd can experience an event emotionally and physically in a live context,” he said. “There is no Internet, no television, none of these information systems that externalize the event.

“We are physically there, from the moment when the goal is scored or the first ball hit. There is a before and after. We live it. There is suspense, real suspense. That is something that is becoming rarer in our society where so much information circulates, and we don’t often experience events in such a personal manner anymore. I think stadiums are places where we have this feeling we are in the moment.”

To reach this moment required seven years of planning and about 180 million euros (about $254.4 million) of public financing, provided with the Olympic bids for 2012 and now 2016 in mind.

“In tennis, I like to steal a Formula One analogy and say that we’ve drafted off the Olympic movement to an extent,” said Larry Scott, the chairman of the WTA Tour, whose circuit now has a new stadium in Beijing for another of its top-tier events because of last year’s Olympics.

Perrault contended that Spain, with its tennis tradition and present strength, would have gotten its cutting-edge tennis stadium eventually but agreed that “the Olympic bid was a powerful lever.”

As the confluence of events would have it, the International Olympic Committee task force that is assessing each of the four candidates for 2016 visited Madrid this week — the same week La Caja Mágica opened and the same week Perrault acknowledged having “le trac” — jitters — as he shared the moment with Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and Mayor Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón of Madrid.

Perrault, it turns out, has a personal connection to tennis, although he no longer plays. As a youngster living in the Paris suburbs, he worked as a ball boy at the French Open.

“Just once,” he said. “And that was a long time ago.”
319 2009-05-09 I can’t tell you how many times I heard the words “Glass-Steagall” here this week.

“Should we have a new Glass-Steagall?” asked Liam Halligan, the chief economist with Prosperity Capital Management, a London-based asset manager, who also writes a weekly column for The Telegraph. He felt very strongly that the answer was yes.

“We’ll see a Glass-Steagall-like environment,” predicted Michael Spencer, the billionaire founder of ICAP, a large interdealer broker whose headquarters is in the City of London.

“We need to bring back Glass-Steagall,” said Terry Smith, the chief executive of Tullett Prebon, another big interdealer broker.

Every time I heard the phrase, it caught me up short. Glass-Steagall, of course, was an American law passed during the Depression to separate investment banking and commercial banking. It was dismantled 66 years later, in 1999, because it was viewed by the American political establishment, starting with Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, as an outmoded relic of an earlier age. Glass-Steagall never existed in Britain.

And it wasn’t just Glass-Steagall that kept coming up in conversations here. Londoners were conversant with the ins and outs of the stress tests and President Obama’s recovery plan. They knew that Representative Barney Frank was busy reining in bonuses. They had opinions on how Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, was doing. No matter how much I pressed people to talk about how London was dealing with the financial crisis, they kept turning the conversation back to America. What kind of regulations were likely to emerge? Was the American banking system going to shrink? And so on.

All of which served as a useful reminder that, for all the talk in recent years about whether the City of London was “overtaking” Wall Street as the world’s financial capital, they have really become one and the same. All the big financial institutions operate in both places  with surprisingly little distinction between what the London office does and what the United States office does. The financial products unit of the American International Group traded credit-default swaps in both Wilton, Conn., and London, for instance.

Hedge funds are as large a part of the financial world in the City of London as they are on Wall Street. Banks in London chased the same deals, hired the same traders and followed the same business practices as their American competitors. “The right way of thinking about New York and London is that they are Siamese twins,” said Martin Wolf, the economics columnist for The Financial Times. “They were the same institutions doing the same things with the same set of regulations.”

Which is why it is only natural that Londoners would be closely tracking America’s response to the crisis  and thinking about whether old laws like Glass-Steagall should be revived. Because it turns out that, having hitched its wagon to Wall Street more than a decade ago, the City of London cannot afford to untether itself. It simply has too much at stake.

I had heard, before coming here, that the mood in London was darker than it is in New York, but I didn’t really find that to be the case. Like us, Londoners are starting to wonder, ever so cautiously, whether the worst is over. People talked about consuming less conspicuously and saving more. Although plenty of financial executives have lost their jobs, I also met a man named Michael Tory, who went down with the ship at Lehman Brothers in London and has now co-founded a new advisory business, Ondra Partners.

“There has been a profound inversion,” he said. “People have lost faith in the large firms, and now any start-up is viewed as lower risk.” Well, maybe. Certainly, he was as optimistic as anyone I’ve met in finance this year. And there was still a lot of deal-making in the air.

Whereas American anger is mostly reserved for the banking industry, the British are primarily angry at their politicians. People are dumbfounded at the risks their banks took, and stunned that some of them have needed huge government bailouts  unlike with us, bank failure is almost completely foreign to their experience.

But they also feel the path to ruin was paved by the country’s regulators. These days, the reputation of the former chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, who presided over the bubble when Tony Blair was prime minister, is as tattered as that of Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman. The difference is that Mr. Greenspan is retired  while Mr. Brown is the current prime minister.

“Since 1997, the City has been a metaphor for New Labor,” said Philip Augar, author of “Chasing Alpha,” a book that chronicles the events that led to the financial crisis in London. (Labor took power in 1997.) At the time, he said, the asset management business was struggling, mired in a series of scandals, and there was fear in the City that Mr. Blair’s Labor Party would make things worse. But that didn’t happen.

“Gordon Brown instituted a lot of pro-City policies,” Mr. Augar said. “He cut the capital gains tax. He combined about nine different regulators into the F.S.A.”  the Financial Services Authority  “which adopted something it called ‘proportional regulation.’ ” Mr. Brown himself had a more apt phrase: “light touch regulation,” he called it. In other words, he consciously aligned regulation in Britain with the free-market, deregulatory approach being promoted by Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Rubin.

Mr. Augar says he believes that the regulatory environment helped bring about the “Americanization” of the City of London, and that it was ultimately ruinous. All the big American investment banks raced to London  which they saw as a place to do business not just in Britain but all over the Continent. After the abolition of Glass-Steagall, the commercial banks came roaring in as well.
320 2009-05-09 Yet purely as a game machine, it would be ludicrous to compare the iPhone to the DS series or even to the Sony PlayStationPortable. Those searching for a deep, meaningful, narrative-driven experience will generally have to look elsewhere. And because of its design, control options and, perhaps most significant, its outrageously bad battery life, the iPhone cannot possibly replace a DS or PSP in the bag or pocket of anyone who actually plays games on the go more than a couple of days a week.

But perhaps it is not meant to. Perhaps it is sufficient for the iPhone to be the best phone for gaming rather than the best overall portable game console. What the iPhone offers that the DS and PSP lack is its huge library of downloadable games among the more than 35,000 total programs available on the App Store.

Most of the top games on the iPhone cost less than $5 and can be downloaded in a matter of minutes. They are designed, like arcade games, to be consumable in bites of only a few minutes each. And as in an arcade, if the iPhone user gets bored, it is easy and cheap to find another momentary diversion.

In that sense, the iPhone represents gaming as a notional activity rather than as a destination activity. Rather than playing games while sitting in a cafe, iPhone users could just as easily be checking Facebook or the latest sports scores. Browsing the App Store for a new 99-cent diversion, they could just as easily buy the Moron Test as a game like StickWars (two of the top paid downloads this week).

By contrast, DS or PSP users are usually going to a physical store, paying $20 or $30 and then spending dozens of hours over many months exploring their new game.

For those players, extra features like being able to edit pictures and manipulate music on Nintendo’s DSi are secondary to actually playing games.

Not that the iPhone is capable of delivering sustained mobile game play anyway. Because it does so much, the iPhone 3G that I have been using cannot last even one full day of intensive use without being plugged in, which for me sort of defeats the purpose of a mobile device.

For example, I can sit down on a plane to California with my DSi with every confidence that I will be able to play Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars the entire time if I want to. Yet while downloading and playing games on the iPhone, I hardly made it in a car to Woodstock, N.Y., barely two hours and 100 miles from Times Square, before the battery conked out. That’s when I started noticing that iPhone devotees always carry chargers with them.

Yet the battery is typical of the iPhone’s few shortcomings: they only highlight how I want to use it more, not less. The real question is not whether the iPhone can replace a DS or PSP. The real question is whether the iPhone provides a unique, unparalleled gaming experience for a phone, which it surely does. After Apple’s many years in the gaming wilderness, it is a pleasure to say welcome back.
321 2009-05-09 Naturally occurring asbestos was intermixed by geology with vermiculite in northwestern Montana. Vermiculite, an odd mineral that puffs up like popcorn when heated and is used for insulation and the leavening of garden soil, was mined commercially in Libby beginning in 1923, which also meant that decades of exposure to asbestos had occurred even before Grace bought the mine property.

Libby’s mayor, Doug Roll, said news of the acquittal was still sinking in.

“Everybody is really disappointed,” Mr. Roll said in a telephone interview. He said, though, that people who had been following news reports about the trial were braced for the verdict. “Over the last month, it was clear that it was not going well,” he said.

Legal experts said the case was an uphill climb for prosecutors almost from the beginning.

Judge Donald W. Molloy refused, for example, to allow the jurors to see some evidence — ruling it overly prejudicial — including memorandums in which executives talked about the costs of people dying in Libby.

The timeline was also a problem. One charge in the indictment was under a provision of the federal Clean Air Act that did not take effect until 1990, the year Grace closed the mine. That left prosecutors needing to prove that company executives knowingly endangered mine employees and residents of Libby before it was illegal to do so, then continued to endanger people after the law went into effect.

The statute of limitations also required the government to prove that laws were violated after 1999 — within five years of the 2005 indictment — even though the mine had been closed for many years by then.

The company could have been fined millions of dollars in fines if convicted, while defendants faced prison time of up to 15 years on the most serious charges.

“This was always going to be a difficult case for the government,” said David M. Uhlmann, a law professor at the University of Michigan and a former environmental crimes prosecutor at the Justice Department who helped frame the case against Grace before leaving the department.

Prosecutors from the United States Attorney’s Office in Montana said in a brief joint statement with the Justice Department that the jurors had spoken.

“We thank them for their service,” the statement said. “We are refraining from further comment at this juncture.”

Marshalling the evidence was not the only problem for prosecutors, though. In late April, Judge Molloy denounced the star prosecution witness, Robert H. Locke, in open court, and raised doubts in front of the jurors about the practices of the prosecutors.

Mr. Locke, a former Grace executive, testified that Grace executives knew that asbestos was sickening people and that they actively worked to hide that knowledge. But after his testimony, evidence turned over by the prosecution showed that Mr. Locke had grossly understated on the witness stand how often he had met with prosecutors.

Judge Molloy told the jurors that the government had committed an “inexcusable dereliction of duty” by not providing evidence of that relationship sooner. He ordered the panel not to consider Mr. Locke’s testimony in considering the fate of one defendant, Robert J. Bettacchi, and to use “great skepticism” in evaluating Mr. Locke’s testimony about the case as a whole.

By then, only four defendants, out of eight in the original indictment, were left — the company and three executives, Mr. Bettacchi, Henry A. Eschenbach and Jack W. Wolter.

One former manager, Alan Stringer, died in 2007, and the cases against two men, Robert C. Walsh and William J. McCaig, were thrown out last month at the request of the prosecution. Another executive, O. Mario Favorito, was granted a separate trial that is pending.

Mr. Wolter, now retired — as were all the individual defendants — said in a telephone news conference with his lawyers that there was no question many people had suffered in Libby. “Our heart goes out,” he said. “But this trial was about other things.”
322 2009-05-10 Credit: Justyna Mielnikiewicz for The New York Times
323 2009-05-10 “I didn’t see a foul,” Nuggets Coach George Karl said. “It seemed like he fumbled the ball.”

At the buzzer, the crowd fell silent, the Nuggets celebrated and the Mavericks grumbled. Josh Howard was among several Dallas players who appeared to be exchanging words with Denver players and staff.

“Officiating has to be a science, not an art,” Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle said. “If I sit here and belabor this, it’s not going to be good for our league. It’s one of those times where it’s really an unfortunate thing.”

The Nuggets won despite committing as many fouls (34) as field goals. Chauncey Billups scored 32 points and Anthony added 31.

Nowitzki had 33 points and 16 rebounds for the Mavericks, and Brandon Bass scored 14 of his 16 points in the second half to put Dallas in position to win. But the Mavericks’ inability to pull away when they had their chance caught up to them.

CAVALIERS IN COMMAND The Cleveland Cavaliers were actually being challenged.

Finally, LeBron James had seen enough.

James scored 47 points in his best game yet of these playoffs, leading the visiting Cavaliers to the brink of their second straight series sweep with a 97-82 victory against the Atlanta Hawks.

“He took the ball, put it in his hands and said he was going to score for us, so I told him, ‘O.K.,’ ” Cavaliers Coach Mike Brown said. “I just told everybody else, ‘Let’s defend.’ ”

After two blowout losses in Cleveland, the Hawks put up their best fight of the series. It did not matter. They now find themselves just one defeat away from elimination, the Cavaliers taking another 3-0 lead after breezing past Detroit in the first round.

Cleveland set an N.B.A. record with its seventh straight double-digit victory, eclipsing the mark set by the 2004 Indiana Pacers.

The Hawks trailed by a point, 47-46, at halftime, and they surged to their first second-half lead of the series with a 13-0 run in the third quarter. But Zaza Pachulia was ejected for arguing a foul call, and Atlanta faded down the stretch. They were outscored by 31-17 after Pachulia’s ejection.

James, the league’s most valuable player, finished one point shy of his best playoff performance, a 48-point game against Detroit in 2007.

ARTEST FOUL DOWNGRADED The N.B.A. downgraded a flagrant foul called against the Rockets’ Ron Artest, determining that the play was not severe enough to warrant an ejection.

Artest was whistled for a second-degree flagrant foul, an automatic ejection, for his hard foul on Pau Gasol late in the Los Angeles Lakers’ 108-94 victory against Houston on Friday in Game 3 of their Western Conference semifinal series. The ruling ensured that Artest would not be suspended for Game 4 on Sunday.

“It was such a bang-bang play, I just didn’t think there was any intention of hurting him or anything,” Coach Rick Adelman said. “They just reacted to the play, Gasol went down hard. I think downgrading it was a good call.”

PERKINS WON’T BE SUSPENDED Boston Celtics center Kendrick Perkins will not be suspended for elbowing Orlando’s Mickael Pietrus in the chin and throat and drawing a flagrant-1 foul.

Tim Frank, an N.B.A. spokesman, confirmed in an e-mail message Saturday that the league had reviewed the play and upheld the initial ruling. Replays showed Perkins striking Pietrus while the two were battling for position away from the ball in the fourth quarter of Game 3.

The Celtics trail the Magic, 2-1. Game 4 is Sunday in Orlando.

SUNS RE-SIGN GENTRY As expected, the Phoenix Suns are sticking with Coach Alvin Gentry.

Calling Gentry “the right man to lead our team into the future,” Suns General Manager Steve Kerr removed the interim tag from Gentry’s title and re-signed him to a two-year contract that includes an option for a third year.
324 2009-05-10 At that time, the conservative position in American politics was that the nominee should satisfy the committee that his judicial philosophy was consistent with the will of the American public. Liberals, on the other hand, believed that this demand violated the separation of powers. During the debate on the Senate floor over Marshall’s nomination, Senator Edward Kennedy argued stirringly against consideration of judicial philosophy, rejecting the proposition that nominees should be confirmed only if their views “coincide with our own.”

Today, the hearings continue to follow the same model that they did half a century ago, when the Dixiecrats invented them. Senators ask about the nominee’s views on a variety of cases, and the nominee respectfully declines to answer. Then the senators ask about judicial philosophy, and the nominee dances a bit, murmurs a few plain-vanilla reassurances, then clams up. We get no new information.

This should not be a surprise. That the nominees decline to answer is perfectly sensible. There is nothing to be gained. The only nominee in history who engaged the committee at length about his views was Robert Bork in 1987, and history records no Justice Bork. Indeed, if the nominees did answer the senators’ questions, future litigants might face a court with some members who had promised, under oath, to vote a certain way on the matter in question.

The hearings also bring out the worst in advocates and politicians alike. The transcripts of the Marshall hearings in 1967 drip with vitriol. More recently, there is the case of Senator Arlen Specter, lately known for switching to the Democratic Party, but whom some of us remember for his unpardonable bullying of Anita Hill during the 1991 hearings on Clarence Thomas’s nomination. For most of the nation’s history we avoided the most farcical aspects of today’s confirmation circuses through the simple device of never having the nominee appear. Maybe it is time to consider returning to that simpler system.

It would be easy enough to make this change. The Judiciary Committee could just announce that, henceforth, the presence of the nominee is unnecessary. The rest of the process could grind on as usual. We could still research the background of potential justices. We could still debate the nominee’s qualifications, whether with high motives or low. We could still offer our dire predictions on the nominee’s likely votes.

Organizations that run focus groups to help nominees shape their messages could continue that shadowy practice. Lawyers and scholars and activists who line up to testify would be free to do so. In many ways, the process would be exactly what it is now, with a notable exception. The nominee would never be required to sit before the television lights and dance around the committee’s questions.

One might reasonably ask why any of this matters. Why shouldn’t a man or woman hoping to spend a quarter-century or so as a Supreme Court justice be willing to spend a day or two refusing, under oath, to tell us anything whatsoever? The reason is this: Each time we claim to be focusing the nation’s attention on crucial questions of constitutional philosophy, what we really do is reinforce the notion that the justices are somehow there to do “our” bidding, to reflect “our” values in their votes.

Whenever someone suggests that the court should mirror the nation’s values, we should remember that in 1954, school integration was hardly a popular cause. Had those nine justices been appointed to reflect the views of the nation on constitutional matters, the Dixiecrats might never have started the whole tawdry process of questioning the nominee, because Brown would most likely have been decided the other way.
325 2009-05-10 It doesn’t take much to generate a spirited discussion about the world of dating in New York.

Last week, the City Room blog asked how the recession has affected people’s dating lives. The query elicited scores of responses: Some lamented how hard times have hurt the chance for romance, while others offered a more optimistic view that dating these days simply requires a little more creativity.

And not surprisingly, there were several comments about the pros and cons of going Dutch. Following are a selection of comments:

Having moved to New York a year ago, I’ve noticed even midrange dates can add up quickly. I think the trick is to start off going to a few reasonably nice places and then maybe downshift into the moderate zone to give her a sense of what everyday life might be like together. My terror of appearing cheap definitely colors my approach.

However, the girls I’ve met here generally have not been blown away by chivalrous suitors. A sincere, funny guy who treats her well will likely make a better impression than an opulent meal at Daniel. That’s what I tell myself anyway.

I’m more than happy to go Dutch, and I always offer to split the bill. And I’m certainly not opposed to an inexpensive date ... I would love to have someone to cook for and someone to take a long walk in the park with. What I’m concerned about is actually meeting people. I’m not going to invite someone into my home after just one or two dates and I’m not comfortable taking a walk in the woods with a near stranger.

Most guys think it’s appropriate to go Dutch, but if you poll the girls it’s not the case. This isn’t because we’re cheap. It’s because you feel special that someone took you out and thought that it was worth it to take care of the bill. Later on, anything goes. If I have a better job, then I’d certainly have no problem picking up the tab. But when you’re still just dating (i.e., first couple of weeks), a guy who gets the bill is a must. It’s like getting the door. Just think about how much more energy girls put into getting ready for dates than guys: the shoes, the dress, the hair, the makeup ... It’s really just give-and-take. Emma Rabinovich
326 2009-05-10 WASHINGTON (AP) — It will cost Americans 2 more cents to mail a letter starting Monday.

The price of a first-class stamp will climb to 44 cents. It is the third year in a row that rates have gone up in May under a new system that allows annual increases as long as they do not exceed the rate of inflation for the year before.

While the increase will bring in added income, the Postal Service continues to struggle financially as more and more lucrative first-class mail is supplanted by the Internet and the recession discourages businesses from sending their usual volume of advertising.

The Postal Service lost $2.8 billion last year and is $2.3 billion in the red so far this year.
327 2009-05-10 “People above Forty-third Street,” read The New York Times the following day, “stopped and rushed back the other way as she swung around the corner and down; vehicles switched off to the curbs or put on full speed ahead; plunging horses dragged carriages upon the sidewalks; pedestrians dived into the nearest shops.”

Nellie went about a mile, stepping through the front door of a five-story brick tenement at 34th Street and Third Avenue and wandering around three backyards. She was eventually captured, tempted by a loaf of bread.

In 1932, a 500-pound bear broke out of its pen in the backyard of a Brooklyn home and rummaged through a neighbor’s icebox (the butter crock had been licked clean). One night last year, a black bull walked along a strip of stores on Jamaica Avenue in Woodhaven, Queens, passing Finally Al’s bar, Happy Days Lounge and other establishments.

“When I heard the call about the cow Wednesday, I’m not shocked about that,” said Michael Pastore, the director of field operations for Animal Care and Control of New York City, the nonprofit organization that responds to animal emergencies, and who has seen alligators, turkeys, bulls and a bobcat in apartments, yards or out on the street in recent years. “I don’t know what’s going to shock me at this point. Maybe if someone has a pet giraffe.”

The heifer in Jamaica went from a Queens slaughterhouse on Wednesday to a grassy pasture on a 60-acre organic farm in Suffolk County on Thursday. Other escapees have not been as lucky. Five lions got out of their cages after performing at a theater on 86th Street in December 1914, and one lioness was shot to death by policemen in the panic that followed. A runaway steer on First Avenue in 1930 smashed a restaurant window and dragged a policeman a block before he shot and killed it.

Some loose animals, as was the case with the heifer in Jamaica, escaped slaughterhouses. Others were fleeing the stage, like Nellie the elephant and Empress the baboon, who was part of a bicycle-riding troupe. Still others were from parts unknown, the details of how they ended up on the streets a mystery. No one claimed ownership of the bull in Woodhaven last year, Mr. Pastore said.

For at least a few escaped animals in New York’s past, there was no mystery where they came from — they belonged to Henry Trefflich, an animal dealer on the West Side. It was Mr. Trefflich’s Malayan sun bear that escaped in 1951. And it was his $3 rhesus monkey that cost him up to $49.50 in damages and court costs after a three-hour chase in 1938. And those were his five red-faced apes that escaped their cages one morning in 1952.

The tales of loose animals are odd little reminders of a lost era of the city, when there were monkey fanciers on the Lower East Side (loose monkey, July 1937) and when the site of the Hippodrome, now a sleek office building in Midtown with the same name, was home to a footloose elephant with a knack for the bass drum.

Today, at 34th Street and Third Avenue, where Nellie ended her stroll in 1908, there is a Duane Reade, a number of bars and restaurants and a tanning salon, but no sign of Nellie’s big adventure. And here is New York, finally: You never know when an elephant is going to come barreling down the street. You really never know.
328 2009-05-10 Lambert, 43, has won 2,395 races in his career and is often among the top 10 riders at the New Mexico tracks, but midlevel jockeys at midlevel tracks do not typically receive mounts in Triple Crown races. Lambert understands that, but he said he wished the owners or the trainer, Chip Woolley, would have been more open with him about their decision to go with another jockey. He said he was never told of their plans and did not know he was not going to be retained until he heard that Sutherland was offered the mount. He said he did not think Mine That Bird had any chance, but he wanted to have the experience of riding in the Kentucky Derby.

“If you asked me the day of the Derby, I would have told you that I was very bitter,” he said.

Woolley has said he wanted a jockey with more experience in big races.

“That decision was a very tough one,” he told The El Paso Times. “Casey Lambert did us a good job at the Sunland Derby, but coming here is a big step. We were fortunate to get someone who has won it, and he rides under these conditions, at this track.”

Instead of winning the Kentucky Derby, Lambert spent his afternoon riding at SunRay Park in Farmington, N.M. Before a crowd of 4,432, he went 0 for 3, including a fourth-place finish aboard a filly named Enjoy to the World, who is trained by Woolley and, like Mine That Bird, is owned in part by Double Eagle Ranch.

The race went off 38 minutes after the Derby, and Lambert was wearing the same type of silks Borel still had on while being feted in the winner’s circle at Churchill Downs.

“That was tough to go out and ride that horse, but I knew that I had a job to do and that I had to be professional about it,” Lambert said.

Since Derby day, Lambert’s attitude has seemingly changed. He said that he came to understand that the Mine That Bird team made a business decision and that it was not healthy for him to dwell on his misfortune.

“I have to be realistic about it,” he said. “Those owners didn’t owe me anything. They were under no obligation to ride me in the Derby. Once I looked at it that way, things were easier to swallow.”

Sutherland said she had also come to grips with her disappointment.

“You feel unlucky,” she said, “but one day, maybe I’ll be in a situation where another rider loses a mount because someone picks me. It’s part of the Derby.”

Sutherland, 33, is relatively young and is among the top riders in Canada, so she may yet get a shot to win a Kentucky Derby.

But Lambert has been battling injuries in recent years and is no longer in his prime riding years. He says he does not see how he will ever get a Derby mount, let alone ride a Derby winner.

“I think that’s why it hit me so hard after the race, that this was my one chance,” he said. “You just hope lighting will strike you one day. It just wasn’t my turn.”

JOCKEYING FOR POSITION The Hall of Fame jockey Mike Smith is believed to be the top choice of Mine That Bird’s owners to replace Calvin Borel if Rachel Alexandra runs in the Preakness Stakes.

Chantal Sutherland was also hoping to get the mount. She said her agent called Mine That Bird’s connections but had not received a response.

Will this cause problems for Smith and Sutherland, who are the romantically linked stars on the Animal Planet show “Jockeys”?

Sutherland said she was disappointed but understood. “I think right now they are looking for experience,” she said.

Smith, who grew up in New Mexico, should be comfortable atop Mine That Bird. He won the Derby aboard the 50-1 shot Giacomo in 2005 and won the Preakness aboard Prairie Bayou in 1993.

“I’m happy for him,” Sutherland said. “I’d rather have Mike ride him than any other jockey.”
329 2009-05-10 PRETORIA, South Africa (Reuters) — Jacob Zuma was sworn in as the president of South Africa on Saturday after a remarkable political comeback, and he quickly highlighted the challenges faced by the continent’s largest economy.

Promising to help South Africans realize their dreams, Mr. Zuma, 67, took a sober view of the country’s economy, which may already be in its first recession in 17 years.

“We must acknowledge that we find ourselves in difficult economic times. Jobs are being lost in every economy across the world,” Mr. Zuma said in his inauguration speech. “We will not be spared the negative impact and are beginning to feel the pinch.”

Former President Nelson Mandela, who like Mr. Zuma was imprisoned under white rule, attended the ceremony.
330 2009-05-10 Any thoughts of a comeback were short-lived when Gomez scored in the 63rd minute and then ended a spectacular day, scoring on a header in the 77th minute for his 23rd goal of the season.

WEST BROM WINS AGAIN West Bromwich Albion, which engineered a famous escape from relegation in 2005, could be on its way to surviving in the English Premier League again after beating Wigan Athletic, 3-1, at the Hawthorns on Saturday.

Marc-Antoine Fortune scored twice as West Brom won for the second time in three matches to keep alive its hopes of avoiding an immediate return to the League Championship.

“We will just keep going,” said West Brom Manager Tony Mowbray, whose team could have been relegated on Saturday had results gone against it.

“It all rests on next week’s game against Liverpool,” he added. “If we can get some sort of result and take it to the last day against Blackburn, then anything can happen.”

With none of the top four teams playing apart from Liverpool, which was facing West Ham United in a late game, the focus was on the tight battle to avoid the drop.

West Brom stayed in last place but now has 31 points, the same as Newcastle United and Middlesbrough, who play on Monday.

Hull suffered a fifth straight loss, going down by 2-0 to Stoke City, who are now safe from relegation. Hull has 34 points, 2 behind Sunderland, which is also in deep trouble with 36 points after drawing, 0-0, at Bolton Wanderers.

Fortune gave West Brom the lead after eight minutes before Hugo Rodallega equalized for Wigan with a 20-yard free kick, which took a deflection off Chris Brunt.

Brunt made amends when he put West Brom back in front on the rebound after his penalty was saved by Wigan’s substitute keeper, Richard Kingson, who had replaced the injured Chris Kirkland.

Fortune sealed the win with his second goal after 73 minutes.

Hull City was promoted to the Premier League with West Brom last year and made a stunning start, winning six of its first nine matches. That form has long since deserted it and Hull looked hapless against Stoke, which was also promoted after last season.

Stoke, with only one previous road win this season, sealed the victory with Ricardo Fuller’s turn and shot and a superb long-range strike from Liam Lawrence. Andy Dawson scored a last-minute consolation for Hull.

Blackburn Rovers look secure with 40 points after their 2-0 win over Portsmouth, which is not yet safe from relegation with 38 points.

Fulham beat Aston Villa, 3-1, to move up to seventh, while the F.A. Cup finalists Everton drew 0-0 with Tottenham Hotspur, which moved up to eighth and kept on Fulham’s heels in the race for a place in next season’s Europa League, the revamped UEFA Cup.

RANGERS IN FIRST Glasgow Rangers defeated Celtic, 1-0, to move into first place in the Scottish Premier League.

Steven Davis slid to put in a cross from Kenny Miller in the 37th minute for the only goal of the Old Firm match at Ibrox stadium in Glasgow. Davis then prevented Celtic from tying the score just before halftime by clearing Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink’s header off the line.

The victory gives Rangers 79 points, 2 more than Celtic, the defending champion. Both teams have three matches left in the season.

“We’ve got ourselves into the position we want to be in with three games to go,” Rangers Manager Walter Smith told Sky Sports. “We’re on a good run of form and hopefully we can continue that.”

Celtic Manager Gordon Strachan said the loss has not knocked his team from the title chase. Celtic trailed Rangers with three matches remaining last season and overtook its rival for the championship.

“We still believe something can happen,” Strachan said. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) DANIELA OUT FOR SEASON The Brazilian star Daniela will miss most if not all of the rest of the Women’s Professional Soccer season with a knee injury.

Abby Wambach, a striker for the United States national team and the Washington Freedom, was suspended for one game for the tackle that injured Daniela last Sunday. Daniela, a midfielder for St. Louis, has two injured knee ligaments and a crack in her tibia.

Wambach, who is coming off a broken leg, was not given a red card during the game, and the league’s disciplinary committee chose not to act. But Commissioner Tonya Antonucci decided to suspended Wambach one game. (AP)

police strike in rome? An agreement will be reached to avoid a police strike on the night of the European Champions League final, Gianni Alemanno, the mayor of Rome, said Saturday.

Manchester United will play Barcelona at the Olympic Stadium on May 27. Some police unions have threatened to strike over pay and conditions.

“We have made some steps forward and next week we will find an agreement,” Alemanno told reporters.

Fans have been stabbed at several European matches in Rome in recent years but UEFA, the sport’s continental governing body, stuck with its decision to host the final in the Italian capital

(REUTERS) BARCELONA TO APPEAL Barcelona will appeal Eric Abidal’s red card and the yellow card shown to Daniel Alves in the hope of getting their suspensions for the Champions League final against Manchester United overturned.

“Of course we will appeal the cards of Abidal and Alves, out of respect for the players,” Coach Pep Guardiola said Saturday.

Guardiola also said he thought United’s Darren Fletcher should be allowed to play in the Rome final on May 27, after the midfielder was sent off in the semifinal against Arsenal. (REUTERS)
331 2009-05-10 “If they started something, they’re going to finish it,” he added. “But we’re seeing very little optional spending.”

No hotel owner wants to halt a renovation that has already begun. But that’s what happened at the Ritz-Carlton Rancho Mirage (formerly the Lodge at Rancho Mirage), near Palm Springs, Calif., where a top-to-bottom makeover began in 2006. Construction was about 80 percent complete when the lender, Lehman Brothers, filed for bankruptcy protection last September. Now the developer, a division of the Gencom Group, is seeking new financing that would allow it to complete the renovation.

Other hotel projects, though, are proceeding apace. The Mark Hotel in New York is preparing for a summer opening after a gut renovation. At the W in Washington, the general manager, Ed Baten, said that he had already booked a wedding for this summer, indicating that the hotels’ transformation is in the final stages. That hotel is owned by Nakheel, a development company sponsored by the Dubai government.

At least one major project has benefited from the recession. At the Four Seasons Hualalai, on the big island of Hawaii, a decline in occupancy helped simplify a $40 million renovation, according to the general manager, Robert Whitfield. Mr. Whitfield said that this spring, with occupancy down 20 to 25 percent over last year, turned out to be “an opportune moment” to add 20 suites and redo spa and restaurant facilities.

“It would have been harder to do with our typical demand patterns,” he said.

But for many other hotels, now is anything but an opportune time to renovate. Hotels that fly brand “flags” are in a particularly tough sport, said Mr. Crandell of Capital Hotel Management, which manages a portfolio of 22 hotels, including the Sheraton Waikiki in Hawaii, the Courtyard Detroit Downtown, and the W Atlanta Downtown Hotel and Residences.

Mr. Crandell said that in order to remain part of the chains, branded hotels are generally required to perform “soft goods renovations” — replacing bedding, carpets and the like — every six to seven years, and more comprehensive renovations every 10 to 12 years. The hotel owners need permission from the brands to delay scheduled improvements.

Luckily, said Mr. Loeb, the Robert W. Baird analyst: “The brands are being very constructive in their conversations with the owners. They’re trying to be as flexible as they can without sacrificing the guest experience. They want the owners to survive.”

Mr. Crandell said that 90 percent of his hotels were “working with our brands, trying to pull back on capital renovations.” He declined to name specific projects, citing the confidentiality of discussions with hotel chains about brand standards. The company has not postponed projects that relate to safety, he added.

In San Francisco, Ms. Lembi-Detert has been a one-person arbiter of brand standards since she created her first hotel some 30 years ago. Even in flush times, Ms. Lembi-Detert said, she has kept close tabs on renovation costs. Her method, she said, is to hire good designers, but then eliminate extravagances from their plans.

For the Vertigo, the designer was Thomas Schoos of Los Angeles. “He wanted the bathroom floors to be made of tile with the texture of pigskin,” Ms. Lembi-Detert said. Instead, she said, “I just got a brown nonskid tile.” She added: “The owner calls the shots.”

As a result of her frugality, she said, the money allocated for the Vertigo renovation would have lasted if she hadn’t encountered “plumbing and electric surprises” in the building’s walls.

“Whenever you renovate an old building, you don’t know what you’re going to find,” Ms. Lembi-Detert said.

So, she said, she has to come up with several hundred thousand dollars more than she initially budgeted for the renovation of the Vertigo and its sister property, the Hotel Frank. “And no one will lend it to me right now,” she said.

PAYING from current accounts isn’t an option, because a rate war has driven San Francisco hotel prices down. In fact, Ms. Lembi-Detert said ruefully, “The rates are the same as when I got into the business 30 years ago.”

Recently, renovated rooms with king-size beds were going for $137 a night, about $30 more than similar unrenovated rooms.

Ms. Lembi-Detert says she is working closely with her contractors to devise a plan for finishing the renovation project. “If you don’t work together during these times,” she said, “it’s all going to fail.”
332 2009-05-10 His family’s escape upended the way security officials managed the provocative Mr. Gao, a human rights lawyer who has embraced causes including the outlawed spiritual group Falun Gong, displaced urban residents and the Christian underground church. He issued angry manifestos calling for the end of Communist Party rule.

Since his release from prison in 2006, Mr. Gao had been allowed to live a superficially normal life in Beijing. But he was shadowed by plainclothes guards, and he said he felt constrained by the threat of retribution against his family if he violated the terms of his parole.

Though he has not been charged with a new crime, he has vanished altogether since three months ago.

Mr. Gao’s disappearance has become a delicate diplomatic issue ahead of the 20th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square democracy movement on June 4. Laura Tischler, a State Department spokeswoman, said that American diplomats had not yet met with Ms. Geng. But she said that a senior American official discussed the case on March 31 with high-ranking Chinese officials in Beijing, and that State Department officials had raised the case, most recently on April 15, with the Chinese Embassy in Washington.

“The United States is deeply concerned about the safety and well-being of well-known human rights lawyer Gao Zhisheng,” Ms. Tischler said. “We have raised our concerns about Mr. Gao’s whereabouts and well-being repeatedly, both in Washington and in Beijing.”

Congress is watching, too. With Ms. Geng in the gallery, Senator Byron L. Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat, saluted her courage during a Senate floor speech on April 23 and warned that Mr. Gao, a “devout Christian,” had been thrust into an “extremely grave” situation.

“There are many today that languish in dark cells, dark cells of Chinese prisons, just because they spoke out to defend the rights of others,” said Mr. Dorgan, who is the chairman of a Congressional commission responsible for monitoring China’s human rights record. “None have done so more than Mr. Gao.”

Beijing officials, however, say that nothing untoward has happened to the Gaos.

“There’s no political persecution or limits on the freedom of the family,” Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, said at a briefing in Beijing in March. “We’ve handled the case in strict accordance with the law.” In response to inquiries about Mr. Gao’s whereabouts, the Chinese authorities have not furnished further information and have not acknowledged that he was taken into custody.

Mr. Gao, 45, was once a populist litigator battling corruption and land seizures, and he was recognized by the Ministry of Justice in 2001 as one of China’s 10 best lawyers. But he became more active handling cases of police abuse and religious freedom for Christian churches and the Falun Gong. In 2006, he rallied grass-roots organizers around China to go on a hunger strike to protest the way security forces treated another activist. He was later arrested and convicted of sedition. In December 2006, he was given a suspended sentence because, the authorities said, he confessed to his crimes and provided information about other dissidents.

The next year, Mr. Gao said his confession had been coerced. Interrogators threatened to punish his children and deny them an education unless he cooperated, he said in April 2007. “In the end I decided I could not haggle about my children’s future,” he said. He was tortured, Ms. Geng and human rights watchdogs say, with electric prods, bamboo sticks lancing his genitals, and cigarette burns to his eyelids.

Mr. Gao continues to suffer from ailments that Ms. Geng attributed to his “zhemo,” or torment, a word she used repeatedly during the interview, which was conducted in Mandarin at the offices of Human Rights in China, a watchdog group. “My husband may be in his 40s, but he’s got the body of someone in his 60s,” she said.

For Ms. Geng, the turning point came last September, when her daughter, Geng Gege, now 16, stopped going to school. The teenager felt ostracized by her peers; they felt that her father’s status was the reason everyone’s cellphone had been confiscated, and why the police shadowed her to and from class.

“Her classmates would bully her and say, ‘Your father is involved in organized crime,’ ” Ms. Geng recalled, her voice trembling. “She could not handle it anymore and she tried to kill herself.”

Because of her daughter and her 5-year-old son, Gao Tianyu, Ms. Geng decided to flee. And on Jan. 9, when she got the signal from activists that it was time, she hurriedly scribbled a brief note for her husband and left it on the dining table. It read, “I am taking Gege to school,” she said.

“I did not tell my husband because I didn’t think he could take it,” she said.

The journey was fraught with danger and paranoid moments. The family was always moving, usually at night, via overnight trains, overnight tour buses and motorcycles, and on foot. Only once did they stop overnight at someone’s house.

The most trying moment, Ms. Geng said, came when, for security reasons, the guides separated her from her son for several hours. Their motorcycles could not make it up a slippery hill, Ms. Geng said, and she got into an argument with her daughter.

“She said, ‘I’ll go to jail, I don’t care! I can’t do this anymore,’ ” Ms. Geng recalled, continuing, “I begged her not to give up, because we had to be reunited with Tianyu. I was worried that I would be separated from my child forever.”

Ultimately, the three made it to Thailand, where they were granted refugee status, facilitated by international rights groups including China Aid, a Christian organization based in Midland, Tex., which has sought to promote Christianity and protect underground church leaders in China.

Ms. Geng says she is still adjusting to her new life, settling in an apartment in Fresh Meadows, Queens, with the assistance of the American government. Her children are taking English classes but are worried about when they will see their father again.

One night last month, Ms. Geng woke at 3 a.m.; the light was still on. Her daughter was staring at a computer, donated by a friend. The screensaver image was Mr. Gao.

“She said, ‘I just want to say a few things to my dad,’ ” Ms. Geng recalled, sobbing. “ ‘Go back to sleep, Mom.’ ”
333 2009-05-10 When the recession cost Erika Nieves of Bridgeport, Conn., her job with a wrestling promoter, she did get unemployment benefits. But that caused her to lose a welfare-to-work grant and her child care subsidy. Now Ms. Nieves is months behind on her rent and is job hunting with a 2-year-old. “They took away my aid when I need it the most,” she said.

As a measure of the safety net, The New York Times examined state-by-state enrollment in six federal programs and found large variations in the share of needy helped.

Just 50 percent of people eligible for food stamps receive them in California, compared with 98 percent in Missouri. Nineteen percent of the unemployed get jobless benefits in South Dakota, compared with 67 percent in Idaho.

Fifteen states rank among the top 10 in providing one form of aid and the bottom 10 in another. California ranks second in distributing cash welfare but last in food stamps. South Dakota, last in jobless benefits, is first in subsidized housing.

Aid in states most hit by recession is also scattershot. Michigan’s programs reach a comparatively high share of the needy, while South Carolina’s rank in the middle and Nevada’s reach relatively few. All have double-digit unemployment rates.

“The system for helping Americans in need is very fragmented, and it confuses everyone,” said Theda Skocpol, a political scientist at Harvard. “Some people are covered and some people are not, even though they look like they’re in very similar circumstances.”

This complexity is a challenge for President Obama as he reacts to the economic crisis. The February stimulus act contains more than $100 billion in safety net provisions, but much of the aid consists of financial incentives the states are free to reject. Several governors quickly spurned grants to expand unemployment insurance, for example, saying the move would raise business taxes and kill jobs.

Aid programs spend hundreds of billions of dollars and reach tens of millions of people; the food stamp program alone covers more than one in 10 Americans. Yet the safety net leaves few camps satisfied. Liberals say programs are weak compared with other rich countries and are overly deferential to states. Conservatives fault costs and complexity and warn that aid can do harm.

With generous programs “you could be discouraging people from seeking better jobs,” said Stuart Butler of the Heritage Foundation.

Both sides, those who want more spending and those who want less, would unite under Mr. Butler’s description of the status quo. “You’ve got this kind of jigsaw puzzle that doesn’t really fit together, ” he said.

Compared with its peers, the United States has always made social policy in ad hoc ways, with voters quicker to call themselves self-reliant and central government more structurally constrained. Even the New Deal was a hodgepodge affair, with Social Security initially omitting about 40 percent of the work force.

Now decades after the Great Society brought a new burst of policymaking, aid programs flow through multiple — and sometimes rivalrous — departmental chains of command. Welfare and Medicaid reside at the Department of Health and Human Services; food stamps at Agriculture; rent subsidies at Housing and Urban Development; unemployment insurance at Labor; and tax credits at Treasury.

Families receive aid, or do not, in contrasting ways. Sheila Zedlewski of the Urban Institute examined use of food stamps, health insurance and child care among a representative group of low-income families. About a third got no help, a third enrolled in one program, and just 5 percent enrolled in all three.

“We have people at both ends of the spectrum,” Ms. Zedlewski said in an interview. “But we have far more people who get nothing than who get the whole package. A significant group remains outside the safety net.”

Nationwide, about two-thirds of people eligible for food stamps receive them. But just 21 percent of poor children get cash welfare; 30 percent of eligible households get subsidized housing; and 44 percent of the unemployed get jobless benefits.

While calls for government transparency are common, within the safety net, confusion often reigns. Ms. Nieves, of Bridgeport, received five food stamp notices in five weeks, telling her how much to expect: $241, $256, $429, $492 and $460.

Sometimes rules that make sense in one program collide with another. That is what happened to Ms. Nieves when she lost her job shipping wrestling souvenirs for $8 an hour. She was on welfare when she found the work, and to ease the transition the state continued her welfare payments and paid for child care. Then sales slumped, and Ms. Nieves was laid off.

Unemployment benefits replaced just half her earnings, but the state withdrew her welfare grant and child care subsidy.

“Basically, when I lost my job, I just lost everything,” she said.

Sometimes rules in a single program collide with themselves. Such was the case with Jewell French-Allen, who got tangled in an obscure provision of Massachusetts unemployment law. With a high-risk pregnancy at age 35, Ms. French-Allen left a $40,000 a year job and applied for jobless benefits. But the state denied the request, ruling that she had quit by choice. She then took a sales job at much lower pay, and was laid off.

Had she never held the first job, Ms. French-Allen could have gotten unemployment benefits. But because her earlier request had been denied, the state added a test — and disqualified her because the weekly pay from the second job was less than the benefits she would have gotten from the first.

Two days after she was rejected again, she went into labor and delivered a boy who weighed less than two pounds.

“I am bitter — if I had gotten unemployment, he wouldn’t have been born prematurely,” she said. “When you can’t support yourself financially, it puts incredible stress on your body.”

Unemployment coverage tends to be high where jobs pay well and unions are strong. (Leaders include New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.) Subsidized housing is more plentiful in places that had comparatively large populations decades ago, when money to underwrite new apartments peaked. (It is sparse in Arizona and Florida.)

Since states bear the costs of welfare expansions, most poor states trim the rolls. (Louisiana covers about one of every 20 poor families with children.) But the federal government pays for food stamps, and poor states often grab the aid. (Alabama, Georgia and Louisiana have higher enrollment rates than New York.)

Many states defy easy depiction. While Nevada keeps most programs small, unemployment insurance is an exception, perhaps reflecting union influence in Las Vegas. Despite its modest safety net, Mississippi ranks second in subsidized housing, partly a legacy of the Jim Crow age when Southern states used it to preserve segregation.

Along with differences in program enrollment, the size of benefits differs greatly, too — adding another level of variation. Mississippi pays a weekly average of $190 in unemployment benefits, while Hawaii pays $416.

While some programs are limited on purpose, some take shape by accident. Colorado invested $200 million in a computer system and got a case study in high-tech failure. Within months of the system’s start in 2004, the backlog of food stamp and Medicaid cases tripled to 18,000. The state spent three years under court order to reduce delays, but significant backlogs remain.

A bureaucratic bungle compounded the woes of Ms. Johnson, who lost her job as a librarian at Magnolia Bible College in Kosciusko, Miss. Religious schools are exempt from unemployment taxes, so Ms. Johnson, 60, faced the recession without jobless benefits.

She applied for food stamps and was denied because she had more than $3,000 in an Individual Retirement Account, though officials said she would qualify if the savings were in a 401(k).

Finding the distinction illogical, Ms. Johnson searched the Internet and learned that Congress had just changed the law. As of October 2008, savings in either kind of retirement account are no barrier to food stamps.

But state and county officials held firm, and a federal official sent an e-mail message supporting their outdated view. With the help of an advocacy group, the Public Policy Center of Mississippi, she finally traced the problem to an errant Web page at the Department of Agriculture.

“To get maybe $320 of food stamps took an entire month of work,” she said.

Occasionally, people have the opposite fortune: getting benefits they should be denied. That is what happened to Tracey Walker, 43, who was laid off last fall after seven years on the night shift at a Baltimore cosmetics factory and lost her health insurance.

With high blood pressure and headaches, Ms. Walker tried to get Medicaid, but was told her jobless benefits were too high. “I just sat there and cried,” she said.

She was ineligible for food stamps, too, but the caseworker prayed, bent the rules and authorized $180 a month — freeing up just enough cash for blood pressure pills. “It made me cry even more,” Ms. Walker said.

There are few growth industries in Baltimore, but Ms. Walker found one: a nonprofit group that helps the needy apply for Medicaid. She started work there last month as an enrollment specialist. Among the benefits she prizes is coverage under the group’s health insurance plan.
334 2009-05-10 A spokesman for Sheriff Evans, who was pursuing an ill-fated bid to become mayor of Detroit, referred me to Jeriel Heard, Wayne County’s chief of jails and courts. “Before, we would get a dozen voluntary incarcerations a year,” Chief Heard said. “Now we’re looking at four or five a week.”

The crimes committed were mostly of the public-disorder variety, he said, purposely done in front of the police to attract their attention: throwing an empty wine bottle or urinating in public, perhaps breaking into a foreclosed house. The offenders were seeking not only food and shelter but medical care. They had no previous criminal history. “The criminal justice system,” Chief Heard said, “is becoming the safety net of last resort.”

Chad Audi, the president of Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries, a program that operates a shelter and works with former prisoners, also said he was seeing a troubling increase in intentional commitments, although in his experience the people involved often had done time before.

“They love to go to jail, because this is their comfort zone,” Dr. Audi said. “One man told us he went and stole a bag of chips from a gas station just so he could go to jail and get help for his teeth. That is how petty this is.”

With the jails filling up, Dr. Audi said he worried that the lawbreaking would not remain petty much longer. “People will be forced to commit a violent crime to get into the system,” he said.

As if in confirmation, a man named James A. Roberts in February robbed a bank in Lincoln, Neb., of $3,000, and then waited outside until the police came. Mr. Roberts, 52, told the police that he had been laid off and could not find a place to live. In his mug shot, he looked pleased.

Examples in Detroit, however, have been harder to come by. Chief Heard agreed to set up an interview with a prisoner driven to crime by the recession the next time one arrived. But no one did. Social service workers were generally dismissive of the idea. In the shelters, the homeless said they had heard stories of people intentionally getting themselves locked up but that was long ago.

One of them, Kevin Allen, 54, said he couldn’t imagine trying to put himself in jail. "I did six months when I was 18, and that was enough for me," Mr. Allen said.

The mythology of bad times also calls for a rise in insurance scams. Accounts of car torchings are indeed plentiful. A Tucson man who owed much more on his 2006 Dodge Charger than it was worth is accused of persuading his daughter’s boyfriend to set it on fire. In exchange, the man agreed to let the boyfriend marry the girl. Both are now facing charges. There have been dozens of other stories only slightly less bizarre.

Yet research by John R. Hall Jr. of the National Fire Protection Association has shown that intentional fires of all sorts have been declining since 1980, and that there were no notable spikes in recession years. One reason: Revenge or spite was a more common motive in arson than profit.

If any crime were boosted by economic downturns, it would likely be burglary and other forms of theft. But in Los Angeles, where unemployment and foreclosures are rampant, crimes of all types are falling. Property crimes, for instance, are down 7 percent this year compared with 2008, the Los Angeles Police Department said last week.

As for Detroit’s voluntary incarcerations, the chief of jails now says the people doing this are so unbalanced they literally might not know what they are doing.

Brian Moore, a 49-year-old homeless Detroit man, says he thinks that is about the only way it could be happening.

Some time ago, in the middle of a miserable winter, Mr. Moore was so empty of luck that he decided he had no choice but to go back to jail. He had only a single dollar left, he recalled, and it was ripped in half. So he decided to go to a neighborhood restaurant, where he would stuff himself and then reveal he had no money. The police would handle the rest.

At the restaurant, Mr. Moore feasted on meatloaf and mashed potatoes and fried chicken while drinking three cups of coffee and a bottle of soda. The waitress was already eyeing him suspiciously. All he had to do was confess. But with his stomach full and his body warm, freedom regained its allure, he said. Mr. Moore waited until the waitress was distracted and then ran out the door.
335 2009-05-10 Lisa Marie McCaddin, a daughter of Jane E. McCaddin and Robert McCaddin of Summit, N.J., was married in Newark Saturday evening to Zachary Albert Worden, a son of Virginia H. Worden and Geoffrey F. Worden, also of Summit. The bridegroom’s father, an investment executive who is also an interfaith minister affiliated with the All-Faiths Seminary International in New York, officiated at the Newark Museum.

The bride, 28, graduated from Trinity College in Hartford. Until 2007, she was the director of editorial services for MatureHealth Communications, a medical marketing firm in Cranford, N.J.

Her father is the superintendent of St. Theresa of Avila Cemetery in Summit.

The bridegroom, also 28, graduated from Brown. He is has directed his first documentary called “Hamba Kahle,” which is now in post-production. The film follows three disabled South Africans as they prepare for and participate in the New York City Marathon.

His mother is the chairwoman of Expeditionary Learning Schools Outward Bound in New York, a national organization that establishes schools based on the Outward Bound principles of intellectual achievement and character development. She was from 2006 to 2007 the interim president of Randolph College in Lynchburg, Va.

She along with the bridegroom’s father founded Bridges Outreach, an organization that provides food, clothing and other necessities to the homeless of New York. His father is the president of South Street Capital, an investment firm in Chatham, N.J., and was from 1996 to 2000 the chairman of New York City Outward Bound School.
336 2009-05-10 Jocelyn Stephens Weiss and Nicol Malas were married Saturday at Pink Sands Resort on Harbour Island, the Bahamas. Brenda Bullard Colebrook, the deputy administrator of Harbour Island, officiated.

Mrs. Malas, 37, is the vice president for corporate communications at BBDO New York, the advertising agency, which is a unit of Omnicom. She graduated from New York University.

She is a daughter of Tyler Tinsworth of Greenwich, Conn., and the late Stephen A. Weiss, who lived in North Salem, N.Y. Her mother owns an interior design business in Greenwich. She is also a real estate agent with Greenwich Fine Properties. The bride’s father owned Flintlock Construction, a real estate development firm in Mamaroneck, N.Y.

Mr. Malas, 35, is a senior vice president at Siebert Brandford Shank, a municipal underwriting and financial advisory firm in New York, where he heads the transportation finance group. He graduated from Northwestern and received a master’s in public administration from Columbia.

He is a son of Marlena Kleinman Malas and Spiro Malas of New York. His mother, a mezzo-soprano, is on the faculty at Juilliard and the Manhattan School of Music. His father, a bass-baritone, is also on the faculty at the Manhattan School of Music and teaches at Barnard. He was the star of a 1992 revival of “Most Happy Fella” on Broadway, and was a featured performer at the Metropolitan Opera from 1983 to 1993 and at the New York City Opera from 1963 to 1983.
337 2009-05-10 Some obstacles are rooted in the personal and philosophical differences between Mr. Lang and Mr. Rosenman that date back four decades.

“Joel is a much more bottom-line-oriented person,” said Mr. Lang, wearing a dark blue T-shirt, jeans and white tennis shoes in his offices in a loft in Chelsea. “I’m more of an intuitive person, a loose thinker.”

MR. ROSENMAN, who was a musician when he was young, disputes being characterized as the stiff suit and Mr. Lang as the dreamer, a dichotomy, he says, that began appearing in the news media four decades ago, when Mr. Lang was doing most of the interviews. “Michael was by far the most businesslike of us when it came to calculating profits and the advantage of one deal over another,” Mr. Rosenman said.

Mr. Lang wants a Woodstock concert show this year because, he said, “Woodstock is relevant on the anniversaries.”

Mr. Rosenman is not in such a rush. “If it’s not the best lineup and the best setting and the right feeling about the community that develops,” he said, “we shouldn’t have that event.”

Their partnership started in 1969, and also included Artie Kornfeld, a record producer, and Mr. Rosenman’s then-business partner, John Roberts, who died in 2001. Mr. Kornfeld and Mr. Lang sold their shares in Woodstock Ventures to the other two men for about $65,000 in the wake of disagreements and debts after the original Woodstock, but Mr. Lang returned as a minority owner before the 1999 festival.

Although Mr. Roberts’s children are consulted regularly about Woodstock-related decisions, they do not perform the role their father once did, as a buffer between Mr. Lang and Mr. Rosenman.

“John,” Mr. Lang said, “was the bridge.” He and Mr. Rosenman speak frequently, often during Mr. Lang’s twice-weekly commutes to the city from the town of Woodstock, N.Y., where he lives with his second wife and twin 7-year-old boys. Mr. Rosenman lives on Central Park South. One measure of their differences was the challenge of getting them to pose together for a photograph. After much back-and-forth scheduling, Mr. Lang refused to enter Mr. Rosenman’s building to meet him.

They are dickering over many issues, both men say. Should the next official Woodstock be held live or as an online-only event? Should it be postponed until the economy improves? Should it include nostalgia acts or contemporary bands? In the city or country? Free or not?

Mr. Rosenman said Mr. Lang did not show up for a recent meeting the two were supposed to have with Kevin Wall, a producer of the Live Earth concerts in 2007.

For his part, Mr. Lang, in his forthcoming book, “The Road to Woodstock,” dredges up old disagreements with his partner. He writes that Mr. Rosenman’s opposition to investing in a recording studio in the town of Woodstock in 1969 was a mistake and that a studio that was built nearby a year later by Albert Grossman became “the origin of albums by the Rolling Stones, Foreigner, Bonnie Raitt, R.E.M.” and many others.

The operators of the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts, on the grounds of the original Woodstock concert, gave up trying to work with Woodstock Ventures and announced on May 4 that they were going ahead with their own commemorative concert Aug. 15, called the Bethel Woods Music Festival, which will include acts from the Heroes of Woodstock tour.

Now, Mr. Lang and Mr. Rosenman sometimes seem like an old married couple who can usually talk about all the water that has passed under the bridge and, when it comes to their baby, Woodstock, manage to work together. Mr. Rosenman said that any personal differences had “zero” to do with no major event being scheduled but that they continued to debate whether it was better to forge ahead without commercial sponsors or to wait to line some up.

“My feeling is let’s come back when that is the case,” Mr. Rosenman said. “And Michael’s position is let’s do what we can now with less resources.” One thing Mr. Lang and Mr. Rosenman agree about is that they are not trying to mine Woodstock for money. The 1969 event left Woodstock Ventures more than $1 million in debt. The most successful spinoff, the three-hour concert movie directed by Michael Wadleigh, has grossed more than $60 million, but most of the profit has gone to Warner Brothers.

At the moment, the two partners’ most tangible project is Woodstock.com, a Web site scheduled to go up in June.

“The word ‘Woodstock’ means something — it’s hard to pin down sometimes,” Mr. Rosenman said. “We’re brainstorming about how to take something that was kind of a beacon to the world about counterculture and music and community in 1969 and transforming it into a 21st century phenomenon that has an Internet platform instead of a live one.”

SUCH late-in-the-game confusion has some historical precedent. In May of 1969 — 40 years ago right now — there was no firm site set for Woodstock, and many of the bands were not yet booked.

Mr. Lang has not given up hope that he can pull off another last-minute event. He said they were speaking with a potential sponsor and city officials for a free concert in Prospect Park in the fall. “We would have 150,000 ticketed and an overflow area for 150,000 more with video screens,” he said, speaking more animatedly when the logistics of a show were being discussed than he was when the subject was finding sponsors and working out issues with Mr. Rosenman.

“It would be noon to 11 p.m., eight to 10 bands on the main stage,” Mr. Lang continued. “On-site solar and wind power; biodiesel for generators; organic and local produce; recycled paper goods. We’d like to give away one-day free passes on city transit with a ticket.”

Maybe, just maybe, Mr. Rosenman said.

“It is a slim prospect as are nearly all of our prospects for the near term,” he said. “I’d be hesitant to talk about them except that in the past slim prospects have materialized for us.”
338 2009-05-10 We are about to look at the trials of a man who was judged in one decade for what he was said to have done in another. —Alistair Cooke, A Generation on Trial, 1950

It was not entirely true, even in 1950, that Alger Hiss was being judged primarily on the basis of what he had done in the 1930s. Unless a former Communist Party member had thoroughly repudiated his past and turned against his one-time friends and political associates, he was suspected in the late forties and early fifties of still being a secret Communist — or, at the very least, a communist sympathizer known as a "fellow traveler." In Hiss's case, the real suspicion underlying the indictment for perjury was that he had betrayed his country while serving as a State Department aide, by passing confidential information to the Soviets not only in the thirties but perhaps even during the Second World War (although Whittaker Chambers, who left the Party in 1938, never claimed to know anything about Hiss's subsequent activities). By the time Hiss was indicted and tried for perjury, he stood, in the opinion of a significant proportion of the public, for all of the American-born subverters-from-within who helped the Soviet Union to become the most prominent, indeed the only, counterweight to the power of the United States in the postwar world. To his liberal defenders, Hiss stood for all of the loyal Americans whose lives were being destroyed by charges that they had once been Communists or had even associated with Communists.

But it is impossible to understand the intensity of the passions surrounding the guilt or innocence of Hiss without making an imaginative leap backward to the thirties, when Americans were struggling with the Depression and trying to suppress awareness of the intermittent, still-distant signals of menace from Nazi Germany. During that decade, many American intellectuals were attracted to philosophical communism with a small c and to Soviet Communism as the only stalwart opponent of fascism in Europe. As the historian Richard Hofstadter notes, "the appeal of Communism during the 1930s was stronger among intellectuals than among any other stratum of the population; and ... in a few spectacular instances, faith in Communism led to espionage." Most intellectuals who were drawn to communism, regardless of whether they actually joined the Party, lacked firsthand knowledge about what life was really like in the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin. These leftist intellectuals discounted reports of widespread famine in the countryside during the early thirties, and they later took the confessions and executions of old Bolsheviks during the purges at face value. But others on the left did recognize Stalinism for the evil that it was, especially after the purges and show trials of 1937 and 1938. Much of the enduring passion surrounding the Hiss case can be traced to the split in the thirties between pro-Soviet and anti-Soviet American leftists, and an astonishing number on both sides (indeed, nearly everyone capable of beginning a sentence with a capital letter and ending it with a period) have left exhaustive and sometimes exhausting memoirs repudiating or justifying their youthful selves. The sheer volume and intensity of these memoirs, many of which touch on the Hiss case in one way or another, have certainly had the effect of exaggerating the influence of communism on American cultural life — and that is true whether one is talking about the actual importance of communism in the thirties, the retrospective importance attached to communism during the anti-Red crusades of the late forties and fifties, or the more distant, though not necessarily more dispassionate, historical evaluations offered today. Much of this exaggeration is the product of nothing more complicated than certain intellectuals' overestimation of their own importance. From reading the memoirs of the culture warriors of the Old Left — Irving Kristol, Irving Howe, Diana Trilling, Dwight Macdonald, and Edmund Wilson, to name only a few located at various points on the political spectrum — a Martian might understandably, and mistakenly, conclude that these people, largely unknown outside the left-wing intellectual pressure cooker in the northeast corridor running from Boston through New York to Washington, actually changed the course of world and American history. Writing in 1993, Trilling asserted:

Today, with the defeat of Communism in Europe and its dissolution in the Soviet Union, it requires a considerable effort of historical memory to bring back to mind the extent to which Stalinism dominated American culture in the years before the Second World War: in art, journalism, editing and publishing, in the theater and the entertainment industries, in the legal profession, in the schools and universities, among church and civic leaders, everywhere in our cultural life the Soviet Union exercised a control which was all but absolute. The submission to Stalinism by our opinion-forming population was not always politically conscious. It represented the fashionable trend in what was presumed to be enlightened thought.

This statement is true only if "everywhere" extends from the East River to the Hudson River and is bounded by Greenwich Village on the south and Morningside Heights on the north, allowing for outposts in Hollywood and Harvard Yard. And it is true only if one accepts the proposition that everyone attracted to Marxist ideology in the thirties was also passionately attached to Stalin's version of communism. It is equally crucial to recall that for most of the thirties, the larger American public was as indifferent to the left-wing political passions of intellectuals as it was to the right-wing passions of those who already viewed communism as a serious threat. The House Committee on Un-American Activities, then headed by Representative Martin Dies, tried to stir up broad anti-communist sentiment in the late thirties, but most Americans had other, more pressing concerns — such as how to make a living in a society where, in spite of the efforts of the New Deal, the economy was still troubled and the public's sense of economic security remained extremely fragile. (The Dies committee also investigated Nazi front organizations like the German-American Bund, but it paid much more attention to socialist and communist groups.) As the fateful year 1938 drew to a close, with England and France allowing Hitler to gobble up Czechoslovakia in a pursuit of the illusion of "peace in our time," fully 40 percent of Americans had never even heard of HUAC. Although middle-class Americans undoubtedly had little esteem for communism (insofar as they thought about communism at all), the Soviet Union itself was not seen as a formidable adversary or as a major threat to world peace. In August 1937 the recently established Gallup Poll found that nearly three-quarters of Americans believed that there would be another world war — but only 11 percent thought that Russia would be responsible for starting the conflict. Nearly one-third said that if a second world war broke out, Germany would be the instigator. Asked which side they would like to see win a war between Germany and Russia, 83 percent picked Russia. That such views had been widely shared by Americans of all social classes in the thirties, and by nonintellectuals as well as left-wing intellectuals, was downplayed after the war by those who wished to portray all communists and fellow travelers as anti-American and as potential traitors.

It is true, as Hofstadter observed, that intellectuals were more active participants than most other Americans in left-wing causes, especially those involving foreign affairs. The Spanish Civil War, a matter of immense importance to intellectuals who correctly considered the conflict a testing ground for a future worldwide confrontation between communism and fascism, scarcely registered on the American public in 1937 and 1938. In 1937 Americans did not even rate the Spanish bloodletting among the ten most interesting news events of the year. (The Sino-Japanese War, by contrast, was rated the second most interesting news event — after major floods in Ohio. Not surprisingly, the abdication of Britain's King Edward VIII and his marriage to the American divorcée Wallis Warfield Simpson — "the woman I love" — also ranked far ahead of the violence in Spain as a news event of compelling interest to the public.) Among the minority of Americans who did have strong opinions about the Spanish Civil War in 1937, 65 percent sympathized with the Spanish Republicans (also called Loyalists), backed by the Soviet Union. By 1938, when Soviet involvement on the Loyalist side and Nazi backing for the forces of Francisco Franco were much clearer, pro-Loyalist sentiment had risen to 75 percent among those who had an opinion. It is significant, however, that more than half of those polled still expressed no opinion on the issue. Even the Roman Catholic Church, ideologically committed to fierce anticommunism because of the Soviet Union's official atheism and suppression of religious institutions, had only limited success in enlisting ordinary American Catholics in the anti-Red efforts of the thirties. The American Catholic hierarchy, which followed the lead of the Vatican in its support for Franco, invested considerable effort in persuading lay Catholics to follow the church's lead. Yet a 1938 Gallup Poll showed that in spite of the church's fervent propagandizing on behalf of Franco as the only alternative to a communist Spain, only 39 percent of American Catholics were firmly in the Franco camp. Another 30 percent supported the Loyalists, and the rest had no opinion. (The chief difference between Catholics and non-Catholics was that more Catholics had an opinion, so the church hierarchy had been successful in raising consciousness of the issue on the part of the laity.) But most Americans, whatever their political views, were not about to follow the lead of impassioned young left-wingers by enlisting in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade to fight Franco's forces; they considered it more foolish than harmful for individuals to become involved in a European war. Nevertheless, it would have been hard to imagine in the thirties, given the relatively sanguine view of Soviet military intentions held by the majority of Americans before the 1939 Nazi-Soviet pact, that having participated in such causes as the Lincoln Brigade would be considered a badge of shame only a decade later. It was only after the Second World War, when a rich and triumphalist America emerged to confront the reality of Soviet domination over Eastern Europe, that anti-Red crusaders were able to tap into a rich popular vein of antiradical, antiforeign, antiatheist (for Soviet Communism was synonymous with atheism in the American mind), and, last but not least, anti-intellectual sentiment.

It is a significant measure of America's instant historical amnesia that Alistair Cooke, writing about the Hiss trials in 1950, already considered it imperative to remind his readers about the very different political and economic climate of the 1930s. Right from the start, the iconography of the Hiss case has been defined by cycles of memory and forgetting that seem extraordinarily compressed even by American standards of historical amnesia. "Ten years is a long time in the memory of any man," Cooke asserted in the opening chapter of A Generation on Trial, titled "Remembrance of Things Past." That depends on the age of the man. But ten years is not a long time in the memory of a nation, unless its fortunes have either improved or declined so dramatically that even the recent past grows dim. That is exactly what happened to America during the Second World War, which finally put an end to the Depression and aroused amply justified hopes, as a result of innovations like the GI Bill, of unprecedented prosperity and a previously unimaginable expansion of educational opportunity to what had been the blue-collar class. The rise of our recent ally the Soviet Union was the only serious source of insecurity, because Stalin's regime posed the only challenge to the postwar Pax Americana. Given the very different prewar popular mindset, it is unlikely, had Chambers leveled his public charges against Hiss in 1938 or 1939, that they would have attracted anything like the attention they did when they were presented before HUAC in 1948. Indeed, when Chambers privately told Assistant Secretary of State Adolf Berle in 1939 that Hiss, among other State Department officials, was a member of the Communist Party, Berle was not alarmed enough to launch a serious investigation. To the political right, Berle's failure to follow up on Chambers's charges is a significant and ominous indicator of the Roosevelt administration's leftist sympathies. But Roosevelt's State Department, like the rest of the country, was much more worried about Germany than about the Soviet Union — before and after the signing of the Nazi-Soviet pact.
339 2009-05-10 The palace was also the home he shared with his common-law wife, Florence, and he expanded and ornamented it over the years with the scavenging, untutored aesthetic of a fort-building boy, until it looked like a troll’s fairy-tale hideaway, what Mr. Kirchner likes to describe as “the Christmas Grinch castle.” He used tortoise shells, bed frames, bottles, broken bits of anything, and all those junked fenders, bumpers, generators and other auto parts. He mixed the claylike soil with the fluid leakage from the cars, slapped his found treasures into place with it, and watched it all bake hard in the sun.

The 18 spires he built on wagon-wheel bases rose like stalagmites from the roof. He fashioned a Devil’s Den in the basement, where he claimed to keep the Jersey Devil on its occasional visits. He charged visitors a quarter for a tour.

“He would squirrel around and gather stuff and then he’d build with it,” said Jeffrey Tirante, 50, who watched bulldozers level the palace in 1969, five years after Mr. Daynor’s death, and who visited its remnants with his friends and their guitars as a teenager. In 1986, he had his wedding at the ticket booth, the only original structure that survived intact. “It was supposed to be a monument that represented what people could do for themselves, pulling their own weight.”

For the last decade, Mr. Kirchner and Mr. Tirante have formed the odd-couple core of the volunteer effort to rebuild the palace. “I think bricks and mortar,” said Mr. Kirchner, the City of Vineland’s construction official and director of licenses and inspections. As for Mr. Tirante, who recently started a company that makes what he describes as “replicas and dashboard icons,” Mr. Kirchner said, “He’s an artist — he thinks different.”

Mr. Kirchner remembers visiting the palace as a boy of perhaps 5, the summer that all of his uncles came to visit, one week after the next, from Pennsylvania. “We brought one of them here, and then they all wanted to see it,” he said.

The palace closed in 1957 after one of Mr. Daynor’s publicity stunts — his false claim to the F.B.I. that the kidnappers of a young boy had visited — landed him in prison for more than a year for obstruction of justice. Vandals damaged the palace when he was gone, and he was too old to rebuild when he returned. He was buried in a pauper’s grave. The city bought the property from his widow, and demolished what was left when it was deemed a safety hazard.

In 1998, when the city was considering the overgrown land as a site for low-income housing, Mr. Kirchner suggested rebuilding the palace as a city park instead. He soon had $11,000 in donations, and 400 volunteers offering materials and labor. For several years the efforts of the newly formed Palace of Depression Restoration Association — Kevin Kirchner, president — consisted mainly of wading through the complex process of securing a wetlands permit from the state. (The site borders a stream where Mr. Daynor drank, bathed, and caught fish and frogs for supper.)

Mr. Daynor left no blueprints, but an architect cobbled together some, based on old photographs, newsreels, postcards and also — an unexpected benefit from Mr. Daynor’s ignominious demise — the aerial shots the F.B.I. took during the investigation. Mr. Kirchner and his volunteers spent two years clearing the land with a chainsaw, then started building. Vandals knocked their work down once, then again, then again.

“After the third time, I was ready to just bring the bulldozer out and give everything up, “ Mr. Kirchner said. Mr. Tirante, who rides the bus here from his home in Philadelphia most weekends to work on the project, encouraged him to press on, and they did. “We’d be up on the second floor by now if they hadn’t wiped us out.”

The construction season started at the site a few weeks ago, with more volunteers than in any previous year, and by the end of the summer Mr. Kirchner hopes to have the walls of the first floor finished. He estimates another three to five years of work before the project is done. Artifacts and building materials destined for the new palace — dug up from the site, or donated — fill half of his garage, part of his son’s barn, and all of another storage unit. Every time an old building in the city is torn down, Mr. Kirchner scavenges it the way Mr. Daynor once might have.

The original palace was doomed from the start because Mr. Daynor, for all his Depression-bred ingenuity, never gave it a proper foundation. “When we first dug we hit the original base, but it was so crumbled we took it out,” Mr. Kirchner said, pointing to where concrete will soon be poured and a solid new wall will rise. “We want this one to stand.”
340 2009-05-10 Sixty years ago, at another fraught historical moment, the world and all its troubles seemed to be bound up in the relationship of two men. Between Alger Hiss and Whittaker Chambers was a story so deep in political significance that it has remained a historical touchstone ever since; so personal in its mundane details — did Mrs. Hiss give Mrs. Chambers a lovely old linen towel to use as a diaper? — that thousands have labored to find the answer, as if the truth about the towel held the secret of the world. But I wax lyrical.

Susan Jacoby, in her vigorously argumentative new book about the Hiss-­Chambers case, is interested in the towels and the men only as they are reflected in the partisan passions with which the story has been told. For her own part, Jacoby, the author of “The Age of American ­Unreason” and other books, believes ­Alger Hiss was guilty of the perjury for which he was convicted; she is almost, but not entirely, persuaded that Hiss was also a Soviet spy. This strikes me as an odd quibble, but I see that it positions her outside the two camps of scholars who, she says, have used and often misused the tale to further a political agenda. “Indeed,” Jacoby writes, “the conspicuous trait uniting Hiss’s dogged ex post facto bloodhounds with his die-hard defenders is the need to be 100 percent right in order to vindicate not only their verdict on American history but the governmental policies they espouse today.”

For the right, Hiss was “tailor-made for those who wished to besmirch the memory of Roosevelt,” and to blur “the distinction between Communism and liberalism.” A treacherous Hiss proved that many liberals were secret Stalinists, able to insinuate themselves into the New Deal because of liberalism’s very nature. For the left, Hiss was an elegant representative of New Deal liberalism, who with so many others became a victim of cold war hysteria. A sociopathic and/or homosexual Chambers, in league with Richard Nixon and the F.B.I., lied and manufactured the evidence that told against Hiss. Jacoby describes these scenarios as they played out, with diminishing intensity, for the first 30 years after Hiss’s conviction for perjury. The case might have faded altogether if not that a torrent of new evidence became available, beginning in 1978 with the publication of Allen Weinstein’s “Perjury,” and continuing with Sam Tanenhaus’s 1997 biography of Chambers and the release of the Venona transcripts, records of Soviet intelligence communications during World War II. And it keeps coming even to the present day.

One could say, although not without fear of contradiction, that none of the evidence is exculpatory of Hiss. But Jacoby is incensed at the way current scholars have continued old ideological battles on the back of the Hiss case. She is not always an equal opportunity critic. When, in an essay on conservatism, Tanenhaus, the editor of The New York Times Book Review, challenges a paper presenting evidence for Hiss, it is a “screed,” whereas Jeff Kisseloff, whose Web site about Hiss is sponsored by the Nation Institute, replies to Tanenhaus with an “equally impassioned counterblast.” And it is a little disconcerting to find Ann Coulter thrown into the mix of respectable scholars, just to make Jacoby’s point. I wish also that Jacoby had made a bow in the direction of disinterested scholarship. After all, not even some of the work she herself cites has been done with a political agenda in mind; some scholars believe that historical truth has its own claims.

In the end Jacoby concludes that, sadly, the “misplaced faith inspired by Hiss is still being used to impugn the patriotism of those who believe that it is more, not less, important for this nation to live up to its highest ideals and legal traditions in times of danger than in times of complacent security.” As she has read so deeply and widely in the case, Jacoby would not be surprised to find that Whittaker Chambers agreed with her. In a 1959 letter to William F. Buckley, Chambers suggested that the right begin to “examine and define with a special scrupulousness the civil liberties field. . . . Why, for example,” Chambers wrote, “should we leave it to liberals to give tongue against the frightening developments in wiretapping?”
341 2009-05-10 The response to the program has been overwhelming. Within 48 hours of its unveiling, 200 people called or e-mailed; at least 100 are expected to apply for the first class of 25, according to university administrators. Besides Mrs. Marshall, those who responded include Pedro Ramirez, 48, of Cranford, a Goldman Sachs executive let go in February 2008; Robert Stanley, 50, of Basking Ridge, a 26-year Wall Street veteran out of work since October; and Tony Malanga, 46, of Verona, a mortgage banker who lost his job in March.

“Things collapsed to such an extent in financial services, it’s going to take years to get back to normalcy,” said Mr. Malanga, a father of six. “It’s a good point for me to transition into a new career. Teaching was always something I wanted. In your late 40s, after coming through this, you care more about stability than building wealth.”

Since December 2007, New Jersey’s financial services sector has shed 16,000 jobs, said David J. Socolow, state commissioner of labor and workforce development. Thousands of other residents lost similar jobs in New York.

Traders to Teachers, financed by a federal grant, will do more than retrain dislocated workers, Mr. Socolow said, it will also ease the state’s shortage of math teachers.

Ada Beth Cutler, dean of the College of Education and Human Services at Montclair State, said the idea came to her and Lucille E. Davy, New Jersey’s education commissioner, last fall.

“She called me and said she was hearing about all the people being laid off from financial services,” Dr. Cutler recalled. “She said, ‘Don’t you think these people would make great math teachers?’ I said, ‘That’s funny you should ask, because we’ve been getting calls from them about this.’ ”

Most of the callers had majored in finance or accounting. When they learned they needed 30 college credits in mathematics, she said, they were dismayed.

Special legislation was introduced to ease that rule and fast-track certification.

“That does not mean we will compromise our standards,” Dr. Cutler said. “We will take very bright people and, through a very intensive program, teach them the mathematics they need to know and how to teach it.”

The first 25 of the newly trained teachers are expected to be placed in teaching positions in January. Three more groups are expected to be trained within a year, Montclair State administrators said.

On a recent afternoon, dozens of potential candidates filed into a lecture hall in Montclair for orientation. Most appeared to be at least 40. Many were dressed in business attire, and kept one eye on their BlackBerrys.

Tina Lordamlis, 38, of Weehawken, a former financial analyst for Citigroup, drew smiles when she raised her hand to ask: “All my life I’ve been on the analysis side. How do you teach getting up in front of people?”

A question about math teachers’ pay followed. In 2007, financial sector salaries averaged about $98,000, nearly twice as much as the average New Jersey wages, according to the state labor department.

“Salaries differ from district to district, and depending on your degree,” Dr. Cutler said. “Generally, for someone with a bachelor’s, it’s somewhere in the 40s. A few pay in the 50s. Some districts are willing to negotiate.”

Candidates also learned that they would have to pass a qualifying exam.

Afterward, Maureen Quinn, 46, a former financial analyst who has been substitute-teaching in Tenafly, her hometown, said she needed an algebra refresher. “I think I need to study,” she said.

Many of those present said they had enjoyed their careers before the economy soured.

“It was rewarding psychologically, and very rewarding financially,” said Robert Stanley of Basking Ridge, a broker whose niche is electronic trading. “The work was also essential to society. I have no shame for the fact I did it.”

Still, at 50, he sees no future in it.

“I believe my Wall Street career is done at age 50. I would go back to Wall Street, absolutely, if the right thing came, but I don’t see any turnaround,” Mr. Stanley said. “Wall Street is a young man’s game.”

Pedro Ramirez, 48, said he had been happy, too, at Goldman Sachs, which paid for his M.B.A. and promoted him through the ranks in the syndication and loan trading department. “I was learning, I was managing people and processes,” he said.

After a year of job hunting, though, he decided to switch gears.

“Teaching was always something in the back of my mind,” said Mr. Ramirez, who lives in Cranford. “Obviously, I won’t be able to make the money I was making. On the other hand, the quality of my life may change for the better, and my kids would be very happy to see me around.” After losing his job he became an assistant scoutmaster.

Retraining financial services professionals as teachers “makes a heck of a lot of sense,” said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. “It may produce a cadre of highly skilled, talented teachers who ordinarily wouldn’t have gone into the profession.”

Whether they will remain in it is another issue, he said.

“A year or two down the road, when there is strong economic recovery, some people might drift back to opportunities in the financial world,” Dr. Hughes said. “But who knows? The future hasn’t been written.”
342 2009-05-10 While it is often assumed that a wholesale rejection of the art of the past occurred in the 20th century, in fact traditional subjects for artists have persisted to a remarkable extent, albeit in altered form. Sometimes they even emerge reinvigorated. For instance, two exhibitions at Art Sites in Riverhead draw their inspiration from ideas of home and domesticity, themes that underlie several centuries of still life and genre painting, the latter involving images of domestic interiors and social life.

One of the shows is in the gallery; the other is outdoors on the two-acre riverside property, the artworks scattered among the grass and trees. Both exhibitions were organized by Glynis Berry, the co-founder (with Hideaki Ariizumi) of this plucky little nonprofit art space, which has earned a dedicated local following since it opened three years ago. Though economic times are tough and funding is hard to come by, Ms. Berry says they are committed to keeping the gallery open.

The gallery exhibition features the work of two well-known contemporary artists, Ted Victoria and Darlene Charneco. It is a big show, titled “Home,” with more than 45 works, most dating from the last couple of years, spread over three rooms. Though the artists use different materials and appear to have little in common with each other, their work is a linked by an examination of networks and communities as part of a larger investigation into ideas of home and habitation.

Both make paintings, though not in any conventional sense. Mr. Victoria constructs small, low-tech, animated light-box assemblages with subtle moving images. Ms. Charneco’s works are more difficult to describe, though they are essentially collages. She starts with a wood base, painting it with circles, then adding a thick layer of transparent resin into which she sticks nails, clusters of toy houses, miniature fences and trees. They look like social experiments in imaginary Petri dishes.

For me, Mr. Victoria’s light box assemblages are the more interesting of the two bodies of work. They look at first like simple tableaus — we see a chair and ball in a living room; a light bulb; a television and ticking clock. It is nothing special. But the scenes are enlivened by movement and clever juxtapositions of scale. Watching the objects slowly spin and turn gives us a sense of space unmoored. With his domestic illusionism, Mr. Victoria turns the mundane into the marvelous.

Born and raised in Riverhead, Mr. Victoria first came to the attention of the New York art scene with installations of images of swimming sea monkeys filling storefront windows. His light boxes are more ambitious, but rely on more or less the same technology — light projections using objects reflected in mirrors. The exception is “Watching TV on LSD #1” (1998), which incorporates a live television image through the use of concealed antennae.

The outdoor exhibition, “YC3,” which stands for Yurt City 3, is the third iteration of a collaborative outdoor sculpture project coordinated by Sheila Ross and Laura Ten Eyck, Canadian artists based in New York. Conceived in response to the city’s lack of affordable housing and studio space for artists, it consists of 10 prefabricated tents, yurts and other temporary shelters. Together they serve as a testing ground of ad hoc vernacular architecture.
343 2009-05-10 Many guests agree. Free in-room Internet access ranked as the most desired guest-room amenity in a national survey of 800 affluent travelers conducted in August by Ypartnership, a travel marketing firm in , Fla. That was above premium bedding and flat-screen TVs. A January survey of 6,300 people across 10 countries by the research firm Synovate found that 47 percent of respondents said a hotel must cater to their technology needs before they book it, with wireless access a top priority.

“We are finding that it is now no longer an added feature to have wireless Internet in hotels, but rather it is expected,” Sheri Lambert, a Synovate senior vice president for travel and leisure research, said in a statement. “Travelers, whether for business or leisure, need to be connected.”

Budget hotels, which have been offering free Wi-Fi for some time, are increasingly calling attention to the service as a way to stand out from more expensive hotels as travelers look for bargains in the recession.

Starwood’s new extended-stay brand, Element, has been highlighting its free Wi-Fi in local advertising campaigns for recently opened hotels in and Lexington, Mass. Homewood Suites by Hilton is running an advertisement that lists “all the little extras that would otherwise eat into your expenses” starting with high-speed Internet access.

Recognizing the resentment, a few upscale hotels have begun to drop Internet charges — at least for some of their guests.

Hyatt announced last month that it would waive the charge for in-room Internet access for members of its loyalty program at platinum and diamond levels. In March the luxury in did away with the $10.99 fee it had been charging for Internet access and began offering free Wi-Fi throughout the hotel.

Some hotels, however, have taken the opposite direction. Thompson Hotels, a small group of boutique hotels that used to boast about free Wi-Fi, started charging $10 per 24-hour period earlier this year. “As rates of all of the hotels have decreased,” said Jennifer Walters, a publicist for the hotel group, “certain services that don’t affect all guests had to be altered — one such item being Wi-Fi. Not all guests use it, so to include it complimentary in the rate no longer makes sense with the consumer wanting the most attractive rates.”

Yet on the whole, more hotels do seem to be moving away from the fees. Over all, 15 percent of hotels charge for Internet service in a guest room, down from 22 percent in 2004, according to a 2008 survey by the American Hotel and Lodging Association. Those that still require payment for the service are overwhelmingly at the high end: 49 percent of luxury or upscale hotels charge for in-room Internet service compared with just 16 percent of economy or budget properties. Only 5 percent of midprice hotels require payment.

Some major chains that charge for Internet service in guest rooms have been offering free Wi-Fi in lobbies, but travelers say it’s not the same.

“Everyone has to line up in the computer room, and the hotel lobby becomes an Internet cafe, which is rather unappealing,” Kevin Leibel, president of a brand strategy company in , N.C., wrote in an e-mail message from the business center at the in while on vacation. For in-room Internet, that hotel charges 18 euros for 24 hours (about $24 at $1.33 to the euro) or 12 euros an hour, but users are allowed 30 minutes at a time free in the business center.

So why do many upscale hotels continue to charge for Internet access while more affordable brands do not? The guest bending over a keyboard could be forgiven some impatience at hearing one explanation: the role of hotels’ legal agreements on branding.

“In the management contract scenario, the brands would like to maximize revenue because all of that is subject to base management fees,” said Bjorn Hanson, an associate professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at . When the ownership is through a franchise, as is typical with less expensive hotels, the hotel brands “let the owners pay for installation and providing the service.”

Hotels say Internet charges are driven by what the market will bear. Because travelers have been willing to pay extra at high-end properties, those hotels continue to charge. But that doesn’t much change the experience for travelers who have paid for in-room Internet service at a Hilton, for example, but received it for free at a Hilton Garden Inn.

“That’s the big disconnect” said Juliana Shallcross, senior editor at , where hotel Wi-Fi has become a frequent topic. HotelChatter issues an annual Wi-Fi report detailing hotel policies across various brands. This year, the report focused not just on which hotels were charging and which weren’t, but also on reliability.

“What brings out the most ire,” Ms. Shallcross said, is finding that not only is there a fee for the Internet connection, but also that “it’s not working.” She recently paid $14.99 for in-room Internet at the in Las Vegas. First, she tried using the wireless option, but the connection was “so terrible,” she said in a post on HotelChatter, that she tried using the ethernet cable she found in a drawer. Still no luck.

“After trying for about an hour to send an e-mail,” she wrote, “we got on the horn with the technician who said the modem looked zapped and that a technician would arrive to fix it. We waited for 45 minutes, and no one came. At 11:30 at night, we decided we could not afford to wait for someone to come as we needed to be up and working by 5:30 a.m. We called the front desk and asked for a different room.”

At checkout, the Mirage removed the Internet charge from her bill.
344 2009-05-10 “THIS ain’t your daddy’s World War II movie,” Quentin Tarantino said with a grin, standing on a street corner here that had been scrubbed of 21st-century signposts to become the set of “Inglourious Basterds,” his new film about a band of Jewish-American soldiers on a scalp-hunting revenge quest against the Nazis.

Although it was mostly shot at Studio Babelsberg in Potsdam, Germany, the movie’s subtitle is “Once Upon a Time in Nazi-Occupied France.” So on a three-day sojourn in Paris in December, Mr. Tarantino and his bi-continental moviemaking coalition commandeered a 1904 bistro with peeling paint, Art Deco stained glass and a wall of windows overlooking an intersection of identifiably Parisian streets in the 18th Arrondissement.

“We had to have a scene to sell the audience that we’re in France,” Mr. Tarantino said. “This is it.”

“Inglourious Basterds,” which is to have its premiere at the Cannes Film Festival on May 20, is Mr. Tarantino’s first movie since “Death Proof,” half of “Grindhouse,” a double feature and box-office flop that he directed with Robert Rodriguez, and his first solo feature since “Kill Bill Vol. 2” in 2004.

Mr. Tarantino calls “Inglourious Basterds” his “bunch of guys on a mission movie.” Judging by the script, it should have the crackling dialogue, irreverent humor and stylized violence that are hallmarks of his work.

“You’ve got to make a movie about something, and I’m a film guy, so I think in terms of genres,” he said. “So you get a good idea, and it just moves forward and then usually by the time you’re finished, it doesn’t resemble anything of what might have been the inspiration. It’s simply the spark that starts the fire.”

The spark that led to “Inglourious Basterds,” starring Brad Pitt, Diane Kruger, Mike Myers, Eli Roth and a large international cast, can be traced to Mr. Tarantino’s storied days as a video-store clerk in Manhattan Beach, Calif. (The inspiration for “Reservoir Dogs,” “Jackie Brown” and other Tarantino movies can also be traced to that time.)

“The guys at Video Archives were like, ‘Quentin, maybe one of these days you’ll make your ‘Inglorious Bastards,’ ” Mr. Tarantino said, referring to the (conventionally spelled) 1978 Enzo G. Castellari film. “But they hadn’t even seen the movie, all right, it was just a great title. I love the movie, don’t get me wrong, but it’s not a remake,” he said, of his version.

“It will be in the original category at the Oscars,” he added optimistically.

Lawrence Bender, who has produced all but one Tarantino movie, said he was surprised when Mr. Tarantino called last summer to announce he had finalized the long-gestating “Basterds” script and wanted to finish the movie in time for Cannes. Mr. Tarantino won the top prize there, the Palme d’Or, in 1994 for “Pulp Fiction.”

“He’s read me all kinds of stuff over the years,” Mr. Bender said, “but I always assumed it was something he was going to have and never do.” (Mr. Tarantino is known for taking plenty of detours on the way from one movie to the next. He has directed episodes of television shows, including “CSI,” acted in and produced other people’s movies, and has been a guest judge and “mentor” on “American Idol.”)

A six-month research period for “Basterds” several years ago “paralyzed my writing for a while,” Mr. Tarantino said. He thought of making a World War II documentary or teaching a college course and even plotted out a 12-hour mini-series. Then in January 2008 he said he decided to “take one more crack at seeing if I could make this a movie,” he said. “I wasn’t out to teach a history lesson. You can turn on the History Channel  which might as well be called the Hitler Channel. I just wanted to tell my story and have the same freedom I would have telling any story. I want the act of writing to be so fulfilling that I have to question do I want to even make the movie.”

Mr. Tarantino’s unedited script was circulating online within days after he completed it. “This was so personal to me, misspellings and all,” he said, mentioning that he had typed it with one finger on the same 1987 Smith Corona word processor that he used to produce “Reservoir Dogs” and “Pulp Fiction.” “I mean I’ll proofread it when we publish it.”

Not that he’ll change the title. “Basterds should be spelled with an e,” he said. “It sounds like it has an e.” He shouted, “Basterds! Basterds!” in what sounded like a Boston accent: more “BAS-tids” than “BAS-terds.” (As for the spelling of “Inglourious,” Mr. Tarantino said: “I can’t tell you stuff like that. It’s a movie thing.”)

A man with a walkie-talkie tugged on Mr. Tarantino’s arm. “Sorry, I’m getting the vaudeville hook,” he said, and went inside the bistro to shoot a scene in which Shosanna (the French actress Mélanie Laurent), a young Jewish woman in hiding and running a Paris cinema, sits across a café table from an unsuspecting Nazi soldier and matinee idol (the German actor Daniel Brühl) trying to win her affections. Mr. Tarantino watched the actors like a patron spying on a couple across the room, barely glancing at the nearby monitor.

“I’m looking through the viewfinder when I set up a shot,” he said between takes, “but I watch the performance and listen to it. Otherwise the monitor is directing the movie.”

Like 70 percent of “Inglourious Basterds” this scene was being performed in French and German, which is just one of the reasons this isn’t your daddy’s World War II movie. “When you see the Germans speaking English with a German accent or sounding like British thespians, it just seems very quaint,” Mr. Tarantino said. “That’s one thing I don’t want this film to have. If Spielberg hadn’t made ‘Schindler’s List’ yet, I joke, I like to think that after our movie he’d be shamed into doing it in German.”

Mr. Brühl said it was the director’s non-sacred approach to Germany’s painful history that attracted him to the role.
345 2009-05-10 An article on April 26 about Copenhagen on $250 a day misstated the name of the Danish open-faced sandwiches sold at the restaurant Ida Davidson. They are called smorrebrod, not smorgasbord.
346 2009-05-10 BENOIT--Etta Fleming, died peacefully on Wednesday, April 29, 2009 in Philadelphia, PA. She was the widow of Emile Benoit. A lifetime Quaker, she served for over two decades as an economist for the United Nations. She enjoyed cross-word puzzles, S...
347 2009-05-10 JOCKEYING FOR POSITION The Hall of Fame jockey Mike Smith is believed to be the top choice of Mine That Bird's owners to replace Calvin Borel if Rachel Alexandra runs in the Preakness Stakes.      Chantal Sutherland was also hoping to get the moun...
348 2009-05-10 KISSEL--Michael. He showed us the magic in fatherhood, family, music, friendship and a joke well executed. As we mourn Mike, we mourn the profound loss to his wife Elena and his daughters Siena, Lucy and Rosie, who should of had so much more time ...
349 2009-05-10 WEXLER--Melissa A. 5/9/58-9/12/81. Sweet Missy, born on Mother's Day. Life is sad without you. Love Mommy Arline Joachim, Eddie, Sheri, Larry....
350 2009-05-10 KISSEL--Michael Case. Age 60 died at home on May 5 from brain cancer. Michael graduated from St. George's School and attended Yale University. He founded KMA Music, the writers studio and achieved widespread success in several genres of music incl...
351 2009-05-11 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts said Monday that it had received approval from the Dubai Financial Services Authority to open its office in Dubai. The new office is part the private equity firm's efforts to expand outside of its core market areas as it tr...
352 2009-05-11 General Motors bondholders argued after the company's conference call on Monday that they shouldn't be blamed if the carmaker files for bankruptcy, since they have professed to making efforts to compromise....
353 2009-05-11 The Federal Aviation Administration refused to give a Navy unit the go-ahead for a flight low over New York City....
354 2009-05-11 The statistics in the Washington-Pittsburgh series for Alex Ovechkin, Sidney Crosby, Evgeni Malkin and the snakebit Mike Green....
355 2009-05-11 A new study of therapy dogs shows how easily germs can be transmitted from patients to hospital visitors....
356 2009-05-11 General Motors does not plan to sweeten its debt exchange offer to bondholders, even though its failure would probably push the company into bankruptcy, G.M.'s chief executive said Monday....
357 2009-05-11 More top colleges report that applicants are committing to their freshman classes at about the same rate as last year....
358 2009-05-11 Microsoft on Monday moved closer to raising debt for the first time in its history. It will be the latest step in the corporate evolution of the software giant, which began paying dividends in 2003. Microsoft hasn't raised capital in the debt mark...
359 2009-05-11 Also in the Morning Buzz: an unwanted cellphone call for Senator Schumer, a reported downsizing of the Port Authority's ground zero plans and more headlines from local papers....
360 2009-05-11 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Japan's biggest bank, said Monday it will swap $600 million of its preferred shares in Morgan Stanley for common stock to keep its voting rights stake of the U.S. bank above 20 percent, The Associated Press reported...
361 2009-05-11 Three United States banks, apparently emboldened by the clean bills of health they received under the federal stress tests, announced plans Monday to pay down the government's investments under the TARP program by selling billions of dollars in ne...
362 2009-05-11 After the president's rebuke of Chrysler's holdout lenders, the Obama administration apparently threw the hedge fund industry a bone. The Managed Funds Association and the Coalition of Private Investment Companies, the two-biggest American hedge-f...
363 2009-05-11 For General Motors, the task at hand is so difficult that experts say a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing is all but inevitable, The Associated Press reported. To remake itself outside of court, G.M. must persuade bondholders to swap $27 billion in deb...
364 2009-05-11 U.S. government protection of its financial industry encouraged excessive risk-taking at the heart of the current financial crisis and ought be rolled back, a top U.S. Federal Reserve official said on Monday, according to Reuters. "The financial s...
365 2009-05-11 Germany has a plan to protect the assets of the carmaker Opel from creditors if its parent, General Motors, is forced into bankruptcy next month, the German economy minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, said in an interview with a German weekly. I...
366 2009-05-11 Britain's 3i announced plans to raise 700 million pounds ($1 billion) in a rights issue in a move to help the publicly listed buyout shop pay down its debt. The company said it planned to sell 542 million new shares at 135 pence each and sharehold...
367 2009-05-11 Global shares held steady on Monday, working on their third consecutive month of gains, but there were losses in Europe after recent gains amid worries about bank earnings. Investors were generally lifted by last week's smaller-than-expected numbe...
368 2009-05-11 I can't tell you how many times I heard the words "Glass-Steagall" here this week, The New York Times's Joe Nocera writes from London in his latest Executive Suite column. "Should we have a new Glass-Steagall?" asked Liam Halligan, the chief econo...
369 2009-05-11 AT&T, the country's second-biggest wireless phone company, agreed Friday to pay $2.35 billion in cash to buy assets put up for auction by Verizon Wireless. The network assets and mobile licenses are for 79 service regions in 18 states, mostly rura...
370 2009-05-11 Paul Bowers, the winner of this year’s win-a-trip contest, describes the difficulties in reporting on sick children he observed in a hospital in the West African country.
371 2009-05-11 Cristie Kerr emerged from a four-way tie for the lead with a birdie on the 15th hole to win her second Michelob Ultra Open with a 16-under-par 286 in Williamsburg, Va. Kerr, who also won in 2005, went from one shot behind to the lead when Song-Hee Kim of South Korea made a double bogey on the par-4 16th and Kerr made her birdie moments later a hole behind. Lorena Ochoa, whose 13-under total after two rounds was a tournament record, started the day five shots back, but faded after bogeys on three of her first five holes. (AP)¶Four months away from tournament play might just be what John Daly needed. Daly finished in a three-way tie for second place behind Daniel Vancsik at the Italian Open in Turin, charging back from 11th place with a five-under 66 in the final round. (AP)
372 2009-05-11 While everyone in television, from Ben Silverman, the co-chairman of NBC, to the youth-centric programmers at MTV, is trying to find ways to increase profits as television audiences decline, “American Idol” is taking its cues not from the traditional broadcasting playbook but from the National Football League.

“We have learned the lessons of the sports leagues in that they have all these ancillary revenue streams,” said Robert F. X. Sillerman, chief executive of CKX Inc., the parent of 19 Entertainment. “And frankly, we’re just beginning.”

David Lunar, a senior vice president for interactive and consumer products at FremantleMedia, which produces the program in partnership with 19 Entertainment, said this year that the company had experienced “eight straight years of growth” in licensing and merchandising.

That is particularly noteworthy given that, according to Nielsen Media Research, the average audience for “American Idol” peaked three years ago, at more than 30 million viewers an episode. This season, each episode is attracting about 25 million viewers an episode.

Advertising revenue, which primarily benefits Fox Broadcasting, has grown in each of the last three years, according to TNS Media Intelligence, to $903 million last year. That is nearly double the level of three years earlier. Those figures do not include Fox’s ancillary sponsorship deals and other income, like royalties it receives from the sale of music performances by “Idol” contestants.

Even though “American Idol’s” ratings have declined, Fox has put more hours of the show on the air and has been able to charge a higher rate as its ratings lead over other shows has grown.

The revenue and profits of 19 Entertainment have grown even more quickly, according to the financial statements of CKX. Its revenues from “American Idol” alone grew to $96 million last year from $67 million two years earlier, with gross profit margins expanding to 77 percent from 69 percent in that span.

Including revenue from “Idol” programming in other countries, from music sales related to all the “Idol” shows and from “So You Think You Can Dance,” also on Fox, 19 Entertainment produced revenue of $223 million last year, up from $151 million two years earlier.

Fremantle does not break out its revenue, and a spokesman for the company declined to comment on its financial performance. But contracts included in the CKX financial statements stipulate that Fremantle receive one-third to one-half of the various revenue streams that benefit 19 Entertainment.

Even though the overall audience is declining, “American Idol” appears to be in little danger of losing its crown as the top-rated television series. In the 2003-4 season, the first in which “Idol” was the top-rated prime-time series, its lead over the second place show was about 7 percent. That margin has grown every year since and this year is 66 percent.

Mike Darnell, the president of alternative entertainment for Fox, who oversees “Idol” and other reality shows for the network, said that “Idol” could lose 12 percent of its audience every season and still be among the top 10 shows on television in 2016 — even if every other show on television maintained all of its current audience.

Fox, too, benefits from the brand extensions. Its Fox Reality Channel televises “American Idol Extra,” which repeats segments from earlier seasons along with previously unseen footage of noteworthy contestants, and it has turned drama series like “House” and “Fringe” into hits by pairing them with “Idol” for a season or two.

While some programs, like “The Simpsons,” generate large revenue from merchandising and marketing deals separate from the broadcast, “they don’t have the audience delivery or all the hoopla of ‘American Idol,’ ” said Mr. Adgate. “I don’t think there are any reality shows that have a similar, off-network shelf life.”

Mr. Darnell declined to comment on just how much Fox benefited from those and similar efforts. “But I can say the brand extension is huge for this company and for all the companies involved with the show,” he said.

There is evidence that the efforts, if not drawing more people to the program, are certainly getting viewers more engaged. Last week, viewers cast 64 million votes, the most ever for a nonfinale episode.

Mr. Sillerman cited that jump as evidence that “American Idol” could run indefinitely.

“If you only had a 10-year-old, you would probably say the impact of ‘Sesame Street’ has diminished, because it’s not on in your house anymore,” Mr. Sillerman said. “But they’re making new 5-year-olds every year.”
373 2009-05-11 For years, critics have charged that too few people — “the three men in a room,” referring to the governor and the leaders of the Senate and the Assembly — controlled what went on in the Capitol. Now they say: If only.

“There’s no room to negotiate. One or two people can end up extorting the leadership or blow up the whole deal,” said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business-backed civic group that advocated for the failed rescue plan that would have included tolls. “Where do we go from here?”

That question is now being asked on almost every major issue the Legislature is expected to confront between now and the 2010 elections, from abortion to mayoral control of public schools. It is the first sustained period since World War II in which Democrats control the governor’s mansion and both houses of the Legislature. But where they once hoped to have free rein, they are now struggling to build 32 votes from the fractious and diverse Democratic caucus in the Senate.

The stakes are especially high for Gov. David A. Paterson, whose political resurrection depends in part on getting the Legislature to act on his proposals to reduce property taxes and legalize same-sex marriage.

“It is the defining dynamic in Albany,” said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat. “When you require 32 people to do anything, and you only have 32 people, I don’t care if you’re the New York State Senate or the catering committee for the junior prom: nothing is going to get done easily. The Democrats will adjust and do a good job, but it’s going to take some time.”

That dynamic was never more evident than in the protracted and chaotic negotiations over the transportation authority bailout, which concluded on Thursday with a deal that not a single Senate Republican supported, even the three who represent districts in New York City.

The original plan, by Richard Ravitch, a former authority chairman, was intended to spread the costs of maintaining and improving the mass transit system evenly among drivers, straphangers and employers. Mixing in a small payroll tax with tolls and a modest fare increase, it had support from business and transportation advocates. It won the backing of every major political figure in the state, including Mr. Paterson, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

But none of that mattered in the Senate, where the Ravitch plan was rapidly peeled apart by small groups of Democratic lawmakers, each with a different set of objections.

“Many times during the last four months, it felt like we were on one of those crawling Lexington Avenue trains,” said Gene Russianoff, senior attorney at the New York Public Interest Research Group, which supported the Ravitch plan. “There’d be one problem here, and then we would fix it, and then another problem would pop up.

“There’s been so much criticism of the three men in a room, but here we had three or four senators blocking tolls.”

The final plan offered only a short-term victory: The compromise covers only part of the authority’s capital expenses, which means that lawmakers will have to return to the bargaining table again as early as the fall.

It is also hard to determine how hard or how early Mr. Smith worked to gain Republican support, which might have given the original plan better odds but would have deprived Senate Democrats of a chance to marginalize Republicans and demonstrate their unity. Some Senate Democrats said they hoped to break up party-line voting on issues like same-sex marriage and mayoral control of city schools.

“The fact is, 32 out of 32 is incredibly difficult. Thirty-two out of 62 is easier,” said one Democratic senator, who requested anonymity because he did not want to be seen as publicly undermining Mr. Smith’s authority. “We can either do 32 out of 32, and always fight for the last two or three votes. Or we can do 32 out of 62, and get a lot more done.”

Mr. Smith’s defenders argue that he and the other Senate Democrats have shown they can govern despite the odds, pointing to the bailout plan as well as a deficit reduction plan passed in February and a close to on-time budget passed in April.

Mr. Smith acknowledged that the bailout negotiations had been ungainly but argued that they produced a better piece of legislation, including provisions demanded by the Senate that would make the authority’s finances more transparent.

He also defended his colleagues’ right to weigh in on important legislation, saying that it was preferable to the top-down lawmaking of years past.

“This was difficult not because members gave their input, but difficult because we have an authority that needs to change,” Mr. Smith said.

But he admitted that the narrowness of the Democratic majority had placed enormous pressures on him and his colleagues.

“Shelly has 60 members he can let off the hook,” Mr. Smith said, referring to Mr. Silver and his lopsided Democratic majority in the Assembly. “He can pontificate, he can change his mind, he can dance, he can sit still,” Mr. Smith added. “Because at the end of the day, he has 60 or 70 members that don’t have to stand up and take a position on anything."

For Mr. Silver, however, the Senate’s difficulties have been a mixed blessing. Long the chosen foil of editorial writers lamenting Albany’s secrecy and paralysis, he emerged from the transportation authority fight relatively unscathed; most of the blame was aimed at Mr. Smith.

Yet Mr. Silver, like Mr. Paterson, needs a reasonably well-oiled Senate in order to achieve his own priorities.

Of the major goals the Democrats have achieved so far — an overhaul of the Rockefeller-era drug laws, higher taxes on the highest earners and expanding the state’s recycling program — none have been passed as stand-alone bills. Instead, each was folded into the state budget, a do-or-die piece of legislation that even the Senate’s Democratic mavericks couldn’t afford to stall.

“I don’t think it’s better for anybody, including the speaker,” said Assemblyman Ron Canestrari, the Democratic majority leader. “A political stalemate, a persistent deadlock, reflects poorly on all of us.”
374 2009-05-11 What did Chevron do when it learned that “60 Minutes” was preparing a potentially damaging report about oil company contamination of the Amazon rain forest in Ecuador? It hired a former journalist to produce a mirror image of the report, from the corporation’s point of view.

As a demonstration of just how far companies will go to counteract negative publicity, the Chevron case is extraordinary. Gene Randall, a former CNN correspondent, spent about five months on the project, which was posted on the Internet in April, three weeks before the “60 Minutes” report was shown on May 3.

“Chevron hired me to tell its side of the story,” he said. “That’s what I did.”

The two videos — one by CBS, the other by a corporation being scrutinized by CBS — run about 14 minutes long. They each discuss a class-action lawsuit filed by Ecuadoreans who accuse Texaco, a company acquired by Chevron in 2001, of poisoning the rain forest.

An Ecuadorean judge is expected to rule soon on whether Chevron owes up to $27 billion in damages, which would make the case “the largest environmental lawsuit in history,” the “60 Minutes” correspondent, Scott Pelley, said.

Both videos start with a correspondent appearing on camera and calling it a “bitter” dispute. But from there, they diverge. The “60 Minutes” report visits the rain forest, talks to the Ecuadorean judge and interviews a Chevron manager. The Chevron video interviews the same Chevron manager, as well as five professors who are consultants to the oil company, but none of the plaintiffs.
375 2009-05-11 John Ashcroft correctly notes that deferred-prosecution agreements can effectively police, without destroying, corporate recipients of federal bailout money that engaged in criminal conduct. But let’s not forget that the agreements demanded when Mr. Ashcroft was attorney general came at a steep price.

Among other things, companies were forced to waive the attorney-client privilege, fire employees who declined to cooperate, and refuse payment of legal fees for workers before they were found to have done anything wrong.

Today, as pressure builds for stern action against corporate wrongdoing, the Department of Justice must resist the temptation to follow in Mr. Ashcroft’s footsteps. Rather, it should strictly adhere to its new guidelines for corporate prosecutions, adopted in August of last year, that protect against abusive deferred-prosecution agreements, like those that Mr. Ashcroft backs.

The writer is a criminal defense lawyer and an adjunct professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, Yeshiva University.

As John Ashcroft writes, the government has an “inherent conflict of interest” when faced with the prospect of prosecuting companies that operate in important industries, have influential investors or have received large infusions of government aid.
376 2009-05-11 But shoppers eager to save money are trading down from full-price, brand-name fare to cheaper private labels and store brands. That means advertisers concerned about losing market share must make persuasive arguments about the value propositions of their wares.

The list of value-mongers is to grow on Monday when Reckitt Benckiser begins a campaign for French’s condiments, promoting larger packages to be sold at lower prices. For instance, a 20-ounce bottle of French’s Classic Yellow mustard will cost less than a 14-ounce bottle.

“The consumer is telling you something: ‘I want to see value. I want you to demonstrate value,’ ” said Elliott Penner, president at the French’s food division of Reckitt Benckiser in Parsippany, N.J.

In research, shoppers confided that French’s “was always their first choice, but they wanted to be sure they were making the smart choice,” he added, so the company decided to “hit with a pretty hard-selling value message.”

French’s plans to spend more than $26 million on the campaign, Mr. Penner said, about a 40 percent increase from the spending last spring and summer. The ads wrap the value pitch around an upbeat theme, “Happy starts here.”

The goal was to deliver an optimistic message that would be “an antithesis to what’s going on right now,” said Drummond Berman, creative director at the French’s agency, Euro RSCG Worldwide in New York, part of Havas, yet “remind people, subtly, that even in times like this you don’t want to be cutting your little perks” like name-brand mustard.

Another packaged-foods giant, the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo, is making a value play by adding 20 percent more product to selected bags of snacks like Cheetos, Fritos and Tostitos without increasing prices.

The promotion is to last “for the next few months,” an announcer says in radio commercials that end with the words “Frito-Lay, sponsoring smiles for 76 years” — that is, since 1933, a particularly depressed year during the Great Depression.

The promotion is flagged on bags with banners that read: “Hey! There’s 20 percent more free fun to share in here.”

A similarly whimsical tack is taken in a campaign for Del Monte canned vegetables and fruits, which suggests that shoppers can “stretch” their food dollars by depicting elongated ears of corn and pea pods. The campaign, by the Smith Brothers Agency in Pittsburgh, asserts that canned foods can offer better value than frozen or fresh.

Although “people are attuned to getting more for their money,” said Bill Pearce, chief marketing officer at Del Monte Foods in San Francisco, “value is not just cost; it’s also taste, nutrition and quality.”

The campaign — the biggest for Del Monte canned goods in a decade — is prompted partly by “an increase in private-label sales as consumers react to the economy,” Mr. Pearce said.

But the validity of the message is meant “to resonate more than just in a tough economic climate,” he added.

The reason, said Miles Smith, partner and business development director at Smith Brothers, can be found in the story about a neighborhood barber whose livelihood is threatened by the arrival of a chain offering $5 haircuts.

The barber “hires a marketing consultant,” he added, “who hangs a banner above the shop, ‘We fix $5 haircuts.’ ”

The moral is “don’t go down that road of discounting yourself into being considered a commodity,” Mr. Smith said. “It’s damaging to your brand to train consumers to expect a sale every day.”

Perhaps the most ambitious value efforts come from Kraft Foods. In addition to the Oscar Mayer and “Why snackrifice?” campaigns, there are value ads for boxed dinners like Kraft Macaroni and Cheese and Velveeta Shells and Cheese, carrying the theme “Save. Share. Smile”; Kool-Aid, carrying the theme “More smiles per gallon”; and Kraft Singles cheese slices, which in ads by the New York office of Nitro, scheduled to begin on Monday, describe how a Singles cheeseburger can be made for less than a dollar.

The point of the campaign, which includes a sponsorship deal with Minor League Baseball, is that “the good things in life don’t need to cost much,” said Clayton Wai-Poi, senior brand manager for Kraft Singles in Northfield, Ill.

The campaign is the fourth since February focused on the affordability of Kraft Singles, which confronts considerable competition from private-label cheese slices.

The brand is “tracking to expectations” and “holding share,” Mr. Wai-Poi said. “That’s a good result in this climate.”
377 2009-05-11 About two-thirds of Americans say they regularly get news from local TV, according to the Pew Research Center. News is responsible for 40 percent to 50 percent of a station’s revenue on average, and many stations are still profitable. But owners see their audiences splintering and they see their parent networks bypassing them on the Web. What they are struggling to maintain is relevance.

Station revenue is down across the country: at E. W. Scripps, down 20 percent compared with the same quarter last year; at Belo, the owner of 20 stations, down 23 percent; at LIN TV, the owner of 29 stations, down 21 percent. The media conglomerates are also affected; the News Corporation reported a station revenue decline 28 percent and the Walt Disney Company reported a 30 percent decline.

Underscoring the weakness in the overall advertising market, struggling car companies like General Motors and Chrysler — traditionally among the top sponsors of local news — have essentially cut their ad spending in half from a year ago, according to the station owners. To a lesser degree, News Corporation said, “virtually every category was down in the quarter.”

Ads from political candidates and advocacy groups usually buoy stations in election years, so odd-numbered years are generally weaker. But this year the declines are much more dramatic.

Even before the ad shortfalls, news departments were feeling the effects of the recession. Robert A. Papper, a journalism professor at Hofstra who surveys TV newsrooms every year, found that local stations shed 1,200 news jobs last year. Mr. Papper also found a 13 percent drop in reporter salaries and a 11.5 percent decline in anchor salaries.

At the same time stations are trimming staff, they are trying — just like newspapers — to transform into 24-hour news-gathering operations with robust Web sites. But the comparisons to newspapers end there, at least in the minds of many in the industry who are betting that the TV losses are not permanent. Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, said Thursday, “My own personal feeling is that we will see a return to television advertising faster than we see it to newspapers.”

By then, though, some stations may not be broadcasting anymore, at least not in their current form. Some experts are predicting consolidations in saturated local markets. Recalling an old expression, Dennis Thatcher, the chief operating officer of Mission Broadcasting, said the current scramble for ad dollars is like “dinner for three in a two-porkchop world.”

In Scranton and Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Mission’s station is the one going hungry. Last month, Mission shut the news division at the struggling station, WYOU, and put syndicated entertainment shows in place of newscasts.

The station draws strong ratings for CBS’s prime-time shows, “but the audience went other places for news,” Mr. Thatcher said, still sounding saddened a month after the decision. Despite anchor swaps, set redesigns and new newscasts at 4 and 7 p.m., WYOU could never effectively compete with the two powerhouse stations in the market.

“It’s one of the most difficult decisions you have to make as a broadcaster, and one I hope I never have to make again,” he said.

In Mission Broadcasting’s other markets, though, stations are adding news. Mr. Thatcher recently added a morning newscast in Abilene, Tex., and is weighing whether to add weekend newscasts in Terre Haute, Ind.

Other station groups across the country are also increasing newscasts. Mr. Murdoch said Fox stations were doing so because “we have the staff there. It doesn’t cost money.”

Mr. Papper said many stations are doing more with less; in 2008, network affiliates set “a new record for the amount of news” on weekdays, with an average of 4.6 hours a station.

Much of this news, its producers acknowledge, is recycled from the day’s newspaper or taken from wire services. Nevertheless, the stations play an important role. In a speech at a broadcasting convention last month, Fred Young, who recently retired from Hearst-Argyle Television, said that “when news is breaking, it usually pulls the news consumer back to the local television station — the spot at which most of them are most comfortable.”

To be able to afford to cover the news, an increasing number of stations are sharing their camera crews in arrangements called pools. NBC and Fox stations started pooling some resources last year in cities like Philadelphia and New York. This week, two more stations will join the pool in Chicago, leaving one lone holdout, WLS, among the major affiliates in the Windy City.

Partnerships between local newspapers and local broadcasters are happening in a similar vein. In Fort Lauderdale, Fla., last summer, the Tribune station WSFL, a CW affiliate, moved into the building housing the South Florida Sun-Sentinel newspaper, also owned by Tribune. The print and TV — actually, make that text and video — employees are now assigned to stories by a single assignment desk, and they are bringing back all the necessary elements for a story, be it video for TV or audio clips for the Web site, Mr. Gremillion said.

Last month the station started a lively four-hour morning show. Borrowing elements of the “Today” show, the hosts sit around a coffee table and intersperse news headlines and weather reports with celebrity gossip and, on Friday, a segment about the “top five worst TV moms in history.”

The newspaper’s personal finance, fashion and television columnists, among others, regularly appear on TV, either on set or via a webcam connection from home. Mr. Gremillion said the morning show “gives the station a personality.”

“It’s clear that local news is what differentiates us from other media,” he said.
378 2009-05-11 For the most part, however, boutique practices have shown resiliency. Doctors said the recession seemed to have reaffirmed the importance of health care to their patients. With jobs scarce and stress at a peak, many may see a link between continued health and continued employment. And with savings depleted, they recognize that assiduous preventive care may help them avoid costly chronic conditions and hospitalizations.

“It’s the old penny-wise, pound-foolish thing,” said Dr. C. Scott Molden, who practices internal medicine in St. Louis with MDVIP, the largest consortium of fee-based doctors. “I tell people, ‘You cannot afford to not be in my practice. You cannot afford to be sick, even with insurance.’ What I’m offering is to keep people out of hospitals.”

Ted McCallum of Newtown, Conn., said that after losing his job as a hotel manager in June, he decided to stick with his MDVIP doctor, Robert L. Ruxin of Ridgefield, because their 20-year relationship provided stability in unsettling times.

“It did involve forgoing some of the luxuries I’ve gotten used to,” Mr. McCallum, 57, said about losing his job. “But I wasn’t willing to forgo this one.”

“As the saying goes, If you have your health, you’re a rich man,” he added.

Similarly, Janet K. Yerta, an 82-year-old retiree in Atlanta, has remained with her MDVIP physician, Dr. T. Kirkland Garner, despite watching her investment income wither. “I’m not one of those people that’s running over with money,” she said. “But there are two things I value: my salvation and my health.”

Critics of concierge medicine consider it elitist and say it has widened the already significant class disparities in American medicine. They also say it has exacerbated the shortage of primary care physicians by leaving more patients to be treated by a shrinking pool of doctors.

But advocates counter that the concierge movement reflects deep exasperation with the two-hour waits and 10-minute appointments of conventional primary care. Given the burnout among physicians who must see more than two dozen patients a day, they say the concierge model may sustain doctors who would otherwise hang up their stethoscopes.

Dr. Thomas W. LaGrelius of Torrance, Calif., who leads the Society for Innovative Medical Practice Design, a professional association of concierge physicians, estimated that there were 5,000 such doctors in the United States, out of an estimated 240,000 internal medicine physicians and related subspecialists.

MDVIP, which started in Boca Raton, Fla., in 2000, expects to add more than 80 doctors to its network of 300 this year, said Darin Engelhardt, the firm’s president. The company is privately held and does not release detailed membership data, but Mr. Engelhardt said that renewal rates among its 100,000 patients had remained at its usual level of 93 percent a year during the recession. Each MDVIP doctor is limited to 600 patients, who each pay $1,500 to $1,800 a year.

“I’m happily able to report that we have not seen any adverse impact from the economy,” Mr. Engelhardt said. “What we’ve been told by patients is that during difficult times like this, they are reassessing their priorities and that their health care needs come to the forefront.”

Dr. Dragan Djordjevic, a Chicago physician who affiliated with MDVIP two years ago, said he had expected a lot of dropouts. “Every day, patients would come in and talk about how the economy was killing them,” he said. “So naturally, I’d go home thinking they were going to cancel.”

But Dr. Djordjevic said that he had lost perhaps only five patients from 600 since the beginning of the year, and that they had been easily replaced from a waiting list of more than 100.

Peter W. Hoedemaker, the chief executive of MD², a concierge medical provider based near Seattle, said the company had been pleasantly surprised by patient enrollments at its new office in Chicago. The five MD² practices, each with two doctors, charge $25,000 per family and limit each doctor to 50 families. About a dozen openings remain in Chicago, Mr. Hoedemaker said, far fewer than projected, and the group is looking to expand to New York City.

As the economy crumbled last fall, Dr. Cynthia L. Williams of Torrance worried about the unfortunate timing when she sent letters in November informing her 2,200 patients that she would be converting to a $2,000-a-year concierge practice. Nonetheless, she said, she had signed up 315 patients and was adding one a week. “On my busiest day I’m seeing 14 patients, but on a lot it’s eight,” she said. “In the old practice, I was booked about one patient every 12 minutes, about 25 to 30 a day. I love it, and I think my patients love it.”

Many of the doctors boasted of their ability to keep patients out of emergency rooms by intervening by phone for conditions like diverticulitis or an abnormal heart rhythm. They said their deep knowledge of their patients helped them detect subtle changes and danger signs.

“A close personal relationship with a physician is not something that’s easy to find anymore,” said Dr. David L. Elliott, an MDVIP physician in Phoenix. “People find it valuable.”
379 2009-05-11 ANTITRUST ENFORCEMENT The Obama administration intends to beef up enforcement of antitrust claims against corporations, reversing the position of the Bush administration.      DEFENSIVE MEASURES In a training exercise, cadets at West Point spent s...
380 2009-05-11 Congress has asked the Federal Communications Commission to develop a national policy for broadband deployment. But it may be more important to think through how the country will handle the aging and increasingly less relevant copper phone network...
381 2009-05-12 Paul Bowers, who has just completed his sophomore year at the University of South Carolina, is the winner of this year's win-a-trip contest, traveling with Nicholas Kristof through five countries of western Africa. MAKENI, Sierra Leone - Journalis...
382 2009-05-12 A Pakistani journalist has published an essay called "Barack Obama Is Lying About Pakistan," that claims to uncover a vast American conspiracy against Pakistan by the American government and media....
383 2009-05-12 A dog in name only: "Hotel for Dogs" becomes unlikely, late-blooming hit....
384 2009-05-12 The fortunes of the PC industry are improving, according to Paul Otellini, chief executive of Intel....
385 2009-05-12 The trustee overseeing the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff's now-defunct investment firm has sued the hedge fund Harley International for the return of $1 billion that it invested with the convicted swindler....
386 2009-05-12 Shares of Bank of New York Mellon and U.S. Bancorp fell Tuesday after the two banks sold additional common stock to build up their capital as they begin preparing to pay back government bailout money....
387 2009-05-12 The president continues a series of meetings this week as part of his push to overhaul the health care system....
388 2009-05-12 General Motors' stock plunged more than 22 percent to a 76-year low on Tuesday, a day after a group of G.M. executives disclosed they had sold shares in the struggling automaker....
389 2009-05-12 Barclays Capital said Tuesday it appointed Greg Barrett as the head of its prime services capital solutions division, a unit of the London-based bank that assists hedge funds in raising new money from institutional investors....
390 2009-05-12 The fate of the Miss USA runner-up who spoke against same-sex marriage is to be announced at 11 a.m....
391 2009-05-12 A morning roundup, from a changing of the guard to changing our eating habits....
392 2009-05-12 As online advertising revenue shrinks, publishers are making their advertisements bigger. MSNBC is one site that has redesigned its pages to make room for the ads....
393 2009-05-12 The green shoots seem to have sprouted inside the brains of private equity managers. They're lining up to crash the £3 billion deal (about $4.5 billion) CVC Capital struck last month to buy iShares from Barclays. The business is hot, Breakingview...
394 2009-05-12 London-based investment firm Samena Capital is starting a Japan-focused hedge fund, in a bet that the country's stock market is poised for a rebound. The hedge fund, Samena Japan Absolute Return Fund, will start up with $25 million and will be run...
395 2009-05-12 Hartmarx, known for its Hart Schaffner & Marx and Hickey Freeman suits, and for making President Obama's inauguration tuxedo and topcoat, has long been America's leading clothier for men. Now its workers want to make the company, which is in bankr...
396 2009-05-12 Microsoft priced a $3.75 billion debt offering on Monday, a first for the world's largest software maker. Microsoft said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it was offering 5-, 10- and 30-year senior unsecured notes. In a press rel...
397 2009-05-12 Trade data dampened some of the hopes for a turnaround in the global economy, ending a surge in equity markets from their 2009 lows in early March....
398 2009-05-12 The Abu Dhabi authorities have detained a brother of the president and opened a criminal investigation of a videotape in which he appears to torture an Afghan grain merchant, the Emirates judicial department said in a statement on Monday. Sheik Issa bin Zayed al-Nahyan, whose brother is both the ruler of Abu Dhabi and the president of the seven-member United Arab Emirates federation, is the first member of the ruling family known to have been criminally investigated. The gruesome videotape surfaced last month, provoking outrage in the United States Congress, which is set to consider a civilian nuclear agreement with the United Arab Emirates.
399 2009-05-12 At a news conference outside the plant, union leaders announced they would set up a nationwide toll-free number and clearinghouse that other embattled workers can contact if their plants were threatened with closing.

The idea is that the labor movement will fight to pressure companies and companies’ bankers, especially ones that have received federal bailout money, to keep plants open.

Responding to the protests, Wells Fargo said on Monday that Hartmarx has been in default on the financing the bank has provided since the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. “Advancing more funds with no reasonable likelihood of being repaid is not consistent with sound banking,” the bank said.

At Monday’s rally, most of the 650 workers at the plant in this Chicago suburb crowded into the lunchroom and voted to stage a sit-in if Wells Fargo takes steps to liquidate their company — and jobs.

“If the banks are going to pull the plug and pull us down, we will fight,” said Ruby Sims, president of the Workers United union local at the plant. “We’re going to do whatever it takes to keep our jobs.”

The workers stood and cheered. Coming from Chicago’s South Side as well as China, Greece, Mexico, Poland and a dozen other countries, many earn around $12 an hour. One held a placard saying, “Wells Fargo You Took Our Tax $$$$ Save Our Jobs.”

To step up pressure on Wells Fargo, the workers have turned to powerful allies in Washington, most notably Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, where the Hickey Freeman plant, in Rochester, employs 800 workers. Employees are hoping that Mr. Obama, too, will pull some strings for them.

There has been no word from the White House on the dispute.

Hartmarx filed for bankruptcy on Jan. 23, three days after Mr. Obama’s inauguration, after its sales plunged by around 40 percent late last year, largely because of the Wall Street crisis and large-scale layoffs there. Company officials involved in the bankruptcy proceedings said Hartmarx felt forced to file for bankruptcy after Wells Fargo reduced its credit line by $25 million.

Saying that Hartmarx has been unable to repay $114 million in debt, Wells Fargo issued a statement on Monday that was a mixture of optimism and pessimism about the company’s future.

“We want them to stay in business so we can earn all of their business and help them succeed financially,” Wells Fargo said.

But the bank added, “Despite extensive marketing, Hartmarx has no credible offers to be acquired, but the bank group continues to work with Hartmarx to find potential buyers.”

Senator Schumer as well as union and company officials said that three companies have made reasonable offers to buy Hartmarx. Two of them, Emerisque of London and Yucaipa of California, have indicated they would keep Hartmarx operating, while the other, Mistral Equity Partners of New York, is said to plan to liquidate Hartmarx and most likely continue using the Hart Schaffner and Hickey Freeman brand names, while producing those brands overseas. The three companies declined comment.

At the lunchtime rally, workers protested that Wells Fargo was not extending the factory credit to buy the fabric needed to produce its line of fall suits, a move they fear will push Hartmarx closer toward liquidation.

Joe D’Amico, an employee for 42 years and a “front presser” for sports jackets and suit coats, voiced pride about the plant’s products.

“Obama’s suits went right through my hands,” Mr. D’Amico said. “My belief is the government gave the banks money to give out to industries in need, but I feel the banks are covering their own backs, and don’t want to lend the money out to save people’s jobs.”

Senator Schumer said there were buyers who would keep the company in business. “They are in the final stages of putting together their bids,” he said in a telephone interview. “Wells Fargo ought to give them the time they need to assemble a bid that would keep the workers working. Not to do so would certainly hurt the economy in several states, including New York, and might not serve their shareholders well either.”

Union leaders said they hoped their campaign and threats of a sit-in would help preserve Hartmarx just as a six-day sit-in at the Republic Windows and Doors factory in Chicago in December helped lead to a new company’s buying the plant and reopening it, after the previous owner closed it.

Wells Fargo said it “empathizes with the employees and communities affected by the decisions made by Hartmarx,” including its decision to file for bankruptcy. The bank also said that it continued to finance the company’s operations even though in 2007 and 2008 the apparel company lost more than $30 million.

Hartmarx’s chief executive, Homi Patel, does not hide his desire to keep the company operating. “Brands that have been around for 100 years made by American craftsmen are highly desirable properties,” he said in a telephone interview. “There are several bidders, and we hope that all parties will ensure that we maximize the proceeds while also doing right by our workers and other stakeholders.”
400 2009-05-12 Around 2 a.m. on March 8, 2008, officers at the East Palo Alto, Calif., Police Department received a computer alert. Barrages of gunshots had just been fired in the 2100 block of Capitol Avenue and nearby at the corner of University Avenue and Bell Street. Driving down Bay Road toward University Avenue, the sergeant who responded spotted a dark sedan pulling away at breakneck speed.

As the officer gave chase, he asked other local departments to help surround the fleeing sedan. Within minutes, the three occupants of the getaway car were surrounded: Chester Best, Stoney Gipson and Oliver Ware — all gang members, the police say. They were charged with resisting arrest, possessing firearms and evading an officer in a vehicle.

Such captures might seem all in a night’s work, but according to the East Palo Alto police chief, Ron Davis, this particular coup would not have been possible if not for an innovation in audio surveillance technology. In 2007, East Palo Alto installed the ShotSpotter Gunshot Location System, which consists of a network of rooftop acoustic sensors that capture gunshots and determine, within seconds, where they were fired. The system contains sophisticated digital filters that allow it to record gunfire and ignore other loud noises, so false alarms are relatively rare. The seconds or minutes that the police gain from receiving gunfire information in close to real time, Chief Davis said, can make the difference between catching suspects and letting them get away.

“When you look at a regular gunshot call for service, a person has to hear the shot, guesstimate where the shot is coming from, and by the time they get to the 911 relay, there’s a two- to-three-minute delay,” he said. “That makes it 99.9 percent unlikely that the call will result in any arrest.” In the March case, he said, “If we would have waited for the call, the car would already have been over the Dumbarton Bridge into Newark.” Two of the three men arrested that night are in police custody and awaiting trial.
401 2009-05-12 The board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority approved a new package of fare increases on Monday that will raise the cost of a single subway or bus ride to $2.25 from $2, instead of the $2.50 that the board approved in March in the absence of a rescue package from the State Legislature.

The vote on the scaled-down increases came five days after the Legislature approved a $2.26 billion financing deal for the agency. The authority chairman, H. Dale Hemmerdinger, called the new fares “a very bittersweet solution that comes with additional pain,” even though it averted layoffs.

He and other officials said that the authority still faced a $200 million budget gap that was likely to force some service cuts, though not as deep as those it had proposed in the winter, when it began trying to close a $1.2 billion budget gap.

Under the plan approved on Monday, the subway and bus fare increases  12.5 percent on a single ride, 8 percent on 7-day MetroCards and 9.9 percent on 30-day MetroCards  will take effect on June 28. Fares on two commuter lines, the Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North Railroad, will increase an average of 10 percent beginning on June 17.

Cash and E-ZPass tolls on M.T.A. bridges and tunnels will rise, also by about 10 percent, on July 12. Officials said the board would vote this month on a new and smaller package of service reductions than the one from March.

The threshold for obtaining a 15 percent bonus on a pay-per-ride MetroCard will rise to $8 from $7. The cost of a 7-day unlimited-ride MetroCard will rise to $27 (instead of $31 under the plan approved in March) from the current price of $25. The cost of a 14-day MetroCard will rise to $51.50 (instead of $59 under the March plan) from the current price of $47. The cost of a 30-day MetroCard will rise to $89 (instead of $103 under the March plan) from the current price of $81.

With the new fares, transit riders would have to spend $45 on a pay-per-ride MetroCard to take advantage of the 15 percent bonus without having spare change left over when the card was used up. Currently, that amount is $40. A spokesman for the authority, Kevin B. Ortiz, said that the agency was looking into selling fare cards for specific prices that would leave no residuals  say, $4.50 for two rides  but had not worked out the pricing.

At the board meeting, transit officials said the new package of fares and tolls still hurt, even though the increases were smaller than had been announced. “There’s nothing to be happy about,” Mr. Hemmerdinger said.

Mr. Hemmerdinger said that his mother was fond of describing politics as “the art of the possible”  a phrase he said he later learned originated with Otto von Bismarck, the first German chancellor. He also said the new package of fare increases was better than the package adopted in March.

“Believe me, the next best is a far, far, far cry from the worst,” he told the board, “which is what we were staring at when we were last sitting at this table.” The meeting, at the authority’s headquarters on Madison Avenue, was a swan song of sorts for Elliot G. Sander, the agency’s chief executive since 2007. He submitted his resignation last week after the Legislature adopted the financing plan. His job as the top staff member at the authority and Mr. Hemmerdinger’s job as chairman were combined under the plan approved by the Legislature last week.

Mr. Hemmerdinger is believed to have the support of Gov. David A. Paterson but said “it’s his call” as to whether he would stay on as chairman. Then, referring to Mr. Sander, he said, “He’s leaving, and the odds are I am, too.”

Support for the new package of fare increases and service cuts was not unanimous. Several board members representing suburban jurisdictions  including Carl V. Wortendyke of Rockland County and Susan G. Metzger of Orange County  voted no to protest a provision that calls for a payroll tax in the 12 counties served by the authority. Another board member, Norman I. Seabrook, said he opposed any fare increases at the moment.

“Why can’t we just hold off a little while longer to see what develops here, as opposed to hitting the public upside the head?” he asked, saying of the new package, “It still sounds like doomsday.”
402 2009-05-12 Wal-Mart’s medical clinics are coming out of rehab.

Early last year, the company spoke of having 400 walk-in clinics by 2010. But later in 2008, that plan went into reverse. Of the 78 clinics Wal-Mart had in operation at the beginning of 2008, all but 17 were closed.

Now it is rebuilding that business, this time largely in partnership with hospitals.

Originally, H. Lee Scott Jr., the Wal-Mart chief executive who retired this year, had assigned a big role for the clinic project to RediClinic, a privately held company backed by Steve Case, the AOL co-founder. But last December RediClinic, citing the poor economy, abruptly shut down its 15 Wal-Mart centers.

Christi Gallagher, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, said her company was “disappointed that RediClinic chose to close all of their locations.” She noted that Wal-Mart had reopened two former RediClinics in Arkansas, Wal-Mart’s home state, in a partnership with the Northwest Health System. Wal-Mart now has 33 clinics around the country — 26 of them with a hospital affiliation.

Brad Burns, a spokesman for Mr. Case’s holding company, Revolution Health, said in an e-mail message that RediClinic was not happy with its role at Wal-Mart. “My understanding is RediClinic was looking for commitments from Wal-Mart to justify the capital investments and concluded it would be better to part ways.”

RediClinic itself is now focused on partnering with hospitals for its retail clinics, he said. MILT FREUDENHEIM
403 2009-05-12 As a result, Russia has become the arbiter of global diamond prices. Its decisions on production and sales will determine the value of diamonds on rings and in jewelry stores for years to come, in one of the most surprising consequences of this recession.

Largely because of the jewelry bear market, De Beers’s fortunes have sunk. Short of cash, the company had to raise $800 million from stockholders in just the last six months.

The recession also coincided with a settlement with European Union antitrust authorities that ended a longtime De Beers policy of stockpiling diamonds, in cooperation with Alrosa, to keep prices up.

Though it is a major commodity producer, Russia has traditionally not embraced policies that artificially keep prices up. In oil, for example, Russia benefits from the oil cartel’s cuts in production, but does not participate in them.

Diamonds are an exception. “If you don’t support the price,” Andrei V. Polyakov, a spokesman for Alrosa, said, “a diamond becomes a mere piece of carbon.”

In an attempt to carefully calibrate its re-entry on the global market, without forcing prices still lower, Russia is relying on two things: the Soviet-era precious gem depository — created to hold jewelry confiscated from the aristocracy after the 1917 revolution — and capitalist investors, whom Alrosa hopes will buy diamonds as an investment, like gold.

Russia is taking a leadership role in other ways, too.

Sergei Vybornov, Alrosa’s chief executive, said that he had helped persuade the central bank of Angola — which, like Russia, is still relatively flush with oil money — to buy 30 percent of the production of Angola’s diamond mines, keeping these stones off the market.

And last fall, Alrosa began what it called the St. Petersburg Initiative, along with De Beers and other large producers, to invest collectively in generic diamond advertising, akin to De Beers’s promotion of the slogan “Diamonds are forever.” Russia assumed the task as De Beers has principally shifted to promoting its own branded gems.

Still, it is a precarious time for the Russian diamond company to assume leadership of the industry.

Until last year, De Beers produced about 40 percent of the global rough stone supply, and Alrosa 25 percent. But De Beers, which is prohibited under its European Union antitrust agreement from stockpiling, closed mines in response to the glut in rough stones. Russia is loath to do that, as authorities in Moscow, gravely concerned about potential unrest by disgruntled unemployed workers, try to keep workers on the payroll.

In the first quarter, De Beers reduced output by 91 percent compared with the previous year. The diversified mining companies Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton also curbed production.

Meanwhile, the market for wholesale polished diamonds, worth about $21.5 billion, is expected to fall to about $12 billion in 2009, according to Polished Prices, an analytical service for the industry.

Rough diamond prices have fallen even more, as much as 75 percent since their peak last July at some auctions.

The two markets are distinct. Typically, about 60 percent of a rough diamond is lost as dust or shavings in the cutting process.

Mr. Vybornov blames diamond traders who pledged diamond stocks as loan collateral for part of the world glut. When credit dried up last fall, banks and other creditors seized those gems and sold them, he says, flooding the market. By December, his company decided to withdraw entirely from the market rather than further erode prices.

Russia historically remained mostly a behind-the-scenes player, perhaps because Soviet authorities would have had to perform some ideological gymnastics to promote a product consumed principally by the rich of the capitalist world.

Instead, twisting politics, the Soviets concluded a semisecret agreement with apartheid-era De Beers to sell Siberian diamonds in a way that would not undercut the market.

After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Russian diamond industry created a formal alliance with De Beers, selling the South African company half of each year’s production at a discount intended to subsidize De Beers’s generic diamond advertising undertaken in the 1990s, mostly in the United States.

Now, the Russians are in the driver’s seat.

Charles Wyndham, a former De Beers evaluator and co-founder of Polished Prices, said Russia had thus far managed the transition well: withholding gems to make more money in the long run rather than further depressing the market.

“Whatever one wants to say about the Russians, they certainly aren’t stupid,” Mr. Wyndham said.

Alrosa is seeking to jump-start demand by selling gems under long-term contracts to wholesale buyers in Belgium, Israel, India and elsewhere. Under these contracts, six of which have been signed, prices are set at a midpoint between the peak last August and this winter, and fixed for a period of several years.

“A diamond ring should not cost $100,” Mr. Vybornov said. “We don’t want that type of client.”

Alrosa is also working with a Moscow investment bank, Leader, a subsidiary of the Russian natural gas monopoly Gazprom, to market diamonds to investors. Under the plan, investors would buy diamonds but the gems would not be released to jewelers for several years.

It is a program, essentially, of outsourcing the stockpiling function to investors in exchange for the chance to profit from a possible recovery in the market.

At one of Alrosa’s cutting shops in one of Moscow’s outer districts, Aleksandr A. Malinin, an adviser to the president of Alrosa, showed a typical collection that might become the basis for such an investment vehicle.

The gems fit in a felt box about the size of a laptop computer.

The larger stones, a circular-cut 10 carat flawless white and a princess-cut yellow, were estimated at about $400,000. The smaller ones ranged from $16,000 to $100,000. But the value of the box, while surely several million dollars, is something of a mystery just now given the depressed market.

How the buy-in price for the stones will be set, and how the company will determine when the price goes up and down, is unclear, Mr. Malinin said.

“We have to tell people that diamonds are valuable,” he said. “We are trying to maintain the price, just as De Beers did, as all diamond producing countries do. But what we are doing is selling an illusion,” meaning a product with no utility and a price that depends on the continued sense of scarcity where there is none.

At the Alrosa unit that receives diamonds, called the United Selling Organization, where about 90 percent of the output of the Siberian mines arrives for processing, Elena V. Kapustkina pours about 45,000 carats of diamonds though a stainless steel sieve every day to sort them by size.

“It’s just a job,” she said.

When asked whether diamonds had lost their romance for her, Ms. Kapustkina paused, looked down at the pile of gems on her table and blushed.

In fact, she said, her husband, a truck driver, gave her a half-carat ring 22 years ago. “Of course I love it,” she said. “It’s from my husband.”
404 2009-05-12 Germany, one of three other countries involved along with Italy and Spain, said Monday that it remained committed to its full order — 180 of the total of 620 jets. Britain had ordered 232; Italy, 121; and Spain, 87. Each plane costs £69.3 million.

The Eurofighter project has been divided into three production contracts or installments. The first and part of the second have already been delivered. But the Eurofighter consortium needs to know by June 30 of any changes to the final production stage. Germany’s electoral calendar means that Berlin needs an answer before Parliament goes into recess at the end of June.

The 88 British planes in question would be delivered from 2012 to 2014.

If Britain pulled out, that would increase the cost to its partners, leading to penalty payments that experts estimate at £2 billion to £4 billion.

Howard Wheeldon, senior strategist at BGC Partners, a brokerage firm in London, calculated that about 45,000 jobs are at stake in the project in Britain alone and that pulling out would doom an industry.

“There will be no more defense aerospace in Britain,” he said.

The Society of British Aerospace Companies, which represents British aviation, military contracting and security companies, estimated that the fighter aircraft accounted for 100,000 jobs across Europe.

“The decision for the government is between acquiring military capability, retaining skilled people in the U.K. and jobs on the one hand, or spending money to subsidize a brain drain to Europe on the other,” said Ian Godden, the group’s chief executive.

Another defense ministry official said that 49 jets from the first stage of production were already in service with the Royal Air Force and that 91 from the second stage were delivered to the R.A.F. in October.

Critics question why Britain needed such a big order for a fighter plane that was conceived to counter the cold war threat. But experts like Alexandra Ashbourne, of Ashbourne Strategic Consulting in London, cautioned against short-term thinking with regard to military equipment. “The climate could be different in the future,” she said.

Germany ordered the aircraft, at a cost of more than 20 billion euros ($27 billion), to replace its aging Tornado jets. So far, 40 jets have been delivered to that country. “For operational reasons, Germany still requires 180 Eurofighters — of course we continue to support the project,” said Markus Kammel, a spokesman.

European Aeronautic Defense and Space, the biggest partner in the consortium, declined to comment on Britain’s wavering commitment, which was reported in The Financial Times on Monday.

Originally, the consortium planned to build 236 jets in the third installment. But because of costs and British reluctance to go along, the four building nations began two months ago to discuss ways of splitting the third installment into two parts “to relieve the financial costs,” said a defense ministry official in Berlin.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany proposed a compromise to the British prime minister, Gordon Brown, three weeks ago, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the official was not authorized to speak publicly.

Germany, Spain, Italy and Britain would take 107 jets instead of 236; Britain would take 40 instead of 88. Italy and Spain accepted Mrs. Merkel’s proposal, but Mr. Brown, who is also committed to the Joint Strike Fighter program in the United States, did not agree, the official added.
405 2009-05-12 Consumers who use the clinics are often “exactly the customers that hospitals want — women of child-bearing age,” said Margaret Laws, a policy expert at the California Health Care Foundation. “The hospitals want to deliver babies,” she said.

The idea of retail clinics took root about four years ago, and more than 1,000 are now operating around the country in drugstores, supermarkets and big-box discounters. But in the early going, few were linked to hospitals or medical centers. Now, though, about 1 in 10 has a hospital connection, according to Merchant Medicine News, an online newsletter for the clinic industry. And many more are planned.

Wal-Mart, for instance, which opened its 26th hospital-connected clinic last week in Republic, Mo., in the Ozarks, says it will add dozens more in the coming months. Its hospital partners include the Christus Medical Group, in Texas; the Aurora Health System, in Wisconsin, and CoxHealth in Missouri.

The Mayo Clinic, the largest private employer in Minnesota, says it opened its clinics after hearing employees and patients say they wanted more convenient treatment for minor medical problems.

“We think of ourselves as a new model of care; we meet our patients at least halfway,” said Dr. David Herman, a Mayo executive who supervises the two retail clinics — along with six Mayo primary-care doctors’ offices that are now open late and on weekends.

He said hospital and health care systems like Mayo should consider demand for walk-in clinics a sign that “maybe our primary-care practices in general are not as convenient and transparent as our patients want them to be.”

Typically staffed by physician assistants or nurse practitioners, often supervised remotely by doctors, the hospital retail clinics can operate at relatively low cost compared with primary-care doctors’ offices or emergency rooms. The lower fees make them especially attractive right now, as an estimated 45 million to 50 million people in this country lack insurance, and the ranks of the unemployed are growing by the month.

According to a recent survey by Harris Interactive, 11 percent of adults said they or someone in their immediate family had used a store clinic in the last 10 months, up from 7 percent a year earlier.

“The economics in the health system are broken,” said Dr. Brian Nester, a senior vice president at the Lehigh Valley Health Network, part of a three-hospital system in Allentown, Pa., and nearby Bethlehem. “We need to find out how clinics with nurse practitioners and physicians assistants will fit in.”

Lehigh Valley Health, in a collaboration with a big regional medical provider, Geisinger Clinic, operates retail clinics in two supermarkets.

One recent afternoon, Melissa Marrero, 33, a social worker, and her husband Magdiel, 32, a security guard, walked in without an appointment to the King’s Market clinic in an Allentown mall. The Marreros, who are uninsured, needed physicals for their application to become foster parents. The clinic charges $30 for a physical.

“It was great — fast service and real convenient,” Ms. Marrero said afterward.

Janelle Sharma, the nurse practitioner in charge, said that more than one-third of the clinic’s patients were uninsured.

For several years the doctors affiliated with Lehigh Valley Health opposed the hospital’s plan to start a supermarket clinic. The physicians relented after the Geisinger version showed up on their turf and Lehigh Valley Health promised that patients treated in stores would be urged to follow up with a local doctor.

Dr. Will Miller, the chairman of family medicine doctors with practicing privileges at Lehigh Valley Health’s hospital in Allentown, said he still opposed the clinics. They work against the ideal of a primary-care doctor’s office that gets to know a patient’s medical needs and condition over time and coordinates his or her care, he said.

Dr. John VanBrakle, the hospital’s chairman of pediatrics, noted that the American Academy of Pediatrics, a professional organization, opposed the clinics for the same reason.

In some ways, the resistance of primary-care doctors might be more about principle than practice. As policy makers in Washington bemoan the shortage of such physicians, it may be difficult for doctors in many parts of the country to persuasively argue that the retail clinics pose serious competition.

Dr. VanBrakle said local pediatricians in the Lehigh Valley had not, in fact, noticed the retail clinic’s having any impact on their practices. “The vast majority don’t feel very strongly about it one way or the other,” he said.

Dr. Herman, of Mayo, says that rather than buck the trend, primary-care doctors should learn from it. He predicts that small groups of primary-care doctors around the country will begin working with hospitals to offer some of the same inducements as store clinics — like convenient locations and more consumer-friendly office hours, including periods of walk-in care requiring no appointment.

The primary-care doctors, he said, should try to beat the store clinics at their own game. As for the ones that lack a hospital connection, "It will make it more difficult for them," Dr. Herman said.
406 2009-05-12 Another instrument, the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph, or STIS, made the first identification of ingredients in the atmosphere of a planet around another star.

This has not come cheaply. NASA estimates that the Hubble telescope has cost about $10 billion over the last 30 years, including the cost of five shuttle servicing missions. For this expense, however, the public has gotten a lot more than just a bunch of cosmic postcards and cosmic inspiration, astronomers say.

The pictures, pretty as they are, are also precise, said Matt Mountain, director of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, ticking off a number of issues, like the size of the universe or the prevalence of monster black holes in the centers of galaxies. Phenomena that astronomers used to almost come to blows arguing about have now been settled by Hubble measurements, often in conjunction with other telescopes.

“It’s the numbers not the pictures that are Hubble’s real legacy value,” Dr. Mountain said. “Hubble is taken as a gold standard, and we make sure it is a gold standard.”

Ed Weiler, head of space science for NASA who has been involved with Hubble his entire career, called it “the most successful scientific instrument ever built,” one that people would remember for 100 years.

After the shuttle Columbia broke up during re-entry in 2003, killing all seven astronauts on board, then NASA administrator Sean O’Keefe decided that the Hubble missions were too risky because they offered no haven if the shuttle arrived in orbit too damaged to get back to Earth. That would have left the iconic telescope to the mercy of the solar winds, resulting in an early death.

Mr. O’Keefe’s edict was reversed by Michael Griffin, who succeeded him as administrator.

The shuttle commander, Scott D. Altman, and his crew were 17 days from blasting off last fall, when a router that controls all the telescope’s instruments and data failed, shutting Hubble down. Engineers on the ground resuscitated the router by activating a backup electrical channel on the telescope, but rather than send astronauts all the way to space in order to leave the telescope with no further backup should the other side of the router fail, NASA postponed the already long-delayed mission until a replacement router could be readied.

John M. Grunsfeld, who will be one of four spacewalkers on the mission, said he and the rest of the crew had used the extra time wisely, practicing removing tiny screws “over and over again.”

On Sunday, as the morning before launching wore on, old Hubble veterans could hardly believe that their long-delayed reunion was finally going to happen. “Maybe our time has come,” Mike Weiss, a Goddard engineer, said.

Dr. Livio said, “I’ll feel better once they are up,” referring to the astronauts, “and even better once they have finished.”

Mr. O’Keefe, the former administrator who cancelled this mission on the grounds that it was too risky back in 2004, was here in a black STS-125 polo shirt and said he had no regrets about doing that.

“Time,” he said, “is the best analyst I ever met,” explaining that at the time, the shuttles had not started flying again and no diagnostic or repair capabilities had been devised. He said that he found it very satisfying to be here “to observe an event that I never thought would be possible,” calling it a testimony to “the incredible persistence of the NASA community.”

The problematic router is scheduled to be replaced during the first spacewalk along with the Wide-Field Planetary Camera 2, which has been on the telescope since 1993 and is currently the only operating instrument on Hubble. In its place will be the new Wide-Field Camera 3.

On the second day the astronauts will install the new Cosmic Origins Spectrograph in place of Hubble’s original corrective lenses, which are no longer needed. The spectrograph is designed to investigate an invisible “cosmic web” of dark matter and primordial gas that is thought to stretch like tendrils through space connecting galaxies and in which most of the atoms in the universe are thought to reside.

More dicey and uncertain are the plans on the third and fourth days to attempt to repair the advanced camera and the imaging spectrograph, partly because these instruments were not designed to be opened in space and partly because the engineers, especially in the case of the camera, have had to do instrument forensics from 350 miles away and don’t know for sure what went wrong inside of them.

“Don’t hold us to too high a standard,” Dr. Weiler, the Hubble old-timer, said.. “That’s a heck of a challenge.”

If it all works, said Preston Burch, Hubble program manager at Goddard, the reborn Hubble would return as much data in the next six months as it did in the first eight years of its life.

But even without the advanced camera and the spectrograph, said Jon Morse, head of astrophysics at NASA headquarters, if the other more routine things get done, Hubble will be “an outstanding observatory doing world-class science.”
407 2009-05-12 “By and large,” he said, “I’m going to be picking from the law schools that basically are the hardest to get into. They admit the best and the brightest, and they may not teach very well, but you can’t make a sow’s ear out of a silk purse. If they come in the best and the brightest, they’re probably going to leave the best and the brightest, O.K.?”

The data bear out the hard truth the justice delivered.

Over the last six years, the justices have hired about 220 law clerks. Almost half went to Harvard or Yale. Chicago, Stanford, Virginia and Columbia collectively accounted for 50 others. No one from Washington College of Law made the cut.

Almost every Supreme Court clerk first worked for a federal appeals court judge. Here, too, a few so-called feeder judges accounted for a disproportionate number of Supreme Court clerks.

There are, according to the Federal Judicial Center, 164 active judges on the federal appeals courts. But just four of those judges produced about 60 Supreme Court clerks over the last six years, more than a quarter of the total.

Judges Merrick B. Garland and David S. Tatel, both appointed by President Bill Clinton to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, were the biggest feeders to the Supreme Court’s more liberal justices. Chief Judge Alex Kozinski, appointed to the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco by President Ronald Reagan, provided clerks to the court’s more conservative justices, including seven to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, for whom Judge Kozinski clerked when Justice Kennedy was himself a judge on the Ninth Circuit.

Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III, appointed to the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Va., by Reagan, was the only one of the big feeder judges to spread his former clerks across the ideological spectrum, placing them with 8 of the 11 justices who served in that period.

Justice Scalia said he could think of one sort-of exception to his rule favoring the elite schools.

“One of my former clerks whom I am the most proud of now sits on the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals” in Cincinnati, the justice said, referring to Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton. But Justice Scalia explained that Mr. Sutton had been hired by Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. after his retirement and then helped out in Justice Scalia’s chambers.

“I wouldn’t have hired Jeff Sutton,” Justice Scalia said. “For God’s sake, he went to Ohio State! And he’s one of the very best law clerks I ever had.”

In response to another question, Justice Scalia made a point about how he interprets statutes. He used an opinion by Justice Stevens in an important administrative law case, Chevron v. Natural Resources Defense Council, to explain why he believed that comments from legislators were irrelevant in figuring out what statutes meant.

“Do I have to defer to John Paul Stevens because he’s the author?” Justice Scalia asked. “ ‘Oh, John, you wrote Chevron. You must know what it means.’ Of course not! John doesn’t know what it means! Once you let loose the judicial opinion, John, it has a life of its own, and it means what it says.”

“Now why should legislation be any different?” Justice Scalia added. “Once Congress floats that text out there, it has its own life. It means what it means. It means what it says.”

The court’s decision in Federal Communications Commission v. Fox Television Stations, the “fleeting expletives” case, was issued four days later. In it, Justice Stevens accused Justice Scalia of practicing the opposite of what he preached by using “isolated statements by members of a Congressional oversight subcommittee” as evidence of Congressional intent. Justice Scalia’s majority opinion, Justice Stevens said, “would make even the most ardent student of legislative history blush.”

Justice Scalia responded, of course. He said he was using the statements to show not the intent of Congress but the influence Congress exerted over agencies.

The distinction Justice Scalia drew was a fine but plausible one, the sort of thing you might expect from a graduate of Harvard Law School with four able clerks.

Two days later, at the argument in a big voting rights case, Justice Scalia seemed to violate his rule against citing foreign law. Expressing skepticism about the significance of the 98-0 vote by which the Senate reauthorized the Voting Rights Act, Justice Scalia said, “The Israeli supreme court, the Sanhedrin, used to have a rule that if the death penalty was pronounced unanimously, it was invalid, because there must be something wrong there.”

It was as an offhand reference to an ancient court, and Justice Scalia was not announcing a universal principle. Indeed, he almost certainly does not think that every unanimous legislative act is problematic.

In 1986, for instance, the Senate approved Justice Scalia’s nomination to the Supreme Court by a vote of 98 to 0.
408 2009-05-12 DETROIT  General Motors does not plan to sweeten its debt exchange offer to bondholders, even though its failure would probably push the company into bankruptcy, G.M.’s chief executive said Monday.

Bondholders, who hold more than $27 billion in G.M. debt, have until May 27 to decide whether they will swap their bonds for shares of a reorganized G.M. The company has said it needs 90 percent of the bonds to be exchanged to meet Treasury Department guidelines to receive billions of dollars in additional loans. Analysts say that is unlikely to happen.

If not enough bondholders agree to the terms, G.M. is expected to file for bankruptcy protection by June 1.

“We don’t have any plan to make modifications at this point,” the chief executive, Fritz Henderson, said in a conference call. He added that the terms of the offer were dictated by Treasury officials, who told G.M. it could not give bondholders more than a 10 percent stake in the new company. Bondholders say they are only looking for a fair deal.

G.M. plans to give 89 percent of the company to the Treasury and to a new retiree health care fund for the United Automobile Workers union, 10 percent to bondholders and 1 percent to existing shareholders.

Mr. Henderson reiterated his previous assessment that bankruptcy was “probable” but he played down speculation that such an outcome was inevitable. He also said G.M. hoped to contain a bankruptcy to its United States operations but that a global bankruptcy was possible.

“There’s still the possibility and an opportunity for it to be done outside of a bankruptcy,” he said.

He declined to comment on the status of talks with the U.A.W. or to respond to the union’s complaints that G.M. was shifting vehicle assembly work to factories outside the United States. He said it was too early to specify the 13 plants that G.M. planned to close by the end of next year.

The plant closings are among a variety of cost-cutting steps. The automaker also is eliminating 21,000 factory jobs and shedding about 2,600 dealerships across the United States.

G.M. is in talks to sell three of its eight brands  Saturn, Saab and Hummer  by the end of this year. A fourth brand, Pontiac, is scheduled to close in 2010.

Mr. Henderson said G.M. was in talks with two of three bidders who want Hummer and that a sale could occur by month’s end.

Regardless of everything else in its restructuring plan, G.M.’s ability to avoid bankruptcy appears to hinge on whether bondholders agree to the debt exchange offer. Kip Penniman, a credit analyst with KDP Investment Advisors, said the offer would fail unless the terms were changed in bondholders’ favor.

“G.M. did not make the bondholders an offer that was realistic,” Mr. Penniman said. “There’s no incentive for them to take stock that is essentially worthless while the U.A.W., for a much smaller claim, gets a much more significant stake in the company.”
409 2009-05-12 BANGKOK — Malaysia’s governing party was dealt a surprise setback on Monday when a judge ruled that its takeover of one of the county’s largest state governments was illegal.

The struggle for control over the state of Perak in the country’s northwest has served as a political proxy war between the party, which is suffering from infighting and waning support, and an ascendant national opposition movement that made historic gains in elections a year ago.

In what Malaysian news organizations termed a “landmark” ruling, Judge Abdul Aziz Abdul Rahim ordered the state’s chief minister, a member of the political opposition, immediately reinstated, effectively undoing the recent takeover of the state government orchestrated by Prime Minister Najib Razak, who heads Malaysia’s governing party.

Amid heightened political tensions, Mr. Najib urged calm and said his party, the United Malays National Organization, which has controlled Malaysia’s federal government since independence from Britain in 1957, would appeal the decision.

“We will solve the problem,” Mr. Najib told reporters in Malaysia’s administrative capital of Putrajaya.

The party’s takeover of Perak began in February when Mr. Najib persudaded three opposition lawmakers in the state assembly to defect to the governing coalition . The actions culminated on Friday, when the police forcibly removed the speaker of the Perak State Assembly from his chair during a tumultuous session of the assembly, which has been paralyzed since the defections in February.
410 2009-05-12 Consumers who use the clinics are often “exactly the customers that hospitals want — women of child-bearing age,” said Margaret Laws, a policy expert at the California Health Care Foundation. “The hospitals want to deliver babies,” she said.

The idea of retail clinics took root about four years ago, and more than 1,000 are now operating around the country in drugstores, supermarkets and big-box discounters. But in the early going, few were linked to hospitals or medical centers. Now, though, about 1 in 10 has a hospital connection, according to Merchant Medicine News, an online newsletter for the clinic industry. And many more are planned.

Wal-Mart, for instance, which opened its 26th hospital-connected clinic last week in Republic, Mo., in the Ozarks, says it will add dozens more in the coming months. Its hospital partners include the Christus Medical Group, in Texas; the Aurora Health System, in Wisconsin, and CoxHealth in Missouri.

The Mayo Clinic, the largest private employer in Minnesota, says it opened its clinics after hearing employees and patients say they wanted more convenient treatment for minor medical problems.

“We think of ourselves as a new model of care; we meet our patients at least halfway,” said Dr. David Herman, a Mayo executive who supervises the two retail clinics — along with six Mayo primary-care doctors’ offices that are now open late and on weekends.

He said hospital and health care systems like Mayo should consider demand for walk-in clinics a sign that “maybe our primary-care practices in general are not as convenient and transparent as our patients want them to be.”

Typically staffed by physician assistants or nurse practitioners, often supervised remotely by doctors, the hospital retail clinics can operate at relatively low cost compared with primary-care doctors’ offices or emergency rooms. The lower fees make them especially attractive right now, as an estimated 45 million to 50 million people in this country lack insurance, and the ranks of the unemployed are growing by the month.

According to a recent survey by Harris Interactive, 11 percent of adults said they or someone in their immediate family had used a store clinic in the last 10 months, up from 7 percent a year earlier.

“The economics in the health system are broken,” said Dr. Brian Nester, a senior vice president at the Lehigh Valley Health Network, part of a three-hospital system in Allentown, Pa., and nearby Bethlehem. “We need to find out how clinics with nurse practitioners and physicians assistants will fit in.”

Lehigh Valley Health, in a collaboration with a big regional medical provider, Geisinger Clinic, operates retail clinics in two supermarkets.

One recent afternoon, Melissa Marrero, 33, a social worker, and her husband Magdiel, 32, a security guard, walked in without an appointment to the King’s Market clinic in an Allentown mall. The Marreros, who are uninsured, needed physicals for their application to become foster parents. The clinic charges $30 for a physical.

“It was great — fast service and real convenient,” Ms. Marrero said afterward.

Janelle Sharma, the nurse practitioner in charge, said that more than one-third of the clinic’s patients were uninsured.

For several years the doctors affiliated with Lehigh Valley Health opposed the hospital’s plan to start a supermarket clinic. The physicians relented after the Geisinger version showed up on their turf and Lehigh Valley Health promised that patients treated in stores would be urged to follow up with a local doctor.

Dr. Will Miller, the chairman of family medicine doctors with practicing privileges at Lehigh Valley Health’s hospital in Allentown, said he still opposed the clinics. They work against the ideal of a primary-care doctor’s office that gets to know a patient’s medical needs and condition over time and coordinates his or her care, he said.

Dr. John VanBrakle, the hospital’s chairman of pediatrics, noted that the American Academy of Pediatrics, a professional organization, opposed the clinics for the same reason.

In some ways, the resistance of primary-care doctors might be more about principle than practice. As policy makers in Washington bemoan the shortage of such physicians, it may be difficult for doctors in many parts of the country to persuasively argue that the retail clinics pose serious competition.

Dr. VanBrakle said local pediatricians in the Lehigh Valley had not, in fact, noticed the retail clinic’s having any impact on their practices. “The vast majority don’t feel very strongly about it one way or the other,” he said.

Dr. Herman, of Mayo, says that rather than buck the trend, primary-care doctors should learn from it. He predicts that small groups of primary-care doctors around the country will begin working with hospitals to offer some of the same inducements as store clinics — like convenient locations and more consumer-friendly office hours, including periods of walk-in care requiring no appointment.

The primary-care doctors, he said, should try to beat the store clinics at their own game. As for the ones that lack a hospital connection, "It will make it more difficult for them," Dr. Herman said.
411 2009-05-12 BANGKOK — Malaysia’s governing party was dealt a surprise setback on Monday when a judge ruled that its takeover of one of the county’s largest state governments was illegal.

The struggle for control over the state of Perak in the country’s northwest has served as a political proxy war between the party, which is suffering from infighting and waning support, and an ascendant national opposition movement that made historic gains in elections a year ago.

In what Malaysian news organizations termed a “landmark” ruling, Judge Abdul Aziz Abdul Rahim ordered the state’s chief minister, a member of the political opposition, immediately reinstated, effectively undoing the recent takeover of the state government orchestrated by Prime Minister Najib Razak, who heads Malaysia’s governing party.

Amid heightened political tensions, Mr. Najib urged calm and said his party, the United Malays National Organization, which has controlled Malaysia’s federal government since independence from Britain in 1957, would appeal the decision.

“We will solve the problem,” Mr. Najib told reporters in Malaysia’s administrative capital of Putrajaya.

The party’s takeover of Perak began in February when Mr. Najib persudaded three opposition lawmakers in the state assembly to defect to the governing coalition . The actions culminated on Friday, when the police forcibly removed the speaker of the Perak State Assembly from his chair during a tumultuous session of the assembly, which has been paralyzed since the defections in February.
412 2009-05-12 BANKS THAT PREFER BOREDOM Community banks have hardly suffered from the credit crisis, in part because the industry prefers its business to be boring -- and safe. As one bank executive in Indiana said, ''If banking gets exciting, there is somethin...
413 2009-05-13 A group representing Chrysler's retired salaried workers is asking the judge overseeing the automaker's Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings to appoint an official committee of retirees, citing concerns about the future of their benefits....
414 2009-05-13 Paul Bowers, who has just completed his sophomore year at the University of South Carolina, is the winner of this year's win-a-trip contest, traveling with Nicholas Kristof through five countries of western Africa. GENDEMA, Sierra Leone - On sever...
415 2009-05-13 Why won't Verizon put any advance information on the hotly awaited MiFi portable Wi-Fi hotspot?...
416 2009-05-13 Judicial Watch, a conservative watchdog group, said Wednesday that it had obtained government documents that showed how the Bush administration had forced the nation's nine largest banks to accept $125 billion in bailout money in exchange for equi...
417 2009-05-13 About 60 tests for an Upper West Side school's gifted and talented program are missing, but a solution to the mystery seems to be at hand....
418 2009-05-13 Marking its first major effort to overhaul financial regulation, the Obama administration will seek new authority to supervise the virtually unregulated complex financial instruments, known as derivatives, that were a major cause of the market cri...
419 2009-05-13 Intel's chief executive, Paul Otellini, is unamused by a European regulator's sharp comments about the company's behavior in the PC market....
420 2009-05-13 When oil prices go up, investments in solar power tend to rise as well -- an irrational connection, analysts say, that represent immaturity in the renewables market. Some predict that will soon change....
421 2009-05-13 Better Place, a company working to build infrastructure for electric cars, has released a video showing how its technology for swapping spent car batteries works....
422 2009-05-13 Intel says it won't change any of its practices despite a massive antitrust fine imposed by European regulators....
423 2009-05-13 An electric car company demonstrates its technology for changing spent car batteries....
424 2009-05-13 For those of you who were not able to make it to our Times Open event, here's a video of Tim O'Reilly's opening keynote address....
425 2009-05-13 For the first time, the G.O.P. senators muster enough votes to filibuster an Obama administration nominee up for confirmation....
426 2009-05-13 Citigroup's chairman, Richard Parsons, spoke about the government's stress tests and Wall Street's future in a radio interview on Wednesday....
427 2009-05-13 The system was directly inspired by Vélib, the service that started in Lyon, France before moving to Paris. But Montreal's $13 million Bixi system, unveiled on Tuesday, differs in many respects....
428 2009-05-13 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
429 2009-05-13 MGM Mirage said on Wednesday that it will issue $2.5 billion in new stock and bonds, as well as begin an offer to buy back $1 billion in debt, as part of an effort to reduce its $14 billion in borrowings and avoid a default and bankruptcy....
430 2009-05-13 Verizon Communications said Wednesday it would spin off wireline operations in 14 states and merge them with Frontier Communications for $5.3 billion in stock....
431 2009-05-13 The European Commission on Wednesday fined Intel a record of about $1.45 billion (1.06 billion euros) for abusing its dominance in the market for computer chips to exclude Advanced Micro Devices, which is Intel's only serious rival....
432 2009-05-13 Banks that decide to pay back capital provided by the Treasury Department could end up diluting shareholders and gaining relatively little, Breakingviews says....
433 2009-05-13 Chrysler's bankruptcy may take as long as two years, instead of the two months that President Obama suggested as a target, Bloomberg News said....
434 2009-05-13 The IntercontinentalExchange has inked a deal to sell its ICE Risk software application to SunGard Data Systems, the companies said Tuesday....
435 2009-05-13 World stock markets were mostly higher Wednesday after Wall Street rallied towards the end of the previous day, though investors remained cautious ahead of key U.S. consumer news....
436 2009-05-13 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the Japanese bank that bought $9 billion of preferred stock in Morgan Stanley in October, increased its purchase of the U.S. bank's common stock to $705 million from $600 million, a 17.5 percent increase....
437 2009-05-13 Bio Equity Risk Management, a boutique health care investment firm, announced its opening Tuesday....
438 2009-05-13 Obama administration officials are contemplating a major overhaul of the compensation practices in the financial services industry, moving beyond banks to include more loosely regulated hedge funds and private equity firms, The New York Times repo...
439 2009-05-13 Rio Tinto's stock dropped as much as 5 percent amid growing speculation the global miner is set to launch a 5-billion-pound rights issue instead of selling $19.5 billion in stock and assets to China's Chinalco....
440 2009-05-13 Bank shareholders will have whatever capitalization level they want to have, and if they don't like the level foisted upon them by the Treasury through "bailout" injections, they can easily grind it back down to their preferred level. And they hav...
441 2009-05-13 The president of Nasdaq OMX said he expects a wave of new stock offerings from financial services firms in the coming quarters, as the industry reforms itself following the recent turmoil....
442 2009-05-13 Obama Administration officials are contemplating a major overhaul of the compensation practices in the financial services industry, moving beyond banks to include more loosely regulated hedge funds and private equity firms.

Federal policymakers have been discussing ways to ensure that pay is more closely linked to performance.

Among the ideas under consideration are incorporating compensation as a “safety and soundness” concern on official bank examinations as well as expanding the existing regulatory powers of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Reserve to obtain more information.

Any overhaul is likely to be tied the Obama Administration’s broader efforts to curb systemic risk to the economy. That means the new rules could apply to financial firms like hedge funds or private equity firms that never accepted money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. It would also mean greater oversight on compensation for banks that are seeking to return the TARP money in an effort to avoid the new strings attached to pay.

Administration officials have been contemplating sweeping pay reforms since early this year. In February, the Treasury Department was instructed to write detailed guidelines to the executive pay clause that was inserted at the 11th hour into the economic stimulus bill.

But the effort seems to have been put off after the furor over bonuses at the insurance giant American International Group.
443 2009-05-13 Lawmakers who were paying attention got two powerful reminders this week of the critical need for them to pass the strongest possible reforms to bring down health costs and cover the unconscionable number of Americans — more than 45 million — who remain uninsured.

The more dramatic was the latest annual report from the trustees, released on Tuesday, which found that the recession had made Medicare’s already tenuous financial condition even worse, hastening the day the program’s hospital fund will face insolvency unless reforms are enacted. As , the director of the , repeatedly stresses, the only way to solve the fiscal problems of the big entitlement programs is to slow the relentless rise in the underlying health care costs.

The other reminder of the need for change was a pledge by leaders of the major health care industries to cut $2 trillion from projected health care spending over the next decade. It was a promising development, but probably not the “watershed event” that had proclaimed it. So far, all we have is a vague and unenforceable promise that may never materialize.

On Monday, groups representing companies, drug and device makers, doctors, and a labor union pledged at the White House to shave 1.5 percent off the annual rate of growth in health care spending. That would reduce the growth rate from a projected 6.2 percent a year over the next decade to 4.7 percent a year, a seemingly modest amount that would, over time, produce substantial savings for the health care system, the federal government and individual families.

We hoped it was a sign that the industry believes major reforms are inevitable and is better off cooperating with the reform effort instead of opposing it.

For disparate elements of the health care industry to profess a willingness to reduce the unsustainable growth rate in health care costs is a huge difference from the early 1990s when the insurance industry and other special interests combined to defeat the Clinton administration’s health care proposals.
444 2009-05-13 When the framers drafted these amendments, they were worried that Congress would have too little power to get the job done, not too much. Senator Lyman Trumbull warned that if Congress’s authority were interpreted too narrowly, “the trumpet of freedom that we have been blowing throughout the land has given an ‘uncertain sound,’ and the promised freedom is a delusion.”

It was not until the civil rights movement of the 1950s and ’60s that Congress got serious about the assignment laid out in the post-Civil War amendments. It passed the Voting Rights Act in 1965 when about 7 percent of blacks in were registered to vote. The act outlawed literacy tests, directed the attorney general to challenge poll and, in Section 5, required certain covered jurisdictions to “pre-clear” any new election rules with the Justice Department or a federal court to ensure that they did not disenfranchise minorities.

The following year, the Supreme Court upheld the Voting Rights Act, and it did so in three more cases. Congress has also been steadfast in its support for the act over the years, as have the presidents who have repeatedly signed laws renewing and extending it. Before renewing the act in 2006, Congress held 21 hearings and collected 16,000 pages of testimony to determine that it was still needed. The Senate then voted in favor of renewal by 98-to-0, the House by 390-to-33 and former President signed it.

So what is the problem? The Voting Rights Act has run smack into the “federalism” crusade of the court’s conservative bloc. For more than a decade, it has been ruling in an array of areas that Congress’s power to pass laws is far more limited than it has long been thought to be. Judge John T. Noonan Jr., who was appointed to a federal appeals court by former President , has lamented that as a result, the Supreme Court has begun “monitoring Congress the way appellate courts monitor administrative agencies.”

At the oral argument in the Voting Rights Act case last month, the conservative justices were full of their own ideas about what would be good voting rights policy. seemed unhappy that the act applies to more states in the South than the North. Justice seemed to think that should not be covered by the act since it was “the first state in the union to elect a black governor.”

Justice Scalia even asked, “Do you ever seriously expect Congress to vote against a re-extension of the Voting Rights Act?” Apparently, the fact that there is such overwhelming support for the act is an argument for why the Supreme Court should strike it down.

There is a lot of talk in conservative circles about judicial modesty and deferring to the political branches. That view of judging often overlooks the important role that courts have in protecting people’s rights. But if there was ever a time to defer, it is when Congress is protecting voting rights in the exact way the Constitution directs it to.
445 2009-05-13 Jack Dorrian, who covered his nose and mouth with a red handkerchief as he left the courtroom, did not answer questions from reporters who followed him down an escalator and out onto the street after his son’s testimony.

Daniel Dorrian told the jury that when he learned of Ms. St. Guillen’s death in February 2006, “I could just imagine some of the repercussions — lawsuits, police, bad press.”

He said he did not initially tell the police that he had told her to leave the bar, the Falls, on Lafayette Street, which he said was owned by his brother Michael.

Nor, he acknowledged, did he admit at first that he had ordered Mr. Littlejohn to escort her out a few minutes later, shortly after the 4 a.m. closing.

“I didn’t want to get involved” in the investigation of Ms. St. Guillen’s death, he said. “If I wasn’t thinking it, it wasn’t true.”

The prosecutor, Kenneth Taub, asked, “That didn’t last very long, did it?”

Mr. Littlejohn, of Queens, is accused of murdering Ms. St. Guillen after she left the Falls that night, Feb. 25. The body of Ms. St. Guillen, who lived on the Upper West Side and was attending John Jay College of Criminal Justice, was found in Brooklyn with her hands bound behind her back, duct tape wrapped around her face and a sock stuffed in her mouth.

Mr. Dorrian said his father had arranged for him to meet with detectives at Police Headquarters in Lower Manhattan. He said his father accompanied him, as did a brother-in-law, Anthony V. Carbonetti, a longtime adviser and business partner of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. He said they were joined by a lawyer.

During the session with three detectives, Mr. Dorrian said, “I left certain things out.”

“I didn’t want to get any more involved than I already was.”

He said he spoke with the police again the next day, when he was accompanied by a different lawyer.

Before Mr. Dorrian testified, the jury heard from Dr. Kristin Gilmore Roman, who performed the autopsy. She said that Ms. St. Guillen had probably stopped drinking one to three hours before her death.

Dr. Roman said torn tissue around Ms. St. Guillen’s vagina and anus was “consistent with forceful penetration or penetration with something large enough to cause a tear.”

Mr. Littlejohn’s lawyer, Joyce B. David, asked whether the tears could have been caused by “rough sex” or bondage. Dr. Roman said no, adding that she had seen no evidence of the kinds of specialty items associated with bondage or sadomasochism.

Dr. Roman also testified that the sock in Ms. St. Guillen’s mouth had pushed her tongue back into her throat, causing a tear there that suggested that she was alive when she was gagged. The fingernails on her left hand were torn, and there were scrapes on her neck and around her jaw. Ms. St. Guillen died from pressure on her neck and the covering of her face.

Mr. Dorrian is scheduled to take the stand again on Wednesday to be cross-examined by Ms. David, who said in her opening statement on Monday that Mr. Littlejohn had been framed to protect Mr. Dorrian, a “member of a rich and powerful family.”
446 2009-05-13 Donald Trump, the real estate tycoon, became the arbiter in an outbreak of the nation’s cultural wars Tuesday, declaring that Carrie Prejean, Miss California USA, could keep her title, despite apparent violations of her contract with the Miss Universe Organization, of which he is a co-owner.

California pageant officials had threatened to strip away the title, but deferred to Mr. Trump, who staged an elaborate news conference Tuesday at the Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan with Ms. Prejean, whom he draped with a sparkling white sash that said, “Miss California USA.”

The controversy started at the Miss USA contest last month, when Ms. Prejean said in response to a question from Perez Hilton, a judge who is gay, that she did not support same-sex marriage. She came in second for the national title, but kept her California crown.

Mr. Hilton went on to vilify her on his blog, while Ms. Prejean began speaking out against same-sex marriage. Their feud exploded on the Internet, where commentators argued over whether she was a symbol of free speech or of bigotry.

Eventually, photographs were leaked showing Ms. Prejean partly clad. Then pageant officials said she had not told them about the photos, in violation of her contract. They also said she had violated the agreement by lobbying for an outside group, the National Organization for Marriage, which opposes same-sex marriage. Pageant officials also said she became incommunicado.

Mr. Trump mediated, meeting with Ms. Prejean and California pageant officials for several hours Tuesday. He allowed both sides to vent, then hammered out the agreement that allows her to keep her title.
447 2009-05-13 “He has gotten better, because he’s gotten more dimensional,” Cash said. “Now he’ll throw the sinker on both sides, he’ll cut on both sides. We didn’t do that too much when I had him. Still successful, but he knows that facing so many guys over and over, year after year, you’ve got to keep mixing it up.”

Halladay has faced the Yankees 33 times, and lately they have had almost no chance. In his last 19 starts against the Yankees, dating to May 22, 2003, Halladay is 13-2 with a 2.09 E.R.A.

It was almost immaterial that the Yankees were playing without Derek Jeter, who has a pulled oblique muscle, and Hideki Matsui, who left after one at-bat with a tight right hamstring. Besides Johnny Damon, who had two hits on Tuesday, Halladay usually dominates them all.

“I wouldn’t say dominate,” Halladay said. “I think I’ve been fortunate. We’ve scored runs when we’ve had to, and I’ve been able to get those wins. A big part of that is we’ve kind of stepped up when we’ve played these teams and we’ve gotten some runs off good pitchers.”

That includes Burnett, who pitched better Tuesday than his box-score line — seven and two-thirds innings, five earned runs — shows. He pitched into the eighth inning for just the second time as a Yankee, and blamed himself for the Blue Jays’ three-run fourth.

Alex Rios led off with a double, and Burnett walked the next two hitters to load the bases with no outs. Scott Rolen worked a tough at-bat, fouling off two pitches before bouncing a curveball down the left-field line for a two-run double. A sacrifice fly scored another run.

“I don’t mind a walk here or there, but not piled up in a row like that,” Burnett said. “I know I’m better than that, and that’s what killed me.”

It also killed the Yankees, who sent the minimum to the plate in the first six innings. They scored in the seventh after Damon doubled and Alex Rodriguez singled him in. Rodriguez had been heckled by the fans — “Steroids! Steroids!” — and one fan even tossed his foul ball back to the field.

Burnett was also jeered, just as predictably, for opting out of his Blue Jays contract after three years. The Yankees rewarded him with a five-year, $82.5 million deal, buying a pitcher who benefited from Halladay’s guidance.

Halladay said he never lectured Burnett, just talked to him on the bench as a friend would. Burnett said he learned to prepare for starts better, and Halladay learned to have more fun on the days he did not pitch. Workdays, Halladay said, have always been fun.

“If you don’t have fun when you go out there, it’s going to be a long career,” Halladay said. “I enjoy it every time.”

Especially, it would seem, when he is facing the Yankees.

Chien-Ming Wang worked six shutout innings for Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre on Tuesday, allowing three hits and three walks with six strikeouts in 82 pitches (49 strikes). “He’s definitely heading in the right direction,” General Manager Brian Cashman told The Scranton Times-Tribune after watching Wang pitch. “He’s much better. He had great mound presence, showed some great tempo, threw strikes.” Cashman did not say when Wang would be promoted. ... Derek Jeter acknowledged soreness in his right oblique muscle but said he hoped to play on Wednesday. “I’ve pulled that muscle before, and when you’re on the disabled list, it’s two or three weeks,” Jeter said. “You try to avoid that and hopefully the extra day helps.” ...The right-hander Ian Kennedy had surgery Tuesday in New York for an aneurysm in his right shoulder. Kennedy will not throw again for six to eight weeks. ...Reliever Brian Bruney will throw off a bullpen mound Wednesday for the first time since he was shut down with elbow soreness after his outing on April 21. ...Hideki Matsui said that his right hamstring tightness was not serious and that he hoped to play Wednesday.
448 2009-05-13 Jailbreaking is different from unlocking an iPhone, in which users modify the software so the phone can be used on unauthorized wireless carriers. For some iPhone hobbyists, like Mark Janke, jailbreaking is akin to customizing a fancy car — it simply allows owners to personalize the look of their devices, turning their phones into a brag-worthy accessory and status symbol.

“You can modify your phone and say, ‘Hey, look what I did,’ ” said Mr. Janke, who runs a forum called Hack That Phone, which walks iPhone owners through the jailbreaking process in several languages, including Swedish and Persian. “It opens up an amazing world of goodies.”

But according to Apple, jailbreaking is illegal and a breach of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. “These modifications not only violate the warranty, they also cause the iPhone to become unstable and not work reliably,” said Natalie Kerris, a spokeswoman for Apple.

In a legal filing with the United States Copyright Office last year, Apple says jailbroken iPhones rely on modified versions of Apple’s operating software that infringe on its copyrights.

In addition, the company says jailbreaking encourages the piracy of approved iPhone applications and is an expensive burden.“Apple’s iPhone support department has received literally millions of reported incidents of software that crashes on jailbroken iPhones,” the document says.

Apple filed its brief in response to the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s request that the copyright office recognize an exemption to the digital copyright act that would permit jailbreaking of iPhones and other devices. The copyright office is expected to rule on the issue by October.

Jailbreaking your own iPhone does not infringe on any copyright, and the tools that help iPhone owners modify their devices do not distribute anything that belongs to Apple, said Fred von Lohmann, a senior staff lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit group that advocates more openness on the Internet. “In our view, consumers are allowed to adapt software for their own personal use,” he said.

For developers, bypassing Apple’s lengthy and opaque approval process allows them to get their software out quickly and on their own terms. Most iPhone owners who jailbreak their phones do so to change the interface of the iPhone or add simple features and functions that are not available through official channels, said Jay Freeman, who operates Cydia, a popular repository for thousands of third-party iPhone applications and modifications.

For example, Mr. Freeman’s site offers two popular applications that he wrote: Cycorder, a free program that allows iPhones to record video, and Cyntact, a $1 program that adds profile pictures to the iPhone’s address book.

Another developer offers a $9.99 application, iPhoneModem, through Cydia that permits the iPhone to share its Internet connection with a computer, a practice known as tethering, which cellular carriers frown upon.

Mr. Freeman estimates that his platform for apps has been installed on about 2.3 million iPhones and iPod Touch devices. In April, Apple said it had sold 37 million iPhones and iPod Touches to date.

To counter jailbreaking, Apple releases updates for the operating system software that can render jailbroken phones useless. But the company’s efforts amount to an elaborate game of whack-a-mole as rogue programmers quickly counter their efforts with their own software updates.

So far, the company has not gone after any specific developers or Web sites that assist people in jailbreaking their iPhones, said Mr. von Lohmann, but given Apple’s penchant for exerting control over its products, it could.

The foundation argues that Apple’s real goal is to limit competition with its App Store, which has been wildly successful since Apple opened its digital doors in July. Since then, more than a billion apps, both free and paid, have been downloaded. Gene Munster, a senior research analyst at the Piper Jaffray investment firm, estimates that the App Store will have generated roughly $617 million in revenue by the end of 2009.

Mario Ciabarra, the operator of a smaller application shop called Rock Your Phone, worries that Apple could quash competitors by simply including the more popular jailbroken iPhone modifications in the third version of the iPhone operating system, due out this summer.

Mr. Ciabarra, whose site offers nine applications for download through a platform he developed himself, says his products have had half a million downloads since mid-March.

“There’s no reason Apple couldn’t offer the products we’re offering,” Mr. Ciabarra said. Like Apple, Mr. Freeman and Mr. Ciabarra take a commission of up to 30 percent from developers selling software through their stores.

In addition to commissions, Mr. Freeman says he makes money from selling applications he created, advertisements on the site, and sponsorships from developers who want their applications featured on Cydia’s home page. All together, he said he earns enough from the site to support himself.

Mr. Freeman said he was not worried about the competition from Apple or the potential ramifications of operating an unsanctioned software platform. “I don’t even understand why they’re trying to fight an entire community,” he said.

William H. Greene, a professor of economics at New York University who studies digital entertainment, said most jailbreaking software is free and does not hurt sales of the iPhone. Some applications available through the independent channels had been rejected by Apple for inclusion in its store. “It’s hard to see where Apple is being harmed by this,” he said.

Apple would have more leverage with its copyright claims if it could prove that jailbreaking is harming its business. “If the jailbreaker, the individual phone owner, were somehow trying to profit, then they might have a case,” Mr. Greene said. Apple is also well within its rights to crack down on pirated copies of legitimate applications, he said.

Mr. Ciabarra, who writes unauthorized apps because the iPhone is “too fun to pass up playing with,” sympathizes with Apple’s position — to a point.

“They’re worried about malware being distributed and third-party developers interfering with the stability of their product,” he said. “We just feel users should be able to decide for themselves if they want to deal with that.”
449 2009-05-13 The Cup, the most visible event in sailing, has long generated controversy and legal fees. Spying and claims of nautical espionage are not new. During the 1992 Cup in San Diego, Bill Koch, the owner of the victorious America, employed scuba divers to examine competitors’ hull designs. During the 2003 edition, the American challenger OneWorld was penalized for being in possession of proprietary design information that belonged to rival syndicates.

Syndicates routinely use chase boats to examine other teams’ yachts and tactics during training. When BMW Oracle launched its new 90-foot trimaran last year in Anacortes, Wash., Ehman said there were Alinghi employees on site observing and analyzing the yacht. He added that Alinghi representatives were also present when the trimaran was based in San Diego.

But Latorre said Bonnaveau’s behavior was of a more invasive nature than usual in Villeneuve, the Lake Geneva town where Alinghi is building its new multihull yacht behind closed doors. Bonnaveau is suspected of violating Swiss privacy laws.

“It should not be confused with what Alinghi did in San Diego,” Latorre said. “Observing and watching a boat that is public and that has been launched in front of everybody cannot be put in the same category as illegal espionage.”

Alinghi and BMW Oracle, the team based in San Francisco and owned by the American billionaire Larry Ellison, have been engaged in a protracted legal dispute since shortly after Alinghi successfully defended the Cup in June 2007 in Valencia, Spain.

Last month, after a series of appeals, BMW Oracle won the right to become the challenger of record for the next Cup. The decision dislodged the Spanish yacht club Club Nautico de Vela, which had been Alinghi’s initial choice to be its principal challenger.

But Alinghi and BMW Oracle officials are still haggling over the particulars of the competition, including the dates, which is the reason for Thursday’s hearing in New York.

After BMW Oracle’s victory in court last month, negotiations between the teams about the possibility of staging a traditional multiple-challenger event using monohulls off Valencia quickly broke down. They are now all but certain to face each other in massive multihull yachts in a best-of-three series next year.

BMW Oracle officials say that the next Cup should respect the latest court ruling and be held in February 2010, 10 months after the final appeal was resolved. But Alinghi officials have insisted on May 2010, arguing that the Cup’s governing document, the Deed of Gift, does not permit racing in the Northern Hemisphere before May 1.

Bonnaveau, a 50-year-old Frenchman, is suspected of beingin Villeneuve on April 28 and 29 attempting to gather information on Alinghi’s multihull in progress. Alinghi officials videotaped him and his vehicle when they spotted him, and he was later questioned by the French and Swiss police in the southern French city of Nîmes.

In the police report — a transcript of a hearing May 1 — Bonnaveau said that he worked as a sail analyst for BMW Oracle at a salary of $13,600 per month. He said that he had been sent to Villeneuve by BMW Oracle’s racing team designer, Manolo Ruiz de Elvira, and that such information-gathering missions were “routine” in the Cup world.

“I was officially authorized by my company to carry out this reconnaissance,” Bonnaveau said in the transcript. “In fact, I am part of the design team, but the entire staff can provide useful information, particularly on opposing teams. We call that a ‘recon cell’ for reconnaissance.”
450 2009-05-13 UNITED NATIONS — The United States won a seat on the United Nations Human Rights Council on Tuesday, joining a group that the Bush administration had pilloried.

The controversy surrounding the 47-member body, which assesses the rights records of United Nations member states, was underscored by the General Assembly’s re-electing other nations condemned by human rights organizations for abusing their own citizens. They include Cuba, China, Saudi Arabia, Russia and Cameroon.

“We have not been perfect ourselves,” said Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador, after the United States got 167 votes out of 192. “But we intend to lead based on the strong principled vision that the American people have about respecting human rights, supporting democracy.”

The Bush administration considered the Human Rights Council beyond redemption because of the group’s repeated focus on Israel’s treatment of the Palestinians under occupation while playing down significant human rights failings among its members.

But the Obama administration decided that it could be more effective in changing the council’s behavior if it joined the organization.
451 2009-05-13 Should banks be in such a rush to pay back government injections of capital?

That might seem an odd question given that just months ago, talk of a punitive tax on bonuses in particular made throwing off the government yoke seem a no-brainer. But that furor has passed for now. Still, there are downsides to redeeming government aid.

For starters, it’s cheap capital. The banks currently jostling to hand it back are paying just 5 percent a year for it, a better rate than they’d get borrowing the money elsewhere. Putting that to work ought to add extra juice to earnings. That’s not to be sniffed at, especially during a recession.

But paying back capital provided by the Treasury Department under its Troubled Asset Relief Program can mean diluting shareholders. Banks are falling all over themselves to raise new capital: Bank of New York Mellon, BB&T, Capital One and U.S. Bancorp have sold a combined $7.7 billion of new stock. At JPMorgan Chase, the chief executive, Jamie Dimon, has unequivocally said his bank did not need more equity to pay back the government.

Take BB&T. The North Carolina-based bank makes money, and it passed the government’s bank capital stress test with flying colors, so it doesn’t need to raise more. Yet its $1.5 billion share sale will dilute shareholders by 12 percent or so. And it has just cut its dividend, as many peers have in recent months.

As it happens, BB&T might have struggled to earn enough to cover its payout. Even so, that adds up to a lot for shareholders to give up simply to free banks of government interference that amounts, at present, to limiting bonus payments for their top five executives and 20 highest-paid earners to one-third of salary, which isn’t itself restricted.
452 2009-05-13 The labor secretary, , noted that 5.7 million jobs had been lost since the recession began in December 2007. With fewer people working, the government collects less in payroll , a major source of financing for Medicare and Social Security.

A resumption of economic growth is not expected to close the financing gap. The trustees’ bleak projections already assume that the economy will begin to recover late this year.

The secretary, , said the only way to keep Medicare solvent was to “control runaway growth in both public and private health care expenditures.” And he said Mr. Obama intended to do that as part of his plan to guarantee access to health insurance for all Americans.

But if cost controls do not produce the expected savings, Congress is likely to find it difficult to preserve benefits without increasing taxes.

Just hours before the trustees of Medicare and Social Security issued their annual report, suggesting that the nation could not afford the programs it had, the Senate Finance Committee finished a hearing on how to pay for the expansion of health insurance coverage that Mr. Obama seeks.

Mr. Obama has said he does not want to finance expanded health coverage with more deficit spending. Rather, he says, Congress must find ways to offset the costs, so they do not add to the deficit over the next decade.

Federal deficits and debt are soaring because of the recession and federal efforts to shore up and other industries while trying to revive the economy with a huge infusion of federal spending.

“The financial outlook for the hospital trust fund is significantly less favorable than projected in last year’s annual report,” the Medicare trustees said. “Actual payroll tax income in 2008 and projected future amounts are significantly lower than previously projected, due to lower levels of average wages and fewer covered workers.”

In coming years, the trustees said, Medicare spending will increase faster than either workers’ earnings or the economy over all.

The trustees predicted that, for the first time in more than three decades, Social Security recipients would not receive any increase in their benefits next year or in 2011. In 2012, they predicted, the cost-of-living adjustment will be 1.4 percent.

The updates are calculated under a statutory formula and reflect changes in the , which was unusually high last year because of energy prices.

If there is no cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security, about three-fourths of Medicare beneficiaries will not see any change in their basic premiums for Part B, which covers doctors’ services. The monthly premium, now $96.40, is usually deducted from Social Security checks, the main source of income for more than half of older Americans.

The trustees said that one-fourth of Medicare beneficiaries would face sharply higher premiums: about $104 next year and $120 in 2011. This group includes new Medicare beneficiaries and those with higher incomes (over about $85,000 a year for individuals and $170,000 for couples).

Seventy-five percent of beneficiaries will not pay any increase, so the remaining 25 percent have to pay more to keep the trust fund at the same level, Medicare officials said.

The aging of baby boomers will strain both Medicare and Social Security, but Medicare’s financial problems are more urgent.

The trustees predict a 30 percent increase in the number of Medicare beneficiaries in the coming decade, to 58.8 million in 2018, from 45.2 million last year.

But the projected increase in health costs and the use of medical care is a more significant factor in the growth of Medicare. The trustees predict that average Medicare spending per beneficiary will increase more than 50 percent, to $17,000 in 2018, from $11,000 last year.

Representative Pete Stark, the Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said the Medicare report “underscores the urgent need for health reform.”
453 2009-05-13 CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP) — Alpha Natural Resources said Tuesday that it planned to buy a rival, Foundation Coal Holdings, for about $1.4 billion in stock in a deal that would transform two regional companies into one of the nation’s largest coal producers.

Foundation Coal shares jumped almost 24 percent in morning trading while Alpha Resources shares slipped 4 percent.

In a conference call with analysts, the chief executive of Foundation, James F. Roberts, defended creating a bigger company despite growing opposition to coal from the Obama administration.

“We can’t generate the energy we need without coal,” Mr. Roberts said. Coal generates about half the nation’s electricity. “By everybody’s estimates that amount is going to increase over the next 20 years.”

Under President Obama, the Environmental Protection Agency has begun scrutinizing — and objecting to — permits for surface coal mines in the eastern United States, and the Interior Department has taken steps to reverse a mining-friendly stream buffer regulation adopted late in the Bush administration.
454 2009-05-13 MOSCOW — They knew they had no chance. But there they were anyway at a marriage registration office in Moscow on Tuesday. Two young women, wearing tuxedos and clutching bouquets, trying to become the first same-sex couple in Russia to legally wed.

“We have love, we have happiness, we want to be together for our whole lives and we want to do this here in Russia,” said Irina Fedotova, who hoped to marry her longtime partner, Irina Shipitko.

In a country where the push for gay rights has materialized only recently — and in fits and starts often met with violence and arrests — their attempt to marry was a bold, if muted, political statement as much as it was an expression of love.

The unsurprising response from the official at the registration office was dry and unequivocal. “According to article 12 of the family codex, for a marriage to be sanctioned it is necessary to have the mutual and voluntary agreement of a man and a woman.”

Both women said they had expected their marriage application to be rejected and said they would appeal the decision.
455 2009-05-13 Over the past year, as they tried to expose instances of substandard school construction, bloggers, activists and parents whose children perished under mounds of rubble have been harassed or jailed. Most parents acknowledge that they accepted payments from the government that require them to stay silent on the matter.

In recent weeks, as the anniversary approached, scores of foreign journalists trying to interview aggrieved parents were intimidated and roughed up.

Ai Weiwei, an artist and architect who has organized a campaign to count the number of dead children, said that 20 of his volunteers had been attacked or detained and that his blog postings were frequently deleted. “What the government has done is irresponsible,” said Mr. Ai, one of the few critics who has remained unscathed. “The Chinese people deserve better.”

In the early days of the disaster, there were reasons for encouragement. Hours after the quake struck, Prime Minister flew into the quake zone trailed by television cameras. In a country with a history of concealing bad news, Mr. Wen’s very public role consoling survivors and shouting encouraging words to those trapped in the ruins of a flattened school seemed to signal that this disaster would be handled differently.

“At the beginning, Chinese journalists were very excited to be covering a major natural disaster in what were the most free conditions ever,” said Qian Gang, the author of “The Great China Earthquake,” an account of the 1976 quake that devastated the city of Tangshan and killed at least 240,000 people, which was initially covered up. “But gradually the power of the government seeped back in.”

In an article published last week by China Media Project, a Web site run by the University of , Mr. Qian detailed how many journalists, taking advantage of the chaos, ignored reporting limitations imposed by the central propaganda department. Even dispatches from Xinhua, the state-run news agency, noted that collapsed schools were often surrounded by buildings that appeared unscathed.

Four days after the earthquake, an online chat sponsored by People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s mouthpiece, featured officials who stated that “there were certainly quality issues behind the collapse of school buildings, and we will conduct a strict and uncompromising investigation.”

By late June, however, the reins had been fully pulled back. Reporters who did not work for Xinhua or other strictly controlled, state-run media outlets were forced to leave the quake zone. Publications that had questioned the quality of the school buildings were criticized, or in some cases compelled to punish the offending writers and editors.

One reporter said that he and his colleagues had gathered compelling proof that cutting corners and inadequate oversight by local officials contributed to the high student death toll. But, he said, it has become impossible to publish those findings. “At this point, stability outweighs everything else,” said the reporter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity and asked that the name of his employer not be disclosed.

Officials have been less successful in silencing the scores of parents who continue to press for an official accounting of why so many schools collapsed that day.

Liu Xiaoying of Mianzhu, speaking by telephone, explained how she and other parents were not allowed to join the public mourning on Tuesday for fear that they might disrupt the tightly orchestrated commemorative events that were replete with foreign dignitaries. A phalanx of armed officers made sure reporters did not venture into town.

“There has been no government investigation report at all,” said Ms. Liu, whose daughter died at Fuxin No. 2 Primary School. “If there had been, perhaps our grief would not be this great.”
456 2009-05-13 EX-ARMY SURGEON ACCUSED A former surgeon at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center who is a consultant for Medtronic is accused of publishing a misleading study overstating the benefits of a product from that company in treating severely injured Iraq...
457 2009-05-14 In a scene reminiscent of the gritty landscape from the hit movie “Slumdog Millionaire,” municipal workers on Thursday demolished the home of one of the young children who starred in the rags-to-riches tale....
458 2009-05-14 David Axelrod, President Obama's chief strategist, tried his hand at a game show....
459 2009-05-14 Photo: Eros Hoagland for The New York Times
460 2009-05-14 And there is not a dull moment in “Summer Hours,” even though the high points of its action (the big scene is a visit to Hélène’s house by a group of appraisers) sound singularly tedious. It is arranged in three parts — panels, almost, in a triptych on the topic of mutability — followed by a brief coda.

First, we meet Hélène and her family, and learn something about her devotion to her uncle, a noted painter named Paul. We also witness Frédéric’s anxious reaction to his mother’s intimations of mortality. In the hectic comings and goings of a summer afternoon — the peculiar busyness of a family in repose — we can see the tensions and alliances in her scattered brood, whose love is nonetheless equally evident.

Frédéric, Adrienne and Jérémie are all there, and they gather again in the wake of Hélène’s death to negotiate the fate of her property. Life will go on, with an acknowledgment of loss that will always seem insufficient. A precious piece of furniture that finds a home in a museum is also in a state of exile, just as members of a family, once the older generation is gone, are both set free and set adrift.

“Summer Hours” is interested in the things as well as in the people, whose sometimes prickly individuality is incarnated by a flawless cast. (Ms. Binoche, as she did in Hou Hsiao-hsien’s “Flight of the Red Balloon,” seems to relish bringing her natural grace to the role of a difficult and abrasive person).

Along with the three siblings, Mr. Assayas contemplates a pair of paintings by Camille Corot (Frédéric’s favorites, which don’t much impress his teenage children); a panel by Odilon Redon; and a desk, armoire and several vases of similarly notable pedigree. (Most of the treasures that appear in the film are authentic, having been lent to the filmmaker by the real museum to which they are donated by his fictional characters.)

The point is not to fetishize these items, but rather to ponder how and why they arouse such strong feelings, how they function both as cultural artifacts and private totems. Hélène, who is deeply attached to her collection, nonetheless anticipates its dispersal, explaining to Frédéric that in spite of their preciousness, the things in her house are a “residue” of life, without a life of their own. Frédéric nonetheless dreams of holding on to it all for at least one more generation, but the film’s clearest and most poignant insight is that this longing, which is essentially to stop time, can never be fulfilled.

This is true not only of families, which are always in flux even as they offer an image of stability and continuity to the world, but of societies and nations as well, and “Summer Hours” is, in its understated way, as much about France as it is about Hélène and her children. Her property ends up in the museum because it is part of a cultural patrimony, each piece an emblem of a tradition that is worldly and cosmopolitan but also rooted in rich local soil.

This film is, in part, a meditation on the changes that globalization has wrought on this legacy. Jérémie’s job with a sneaker company is lucrative and fulfilling enough to keep him in Asia for the foreseeable future, and Adrienne, though she disapproves of his corporate career, is similarly enmeshed in the transnational economy. Frédéric, an economist, no doubt understands the forces that keep his brother and sister far from home, and is in any case powerless to challenge them.

Mr. Assayas is similarly philosophical. Globalization is a phenomenon he has considered before, obliquely and overtly, in films like “Irma Vep,” “Demonlover” and “Boarding Gate,” but “Summer Hours,” as calm and quiet as its title, is in some ways his most coherent and complex exploration of the current shape of the world. Don’t be fooled by the apparent modesty of its ambitions. Sometimes a small, homely object — a teapot, a writing desk, a sketchbook, a movie about such things — turns out to be a masterpiece.

Written and directed by Olivier Assayas; director of photography, Eric Gautier; edited by Luc Barnier; produced by Marin Karmitz, Nathanaël Karmitz and Charles Gillibert; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village and at Lincoln Plaza Cinemas, 30 Lincoln Plaza, at Broadway between 62nd and 63rd. In French, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated.
461 2009-05-14 The activist hedge fund manager William A. Ackman won a small victory in his heated proxy battle with Target as Proxy Governance, an advisory firm, backed two of his five nominees to the retailer's board....
462 2009-05-14 Up Next in Video
463 2009-05-14 Ospraie Management apparently plans to open up two new commodity-related hedge funds in July -- less than a year after it was forced to shut down its main Ospraie commodity fund....
464 2009-05-14 Representatives of 35 hospitals in the city pledged to cut their share of greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent over the next decade....
465 2009-05-14 MGM Mirage and Dow Chemical are among the many companies that have lined up for follow-on stock offerings so far this year, pushing the total to near record levels....
466 2009-05-14 Peter Wayner, a technology writer, struggles with how to respond to the widespread piracy of his books online....
467 2009-05-14 Two months after introducing "The Penguins of Madagascar," Nickelodeon is announcing "Kung Fu Panda: The Series."...
468 2009-05-14 It was interesting to hear John Grunsfeld's comment yesterday that Hubble looked "in fantastic shape". Obviously good news. However, the +V3 side of Hubble, which is generally pointed at the Sun, showed the greatest amount of "distress" when we we...
469 2009-05-14 If some of Chrysler's secured debtholders think they are getting rough treatment in bankruptcy court, they should consider what just happened to Credit Suisse in Montana....
470 2009-05-14 Target on Thursday is expected to take aim at William Ackman's nominees to the board, the latest skirmish in the proxy battle between the two....
471 2009-05-14 FRM Capital Advisors plans to invest as much as $300 million in hedge funds this year, Bloomberg News reported....
472 2009-05-14 Candover chairman Gerry Grimstone offered a mea culpa to angry shareholders, after missteps have thrown the future of the private equity firm in doubt....
473 2009-05-14 Despite a gloomy outlook, Americans tend to believe they'll revert to pre-recession spending once (and if) the economy rebounds....
474 2009-05-14 Venture capitalists, who screen hundreds or thousands of solicitations each year, pay little or no heed to the content of business plans written up by entrepreneurs, a new study has found....
475 2009-05-14 Hedge funds saw returns surge 3.2 percent in April, the best monthly performance in more than three, FINalternatives said, citing data from Eurekahedge....
476 2009-05-14 One night collectors seemed resistant to part with their cash; the next evening they were clamoring to bid. Such was the auction whiplash that occurred over a 24-hour period. Unlike Sotheby’s sale on Tuesday, where bidding was thin and buyers reluctant, Christie’s auction of postwar and contemporary art on Wednesday showed a different face altogether. It was a buoyant hour and a half during which record prices were set for recognized artists like David Hockney.

The sale totaled $93.7 million, just under its high $104.5 million estimate. Of the 54 works up for sale, only 5 failed to find buyers.

What made the Christie’s auction a success was that early in the season the company won estate property filled with work bought shortly after it was made. That became a sales tool to lure other sellers. It was also an evening filled with a greater variety that appealed to a wider group of collectors.

But let’s not get carried away. The evening, while a victory for the auction house, still illustrated how contracted the market has become; a comparable auction exactly a year ago brought $348.2 million.

Another secret to Wednesday night’s results was in its conservative estimates. Christie’s cleverly began the evening with a group of 20 paintings, drawings and sculptures from the estate of Betty Freeman, a leading patron of contemporary music. Ms. Freeman, who died in January at the age of 87, also loved contemporary art, and in the 1950s she began collecting pieces by Abstract Expressionist painters like Clyfford Still, Sam Francis and Mark Rothko. Over the years she expanded her purview, buying prime examples from artists like David Hockney, Roy Lichtenstein, Claes Oldenburg and Dan Flavin.
477 2009-05-14 Gail Collins (column, May 2) writes that “this is not the week” for Senator Susan Collins “to be known as the senator who reduced the money for flu prevention.” Nicholas D. Kristof (column, May 3) says that Senator Collins “has lost credibility on this front.” The facts say otherwise.

As a leader of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Senator Collins has led 14 hearings on pandemic flu preparedness and has worked to strengthen our nation’s ability to respond to a pandemic incident.

During negotiations on the stimulus package, both Democrats and Republicans agreed that pandemic flu research financing, though very worthwhile, did not meet the test of stimulus spending and instead should go through the regular appropriations process.

Less than one month later, an omnibus appropriations bill was signed into law that includes $815 million for pandemic flu preparedness.

In the last few years, Congress has appropriated nearly $7 billion for pandemic preparedness. At an April 29 hearing of the Homeland Security Committee, Secretary Janet Napolitano and officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention testified that as a result of these significant investments, there is no evidence that federal efforts to address the current H1N1 flu outbreak have been hampered.

The writer is the communications director for Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.
478 2009-05-14 Gov. Haley Barbour, a Republican and a former tobacco lobbyist long opposed to raising Mississippi’s cigarette tax, relented in the face of slumping budget revenues and signed the state’s first increase in nearly a quarter century. The state’s 18-cents-a-pack excise tax had not changed since 1985. On Friday, it rises to 68 cents a pack. Mississippi becomes the latest state to make smokers pay more to increase finances during a recession. Mr. Barbour signed the legislation as Mississippi struggles with an estimated revenue shortfall of $400 million for the year that ends June 30. The tax is estimated to generate more than $113 million for the year that begins July 1.
479 2009-05-14 A class-action lawsuit was filed Wednesday on behalf of 15,000 students from across the country who said they were duped by promises of exclusive access and tickets to events surrounding the inauguration of President Obama in January, only to find there were no tickets or special access to anything.

The suit was filed in United States District Court for the District of Columbia against the Congressional Youth Leadership Council, a for-profit company based in Vienna, Va., that organizes youth conferences, and its parent company, Envision EMI.

The suit said the companies solicited students to attend “educational inaugural conferences” and promised exclusive access to view the inaugural ceremony and the parade, attend an official black-tie gala and visit with celebrities, politicians and White House staff. The ball turned out to be a “glorified prom,” the suit said, quoting one student, and many of the promised speakers never showed up. With more than 15,000 students from middle school, high school and college on hand, the suit said, the events were hardly “exclusive.”

A statement from the council Wednesday said it would defend itself against the suit, adding: “The vast majority of the students attending the Youth Inaugural Conferences had a worthwhile and high-value educational experience. For those who had expressed concerns to us, we have worked with each family through a uniform and thorough process and have resolved almost all of the concerns or questions that have come to us.”

The suit said that the companies’ previous inaugural conferences had handled only 500 to 800 students and that they were ill prepared to deal with the overwhelming response this time. It also noted that news organizations had widely reported that inaugural tickets were scarce and that Washington was preparing for record crowds, but that the companies did not allow cancellations and instead “continued their misrepresentations.”

Richard Rossi, a cofounder of the leadership council and Envision, told The New York Times last month that the logistical challenges were overwhelming. “We were operating in almost a war zone, literally a presidential state of emergency,” Mr. Rossi said. “There were a lot of things going on that were inconveniencing even V.I.P.’s.”
480 2009-05-14 Could the space shuttle Atlantis, which grabbed hold of the Hubble Space Telescope on Wednesday, wind up parked on a pier in the Hudson River five blocks from Times Square? That is the pie in the sky for the operators of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum.

Museum officials have taken the first small step toward acquiring one of the three space shuttles that NASA plans to hand off when the shuttle program ends next year. They are enlisting support from elected officials and former astronauts for their idea of adding a decommissioned shuttle to the Intrepid’s eclectic collection of military aircraft, a Mercury space capsule, a submarine and a Concorde passenger jet.

They dream of housing the shuttle in a glass enclosure on the end of Pier 86 at 46th Street on the West Side of Manhattan, home to the Intrepid since 1982. But they have plenty of competition from museums around the country, including the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum.

“We have never shied away from competition or a challenge,” said Bill White, president of the foundation that operates the Intrepid museum. “This is very important to us, and it would just be an extraordinary, priceless treasure for New York City to receive. You’re going to see a very public campaign for this in the next few months.”

The Intrepid museum was one of 20 institutions that responded by a March 17 deadline to ask NASA about its plan to give away the last of the shuttles: Discovery, Endeavour and Atlantis. The space agency estimates the cost of preparing and delivering them at $42 million each.

The Smithsonian has already notified NASA of its interest in the oldest of the shuttles, Discovery, but considers the cost prohibitive, said Michael J. Neufeld, chairman of the Smithsonian’s space history division. “Our official position is we don’t have the money to pay for the costs at all,” Dr. Neufeld said.
481 2009-05-14 “There is nothing in this ruling that reverses Moore’s Law,” said Paul S. Otellini, Intel’s chief executive, during a conference call to discuss the ruling in Europe. He was referring to the observation made famous by Intel’s co-founder, Gordon Moore, that the computing muscle of chips tends to double about every two years, even as prices fall.

Intel and A.M.D. have squabbled in courtrooms for decades, arguing over issues like Intel’s control over the underlying architecture of PC chips and the company’s sales tactics. A.M.D. has achieved a number of victories in these cases and is the main alternative to Intel as the supplier of the powerful microprocessors that function as the brains of PCs and computer servers.

However, A.M.D.’s overall position in the chip market has remained relatively constant. Intel tends to claim about 80 percent of total PC and server chip sales, while A.M.D. takes close to 20 percent.

“That really has never shifted much, whether there are antitrust rulings or not,” said Dan Hutcheson, the chief executive of VLSI Research, a chip research firm.

A.M.D. argues that the commission’s decision will have a big impact. “With this ruling, the industry will benefit from an end to Intel’s monopoly-inflated pricing and European consumers will enjoy greater choice, value and innovation,” said Thomas M. McCoy, A.M.D.’s executive vice president for legal affairs.

Through complaints in Europe, Asia and the United States, A.M.D. has spent vast amounts of time and money raising concerns about Intel’s interactions with the companies that produce and sell PCs and servers, such as Dell and Acer. A.M.D. has accused Intel of essentially paying companies to not use A.M.D.’s chips in their products and to delay the release of products based on A.M.D.’s chips.

Last year, Korean regulators fined Intel for harming A.M.D.’s business. And now the European Commission has followed suit. The competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, said Intel had skewed competition and denied consumers a choice for chips, with practices that “undermined innovation.”

Intel plans to appeal the European ruling and has denied including any exclusionary measures in its contracts with customers or retailers.

Many analysts charge that A.M.D.’s intense focus on trying to alter Intel’s interactions with customers will have little impact on its overall business.

“When you get down to it, whatever Intel is doing that A.M.D. is complaining about probably isn’t making that much of a difference,” said Linley Gwennap, a chip analyst at the Linley Group. “The Intel discounts or whatever are just noise.”

A.M.D.’s most impressive and profitable moments have come when it has read the technology tea leaves and developed superior products. At times, A.M.D. has beaten Intel on overall PC chip speeds. In 2003, it introduced a server chip called Opteron that shook up the market and for the first time made the company a serious player in the data centers of large businesses.

In fact, A.M.D.’s successes during the last few years, achieved while European regulators conducted their investigation, have altered the chip landscape. A.M.D.’s chips now appear in both the PCs and the servers of most major manufacturers.

“Europe’s case is really predicated on the idea that there will be future harm to A.M.D.,” said Geoffrey Manne, who has practiced antitrust law and taught at Lewis & Clark Law School in Portland, Ore. “It is really hard to find evidence of that now.”

One of A.M.D.’s major problems has been its inability to produce top-notch products regularly. After a series of ground-breaking chips, it often ends up shipping products late or has to rework them to eliminate troublesome bugs. Intel, meanwhile, uses its vast resources to catch up and then surpass A.M.D.

“A.M.D. is basically operating on a shoestring,” Mr. Gwennap said. “If you have a slip-up, that can kill your revenue for the next couple of years. But Intel has projects and back-up projects and back-ups to the back-ups.”

A.M.D. insists that Intel has just as many problems getting new chips out, but can use its heft to outflank competitors.

“When you are one of the biggest and richest monopolies of the century, it is pretty easy to hide your sins,” said Mr. McCoy of A.M.D. “They shoot us in the knee and then tell everyone, ‘Hey, look, they don’t run fast.’ ”

The industry is paying more attention these days to Intel’s dealings in markets other than PCs. Intel is gunning for Nvidia in the graphics-chip market and for Freescale Semiconductor, Qualcomm and Texas Instruments in cellphone chips.

“There is a recognition in the U.S. that this is a problem, but no court has tried to confront it or change its approach based on this fear that things change too quickly for a remedy to have any impact,” said Keith N. Hylton, a Boston University law professor.
482 2009-05-14 That is why, on this side of the Pacific, industry observers are asking themselves why Merck would want to go through another embarrassing airing of dirty linen.

“How much money can Merck be saving on the payouts that would be worth this kind of bad publicity years later?” said Michael A. Santoro, an associate professor at Rutgers Business School who teaches a course on pharmaceutical industry ethics.

But Merck says the issue is not potential liability or negative publicity. The point of trying the case is to stand behind the company’s conviction that it acted responsibly in developing, marketing, and ultimately withdrawing Vioxx, Bruce N. Kuhlik, Merck’s general counsel, said in an interview this week.

With plaintiffs’ lawyers in countries including Canada closely watching the Melbourne trial, Mr. Kuhlik said, Merck was using the same legal strategy it used in the United States: to fight every personal injury case in court and convince judges that patients with idiosyncratic medical histories should not be allowed to sue as a group.

Often, he said, individual plaintiffs cannot prove that they used Vioxx or that the drug caused their health problems.

Merck took Vioxx off the market in more than 80 countries in 2004, after a clinical trial indicated that the drug could raise the risk of strokes and heart attacks. But Merck, in winning most of the cases to reach juries in this country before agreeing to its big settlement, has consistently argued that there is no proof of a causal link between Vioxx and any one patient’s heart problems. The company said at the time of the settlement that judges had encouraged both sides to come to terms.

In the Melbourne trial, which began March 30 and is expected to continue through June, an Australian named Graeme Peterson says that taking Vioxx caused him to have a heart attack in 2003. The plaintiff also accuses Merck of using deceptive and misleading marketing strategies to promote Vioxx.

The judge in the case will determine whether Mr. Peterson’s claims can be applied generally to other members of the class-action group. The defense, which began presenting its case on May 4, plans to introduce evidence showing that Merck extensively studied the safety of Vioxx, that Merck Australia’s marketing was consistent with that study data, and that Mr. Peterson’s heart attack resulted from pre-existing conditions, according to a news release from Merck Australia

But whether or not Merck prevails, the trial has already attracted relentless news and blog coverage of the plaintiffs’ evidence — nearly 600 documents of which were obtained by The New York Times — which detail Merck’s efforts to woo doctors to the side of Vioxx.

Even before introducing Vioxx in Australia in 1999, Merck’s Australian affiliate began to create an arthritis advisory board of influential physicians whose ostensible purpose was to educate the medical community about painkillers.

An internal e-mail message that is included in the plaintiff’s evidence, however, describes the board’s unofficial purpose as priming those chosen doctors to “accept the data and positioning of Vioxx” and “publicly state that Vioxx is superior.”

Other documents indicate the company sought to teach employees to quell doctors’ concerns, as various studies emerged, that Vioxx could increase the risk of strokes and heart attacks. For example, the company started in 2001 to issue a series of training manuals for sales representatives called “Vioxx Objection Handling Module” with talking points to deflect doctors’ questions.

From 2002 to 2005, Merck also sponsored a marketing compilation entitled Australasian Journal of Bone and Joint Medicine, published by Elsevier, a respected academic publishing house. A professor of marketing who testified for the plaintiff said in a written statement that Merck distributed the pro-Vioxx publication to doctors as if it were as an independent medical journal.

Merck said the articles and abstracts had been reprinted from peer-reviewed medical journals.

After Vioxx was taken off the market, some doctors who had supported the drug said they felt disillusioned. The plaintiff’s evidence includes an e-mail message dated Oct. 2, 2004, that Dr. James V. Bertouch, an Australian physician who had been a member of Merck’s arthritis advisory board, sent to fellow board members saying he felt “like the proverbial mushroom” and asked colleagues how they felt being kept in the dark about Vioxx.

Mr. Kuhlik of Merck said that the Australian news media had covered only the plaintiffs’ side of the case and that the totality of the evidence would support Merck’s conduct.

“It is not uncommon that in high-visibility litigation, you find publicity based on facts, documents and testimony that is often taken out of context,” Mr. Kuhlik said. He added that “a short-term negative story” would not deter Merck from what the company considers the correct course of action.

But plaintiffs’ lawyers elsewhere, awaiting their days in court, said they could not explain why Merck would risk such negative publicity in Melbourne after putting Vioxx to rest in the United States

“This fantastic stuff is being revealed to us,” said Michael A. Peerless, a lawyer in Ontario who is representing 1,700 Canadian Vioxx plaintiffs and had just returned from a week observing the proceedings in Melbourne. “Where is it going to get them?”
483 2009-05-14 Pharmaceutical companies routinely offer doctors reprints of articles from medical journals that are favorable to their products.

But news of a Merck-sponsored publication for doctors in Australia, that has come to light in a personal injury lawsuit there over Vioxx, has raised eyebrows in international medical publishing.

From 2002 through 2005, the Australian affiliate of Merck paid the Australian office of Elsevier, an academic publisher, to publish eight compilations of scientific articles under the title Australasian Journal of Bone and Joint Medicine, a spokesman for Elsevier said.

The Merck marketing compilation was unusual in that it looked like an independent peer-reviewed medical journal. It even called itself a “journal,” without indicating in any of the issues that Merck had paid for it.

“I believe that many doctors reviewing the journal would likely believe it to be a peer-reviewed medical journal, and rely upon the contents as they would upon other journals they read,” said Robert J. Donovan, an expert witness for the plaintiff, according to a deposition statement.
484 2009-05-14 More than a decade ago, a federal grand jury in New York indicted a man on charges that he helped plan the 1998 bombing of the American Embassy in Tanzania, which killed 11 people and injured scores more.

At the time, the man was a fugitive. He was finally captured in 2004, held in the secret prisons run by the Central Intelligence Agency, and transferred in 2006 to the naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Last year, military prosecutors filed war crimes charges against him in connection with the 1998 attack.

The man, Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, a Tanzanian, thus became the rare detainee facing similar charges in both the military and civilian courts for the same act.

Now, in an unusual twist, a lawyer for Mr. Ghailani has told a federal judge in Manhattan that he plans to seek dismissal of the federal indictment on the ground that his detention by the government has violated his right to a speedy trial in the civilian court system.

The lawyer, Scott L. Fenstermaker, also contends that the government has violated Mr. Ghailani’s “right to counsel and due process” by blocking him from communicating with Mr. Ghailani since July 2008, and refusing to deliver letters the lawyer has sent him.

The lawyer’s claim comes as the Obama administration weighs how to proceed with detainees’ cases, whether to again use a military commission system, or to prosecute detainees in existing American courts.
485 2009-05-14 The casino operator MGM Mirage took a significant step to stave off bankruptcy on Wednesday when it announced that it would issue $2.5 billion in stock and bonds as part of a broad effort to reduce its $14 billion in debt.

MGM Mirage’s plan, which includes a proposal to buy back more than $1 billion of bonds and an amendment to the company’s agreement with its banks, is aimed at gaining the company breathing room after it secured agreements paving the way for the completion of CityCenter, its troubled $8.5 billion casino and hotel development on the Las Vegas Strip.

Through the plan, MGM Mirage will take care of all but $1 billion in debt that matures in 2010. Only months ago, the casino company warned that its auditors had raised concerns about its viability as a going concern, and it hired the investment bank Evercore Partners and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges to help advise it on a potential solution.

“These proposed transactions would provide a substantial boost to the company’s intermediate-term liquidity profile,” Ben Bubeck, an analyst with Standard & Poor’s, wrote Wednesday in a client note.

Casino companies in Las Vegas have struggled with the lower consumer spending that has accompanied the recession, as well as with the billions of dollars of debt they accrued during breakneck expansion over recent years. MGM Mirage said last week that its first-quarter revenue fell 11 percent.
486 2009-05-14 HONG KONG — Industrial production in China rose less than expected in April, the latest reminder that while the country’s economy is on a relatively firm footing, the pace of growth is unlikely to bounce back to the levels seen in the last few years.

Data released by the government statistics bureau on Wednesday showed factory output, a barometer of overall economic growth, rising 7.3 percent from a year earlier — below the 8.3 percent that was recorded in March and below what analysts had expected for April.

That followed trade statistics earlier this week that showed China’s exports slumping 22.6 percent in April from a year earlier, which was more than expected.

Still, those two reports — and a 14.8 percent year-on-year rise in April retail sales reported Wednesday — painted a picture of an economy that is growing much more rapidly than those in Europe and the United States. Many analysts have said that China may be able to manage growth of 7 percent to 8 percent this year on the strength of government stimulus measures.

But even 8 percent would be well below the double-digit growth rates China experienced for half a decade before the global financial crisis, and the softer April statistics highlighted that an all-out recovery is by no means imminent.

In addition, many economists caution that the 4 trillion renminbi ($584 billion) in stimulus measures announced late last year, which are heavily focused on infrastructure, represent a temporary shot in the arm rather than a way to set up the economy for firm growth into next year and beyond.
487 2009-05-14 Sferra bed and bath linens are on sale May 14 to 16 (bath sheets, originally $50, are $13); 15 Mayfield Avenue, Edison, N.J., (732) 225-6290, sferra.com.

Sofa beds, chairs and ottomans are on sale at the Carlyle Custom Convertibles Third Avenue showroom through May 17; 1056 Third Avenue (62nd Street), (212) 838-1525, carlylesofa.com.

New carpets and vintage rugs are on sale at Kea Carpets and Kilims in May (Tulu rugs, normally $1,700, are $850); 477 Atlantic Avenue (Nevins Street), Brooklyn, (718) 222-8087, keacarpetsandkilims.com.

Luceplan’s Berenice lamp is on sale at Lee’s Studio during May (the table lamp is $259, originally $339; the floor lamp is $279, originally $369); 220 West 57th Street (Broadway), (212) 581-4400, leesstudio.com.

The Regata side chair, left, is $95 (originally $295) at Eurotrend Furniture through June 14; 275 Broome Street (Grand Street), (212) 343-1043, eurotrendusa.com.

Good deals may be reported to rohrlich@nytimes.com.
488 2009-05-14 That assertion flies in the face of the conventional wisdom that writing a business plan is one of the first and most essential tasks an entrepreneur should undertake, Mr. Goldfarb acknowledged. But, he says, the report’s conclusions jibe with the feedback he gets from venture capitalists.

Jeff Fagnan, general partner of Atlas Venture in Waltham, Mass., which provides seed money for young businesses, said he agreed with the study’s main premise. “I’ve never given funding to an entrepreneur who had a business plan with him when he walked into my office,” Mr. Fagnan said. “Never. Most of the information you find there, five-year financial forecasts and so on, is not relevant.”

He says he looks for “market validation,” hard evidence that the entrepreneur has actually sold his product or at least lined up enthusiastic potential customers. Mr. Fagnan says that, rather than reading a report, he wants to hear the evidence in PowerPoint slides, white board presentations or “somebody just talking.”

But if he does not look at their business plans, how do entrepreneurs gain an audience with him? “The No. 1 way is referrals” by a respected figure in business or banking, Mr. Fagnan said. If he asked the people referred to him for a business plan, “they would probably say they don’t have one,” he said.

Greg Herro, chief executive of LifeGem, a maker of specialty jewelry in Elk Grove Village, Ill., laughed when asked about the business plan he wrote to show to venture capitalists and other professional investors a few years ago.

“It was no use to us whatsoever,” Mr. Herro said. “Investors might read a business plan’s executive summary, but they have no interest in the endless pages of nonsense that entrepreneurs like me put out. If you don’t have a track record or actual sales, they are leery.”

By contrast, because LifeGem, which he and three partners founded in 2001, has strong cash flow and sales that increased 15 percent last year to $4.5 million and are steady this year, he predicts he has a good chance at raising up to $2.5 million soon.

Writing a business plan is not pointless — far from it. Entrepreneurs say it enables them to think through the logistics, possibilities and pitfalls of their operations and to clarify their goals.

“A business plan can be helpful in identifying opportunities in a competitive landscape,” Mr. Fagnan, the venture capitalist, said.

More important, according to Stefan Zehle, co- founder of the British business Coleago Consulting and co-author of Economist Books’ “Guide to Business Planning,” published by Bloomberg Press, a business plan can be a crucial warm-up exercise for getting through the venture capitalists’ door.

Venture capitalists and other investors “will never start by reading a 50-page business plan and examine a full set of forecast financials — they have too little time for this,” Mr. Zehle wrote by e-mail. “But they will read a one-page elevator pitch-style executive summary, and if it stimulates interest, go on to read a five-page executive summary.”

Mr. Goldfarb of the University of Maryland’s business school, agreed that if writing a plan helps entrepreneurs “develop a 150-word elevator pitch, that would be a positive result,” though he added that they should then practice the presentation “to anybody who will listen and challenge you.”

He urged entrepreneurs to keep any plan that they submit to professional investors to 15 pages, starting with four or five bullet points that explain their business.

Mr. Herro of LifeGem recommended a somewhat different plan of action, saying “you should put as much time as you possibly can in writing a comprehensive business plan for your own sake,” then compress it into “a very streamlined, need-based outline” for prospective investors to scan.

Skepticism about the usefulness of business plans has its incongruities. Mr. Fagnan of Atlas Venture confessed that he is a judge of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s annual business plan competition.

And Mr. Goldfarb said his research report, which examined 1,063 requests for early first-round financing to a venture capital firm in the Northeast from 1999 to early 2002, created a ruckus at his school.

“We require our M.B.A.’s to do a business planning course, and our work got some press just before this requirement was due,” he said. “Some of the M.B.A.’s then questioned the assignment.”
489 2009-05-14 LOS ANGELES  Nickelodeon is doubling down on cartoons culled from DreamWorks Animation movies.

Two months ago Nickelodeon, the cable channel, introduced “The Penguins of Madagascar,” a series about the sophomoric sphenisciformes made famous by DreamWorks on the big screen. The result was an overnight hit, a rarity in the hotly competitive children’s entertainment business.

In just six weeks the series is reaching nearly 13 million viewers age 2 to 11 a week, according to Nielsen Media Research. Among cartoons only “SpongeBob SquarePants” delivers stronger ratings for Nickelodeon.

Now the channel is adding “Kung Fu Panda: The Series,” a program built around the DreamWorks smash film from last June. The series, planned for a premiere early next year, will chronicle the further adventures of Po, a portly bear and martial arts master.

“The great thing about working with DreamWorks is that they’ve spent as many as seven years developing these characters,” said Brown Johnson, president of Nickelodeon Animation. “We could hit the ground running.”

Some parents might find “The Penguins of Madagascar” crass  bodily functions figure prominently in the humor  but DreamWorks is thrilled with the creative integrity of the series, said Ann Daly, the studio’s chief operating officer. Critics have been generally supportive.

“We love that television is a way to keep these characters alive with kids every day,” she said.

Jeffrey Katzenberg, the studio’s chief executive, told analysts on April 28 that “a very ambitious” merchandising line tied to “The Penguins of Madagascar” will hit stores in the first quarter of 2010.

DreamWorks has a tortured history with television. In 2004 it produced “Father of the Pride” for NBC, an expensive show modeled on the Las Vegas performers Siegfried & Roy and their menagerie. The program, which had its debut shortly after Roy Horn was mauled by a tiger, was such a flop that Hollywood still winces at its mention.

This time DreamWorks is letting a more experienced hand take the lead. The animation and promotion is handled almost entirely by Nickelodeon, though the channel works closely with the creators of the films.

“The Penguins of Madagascar” stands out in part because Nickelodeon has struggled to develop new hit animation series to match the blockbuster success of “SpongeBob SquarePants” and “Dora the Explorer.” Among live-action programs Nickelodeon has fallen far behind the Disney Channel, though “iCarly” is showing juggernaut potential.

As with “The Penguins of Madagascar,” the “Kung Fu Panda” series will not feature the same celebrity voices as the film. Rather, cheaper sound-alikes will be hired. Jack Black, though, will likely return to voice Po in a big-screen sequel that is planned for 2011; the “Madagascar” franchise will have a third film ready for theaters in 2012.
490 2009-05-14 It is a sign of the tyranny of Hollywood iconography that clips from “Casablanca,” “Breakfast at Tiffany’s” and other romantic tear-jerkers projected on a screen during performances of songs from those movies in the musical revue “For Lovers Only (Love Songs ... Nothing but Love Songs)” make you ignore the show on the stage below.

Had the revue’s five singers been given room to interpret the songs in a more personal way, the images and voices might have struck a spark. But in its rush to please, this minimarathon of mush, which jams together more than 90 songs by writers from Irving Berlin to Billy Joel, streamlines the tunes into a piano-bar blur.

The material is roughly divided into thematic blocks. In the first act, set in a bar, the two men, Kevin Vortmann (wolfish and stiff) and Glenn Seven Allen (softer edged but also uncomfortable), make beelines for two women, Monica L. Patton (mildly sassy) and Dominique Plaisant. (The curly-haired Ms. Plaisant has the best voice of the five.) A third woman, Trisha Rapier (unattached and vaguely hippielike), stands by and seems to have designs on the pianist (Ken Lundie).

The opening block, a salute to romantic love, is made up of war horses like “True Love,” “Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing” and “Always,” all treated to brisk mechanical arrangements by Mr. Lundie, as the singers shuffle into strained tableaus devised by the director, Christopher Scott.

When the block of movie songs arrives with its visual aids, you hope for a moment that “For Lovers Only,” might turn into a subversive critique of how famous screen couples have influenced modern courtship and helped instill impossible romantic fantasies. But as this all-musical potpourri continues, it is obvious that “For Lovers Only,” based on a concept by Nancy Friday, is only interested in jogging musical memories with hit-parade references.

The revue’s most misbegotten sequences are devoted to sex (“That Old Black Magic,” “Witchcraft,” “I’ve Got You Under My Skin”) and betrayal (“If You Hadn’t but You Did,” “All in Love Is Fair”), in which the performers demonstrate neither romantic chemistry nor real fury, despite the wielding of a gun.
491 2009-05-14 The initiative was well received by senior Democrats in Congress with jurisdiction over the issue. The proposal had been expected, but some lawmakers, impatient with the pace of the new administration’s efforts, had begun moving ahead themselves.

Hinting at a lobbying campaign to come, Robert Pickel, the chief executive of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, a trade group, said his organization “looked forward to working with policy makers to ensure these reforms help preserve the widespread availability of swaps and other important risk management tools.”

But some in the financial industry say that regulation is inevitable. “Nobody is in a ‘just say no’ mode,” said Steven A. Elmendorf, a former aide to the House Democratic leadership who represents several major financial institutions and groups. “Everybody understands that we’ve been through a financial crisis and that change has to happen. And the only question is how the change happens.”

The administration is seeking the repeal of major portions of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act, a law adopted in December 2000 that made sure that derivative instruments would remain largely unregulated.

The law came about after heavy lobbying from Wall Street and the financial industry, and was pushed hard by Democrats and Republicans alike. It was endorsed at the time by the Treasury secretary, , who is now ’s top economic adviser.

At the time, the derivatives market was relatively small. But it soon exploded, and the face value of all derivatives contracts across the world — a measure that counts the value of a derivative’s underlying assets — outstanding at the end of last year totaled more than $680 trillion, according to the Bank for International Settlements in . The market for credit-default swaps — a form of insurance that protects debtholders against default — stood around $38 trillion, according to the international swaps group. That represents the total amount of insurance that has been written on various kinds of debt, but the amount that would have to be paid out if the debt went into default is considerably less.

As the credit crisis has unfolded, trading in credit-default swaps has cooled, market participants said. The collapse of A.I.G. took a huge player out of the market and banks, hobbled by losses, have curbed their activities in the market. Still, derivatives trading desks have been profit centers at major banks recently.

The biggest banks and brokerage firms, including , and , as well as major insurers, are all major players in derivatives.

Derivatives are hard to value. They are virtually hidden from investors, analysts and regulators, even though they are one of Wall Street’s biggest profit engines. They do not trade openly on public exchanges, and financial services firms disclose few details about them. The new rules are meant to change most, but not all, of that opacity.

Used properly, they can reduce or transfer risk, limit the damage from market uncertainty and make global trade easier. Airlines, food companies, insurers, exporters and many other companies use derivatives to protect themselves from sudden and unpredictable changes in financial markets like interest rate or currency movements. Used poorly, derivatives can backfire and spread risk rather than contain it.

The administration plan would not require that custom-made derivative instruments — those with unique characteristics negotiated between companies — be traded on exchanges or through clearinghouses, though standardized ones would. The plan would require the development of timely reports of trades, similar to the system for corporate .

The letter suggested that the would play a leading role in the oversight of the market, although it would also leave important elements to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Over the years, the turf battle between those agencies contributed to the neglect of that market by government overseers.

Some lawmakers in the House and Senate have already introduced measures to regulate derivatives. But a number of members have pressed the administration to put out its own plan.

Representative of , the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee that oversees the S.E.C., and Representative Collin C. Peterson of , chairman of the House Agriculture Committee with oversight of the commodities trading commission, released a joint statement saying, “we agree there must be strong, comprehensive and consistent regulation” of derivatives. “We will work closely together to achieve that goal,” they added.

While derivatives regulation will be a focus of some market players, of equal concern to many in the financial industry are what the Obama administration and Congress might do to regulate compensation for executives across the board, not just at institutions that have accepted federal bailout money.

The Treasury is acting on two paths. First, it plans as soon as next week to announce revised compensation rules for companies getting assistance, to make those rules conform with a law Congress passed in February that was more stringent than the Treasury’s own guidelines.

Separately, Treasury officials have just begun discussing with the Federal Reserve and the S.E.C. what the government can do industrywide — through incentives, restrictions or a mix of the two — to guard against eye-popping compensation that rewards excessive risk-taking of the sort that contributed to the current crisis.

The fear among many in the industry — and some in the administration — is that whatever limits Mr. Obama proposes, Congress will seek to add even more, in response to public anger.

In addition to the regulatory changes it is seeking, the administration is also continuing to expand its bailout programs for various industries. Mr. Geithner announced on Wednesday that the administration would provide a new round of capital assistance to smaller community banks, and would increase the amount that they can borrow from the program.

Beyond derivatives, he also said that the administration would be presenting a comprehensive proposal to overhaul the regulation of the financial system. He said a central goal would be to eliminate the ability of companies to pick the least onerous regulator.

“We need a much simpler financial oversight structure,” he said. “It’s not going to be comfortable for everybody but it’s important to do.”
492 2009-05-14 For more than 20 years researchers have been working on this problem. The building blocks of RNA, known as nucleotides, each consist of a chemical base, a sugar molecule called ribose and a phosphate group. Chemists quickly found plausible natural ways for each of these constituents to form from natural chemicals. But there was no natural way for them all to join together.

The spontaneous appearance of such nucleotides on the primitive earth “would have been a near miracle,” two leading researchers, Gerald Joyce and Leslie Orgel, wrote in 1999. Others were so despairing that they believed some other molecule must have preceded RNA and started looking for a pre-RNA world.

The miracle seems now to have been explained. In the article in Nature, Dr. Sutherland and his colleagues Matthew W. Powner and Béatrice Gerland report that they have taken the same starting chemicals used by others but have caused them to react in a different order and in different combinations than in previous experiments. they discovered their recipe, which is far from intuitive, after 10 years of working through every possible combination of starting chemicals.

Instead of making the starting chemicals form a sugar and a base, they mixed them in a different order, in which the chemicals naturally formed a compound that is half-sugar and half-base. When another half-sugar and half-base are added, the RNA nucleotide called ribocytidine phosphate emerges.

A second nucleotide is created if ultraviolet light is shined on the mixture. Dr. Sutherland said he had not yet found natural ways to generate the other two types of nucleotides found in RNA molecules, but synthesis of the first two was thought to be harder to achieve.

If all four nucleotides formed naturally, they would zip together easily to form an RNA molecule with a backbone of alternating sugar and phosphate groups. The bases attached to the sugar constitute a four-letter alphabet in which biological information can be represented.

“My assumption is that we are here on this planet as a fundamental consequence of organic chemistry,” Dr. Sutherland said. “So it must be chemistry that wants to work.”

The reactions he has described look convincing to most other chemists. “The chemistry is very robust — all the yields are good and the chemistry is simple,” said Dr. Joyce, an expert on the chemical origin of life at the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, Calif.

In Dr. Sutherland’s reconstruction, phosphate plays a critical role not only as an ingredient but also as a catalyst and in regulating acidity. Dr. Joyce said he was so impressed by the role of phosphate that “this makes me think of myself not as a carbon-based life form but as a phosphate-based life form.”

Dr. Sutherland’s proposal has not convinced everyone. Dr. Robert Shapiro, a chemist at New York University, said the recipe “definitely does not meet my criteria for a plausible pathway to the RNA world.” He said that cyano-acetylene, one of Dr. Sutherland’s assumed starting materials, is quickly destroyed by other chemicals and its appearance in pure form on the early earth “could be considered a fantasy.”

Dr. Sutherland replied that the chemical is consumed fastest in the reaction he proposes, and that since it has been detected on Titan there is no reason it should not have been present on the early earth.

If Dr. Sutherland’s proposal is correct it will set conditions that should help solve the many other problems in reconstructing the origin of life. Darwin, in a famous letter of 1871 to the botanist Joseph Hooker, surmised that life began “in some warm little pond, with all sorts of ammonia and phosphoric salts.” But the warm little pond has given way in recent years to the belief that life began in some exotic environment like the fissures of a volcano or in the deep sea vents that line the ocean floor.

Dr. Sutherland’s report supports Darwin. His proposed chemical reaction take place at moderate temperatures, though one goes best at 60 degrees Celsius. “It’s consistent with a warm pond evaporating as the sun comes out,” he said. His scenario would rule out deep sea vents as the place where life originated because it requires ultraviolet light.

A serious puzzle about the nature of life is that most of its molecules are right-handed or left-handed, whereas in nature mixtures of both forms exist. Dr. Joyce said he had hoped an explanation for the one-handedness of biological molecules would emerge from prebiotic chemistry, but Dr. Sutherland’s reactions do not supply any such explanation. One is certainly required because of what is known to chemists as “original syn,” referring to a chemical operation that can affect a molecule’s handedness.

Dr. Sutherland said he was working on this problem and on others, including how to enclose the primitive RNA molecules in some kind of membrane as the precursor to the first living cell.
493 2009-05-14 No one would mistake the Stone Age ivory carving for a Venus de Milo. The voluptuous woman depicted is, to say the least, earthier, with huge, projecting breasts and sexually explicit genitals.

Nicholas J. Conard, an archaeologist at the University of Tübingen, in Germany, who found the small carving in a cave last year, said it was at least 35,000 years old, “one of the oldest known examples of figurative art” in the world. It is about 5,000 years older than some other so-called Venus artifacts made by early populations of Homo sapiens in Europe.

Another archaeologist, Paul Mellars of the University of Cambridge, in England, agreed and went on to remark on the obvious. By modern standards, he said, the figurine’s blatant sexuality “could be seen as bordering on the pornographic.”

The tiny statuette was uncovered in September in a cave in southwestern Germany, near Ulm and the Danube headwaters. Dr. Conard’s report on the find is being published Thursday in the journal Nature.

The discovery, Dr. Conard wrote, “radically changes our view of the origins of Paleolithic art.” Before this, he noted, female imagery was unknown, most carvings and cave drawings being of mammoths, horses and other animals.

Scholars say the figurine is roughly contemporaneous with other early expressions of artistic creativity, like drawings on cave walls in southeastern France and northern Italy. The inspiration and symbolism behind the rather sudden flowering have long been debated by art historians.
494 2009-05-14 Perhaps most revealingly, Andrews said he believed that, to some extent, he was forced into football as a sixth grader because he was big, not because he particularly loved the sport. He said he had not watched a complete professional football game unless he was playing in it.

Having broken his right fibula in his rookie season and having missed most of last season with a back injury, Andrews said he worried that physical impairment from football might restrict him in the future from playing with his son. He will discourage JaShawn from participating in the sport, he said.

Andrews said he had seen a psychiatrist last summer in Little Rock, and then in Philadelphia, but that he was not currently undergoing counseling. He did say he was taking antidepressant medication, along with the drug Adderall to treat attention-deficit disorder.

He said he understood that some people had little sympathy for a highly paid professional athlete, that even some of his teammates might feel he was exaggerating, or using depression as an excuse for an indifference to football. “That’s fine,” he said. “I don’t work for them. They don’t pay my bills. They don’t take care of my family.”

He said he took gratification from a handful of players around the league who told him they felt similarly and from others who said they had been emboldened by his own admission.

“A lot of people say football should help you channel your anger and aggression,” Andrews said. “But it’s not as easy as people think it is.”

His support system has grown. The Eagles signed his older brother, Stacy, and his former college roommate at Arkansas, Jason Peters, to play alongside him on the offensive line. To accommodate the signings, Andrews has shifted to right tackle from right guard, at least for now. The moves were made for football reasons, not Andrews’s mental health, Coach Andy Reid said. Andrews said he was reluctant to bring up such issues with those closest to him because “I want an unbiased opinion.” Even so, he said, having his brother and Peters around “definitely feels comforting.”

Compared with last year, Andrews said, “I’m at a better point, mentally and physically.” Stacy Andrews said that Juan Castillo, the Eagles’ offensive line coach, remarked during the recent minicamp that he had seen Shawn laughing and having fun for the first time in a long while.

At the minicamp, Shawn joked easily with reporters. Asked to give his precise weight, he said, “I’m waiting to eat.”

He had long used humor, he later said, to compensate for a lack of self-assurance and an impoverished childhood. It is one of the reasons he identifies with SpongeBob SquarePants, a character who maintains a smile despite being picked on.

“It’s hard for a student to learn when you worry about who’s making fun of your clothes and who’s picking on you every single day,” Andrews said.

His mother, Linda, raised three sons on $300 a week at a job at the International Paper mill in Camden, Andrews said, then lost her job when the mill closed just as he entered the University of Arkansas. One day at practice, Andrews said, he burst out crying during stretching exercises and could not move. He left college early, saying he could not bear to see his mother struggle to keep the lights on.

After signing with the Eagles in 2004, he bought his mother a Mercedes-Benz and said he began to spend lavishly on himself, buying a Hummer, expensive jewelry and, later, a Rolls-Royce.

“I bought a whole bunch of things that I thought were going to boost who I really was, make people like me more, try to impress people versus being smart,” Andrews said. “I wasted $300,000 on a car. I was fortunate to get a grasp on myself before it became too late.”

Others began treating him differently, he said. Before his rookie season, he said that one longtime Arkansas friend asked him, “How much are you worth?” Then the friend asked for help in paying child support, rent and a car loan. After he declined, Andrews said, the friend invited him to a deer-hunting camp. Another friend later warned that he was being set up to be shot in what would look like a hunting accident, Andrews said.

The story could not be independently verified. Rich Moran, Andrews’s agent, said in an e-mail message that he had not heard of the incident.

As the 2008 season approached, Andrews said he found himself caught in a personal vortex. The birth of his son had brought excitement and some concern.

“I had a new obligation, and I’m going to fulfill it because of my past experience,” Andrews said, a reference to his growing up in a single-parent home.

At the same time, Andrews said his interest in football began to flag.

“I was partying, drinking to try to hide what was really going on,” he said. “Temporarily, it helped me. In the grand scheme, it really didn’t.”

He held out from training camp. The Eagles said they would fine him $15,000 a day. When Moran told him how much money he stood to lose, Andrews said his reaction was, “So what?”

Early last August, as rumors grew about his absence, Andrews told reporters that he was suffering from depression, had sought professional help and was taking medication. He eventually reported to the team, but played in only two games before sustaining a herniated disk in his back, which required surgery.

For a brief period last season, he said he stopped taking his medication.

“I was feeling great, I was like, this thing is over,” Andrews said. “Man, things went south. I’ve never been a big fan of medication, but at this point it’s very crucial for me.”

So far this off-season, Reid said, Andrews is “doing a great job.” Andrews said the move to tackle could rejuvenate his career.

Still, his renewed enthusiasm has been tempered by the fact that he has missed nearly two full seasons to injury.

“All the physical anguish I’ve been through, the thought of not being able to get up and play with my son, that really keeps my mind going every day,” Andrews said.

He sees some of his teammates dropping items and struggling to bend and pick them up.

“I don’t want to live like that,” Andrews said.
495 2009-05-14 The ruling was also a reminder of the emergence of European regulators as some of the most activist enforcers of antitrust law, and an additional sign that the authorities worldwide are challenging the business and growth strategies of technology titans like and .

Michael Reynolds, an antitrust partner with the law firm Allen & Overy in Brussels, said Europe was continuing to burnish its reputation for activism.

The Intel decision showed the commission “wanted to send a clear signal that it is taking a leadership role in enforcing competition rules against dominant companies in the technology markets,” Mr. Reynolds said.

Ms. Kroes ordered Intel to stop offering rebates that were conditioned on buying less of a rival’s product, or not buying them at all, which she said had helped Intel maintain a share of at least 70 percent of chip sales market from October 2002 to December 2007.

She said Intel had granted rebates to major computer, including Acer, , , and , on the condition that they purchased all or almost all of their supplies from Intel.

She also said Intel made payments to some manufacturers in exchange of postponing, canceling or putting restrictions on the introduction or distribution of -based products.

She said Intel also had made payments to Media Saturn Holding, the owner of the MediaMarkt chain of superstores for only selling Intel-based computers in , and other countries.

Ms. Kroes said her officials had proof of Intel’s activities in the form of e-mail messages collected during surprise raids and formal responses to its inquiry from companies concerned.

Under the order, Intel must change its practices immediately pending its appeal, although it can ask for an injunction.

The company must write a bank guarantee for the fine right away, though that guarantee is held in a bank account until appeals are exhausted, a process that could take years.

The commission can levy fines of up to 10 percent of a company’s annual global sales. Intel’s sales were $37.6 billion in 2008; thus, the company could have faced a penalty of close to $4 billion. Money collected in antitrust cases is added to the trade bloc’s annual budget of around 130 billion euros.

The previous record fine for similar abuses in the European Union was 497 million euros imposed on Microsoft in March 2004 for blocking competition in markets for server computers and media software. The previous record for a fine by the commission was 896 million euros on a French company, Saint-Gobain, imposed last year for fixing prices in the auto-glass market.

The European Union began stepping up its pursuit of possible violations, and particularly cases in the technology sector, early this decade, when the Bush administration backed away from pursuing tough penalties against Microsoft, deciding to settle a case focused on the company’s browser software instead.

Last year, the Federal Trade Commission in stepped up its inquiries into Intel, opening a formal investigation.

This week, the head of the antitrust division of the Justice Department, , made clear that regulators would return to an aggressive enforcement policy against companies that abused their market dominance.

Lawyers in Brussels say that Ms. Kroes, before her term ends this year, is eager to reach conclusions in inquiries into other companies, including , which holds patents on memory chips, and , which develops wireless technology for phones.

Regulators are also questioning , the world’s largest maker of networking equipment, about the market for network maintenance services.

I.B.M., which settled a long-running antitrust case with the commission in the 1980s, faces a new complaint. And Google, the industry’s newest giant, is also coming under closer scrutiny, in particular for its domination of advertising over the Internet.

, the Finnish mobile phone giant, has filed a complaint with the commission against a German company, IPCom, over its patenting policy, according to news reports. That would make Nokia one of the few major European technology companies to bring a case in Brussels.

Mr. Sewell, Intel’s lawyer, did not see “an inherent anti-U.S. bias in the commission’s enforcement practices” in its decision to impose its highest ever fine on Intel.

He said the commission had been willing to investigate and levy fines against European companies in other sectors and said American companies appeared to dominate the commission’s caseload in Europe because of their strength in the important computer sector.

But he insisted that antitrust agencies in Europe, and had not yet established a consensus about what forms of rebates were permissible.

“The law is in now flux,” Mr. Sewell said. Referring to the flurry of investigations into Intel’s business practices in recent years, he added “I think what you see here are agencies beginning to test the boundaries of the law.”

Mr. Sewell’s strongest objection to the decision Wednesday was to the finding that Intel had effectively coerced computer makers and retailers with inducements, and he insisted had Intel had never paid to prevent AMD products from reaching the market in Europe.

“At no point has there ever been any kind of naked payment by Intel,” said Mr. Sewell. “The issue is whether the rebates we offered were conditional, and our position very definitely is that they were not.”

The Intel decision is likely to be closely scrutinized for its effectiveness, in particular for signs that orders to cease rebate practices will make the microchip market more competitive. Those orders could have a far greater effect on Intel than the fine, which analysts said the company could easily afford.

Martin Reynolds, an analyst in , Calif., at the research firm Gartner, said most of the rebate offers found illegal in Europe were made verbally by Intel sales representatives rather than put into writing in sales agreements.

Even so, the decision to sanction such agreements could be an impediment to its dealings with big computer makers in and that ship to the European Union.

“Intel is going to have to be very careful now about how it controls its sales force,” Mr. Reynolds said.

He said he expected the global market shares between Intel and AMD to remain unchanged unless AMD developed a new chip feature which gave the company’s microprocessors a technological advantage over Intel.

But Nick Hyslop, a technology analyst in at RBC Capital Markets, said the commission’s ruling would force Intel to change its way of doing business in Europe and that it could embolden AMD and others to take a greater share of the chip market, especially in markets for chips where Intel’s dominance has not yet been established.

“I think it’s an open question whether Intel will be able to transfer its dominance from desktops and laptops to netbooks,” Mr. Hyslop said.
496 2009-05-14 The latest session is Wednesday. Senators and Patrick Leahy, the Democratic majority leader and Judiciary Committee chairman, and Senators and Jeff Sessions, the Republican leader and ranking member of the committee, are scheduled to spend about an hour in the Oval Office talking about the search as well as the president’s desire to start hearings in July.

“The president does want to pick the brain of these senators and others,” said Mr. Gibbs, one of Mr. Obama’s closest advisers. “Some have sent names over for him to consider and he’s certainly happy to look at that.”

But, he added: “This is a decision that he alone will make.”

Yet as Mr. Obama narrows the field of candidates, he is hardly working alone.

Lawyers from the White House counsel’s office and from law firms across the city have been tapped to work on the confidential project. , the White House Counsel, is overseeing the search, but one of the most central players is Cynthia Hogan, the counsel to Vice President , who is reporting directly to the president.

For nearly two decades, Ms. Hogan worked on the Judiciary Committee, handling the Supreme Court nominations including those of and .

Even before Mr. Souter announced his , several layers of digging had already taken place on a small group of possible nominees who were on Mr. Obama’s short list. The vetting has included the scouring of real estate transactions, , ethics, the backgrounds of spouses and adult children, as well as a particularly close look at the early jobs held right after law school — often at the Justice Department — when early views could have been formed and when a paper trail of thousands of documents was probably created.

Interviews are being conducted this week with close colleagues and family members of a few candidates, officials said. Mr. Obama is expected to meet with at least one or two of his prospective nominees as early as next week.

Inside the White House, a tight circle of advisers has already been selected and office space has been set aside in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. But aides said their surroundings would purposely not be called a “war room,” because of the combative image that the term suggests.

“We would like to put the confirmation wars of the past behind us,” one White House official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the confidentiality of the selection process, “and have signaled that with our consensus-oriented, non-confrontational approach to appellate court nominations.”

Whether or not the White House prefers to call it a war room, the function will be largely the same. Teams of researchers, lawyers and other strategists will defend the nominee, who is only allowed to speak publicly for a day after being introduced by the president, and not again until the confirmation hearings.

“They have proven themselves to be a very disciplined operation that will likely handle all of the different technical aspects that go into the Supreme Court nomination successfully,” said , who oversaw the selections of and Justice during the Bush administration. He also witnessed the Obama team up close last year as a top strategist in ’s presidential campaign.

Mr. Schmidt remembers well the Democratic-led fight against both of President ’s nominees to the Supreme Court, including ’s votes in the Senate against both Mr. Roberts and Mr. Alito. (Not to mention the attempt, supported by Mr. Obama, to block Mr. Alito’s nomination with a .) He said that those votes cast by Mr. Obama, as a freshman senator from , will surely be revisited in the coming months if Republicans try to block President Obama’s nominee.

“There ought to be a certain dignity and majesty to this process,” Mr. Schmidt said. “Certainly, I hope Republicans will do that.” Judicial nominations have become too polarized by both parties, he said, adding that he hopes no one opposes the nomination simply for the sake of doing so.

“They don’t owe the Democrats any courtesy on it,” he said of the Republicans in the Senate, “but at the end of the day you do it because it’s the right thing to do for the country.”
497 2009-05-14 WASHINGTON — Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said on Wednesday that the administration would provide a new round of capital assistance for smaller banks and would increase the amount that they can borrow from the program.

More than 300 small banks are already participating in the federal program, although in recent months a growing number has sought to withdraw because of stringent requirements. So it is unclear whether the expansion will garner many new takers.

In a speech before the Independent Community Bankers Association, Mr. Geithner said that, using proceeds of repayments that the Treasury expects to receive from some large banks, the program would reopen the application window for banks with assets under $500 million. The administration also plans to increase the maximum that could be borrowed, to 5 percent of all risk-weighted assets, from 3 percent, for institutions that qualify.

Mr. Geithner repeated the administration’s view that the financial system was beginning to heal even though “the process of financial recovery and repair is going to take time.”

“We have already seen a substantial amount of adjustment in our financial system,” he said. “The more vulnerable parts of the nonbank financial system no longer exist.” He said that there were still more changes coming, “but a substantial part of the adjustment process is now behind us.”
498 2009-05-14 Verizon Communications on Wednesday took another step away from its century-old heritage as a company that provides telephone service over copper wires. It agreed to sell divisions that offer service to 4.8 million phone lines in 14 states to Frontier Communications for $3.3 billion in cash and $5.2 billion in Frontier stock.

The deal will triple the size of Frontier, a collection of rural phone companies that is based in Stamford, Conn. Verizon will wind up owning at least two-thirds of Frontier’s shares, in a tax-free spinoff.

The move allows Verizon to concentrate on its wireless business and on serving large companies. The company says that after the deal, only 15 percent of its revenue will come from residential customers. And 70 percent of those will be in neighborhoods where the company is replacing its copper wires with fiber optic cables that carry television programs, Internet service and, almost incidentally, voice calls under the FiOS brand.

The local phone business, in fact, has been contracting quickly as customers shift to phone service offered by cable companies or simply to using their cellphones. Verizon, which will have 30.3 million phone lines left after the deal, lost 10.2 percent of its lines last year in the regions it is selling. Frontier, by contrast, lost only 7.2 percent of its lines.

Maggie Wilderotter, the chief executive of Frontier, said in an interview that the company could thrive in sparsely populated areas. “Rural is our business,” she said.
499 2009-05-14 Obama administration officials are contemplating a major overhaul of the compensation practices in the financial services industry, moving beyond banks to include more loosely regulated hedge funds and private equity firms.

Federal policymakers have been discussing ways to ensure that pay is more closely linked to performance.

Among the ideas under consideration are incorporating compensation as a “safety and soundness” concern on official bank examinations as well as expanding the existing regulatory powers of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Reserve to obtain more information regarding compensation. The policymakers are also expected to publish formal guidelines regarding Wall Street pay.

Any overhaul is likely to be tied to the Obama administration’s broader efforts to curb systemic risks to the economy. That means the new rules could apply to financial firms like hedge funds or private equity firms that never accepted money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. It would also mean greater oversight on compensation for banks that are seeking to return the TARP money in an effort to avoid the new strings attached to pay.

Administration officials have been contemplating broad-based pay reforms since early this year. In February, the Treasury Department was instructed to write detailed guidelines to the new executive pay rules for banks accepting TARP money, rules that were inserted at the 11th hour into the economic stimulus bill.
500 2009-05-14 TAKING AIM AT DERIVATIVES  The Obama administration asked Congress to move quickly on legislation that would give the White House new authority over derivatives. It was a step toward overhauling financial regulation and increasing transparency in ...
501 2009-05-14 The last trial version of Microsoft's Windows 7 operating system -- the final preview of the software before it gets shrink-wrapped and put on shelves -- is now available for free download. Here are some tips on downloading the latest OS.         ...
502 2009-05-14 Hubble got its hug today.     At 1:14 p.m. Eastern time on Wednesday, as the space shuttle Atlantis and the space telescope sailed over western Australia, the shuttle's robot arm, with mission specialist Megan McArthur at the controls, reached out...
503 2009-05-14 The European Commission fined Intel a record 1.06 billion euros ($1.45 billion) on Wednesday for abusing its dominance in the computer chip market to exclude its only serious rival, Advanced Micro Devices.     The European Union's competition comm...
504 2009-05-14 For the first time, Senate Republicans blocked a nominee of the Obama administration, mounting a filibuster against the appointment of David Hayes to be deputy secretary of the Interior Department in a dispute over oil and gas leases in Utah.     ...
505 2009-05-14 An English chemist may have found the hidden gateway to the RNA world, the chemical milieu from which the first forms of life are thought to have emerged on earth some 3.8 billion years ago.     The discovery seemingly solves a problem that for 20...
506 2009-05-15 Credit: Chris Livingston for The New York Times
507 2009-05-15 The dynamic duo of Tyler Hinman and Byron Walden team up for the Saturday puzzle....
508 2009-05-15 Neil Barsky, the head of Alson Capital, says the markets these days are trickier to read, but more than that, the daily grind has grown much less gratifying, Joe Nocera writes in his Executive Suite column....
509 2009-05-15 I liked this David Leonhardt article about the China-US economic relationship. But I do have a problem with this passage: The most obviously worrisome part of the situation today is that the Chinese could decide that they no longer want to buy Tre...
510 2009-05-15 The White House on Friday released the 2008 financial disclosure reports for President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., posting the information online for the first time....
511 2009-05-15 Red Bulls goalkeeper Danny Cepero checks in with a blog posting after a long absence....
512 2009-05-15 Agence France-Presse - Getty Images No rice, please. In Phnom Penh on Tuesday, Cambodia's royal oxen ate corn and beans, but no rice, during an ancient ceremony said to predict the year's harvest of various crops. Add Cambodia's royal oxen to the ...
513 2009-05-15 Notes from a veteran on the road ahead for Wall Street....
514 2009-05-15 Following is a statement by President Obama on Friday on the use of military commissions to prosecute detainees, as released by the White House.

Military commissions have a long tradition in the United States. They are appropriate for trying enemies who violate the laws of war, provided that they are properly structured and administered. In the past, I have supported the use of military commissions as one avenue to try detainees, in addition to prosecution in Article III courts. In 2006, I voted in favor of the use of military commissions. But I objected strongly to the Military Commissions Act that was drafted by the Bush Administration and passed by Congress because it failed to establish a legitimate legal framework and undermined our capability to ensure swift and certain justice against those detainees that we were holding at the time. Indeed, the system of Military Commissions at Guantanamo Bay had only succeeded in prosecuting three suspected terrorists in more than seven years.

Today, the Department of Defense will be seeking additional continuances in several pending military commission proceedings. We will seek more time to allow us time to reform the military commission process. The Secretary of Defense will notify the Congress of several changes to the rules governing the commissions. The rule changes will ensure that: First, statements that have been obtained from detainees using cruel, inhuman and degrading interrogation methods will no longer be admitted as evidence at trial. Second, the use of hearsay will be limited, so that the burden will no longer be on the party who objects to hearsay to disprove its reliability. Third, the accused will have greater latitude in selecting their counsel. Fourth, basic protections will be provided for those who refuse to testify. And fifth, military commission judges may establish the jurisdiction of their own courts.

These reforms will begin to restore the Commissions as a legitimate forum for prosecution, while bringing them in line with the rule of law. In addition, we will work with the Congress on additional reforms that will permit commissions to prosecute terrorists effectively and be an avenue, along with federal prosecutions in Article III courts, for administering justice. This is the best way to protect our country, while upholding our deeply held values.
515 2009-05-15 The president's choice for director of the bureau says he would not adopt statistical sampling -- a technique that Democrats unsuccessfully pursued during the Clinton administration....
516 2009-05-15 There is no reason to think Rachel Alexandra is at greater risk of an accident than any other horse in the field....
517 2009-05-15 Maybe the magic bullet is cigarette taxes....
518 2009-05-15 A 19-year-old with liver disease writes about life as an alcohol-free college student....
519 2009-05-15 On Thursday, representatives from about 13 hospital systems with 35 hospitals in the city pledged to reduce that carbon footprint, cutting their share of greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent over the next 10 years....
520 2009-05-15 SunTrust, one of the 10 large banks found wanting in the government's recent stress tests, said Friday that it would take a number of actions to raise and conserve capital, including issuing new stock and slashing its dividend....
521 2009-05-15 Mt. Everest is the unexpected inspiration for a housing development outside Copenhagen, which is winning awards for its innovative design....
522 2009-05-15 MGM Mirage, the struggling casino operator, said Thursday that it had completed a $1 billion public stock offering, part of its announced effort raise $2.5 billion to help it pay down its $14 billion debt load....
523 2009-05-15 Two Securities and Exchange Commission employees are under investigation by the F.B.I. for allegedly using insider information to trade stocks, CBS News reported....
524 2009-05-15 General Motors on Thursday said that if it files for bankruptcy it would most likely pursue a quick sale of its best assets out of court protection similar to the process now reshaping Chrysler....
525 2009-05-15 Wall Street broke a three-day losing streak on Thursday, shrugging off an unexpected surge in weekly unemployment claims as a crucial borrowing rate fell to its lowest point in a year and offered a signal of stability in the lending markets....
526 2009-05-15 YRC Worldwide plans to apply for $1 billion in federal bailout money, the trucking company's chief executive William Zollars told The Wall Street Journal....
527 2009-05-15 British entrepreneur Richard Branson said on Thursday that a proposed alliance between AMR's American Airlines and British Airways would create a "monster monopoly."...
528 2009-05-15 If you have a netbook, screen space is precious. Here's how to free up more of it when online....
529 2009-05-15 There's nothing like a welcome dose of warmer weather to stoke wanderlust, so T's latest travel issue comes not a moment too soon. This year, with travelers turning more than ever to "culture tripping" to give their journeys a greater sense of mea...
530 2009-05-15 The Belgian government said it would prop up the Belgian financial services company KBC Group with a loan guarantee after the company took losses on bad derivatives investments and souring loans to Eastern and Central Europe. KBC will receive an initial guarantee of 22.5 billion euros ($30.6 billion), the government said. KBC also reported a net loss of 3.6 billion euros for the first quarter of 2009, after it booked investment losses of 4.1 billion euros. “This intervention is in keeping with the actions taken in recent months with a view toward preserving the stability of our financial system, assuring that savings are protected, and finally, relaunching our economy,” the government of Prime Minister Herman Van Rompuy said in a statement. The bailout was the third time the state had stepped in to help KBC, which received 3.5 billion euros in October and 2 billion euros from the government of the Flemish region of Belgium in January.
531 2009-05-15 The three-time champion Justin Leonard and Paul Goydos shot seven-under 63s to share the first-round lead in the Texas Open in San Antonio. Goydos had the lead for most of the day until Leonard birdied three of his last four holes in the afternoon.

¶Francesco Molinari of Italy shot a nine-under 63 to take a one-stroke lead over Johan Edfors of Sweden in the Irish Open. John Daly, coming off a second-place tie in the Italian Open, had a 68 in cold and rainy conditions at County Louth. Rory McIlroy, the 20-year-old sensation from Northern Ireland, opened with a 69.
532 2009-05-15 The police generally need a search warrant to enter a person’s home or to listen to phone calls. But courts have been divided on whether the police must obtain a warrant before placing a GPS device on a car. New York State’s highest court ruled this week that they do, an important victory for privacy rights.

A State Police investigator placed a GPS tracking device inside the bumper of Scott Weaver’s van without a search warrant. It was unclear based on the record of the case why the police were monitoring Mr. Weaver, but they tracked the van nonstop for 65 days. Mr. Weaver was eventually charged with burglary of a Kmart and convicted in part with evidence taken from the device.

The New York State Court of Appeals reversed his conviction by a 4-to-3 vote. Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman wrote for the majority, saying that tracking Mr. Weaver via the global positioning system without a warrant violated his right to privacy.

The Supreme Court has ruled, the majority noted, that police do not need a warrant to use technology to help them observe the sorts of things they could observe with their own senses. GPS tracking, the New York court said, goes further. It allows the police to monitor people in ways that would require “millions of additional police officers and cameras on every streetlamp.”

A planted GPS device, the majority said, allows the police to follow a person’s every move — including visits to psychiatrists, abortion clinics, AIDS treatment centers, gay bars and places of worship. To do that without a warrant, the court said, is not “compatible with any reasonable notion of personal privacy.”

The Supreme Court has not yet ruled on this issue and lower federal courts and state courts have reached different results. Just this month, a Wisconsin appellate court upheld the use of evidence obtained by placing a GPS device on a suspect’s car without a warrant.

Rather than wade into unclear federal law, the New York State Court of Appeals based its decision on the State Constitution’s privacy provision. The rule the court laid down will apply in New York no matter how the Supreme Court interprets the Fourth Amendment.
533 2009-05-15 ’s new proposal to regulate derivatives would go a long way toward reining in the complex products and reckless practices that have been a big factor in the financial crisis. But it would not go far enough. In apparent deference to those who have made major profits from unfettered derivatives trading, the proposal stops shy of creating a fully transparent market.

Transparency is the best way to avoid a repeat of the disaster triggered in recent years by these unregulated financial products, which are supposed to help investors manage risks, like the possibility of default or of interest-rate swings. As the financial bubble burst mid-decade, many of these derivatives didn’t work as advertised. Rather than reduce risk, they created or amplified it, to the point — as in the case of the — that the failure of one party to various derivatives contracts threatened to topple the entire system.

Worse still, the debacle caught regulators flat-footed — and taxpayers have been paying for bailouts ever since. The tab for A.I.G. alone, so far, is some $180 billion, and there are trillions of dollars more for which taxpayers are on the hook. Derivatives are not entirely to blame for the fiasco, but they are implicated in much of it.

The administration’s proposal rightly seeks to repeal much of a law from 2000, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act. It put derivatives beyond the reach of federal regulators. It calls for certain derivative trades, though not all, to be handled through clearinghouses. It also requires that derivatives be backed by collateral, ensuring that a trader is able to make good if called upon to pay up. It would allow federal regulators to police the market for fraud and manipulation — basic safeguards missing from current law.

In a far-reaching change, the proposal also would subject participants in the derivatives market to capital requirements and to record-keeping and reporting requirements. These would allow regulators to track their activities, presumably intervening as necessary to avert systemwide problems.

For all that, the proposal pulls its punches. It does not call for trading derivatives on fully regulated exchanges, the most visible and reliable way of reining them in. It also makes a distinction between standardized and customized derivatives and proposes a lighter regulatory touch for the custom variety. That could open the door to gaming the new system, a door that would be shut if all derivative contracts were traded on exchanges. In some important respects, it appears to give regulators the discretion, though not the duty, to police markets more closely.
534 2009-05-15 Sales for the 2009 financial year fell 12.9 percent from a year earlier, to 7.73 trillion yen ($80.5 billion). The slump deepened in the most recent quarter, falling 22 percent, to 1.52 trillion yen ($15.9 billion). But those factors mask more fundamental problems at the manufacturer.

Once an electronics powerhouse and stylish innovator, Sony’s dominance has been usurped in almost everything it makes by rivals with sharper marketing and less expensive products that are easier to use.

Sony long ago gave up the lead in personal music players to Apple’s popular iPod and is struggling to develop a serious competitor to the iPhone. Similarly, Nintendo has outsold Sony’s powerful PlayStation 3 video game console with the Wii, a simpler console for novice players.

Sony said it had brisker sales of PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable machines in the financial year that ended in March and expects sales to increase in the current year. Still, low profitability is leading to losses at Sony’s video game business.

Meanwhile, Sony has lost money for five straight years in televisions, trailing Samsung Electronics of South Korea, which dominates major markets with a lean production and aggressive pricing. Even Sony’s stronghold, camcorders, has come under pressure from low-cost alternatives like Flip Video, sold by the American start-up Pure Digital Technologies.

A problem plaguing Sony is that it has focused on Japanese consumers willing to pay high prices for cutting-edge technology. Sony also makes many of its products in Japan, where production costs are high and vulnerable to currency swings.

Mounting losses at Sony’s mobile phone venture with the Swedish company Ericsson are a new headache for the company. Sony Ericsson posted a loss of 293 million euros ($399 million) for the first three months of 2009, causing speculation that one or both parent companies were looking to sell their stakes.

Sony’s chief executive, Howard Stringer, has tried to shift emphasis away from hardware to networked products and services, but change has been slow. Mr. Stringer, a Welsh-born American who took the helm at Sony four years ago, has also talked of breaking down internal barriers that separated various product efforts.

In an effort to speed up the process, Mr. Stringer announced a management reshuffling in March that replaced older executives with younger ones. He also redrew Sony’s corporate structure to encourage engineers from all projects to work together.

At the same time, Mr. Stringer has pushed ahead with aggressive cost-cutting, eliminating 16,000 jobs and reducing its network of 57 factories. But some analysts warn that those measures could further slow innovation at the company.

Sony said it would close three plants in Japan by the end of December that make cellphone cameras, video recorder parts and smart cards. Sony has said it intends to close six more factories around the world. The company said any jobs lost at those factories would be part of the 16,000 total.
535 2009-05-15 Leading human rights lawyer Alec Muchadehama, who is representing political activists accused of plotting to overthrow President Robert Mugabe, was arrested Thursday and charged with obstructing justice. Senior officials close to Mr. Mugabe have said that officials and workers from the Movement for Democratic Change, now sharing power with Mr. Mugabe in government, were abducted, tortured and charged to gain leverage in any amnesty negotiations on behalf of Mr. Mugabe’s inner circle, who fear prosecution for crimes against humanity and corruption. The M.D.C. denounced Mr. Muchadehama’s arrest as a vindictive attempt to intimidate independent lawyers.
536 2009-05-15 Mr. Bubenicek’s “Toccata” is an entirely more modest affair, for seven dance soloists and four instrumental players. It starts in silence, the backdrop dark. Then light picks out two pianists, a violist and a cellist, one by one, each becoming visible as the musician starts to play. The choreography seems tentative, with a feeling of simple experimentation; the costumes, by Otto Bubenicek, are individualized but retain the feeling of practice wear; the music, in four movements and piano-based, is both original and attractive.

Jiri Bubenicek’s strength is Mr. Millepied’s weakness: Mr. Bubenicek knows how to let the movements bring the performers, as if by chance, into positions of emotion or drama, whereupon he will develop those situations with expressive phrases. At one point Brittany Pollack seems to find that her hand is placed on Andrew Scordato’s heart. Holding it there, she pushes him back. In a later duet they suddenly arrive in an embrace, and the dance that follows suggests that the embrace is an emotional truth to which they must return. Though their duet is brief and unsentimental, its mood touches on rapture.

The feelings arise from the dance, but the dance, shifting like a stream of consciousness, is the organizing thread. Abi Stafford, early on, stands facing front and raises an arm in a conventional port de bras, but her eyes are so focused on the movement, it feels as if she’s discovering it anew. Later she has a pas de deux with Craig Hall that keeps her off-balance and expansive. The tone is always fresh.

Not all the movement is rewarding. The vagueness in the overall structure is frustrating. The lighting (Mr. Stanley again) stayed too dim too long. But “Toccata” has innocence and a heartbeat.

“Theme and Variations: Recreating a Tutu’s Splendor” (directed by Galen Summer) is just the trip backstage theatergoers love. Mr. Happel is shown speaking about the wear and tear on costumes with humor and good sense: the dry way he teased a dancer in her tutu — “If you say it’s comfortable, then we should probably take it in a bit” — was endearing. Meanwhile the science of tutu decoration — panels, lace, beads, contrasts of color — emerged in ways most of us have never stopped to consider.

The luster of “Theme and Variations” went further than those newly refurbished tutus. This work is well known, but there are marvelous slight differences of dance text in City Ballet’s version, by the master himself, when he made it the finale of his “Tschaikovsky Suite No 3” in 1970. In an unforgettable sequence in which the ballerina on point is supported only by the fingertips of other women, she remains on the same left foot throughout; at other companies she changes feet, making the passage less satisfying.

The performances by Megan Fairchild and Joaquin De Luz both showed ways in which these dancers are growing as artists, with Ms. Fairchild demonstrating a new upper-body presentation and legato, Mr. De Luz, a noble breadth of phrasing. But Ms. Fairchild’s dancing, in particular, was not gala level: too many blurs at the end of phrases that need high definition. And Mr. De Luz, one of the company’s shorter virtuosos, cannot always give her ideal support in the many lifts.

But Mr. Stanley’s lighting made the choreography, as well as the costumes, shine anew. And Ms. Fairchild and Mr. De Luz revealed the playfulness in their side-by-side dance passage in the long pas de deux. After two ballets of earnest endeavor, I was one of many who responded to this choreography’s extraordinary cascade of classicism with gratitude and awe.
537 2009-05-15 At Heritage’s first auction, on July 15 and 16, estimates will range from a few hundred dollars to half a million. Near the high end, Mr. Jaster predicted, will be a 1908 painting by William Herbert Dunton showing a cowboy sliding down a desert hillside and a 1963 portrait by Mel Ramos of Sheena, a comic book heroine, dressed in torn animal pelts.

A collection of 3,500 embalmed butterflies, which was almost dispersed, has been bought by a single buyer. Bonhams Auctioneers in London has canceled its May 27 sale of the butterflies; an anonymous Briton paid “quite a bit more” than the total estimate of £80,000 (about $121,300) said Camilla Seymour, a department director at Bonhams.

“We’d been slightly hoping someone would come forward and keep these together,” she said.

Around 1900 the insects were captured in locales like New Guinea and Bhutan, pinned and mounted on cork inside about 200 mahogany drawers. They were donated to Harrow School in North London by two alumni: Charles Rothschild, of the banking dynasty, and Howard M. Peebles, an entomologist. Mr. Rothschild acquired his share through his brother Walter, whose far-flung emissaries had gathered specimens.

Charles Rothschild’s generosity toward Harrow is puzzling, since he was miserable there; classmates teased him for being Jewish. His great-granddaughter, Hannah Rothschild, wrote in Bonhams’ in-house magazine, “Perhaps my great-grandfather donated this collection in the hope that it would serve as an escape for other unhappy boys.”

Harrovians occasionally studied the specimens, including species that are now endangered or extinct, but for years the cases have been languishing in a computer storeroom. The school sold the collection partly because “it was taking up a lot of room,” Ms. Seymour said. “Bizarrely enough it was in extraordinary condition. Only a few butterflies had some flaking, or antennas missing. The colors are incredibly intense, brighter than any flowers you’d see, and as iridescent as peacock feathers.”

Butterfly bidders can next vie for a 100-piece collection on June 1 at Bonhams in New York. Estimated between $1,250 and $1,500, the insects are suspended in a glass box as if flying in formation. The shimmering dead creatures were mostly raised on farms in Southeast Asia and South America. “None are endangered, so nothing limits them being exported anywhere,” said Thomas Lindgren, a director of the auction house’s natural history sales.

Wallace Nutting faked colonial American furniture for decades, and now his versions often cost more than the real thing.

From the 1910s to the 1940s he ran workshops near Boston and branded his name on replicated chests, dressers, desks, tables and chairs. His staff emulated labor-intensive traditional woodworking methods, and he charged nearly $2,000 for his most complicated products. Sales, not surprisingly, were paltry.

“Only the wealthiest buyers of the time could afford his work, and now it’s rarer than some 18th-century antiques,” said Michael Ivankovich, a dealer in Doylestown, Pa., who has specialized in Nutting furniture and artifacts for 35 years and written half a dozen books about them.

On Friday he will hold an auction at the Hilton Garden Inn in Glastonbury, Conn., in conjunction with the convention of the Wallace Nutting Collectors Club. (On Saturday booths will offer more material.) Most of the 361 lots are Nutting’s photos of colonial buildings and rural landscapes; he sold these hand-tinted images for about 50 cents each. (Mr. Ivankovich’s estimates range from $40 to $800.) Mr. Ivankovich is also auctioning chairs and mirrors (estimated between $400 and $1,500) showing Nutting’s occasional lively variations. The round finials are plumper than their ancestors, and his back slats have curves like handlebar mustaches.

The club vendors guarantee authenticity. “We’ve seen antique furniture out there marked with a fake Nutting brand,” Mr. Ivankovich said. “Our club is like a Nutting police. We watch Web sites and warn buyers and sellers if something’s not right.”
538 2009-05-15 In a scene reminiscent of the gritty hit movie “Slumdog Millionaire,” municipal workers in Mumbai, India, on Thursday demolished the home of one of the children who starred in the rags-to-riches tale. Local officials told reporters that they did not know that the row of shanties they demolished included the home of the family of Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, above, the 10-year-old who played the character Salim as a child. They said they were following orders to clear illegally built shanties ahead of the monsoon season. The child star was asleep when a police officer woke him up and told him to leave his family’s home, he told The Associated Press in an interview. The shack and about 30 others were destroyed. “A police officer took a bamboo stick to hit me, and I was frightened,” Azharuddin said. Local officials told The A.P. that Azharuddin’s family would receive shelter, but it was unclear when or where.
539 2009-05-15 The outrageous routines of Mel & El have been known to bring down the house at comedy clubs like the Duplex and Comix. But the two women — Melanie Adelman and Ellie Dvorkin — don’t quite manage to translate the lunacy into a theatrical venture in “Mel & El: Show and Tell,” their uneven stage show at Ars Nova.

The two have been friends since childhood, and in their comedy act this becomes clear through the effortlessness of their delivery. Here, though, they hit you over the head with it, singing about each other and constructing a flimsy conceit in which they revisit their youthful shticks.

That premise, though, is invoked irregularly; at other times they are decidedly grown-up, delivering bawdy songs that would make a sailor blush.

The result is a mishmash that’s funny except when it isn’t. A high point is “Antibacterial Everything,” a song delivered by Mel (the one with the good voice) about her cleanliness issues. Other offerings, though, seem surprisingly old hat for this outlandish duo. Note to female performers everywhere: No more whining about your biological clocks, please. Age happens.

The piece never quite finds a consistent voice, probably because it tries to use the pair’s friendship to tug at heartstrings while regularly plunging into vulgarity, two tones that don’t mix. Moritz Von Stuelpnagel, the director, finds the material’s best moments; there just aren’t as many of them as you’d hoped.
540 2009-05-15 There’s plenty of skill on display, but few original statements. Ashcan School realism, neo-Classical figuration and obvious political metaphors abound. A few works are plainly derivative of paintings by elder academy members like Chuck Close and Wayne Thiebaud (neither of whom contributed to this show).

It’s art by and for academicians, and maybe a few other working painters and people with conservative taste. There are exceptions: John Dubrow’s “Christina” (2008), a portrait of a young brunette in a turquoise shirt against a black armchair, is a model of chromatic and compositional reserve. The painting is one of a few that should please traditionalists and contemporary-art lovers.

The second floor looks a bit sharper, with abstraction by Joan Snyder, Pat Steir and Thomas Nozkowski. Other highlights include George Ortman’s sculpture “East of Hoboken,” a cluster of forms resembling avant-garde architectural models, and Philip Pearlstein’s painting of a drowsy model surrounded by bright, shiny children’s toys.

Dorothea Rockburne’s watercolor on Dura-Lar “Angular Momentum” (2008) is both cerebral and colorful: it traces the path of celestial bodies in space, as described by Pascal’s geometry, with a swoop of bright orange over drips of yellow, green and white. Ms. Rockburne, who is in her 70s, is the recipient of this year’s lifetime achievement award.

The painter Sue Coe has also received an award for “Mary,” which depicts the true story of the killing of a circus elephant. The beast hangs from a crane as a violent crowd similar to those in James Ensor paintings looks on. “Mary” is not really a departure for Ms. Coe — it’s part of a series on animal rights and the treatment of elephants — but it’s unlike anything else in this show.

In her catalog note the academy’s president, Susan Shattner, stresses that the artists here are “in midcareer and beyond” — not the “Younger Than Jesus” crowd at the New Museum, in other words.

Age, in itself, isn’t the problem. Many contributing members don’t show in Chelsea, which is fine. They have a different audience and a separate market. But they often seem hostile to change, and exhibit the same sort of clubbiness people often perceive in youth-oriented surveys.

Consider Jonah Kinigstein’s artist statement in the catalog: “At one time there used to be a nucleus of the avant-garde walking in front of an army of painters. Today we have an army of ‘avant-garde’ striding in front of a handful of real artists.”

The situation with the Association of Art Museum Directors has been resolved, for now; the academy has promised not to shore up its finances with deaccessions and will undertake new fund-raising efforts. It may also want to rethink the “Annual,” at the risk of angering some longtime members.

Part of the problem is that the show’s mission has become obsolete. In the 19th century the “Annual” was part of a larger program designed to elevate American art vis-à-vis Europe. It’s an idea that seems laughable in the globetrotting, festivalist atmosphere of today’s art world. Even the Whitney has opened its biennial to artists born and based outside the United States.

That would be a stretch for the academy, but it can and should reach out to younger artists, some of whom (Elizabeth Peyton, Dana Schutz) make figurative painting that wouldn’t be totally out of place here. It could also find ways to create dialogue between new works by academicians and the older art in its collection. And it might, at least, require academicians to contribute fresh work to the “Annual” — not art from 5 or 10 years ago or even, in a few cases here, from the mid-1980s.

The “Annual” should do more than hand out ribbons; it should spark conversations. For this to happen, the academy needs to give its members something more than tradition, and the academicians need to recognize the responsibilities that come with the honor of membership.
541 2009-05-15 Pfizer said Thursday that it would provide 70 of its most widely prescribed drugs, including Lipitor and Viagra, free to people who have lost their jobs and health insurance.

The company said it would give away the medicines for up to a year to Americans who lost jobs since Jan. 1 and had been taking the Pfizer drug for three months or more.

The move could earn Pfizer some good will; it has long been a target of critics of drug industry prices and sales practices. The program might also help keep those patients loyal to Pfizer brands.

Officials for Pfizer, which is based in New York, said they did not know how much the program would cost and had not put a cap on spending for it.

The drugs covered in the program include several for diabetes and some of Pfizer’s top money makers, including the painkiller Celebrex and the fibromyalgia treatment Lyrica. Drugs from several other classes like antibiotics, antidepressants, antifungal treatments, heart mediations, contraceptives and smoking cessation products are also included. Cheaper generic versions are available for many of the drugs.

Starting Thursday, patients can call a toll-free number, (866) 706-2400, to sign up. Those whose drugs are not included in the program will be referred to other company aid programs. Starting July 1, patients can also apply through the Web site, www.PfizerHelpfulAnswers.com, which has information about the other Pfizer aid programs. Applications will be accepted through Dec. 31.
542 2009-05-15 So far, few Democratic legislators have spoken in favor of Mr. Obama’s decision on a matter that pits deeply sensitive issues of openness and accountability against, potentially, the safety of American troops.

One Democrat, Representative Joe Sestak of Pennsylvania, acknowledged, “I have a bit of a hard time with this decision.”

But Mr. Sestak, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, said that because of the extraordinary problems in Pakistan, “which is close to being a failed state, where the Taliban are hiding and where nuclear weapons could soon be loose,” he would favor a temporary pause in releasing the photos.

Mr. Sestak said on MSNBC that Americans should follow the example they themselves have set when they have urged countries like Japan to be open about dark chapters in their past. “But for national security reasons, temporarily, at a very delicate moment, because it is the fire closest to the sled, so to speak — Pakistan — I could hold off.”

Mr. Obama has found himself increasingly entangled in such vexed questions about detainee treatment in ways he had hoped to avoid.

The House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, has found herself fending off a storm of questions about when she first knew that the administration planned to use extreme interrogation techniques. At a briefing on Thursday, she insisted that she did not have the early, explicit knowledge of such techniques that critics say she possessed.

The only mention of waterboarding, which Ms. Pelosi said came up in a much-discussed briefing in September 2002, was that the technique was not being used. She acknowledged that she learned of its use months later, and insisted that at that time Democrats did what they could to stop it.

Several online commentators have questioned the president’s decision on the photographs. A banner headline on the Web site Politico asked whether Mr. Obama was “Growing Up or Selling Out.” And those who had hoped Mr. Obama’s policies would constitute a cleaner break from those of former President George W. Bush lamented that it looked like the latter.

On The Atlantic magazine Web site, Andrew Sullivan, who was a strong supporter of Mr.Obama last year and a fervent opponent of the methods used against detainees, wrote that he could understand that photos could “inflame the populations of Iraq and Afghanistan.”

But Mr. Sullivan added that “for Obama to act as an extension of the Bush era of secrecy is potentially more damaging to the U.S. and its interests and service members.”

The administration said last month that it would not oppose the release of the pictures, but Mr. Obama changed his mind after seeing the photographs and getting warnings from top Pentagon officials that the images, taken from the early years of the war, would “further inflame anti-American opinion” and endanger troops in two war zones.

The decision, in effect, tossed aside an agreement the government had reached with the A.C.L.U., which had sought the release photographs of incidents at Abu Ghraib and a half-dozen other prisons. The Justice Department informed the United States District Court in New York, which had backed the A.C.L.U. request, that it would appeal the ruling, citing “further reflection at the highest levels of government.”

Mr. Obama, speaking at the White House on Wednesday before flying to Arizona to deliver a commencement address at Arizona State University, suggested that the new mission in Iraq and Afghanistan could be imperiled by an old fight.

“The publication of these photos would not add any additional benefit to our understanding of what was carried out in the past by a small number of individuals,” Mr. Obama told reporters on the South Lawn. “In fact, the most direct consequence of releasing them, I believe, would be to further inflame anti-American opinion and to put our troops in greater danger.”

Secretary Gates said he had changed his mind about releasing the photographs, and suggested the president did as well, because of the strong views of the top commanders in Iraq and Afghanistan, Gen. Ray Odierno and Gen. David D. McKiernan, who is being replaced.

The A.C.L.U. had prevailed in the case at the federal trial court level and before an appeals court panel. The photographs were set to be released on May 28 under an agreement with the Pentagon and the White House. But as that date approached, military officials told Mr. Gates of their growing unease, and he discussed the issue with the president.

Officials who have seen the photos describe them as falling into two categories: Abu Ghraib-style personal snapshots taken by soldiers; and photos taken by military criminal investigators documenting allegations of abuse, including autopsy photos of prisoners who died in custody.

Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the A.C.L.U., said on Wednesday that the decision to fight the release of the photos was a mistake. He said officials had described them as “worse than Abu Ghraib” and said their volume, more than 2,000 images, showed that “it is no longer tenable to blame abuse on a few bad apples. These were policies set at the highest level.”

A former top aide to then-Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Philip Zelikow testified on Wednesday, and repeated in an interview with CNN on Thursday, that the use of extreme interrogation methods was a “collective failure” of the former administration. He said that al-Qaeda forces in Iraq were now being contained “in a very effective fight” without resort to such measures.

One Pentagon official involved in the discussion said the photos, which are the subject of continuing litigation, showed detainees in humiliating positions, though not as provocative as pictures of detainee abuse at Abu Ghraib. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the photos showed detainee nudity, and that some included images of detainees shackled for transfer.

“These photographs are not even as bad as Abu Ghraib and others,” Mr. Sestak said. “We know that,” said Mr. Sestak, who did not say how he knew.

Last month, the administration said it had agreed to release the images, in part because it did not believe it could persuade the Supreme Court to review the case. But Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said Wednesday that the president did not believe that the government had made the strongest possible case to the court.
543 2009-05-15 MUMBAI, India — In a scene reminiscent of the gritty landscape from the hit movie “Slumdog Millionaire,” municipal workers on Thursday demolished the home of one of the young children who starred in the rags-to-riches tale.

Local authorities told reporters that they did not know the row of shanties they demolished was home to the family of Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, the 10-year-old who played the character Jamal Malik as a child.

They said they were following orders to clear illegally built shanties ahead of the monsoon season. Such demolitions are common in Mumbai, which has a chronic housing shortage and where ramshackle dwellings can spring up virtually overnight on sidewalks and other empty scraps of land.

The child star was asleep when a police officer woke him up and told him to leave his family’s home, he told The Associated Press in an interview. The shack and about 30 others were destroyed.

“A police officer took a bamboo stick to hit me, and I was frightened,” Azharuddin said.

Shameem Ismail, Azharuddin’s mother, who has lived in the shanty town for more than 15 years, told reporters the family had not gotten prior notice of the demolitions.

“I don’t know what I am going to do,” she said, sitting on a bed she had dragged from the wreckage. Next to her was a plastic bag stuffed with belongings.

Local officials told The A.P. that Azharuddin’s family would be provided shelter, but it was unclear when or where. The government of Maharashtra state has previously promised to provide flats to the families of Azharuddin and co-star Rubina Ali, who played the young Latika and also lives in a slum.
544 2009-05-15 Wholesale prices in the United States rose slightly in April, the government reported on Thursday, as falling oil and gasoline prices leveled off and food prices rose the most in a year.

The Labor Department reported that prices received by producers of finished goods rose 0.3 percent last month, further discounting the prospect that the economy was veering into a vicious cycle of lower prices and lower wages known as deflation.

But for some economists, the prospect of rising energy and food prices at a time of deep unemployment and shrinking wages raised concerns that strapped consumers could see their cost of living rise even as the job market continued to get worse.

Although falling producer and consumer prices raised fears about deflation last year as the recession deepened and the financial crisis broke, the end of $4-a-gallon gas and lower heating and energy costs effectively put billions of dollars into consumers’ pockets.

“There’s this squeeze going on,” John E. Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia Corporation, said. “We still have job losses. We still have a lot of pressure. And now you’re going to tell me that a lot of these basic commodities are rising? People’s real income is going to get squeezed.”

The price index for intermediate goods fell 0.5 percent while the price for crude goods rose 3 percent because of rising food and energy prices.
545 2009-05-15 Wall Street broke a three-day losing streak on Thursday, shrugging off an unexpected surge in weekly unemployment claims as a crucial borrowing rate fell to its lowest point in a year and offered a signal of stability in the lending markets.

Stocks in New York crept higher in afternoon trading after markets around the world mostly fell. At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 46.43 points, or 0.56 percent, at 8,331.32, while the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 1.04 percent, or 9.15 points, to 893.07.

Shares of computer makers and microprocessor companies rose, lifting the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index 1.5 percent, to 1,689.21. Microsoft, Apple and Intel gained, and shares of the business software maker CA rose 5.5 percent, to $18.27, after it reported an increase in quarterly profit.

Stock markets have sunk this week after two months of heady rebounds from their lowest levels in 12 years. Faced with sluggish retail sales, investors seemed to second-guess the tide of hopefulness that washed through financial markets earlier this spring.

“Some cold water got thrown over everyone’s optimism,” said Bill Schultz, chief investment officer at McQueen Ball & Associates. “We’re not at the turnaround stage quite yet.”
546 2009-05-15 Despite the profit decline at Kohl’s, Kevin Mansell, the company’s president and chief executive, said in a telephone interview that customer traffic had increased. And while he said recovery was not around the corner, he noted “we are getting some stabilization and we are uniquely positioned to take share.”

While other retailers are cutting back, Kohl’s has bought stores once occupied by the bankrupt Mervyn’s chain, and is moving into new areas of the country. It is remodeling 40 percent more of its stores this year than it did last year. And executives said Kohl’s would be able to get even more locations as other chains closed stores or liquidated.

Wal-Mart, certainly, has also been aggressive about capturing market share. The company’s low prices on items as varied as generic prescription drugs and frozen pizzas have helped it take business from ailing and bankrupt retailers, as well as supermarkets and grocery stores. For the three months ended May 1, sales at Wal-Mart stores open at least a year — a measure of retail health known as same-store sales — increased 3.7 percent, not including fuel. United States same-store sales in April rose 5.9 percent.

During a recorded conference call, Eduardo Castro-Wright, vice chairman of Wal-Mart’s United States operations, said that about 17 percent of Wal-Mart’s customer traffic came from new customers and that they spent 40 percent more on a shopping trip than Wal-Mart’s average — evidence that shoppers were trading down.

Bob Drbul, a retailing analyst with Barclays Capital, estimated that 27 percent of Wal-Mart’s sales growth in February came from new households. And Wal-Mart intends to keep them coming back.

“Many of you have asked if the success we’ve had recently is just a result of the economic downturn and will it last once the economy recovers,” Mr. Duke said in the conference call.

“As I said earlier, customers have changed their behavior and their mind-set,” he said. “They’re proud to tell people that they shop at Wal-Mart. We believe the improvements we’ve made in merchandising, marketing and operations, in the U.S. and around the world, are sustainable. This is not a short-term phenomenon.”

Declining gas prices, compared with last year, gave customers a little extra pocket money. And the retailer’s efforts to be the go-to destination for holiday gifts and decorations paid off: comparable sales of Easter-related merchandise grew 7.6 percent from a year ago.

Wal-Mart said it expected to earn 83 to 88 cents a share in its current quarter, and that same-store sales at its United States and Sam’s Club stores would each be flat to up 3 percent.

At Kohl’s, executives said that in the next three months they expect the chain to earn 56 to 64 cents a share. Kohl’s also updated its guidance for its 2009 fiscal year. Kohl’s now expects to earn $2.19 to $2.42 a share, up from its previous guidance of $2 to $2.30 a share.

Kohl’s has been a favorite of many analysts who have praised its management team, investments in technology, even its marketing. The company is also proving adept at hooking consumers on its exclusive name brands, like its new Dana Buchman line, which account for 44 percent of Kohl’s sales. In July, in time for back-to-school shopping, the Mudd children’s apparel brand will become exclusive to Kohl’s. And in October, a line of clothing by Lauren Conrad — the star of “The Hills,” MTV’s popular reality series — will reach stores.

Kohl’s earnings results exceeded analysts’ expectations. And Wal-Mart’s results were in line with expectations. Each chain is positioned to thrive when the economy rebounds, analysts said.

Investors, however, were less enthusiastic. On Thursday they sent Wal-Mart’s shares down 1.86 percent, to $49.10. Shares of Kohl’s fell 1.69 percent, to $41.24.
547 2009-05-15 CHRYSLER CUTS OFF DEALERS The downsizing of the American auto industry swept through new-car showrooms, as nearly 800 dealers selling various Chrysler brands were given notice that they would be cut off next month. General Motors is preparing to c...
548 2009-05-16 Canadians have looked at the Coyotes' potential move to Hamilton through the prism of the Leafs. But it's really the prism of the Sabres that counts....
549 2009-05-16 What's behind the sudden spike in wholesale food prices?...
550 2009-05-16 WASHINGTON — President Obama’s nominee to lead the Census Bureau told senators at a confirmation hearing Friday that he would not seek to use statistical sampling in the 2010 census, offering reassurance to Republicans who have long opposed any effort to adjust for inevitable counting errors using mathematical models.

In testimony before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, the nominee, Robert M. Groves, said he supported the view of Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, who oversees the Census Bureau and has said there are no plans to use statistical sampling in the 2010 count.

“I agree fully with Secretary Locke’s testimony that statistical adjustment of the census is eliminated as an option for reapportionment and further that statistical adjustment will not be used for redistricting,” Mr. Groves said in his prepared opening statement.

Referring to C. Louis Kincannon, a former Census Bureau director, Mr. Groves added, “The 2003 decision of Director Kincannon consistent with this assured that no implementation infrastructure for adjustment was put in place for 2010.”

Mr. Groves, 60, is a sociology professor and survey expert at the University of Michigan. He served as associate director of the bureau in the 1990s, when President Bill Clinton battled with Republican lawmakers in an effort to adopt statistical sampling as a way to correct for counting errors. House Republicans sued Mr. Clinton and won a court victory banning the use of sampling for the reapportionment of Congressional seats or for redistricting.

Many experts say that sampling will be more accurate than an actual count because millions of people are missed or refuse to be counted. Studies have found those missed are far more likely to be poor and ethnic or racial minority Americans in urban areas. Counting them is likely to favor Democrats.
551 2009-05-16 In its unanimous decision, the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, Second Judicial Department, ruled in favor of rejecting a challenge to the state’s use of eminent domain to obtain properties for the developer from owners unwilling to sell. “It cannot be said that the public benefits which the Atlantic Yards project is expected to yield are incidental or pretextual in comparison to the benefit that will be bestowed upon the project’s private developer,” the ruling said.

Candace Carponter, the legal director for one of the opponents, Develop Don’t Destroy Brooklyn, expressed disappointment but not defeat. “The benefits the original project allegedly offered were negligible, at best, and with the changed economy they are now nonexistent,” she said in a statement. “Despite this setback, our fight against the improper use of eminent domain and against the Atlantic Yards project is far from over. Forest City Ratner may claim again, like the boy who cried wolf, that they will break ground soon. But they won’t.”

Although the developer has demolished 35 buildings on the site, all work ceased in December. Developers throughout the city have found it nearly impossible to finance new projects, or have watched helplessly as lenders pulled out of developments in progress.

“The reality is that it’s a tough financing market,” said Marc Ganis, a sports business consultant who worked on the new Yankee Stadium deal. “It’ll cost more and there’ll be more restrictions. That said, I expect they’ll get it done. They already have contracts for substantial income.”

Barclays Bank has signed a $20 million-a-year deal with the Nets for naming and advertising rights at the arena, which would be called the Barclays Center. Although many companies have backed away from sponsorships as retail sales have plummeted, Forest City Ratner said it had lined up eight other sponsors: MetroPCS, ADT, Anheuser-Busch, Cushman & Wakefield, EmblemHealth, Foxwoods Resort Casino, the Jones Soda Company and Phillips-Van Heusen.

The Nets, on the other hand, reported a pretax loss of $77.8 million for the year that ended Jan. 31. The developer hopes to move the team to Brooklyn from its current home at the Izod Center in New Jersey.

Forest City Ratner, which was the development partner for the new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company, may also benefit from the economic slowdown, which has substantially reduced the cost of construction materials.

In the last six months, Mr. Ratner has sought additional subsidies beyond the $300 million in cash and tens of millions in tax breaks already approved for the project. He has also said he wants to pare the projected $1 billion cost of the arena by about $200 million. He said he would decide within 60 days whether to keep the original design, by the architect Frank Gehry, or use another.

He said he hoped to erect the first residential building six to nine months after starting the arena.
552 2009-05-16 A federal court in Chicago issued a restraining order on Friday against three companies accused of aggressively making automated calls to sell car warranties across the country, the Federal Trade Commission announced.

The order, which also froze the companies’ assets, came in response to a lawsuit filed by the commission on Wednesday.

In legal filings, the commission said the robocall campaigns had brought in $10 million in sales as a result of the calls and mailings, which falsely gave people the impression that their car warranties were expiring.

The companies systematically dialed random numbers across the country, violating the National Do Not Call Registry, the commission said. The companies also regularly faked their own caller ID numbers, so it was unclear where the calls were coming from.

The two companies named by the commission are Voice Touch and Transcontinental Warranty, both operating largely out of Florida.

Judge John F. Grady of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois issued a temporary restraining order against Voice Touch as well as a business partner, Network Foundations, prohibiting them from making further calls. He also issued a separate temporary restraining order against Transcontinental.
553 2009-05-16 A hedge fund manager in Beverly Hills, Calif., bilked investors out of about $44 million while claiming annual returns of as much as 60 percent, prosecutors said.

The manager, Bradley L. Ruderman, 46, was taken into custody on Friday. Mr. Ruderman, the founder and manager of Ruderman Capital Partners, faces as much as 20 years in prison if convicted of wire fraud.

He raised $44.3 million over the last eight years from 22 investors, mostly family members, the statement said. Mr. Ruderman sent a letter to the investors last month saying the funds were almost depleted. Mr. Ruderman spent $8.7 million of the money on personal expenses, including two Porsches and $5.2 million he lost in poker games, prosecutors said.

The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Mr. Ruderman and obtained an emergency court order on April 29 freezing his assets. He falsely claimed that Lowell Milken, chairman of the Milken Family Foundation, and the chief executive of Oracle, Larry Ellison, were investors in his funds, the S.E.C. said.
554 2009-05-16 Roger Federer’s dominance of Andy Roddick continued on clay with a 7-5, 6-7 (5), 6-1 victory to reach the Madrid Open semifinals. Rafael Nadal improved to 9-0 against Fernando Verdasco, defeating him, 6-4, 7-5, to reach the other semifinal. Federer will face fifth-seeded Juan Martín del Potro, who defeated the defending champion, Andy Murray, 7-6 (4), 6-3. Nadal will play Novak Djokovic, who dispatched the wild card Ivan Ljubicic, 6-4, 6-4.

On the women’s side, top-ranked Dinara Safina advanced to the semifinals with a 6-4, 6-3 win over Alona Bondarenko. Safina will play Patty Schnyder, who beat Jelena Jankovic, 7-6 (6), 6-3. Amélie Mauresmo will face Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark in the other semifinal.
555 2009-05-16 SAN FRANCISCO — Carlos Beltran plays baseball in a minor key. He is a superb base stealer, but he carefully decides when to run because he detests being thrown out. He is an excellent run producer, but sometimes thinks like a No. 2 hitter, bunting runners over instead of swinging away. He is a gifted center fielder, but he plays so deep that short flies tend to drop in.

For all of his supreme talent, Beltran has never been much of a risk-taker. But he is starting to redefine his image, asserting himself a little more boldly with two ninth-inning steals of third base in a three-game stretch. Each time, advancing that extra 90 feet helped the Mets win. The latest gamble came in Thursday night’s 7-4 victory against the Giants, when his successful dash to third resulted in his scoring the go-ahead run. Part of the core group that General Manager Omar Minaya suggested lacked an “edge,” Beltran is making plays, on his own, that are as edgy as they come.

“Carlos has been labeled to some degree as a percentage guy, and that tells me he’s trying to do everything to get in position to win a game, which is what I want to see,” Manager Jerry Manuel said before Friday’s game. “I want to see that type of aggressiveness.” Manuel added: “Carlos is trying to lead. That’s his way of leading. He’s trying to get out there when he can and then take advantage of situations. That’s what we need him to do. We need him to be that player.”

When discussing his intrepid base running, Beltran hesitates to use the word daring. He sees it differently. By the time he is in position to run, he has already considered so many factors that what some view as risky he regards as calculated. Beltran knows the pitcher’s time to the plate, the probability of his throwing a certain pitch and how likely he is to pay attention to Beltran on the bases. The deeper the count, the less apt the pitcher is to look him back to second.

Beltran has 280 career steals in 318 attempts, a success rate of 88.1 percent that is best among players with at least 120 stolen-base attempts, according to Stats, LLC. When it comes to stealing third, no one does it better than Beltran. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, his 93.8 percentage (61 steals in 65 attempts) ranks first among players with at least 25 stolen-base attempts of third since 1999.

“I would love to steal a lot more bases but the thing is, I just hate getting thrown out,” he said, adding: “It’s a bad feeling as a player. I know you cannot be afraid about stealing bases, but I go by percentages. Every time I steal a base, I want to make sure that I at least have a 90 percent chance I’m going to make it.”
556 2009-05-16 Taiwan will take part in the World Health Organization’s annual congress next week for the first time in 38 years, in what is regarded as a rare diplomatic opportunity for the self-governed island. Under an agreement with China, 15 people will represent Taiwan at the World Health Assembly under the name “Chinese Taipei.” China claims sovereignty over Taiwan, and it usually stops the island from joining international organizations that require statehood as a prerequisite.
557 2009-05-16 A former partner at the accounting firm Ernst & Young was found guilty on Friday of securities fraud for an insider trading scheme but not guilty of conspiracy charges.

A jury in United States District Court in Manhattan found that the ex-partner, James E. Gansman, who worked at the firm until October 2007, was guilty on six counts of securities fraud and not guilty on four counts of conspiracy, according to a court document.

Mr. Gansman, who has been released on bail, faces up to 20 years in prison and millions of dollars in fines. Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum scheduled his sentencing for Oct. 1.

Mr. Gansman was indicted on charges of tipping off a friend about pending deals in 2006 and 2007 involving several publicly traded companies that were the firm’s clients.

The friend, and former co-defendant, Donna Murdoch of Malvern, Pa., pleaded guilty in December to securities fraud.

Ms. Murdoch is free on bond until her sentencing, scheduled for June 4.

A spokesman for the accounting firm declined comment on the verdict.
558 2009-05-16 It was not until January, with Mr. Park’s arrest, that the mystery of Minerva was finally solved. Mr. Park, 31 and jobless, had attended a two-year vocational college and had never even invested in the stock market. He was charged with spreading false information on the Internet “with intent to damage the public interest,” punishable by five years in prison.

Among his crimes, prosecutors said, was to state that the South Korean government had barred banks and major companies from buying American dollars in a desperate attempt to check the fall of the won.

On April 20, Mr. Park was acquitted on the grounds that, while not everything he wrote was correct, there was no evidence that he knew it was wrong or acted with malicious intent.

But his difficulties — at what seemed to be a moment of triumph — were far from over.

Mr. Park’s evolution from a former employee of a wireless communications company to a national sensation to an embittered outcast reads like a case study of what can happen to an unprepared blogger in this highly wired, and politically divisive, society.

ABOUT a year ago, Mr. Park said, he was preparing to apply to college when he began noting disturbing similarities between what he saw around him and the situation that had preceded the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis: jittery financial markets accompanied by official denials of imminent trouble.

But what most disturbed him was that some of the same officials who had overseen the South Korean economy as it slid into the previous crisis had re-emerged as top policy makers under President Lee Myung-bak. He began posting his thoughts on a popular online debate site called Agora, under the name Minerva. The rest is history.

To his critics, Minerva was a charlatan whose doom-mongering exacerbated public anxiety about the economy and led to self-fulfilling prophesies. His widening popularity and nickname — the “economy president of South Korea” — was seen as a rebuff to Mr. Lee, who had run for office vowing to become the “economy president,” but was now being accused of mishandling the economy as the crisis that started in the United States engulfed his nation.

“Unlike offline analysts who often couch their writings in ambiguous language, I pulled no punches when I criticized the government and the ills of our society,” Mr. Park said in the interview. “Anonymity is the foundation and facilitator of Internet communications.”

He said his motive was “benign” — to warn people to be wary of what the government and experts said lest they suffer again as they did a decade ago.

“During the Asian financial crisis in 1998, the parents of a friend of mine committed suicide in despair,” Mr. Park said. “I thought I should protect myself by self-education. I wanted to warn people whose children were studying abroad and small businesses about the danger of rising exchange rates.

“But the government treated me like a terrorist,” he said.

His postings sharpened the tension between the country’s online and offline cultures.

Off the Web, South Korea remains a traditional Confucian society. Seniority and hierarchy rule.

Online, South Korea is a very different place. Emboldened by cyberspace anonymity, Koreans flout decorum and have turned the Internet into a free-for-all forum for rabble-rousing and name-calling, so much so that many officials see the Internet as a hotbed of antigovernment activity and slander. Many who joined the anti-American beef protests that crippled Mr. Lee’s government last summer were responding to online rumors about the health risks of American meat.

These two cultures clashed when prosecutors formed an unprecedented “anti-false information task force” and arrested Mr. Park.

Government critics at first rallied behind him, treating him like a martyr for cyberspace freedom of speech who was challenging the old power structure. Government supporters, meanwhile, hailed a belated crackdown on misinformation proliferating on the Web.

Once Minerva’s identity was exposed, however, the public debate shifted.

Before Mr. Park’s arrest, he was believed to be a seasoned financial expert, a well-educated ideologue or a whistle-blowing civil servant.

Afterward, as it emerged that he was actually a jobless amateur who claimed to be politically neutral and spoke with little of the zing of his online postings, some of his fans turned against him.

In a country where social status is heavily determined by age and academic credentials, people did not know what to think. Conservative dailies began calling him a quack, an unemployed Internet addict, even a “cult leader.”

MR. PARK’S most vehement detractors now include some of his earlier supporters: antigovernment activists who insist that he is a fake and that the real Minerva is still at large.

“I don’t think I would have been arrested, or that people would have questioned my identity, if I’d graduated from a top university,” Mr. Park said.

He was popular on the Internet, but “once I stepped into the offline world, I ran into a wall.”

In some of his 280 postings, Mr. Park lied about his age and background (once indicating he had worked on Wall Street), helping to create the myth about him. He apologized for using obscenities against President Lee, but he argued that the liberties he took in constructing his online identity were “part of the emerging Internet culture and should not be judged by offline norms.”

Kim Sung-hae, a media expert at the Korea Press Foundation, said the Minerva phenomenon reflected the public’s lost of trust in government authority and traditional market experts.

“People wanted a prophet,” Mr. Kim said. “Minerva was an illusion. He was a false prophet who took superficial information easily available on the Web and assembled it into demagogic narratives.”

Yoon Seung-hyun, the South Korean strategy and finance minister, called Mr. Park a “social pathology case unbecoming” a democracy. “I feel angry that Minerva is on the loose,” he told reporters last month, referring to Mr. Park’s release from detention.

Mr. Park’s legal troubles are not over. Government prosecutors have filed an appeal of his acquittal.

Looking back over his short career as Minerva, he said he felt he had become a pawn in the struggle between supporters and opponents of the government.

“I have nothing left but condemnations,” he said. “First, conservatives attacked me. Liberals supported and then they discarded me because I could not become their spokesman.

“I regret what I did,” he said. “I don’t think I’ll ever blog again, not in South Korea.”
559 2009-05-16 Demand for Gazprom’s natural gas will plunge by about 60 billion cubic meters this year, according to Mr. Stern — about equal to the amount the company is contractually committed to import from the former Soviet states.

The turnaround for Gazprom has been as swift as it has been devastating to the company’s business model. As recently as last September, Mr. Putin, as prime minister, flew to Tashkent, Uzbekistan, to wrap up a deal that consolidated Russia’s strategic gains after the war in Georgia.

Under the deal, which Russia’s RIA state news agency has described as valid until 2028, Gazprom will pay, on average, $340 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas in 2009. The price is arrived at through a complex formula based on world oil prices with a six-month delay. But that same volume of gas sells in Ukraine for an average of about $230, while European prices have sagged to an expected average of $280 for all of 2009.

Gazprom, in a written statement, acknowledged that it had lost money on the Central Asian contracts this year but said they would be valuable when demand recovered.

“Gazprom’s contracts with its Central Asian partners are concluded for many years into the future,” the statement said. “The world economic crisis, without doubt, is negatively influencing demand for energy. In the long term, however, demand for gas in Russia and abroad will grow. “

The declining fortunes are creating unaccustomed stresses for Gazprom, which strutted onto the world scene during the energy boom and came to symbolize the new might and swagger of Russia under Mr. Putin’s leadership.

Investors, in fact, once viewed Gazprom’s close ties to the Kremlin as good for business. For example, when Gazprom raised gas prices in Ukraine after the street protests known as the Orange Revolution, the move supported the Russian foreign policy goal of pressing a pro-Western government on its southern rim.

It also made money for Gazprom. Now, the political goals of Gazprom’s business in the former Soviet Union will cost the company.

That trend is already visible. Last week, the European Union signed an agreement with Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey and Egypt that could revive the long delayed Nabucco pipeline, which is intended to break Russia’s monopoly on Caspian Basin energy supplies. That was quite a turnabout for Azerbaijan, which after the war in Georgia last summer had offered to sell Gazprom its entire future output of gas from an offshore development.

Another former Soviet supplier, meanwhile, has accused Russia of sabotaging a pipeline to shut down deliveries of expensive gas.

On the night of April 9, a portion of the pipeline carrying Central Asian gas to Russia exploded in Turkmenistan, temporarily cutting off shipments. Turkmenistan’s Foreign Ministry issued a statement blaming Gazprom for closing the valve leading to Russia, preventing gas from flowing north and creating overpressure in the pipe. News reports are sketchy, but as of May 1 the pipeline was still out of commission.

Gazprom has declined to comment, but a Russian energy expert, speaking on Russian state television, said the aging Turkmen pipelines were to blame.

Turkmenistan responded with an immediate overture to the West on energy issues, signing an exploration deal with the German company RWE for a bloc in Turkmenistan’s sector of the Caspian Sea shelf. RWE is a participant in the Nabucco pipeline consortium.

With the affairs of Gazprom and the Kremlin so intertwined, financial troubles at the company have immediate consequences for state finances.

Gazprom earned profits last year of $30.8 billion on revenues of $160.5 billion, according to annual results released this month. This year, Troika Dialog, a Moscow investment bank, has estimated that Gazprom’s profits will drop to $16.7 billion on revenues of $104 billion.

As the country’s largest taxpayer, Gazprom contributed $40 billion to the state’s coffers last year, including export tariffs, profit and mineral extraction taxes. This year, financial analysts who follow the company estimate, those payments will fall by nearly half, to around $22.5 billion.

Gazprom’s profits are expected to remain under pressure as long as energy prices stay at or near their current level and energy demand remains subdued. Even if the purchase price of Central Asian gas trends downward, following the decline in world oil prices, Gazprom will still have to accept delivery of that gas while keeping its own reserves — which can cost as little to produce as $4 per 1,000 cubic meters — in the ground.

The current problems also carry the potential to hamper the company’s future performance.

Gazprom has budgeted capital expenditures this year of $27.46 billion, according to the company, and is still planning to spend $44.8 billion in 2010, even as its revenues shrink.

If it maintains these spending plans, however, it will have a negative cash flow by 2010, said Alex Fak, an oil and gas analyst at Troika, and will be compelled to borrow.

“Either the oil price will have to surge, or it’s not going to happen,” Mr. Fak said of the development program.
560 2009-05-16 Two weeks from now, a seven-year-old hedge fund called Alson Capital Partners will return around $800 million to its investors, and shut its doors for good.

The fund was founded and managed by Neil Barsky, 51, a former Wall Street Journal reporter-turned-Morgan Stanley analyst, who started his first hedge fund in 1998, just as the “hedge fund decade” was gaining steam. He was an old-fashioned stock picker who ran Alson Capital as a classic “long-short” stock fund, meaning that he bought companies he thought had good long-term prospects, while shorting companies he thought were likely to fall off the cliff. At its peak, Alson Capital had $3.5 billion under management, charged a 1.5 percent management fee, took 20 percent of the profits, and, when you include Mr. Barsky’s predecessor fund, produced compounded annualized returns of 12.11 percent a year. It’s fair to say he’s made a pretty penny.

Mr. Barsky is also a source of mine. In the decade or so that I’ve known him, I was able to quote him by name only once. As he explained to me recently, hedge fund managers who become too visible can make their investors wonder, “Why are you spending all your time on TV when you should be managing my money?” But he was one of the people I turned to when I wanted to learn what was really going on in the market. He is blunt, sardonic, funny and passionate, an insider who never lost his outsider’s perspective.

So when I read that he was quitting, I went to see him. I was hoping he would be willing to reflect on his life and times as a hedge fund manager, on the record this time. Happily, he was.

A bit of context first. For all the talk these last few years about the risks to investors of “secretive, unregulated” hedge funds, they certainly haven’t turned out to be the big problem, have they? Like most hedge funds, Alson Capital had a rough year in 2008, down more than 20 percent. Indeed, thousands of hedge funds lost, in the aggregate, hundreds of billions of dollars last year, and hundreds have shut down. But nobody in government is calling for a hedge fund bailout because hedge funds losses, however painful to investors, don’t create systemic risks to the nation’s financial apparatus. As it turns out, it was the big regulated entities, the banks and investment banks, that were the problem, not the unregulated hedge funds.

Why did all the fear about hedge funds turn out to be unjustified? One reason is that most hedge funds didn’t have the kind of 30-1 leverage ratios that the big banks had. Mr. Barsky’s fund, for instance, didn’t need much leverage to carry out his long-short strategy. But even if he had wanted to “lever up,” as they say, his prime broker  that is, the investment bank that did his back-office work  probably wouldn’t have let him.

In a wonderful irony, the banks and investment banks that were themselves drowning in debt were fearful of allowing their hedge fund clients to carry too much debt. They still remembered Long Term Capital Management, a hedge fund that a decade earlier had, indeed, brought the financial system to the brink because of its extreme leverage.

The second reason is that, while hedge fund managers could make extraordinary sums, they had far fewer incentives than Wall Street traders to take truly insane risks. “Ninety percent of my net worth was in the fund,” said Mr. Barsky, and that is true of most hedge fund managers. Wall Street traders got rich by making deals that brought short-term profits, even if they “blew up” later. Hedge fund managers who blew up hurt not only their investors but themselves. “As long as the hedge fund manager has his own capital in the fund, the risk equation is different,” Mr. Barsky said.

Although his fund lost money in 2008, it did not blow up; as he put it, the 20 percent loss was “not a disaster but not good.” Although he was forced to make redemptions to investors who bailed out, enough remained that he could have stayed in business. What really caused him to exit the hedge fund business is that he felt ground down by the relentlessness of the job.
561 2009-05-16 WASHINGTON — Two enforcement lawyers at the Securities and Exchange Commission are under investigation for possible criminal violations of insider trading laws after an inquiry by the agency’s inspector general.

The investigation “revealed suspicious activity, appearances of improprieties and evidence of possible trading on nonpublic information and/or potential insider trading,” the report said. It also found that the agency had “essentially no compliance system in place to ensure” that its employees did not engage in insider trading.

The S.E.C.’s inspector general, H. David Kotz, referred the matter to the United States attorney’s office in Washington, which, along with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is investigating the two lawyers.

Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the S.E.C., was informed of the investigation in a March 3 memo from Mr. Kotz.

A spokesman for the S.E.C., John Heine, said in a statement that the inspector general report “neither accuses any S.E.C. employee of insider trading nor concludes that any such conduct took place,” but added that the agency took “seriously even the suggestion that any S.E.C. employee would engage in insider trading.”
562 2009-05-16 She faces a trial hearing on Monday on charges that could result in a prison term of up to five years, a harsher form of the isolation she has endured for 13 of the past 19 years.

“They are trying their best to put her out of the minds of the population,” said her lawyer, U Kyi Win, speaking Friday by telephone from Myanmar’s chief city, Yangon. “But the more they do that, the more they are highlighting her. That is the reverse effect that it is having.”

The junta’s motives, and the effect of its actions, are familiar.

But the circumstances of the latest charges against her have a touch of the absurd. They stem from the capture of an American adventurer, John Yettaw, 53, who twice swam across a lake to her house where, according to her lawyer, he delivered her a Bible, although she is a Buddhist.

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi is on trial for violating the terms of her house arrest, though her lawyer describes the American as an intruder, not a guest. She is being charged along with two women who live with her as housekeepers and her doctor, who treated her for low blood pressure and dehydration shortly after Mr. Yettaw swam away May 5.

The housekeepers and the doctor have been among the only people she has been allowed to talk to over the past half-dozen years. She was unable to participate in the pro-democracy uprising led by monks in late 2007.

And yet, like a silent ghost, she shadows the country’s military leaders, who have sought without success to exorcise her with propaganda and repression.

It was once said that the Soviet Communist Party leader Leonid Brezhnev would one day be known as an obscure apparatchik during the time of Andrei Sakharov, the great dissident. Similarly, in the grip she seems to hold over her jailers, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi demonstrates what Vaclav Havel, the former Czech president, called “the power of the powerless.”

The generals pitted their popularity against hers in an election in 1991 and lost overwhelmingly, but they refused to release their grip on power. Then they experimented with lifting her house arrest in 2002, but locked her up again a year later after ecstatic crowds gathered to cheer for her wherever she went.

Today, the generals are on the verge of achieving a goal that in their eyes would justify their harsh rule and crown them as saviors of the country: an election scheduled for next year that would legitimize the continued dominance of the military.

And they appear to be afraid that this woman could ruin it all if she were allowed a voice that could rally opposition against them.

Thirteen years ago, when Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was addressing her ecstatic supporters in the rain, a Western diplomat predicted that her confrontation with the generals could not last much longer.

“She is under a lot of pressure,” he said, speaking on condition of anonymity in keeping with his embassy’s policy.

“She has to keep the momentum up, but fatigue is setting in,” the diplomat said. “Some of her leaders are old. Some are in prison. Some have died. She knows she will lose a waiting game.”

But the waiting game continues, and she has not yet lost.
563 2009-05-16 Yet he acknowledged in a news release on Friday that there is “a price consciousness dictating shopping habits unlike anything I have ever seen.”

So what to do?

Abercrombie & Fitch will offer some more affordable merchandise, particularly in its Hollister stores and its children’s divisions. (The company refused to say how much it would lower prices.) The chain is also reviewing its struggling Ruehl store business, for which it will take a charge of up to $55 million before taxes. Same-store sales at Ruehl, geared toward adult shoppers, fell 34 percent in the quarter. Also on Abercrombie & Fitch’s to-do list: offer dresses and more colorful and patterned clothing.

“We missed dresses first quarter,” Mr. Jeffries said during the conference call. “Our other major miss was print and pattern. As you can see, what’s happening out there is highly decorated goods seem to be selling.”

While it fine-tunes its business in the United States, Abercrombie & Fitch is homing in on what its executives consider to be the company’s future: international sales, where demand is high. The chain plans to open four more stand-alone stores as well as 20 mall stores in the United States, Canada and Europe this fiscal year.

“I think he’s done the right thing,” Jennifer Black, a retailing analyst and president of Jennifer Black and Associates, said of Mr. Jeffries. “Once you get onto the promotion wagon, it’s really hard to get off.”

Shares of Abercrombie & Fitch fell $1.15, or 4.2 percent, to close at $26.10.

Also on Friday, J. C. Penney, the value-priced department store, said its profit for the three months that ended May 2 fell 79 percent, to $25 million, or 11 cents a share, compared with $120 million, or 54 cents a share, for the period a year ago. The first-quarter results were mainly hurt by a hefty $114 million pension plan expense. Sales at stores open at least a year fell 7.5 percent.

But there were some signs of improvement. Executives said in a conference call with investors that in the first quarter the company sold more merchandise at regular prices and less at clearance prices.

In an encouraging sign, J. C. Penney’s strongest business was women’s apparel, a discretionary category hit hard by the economic downturn.

The company has been strengthening its portfolio of brands and emphasizing in its marketing that, as the president and chief merchandising officer, Ken C. Hicks, put it, “style doesn’t have to be expensive.”

Shares of J. C. Penney fell 11 cents, to close at $26.54.
564 2009-05-16 “If you’re a money manager of any kind, you have the potential of having handled money in some sort of fund that made investments with Madoff,” said Michael Zeldes, a senior vice president for Hub International, a broker. “They’re very specifically excluding any lawsuit that comes down the pike.”

This matters for people who run their own funds because these are claims-made policies, meaning that whatever insurer is covering you when a claim is made has to pay it. The problem here is that at renewal time few people, even seasoned investors, read their policies closely — focusing instead on the premium. Mr. Zeldes said he had seen three different insurance companies bury the exclusion in their policies and had heard that many more were doing it. In the policy I read, Mr. Madoff’s name did not appear until the middle of the exclusion. But its intent was clear: it would not cover any loss related to any Madoff entity.

Money managers, however, are not alone in needing to review their coverage. In tight financial times, when the stress is high and budgets are tight, an architect, engineer, even an insurance broker could be sued for a professional error. If he has minimal coverage from better times, this could be a problem.

“Any litigious areas are going to be a challenge on the E. & O. side,” Mr. Nowell said, referring to errors and omissions. He said premiums had increased 25 to 30 percent in the last two years.

DEBT COLLECTORS Sometimes, chasing someone may be the only way to get paid — unless he has gone bankrupt. This is why credit insurance is becoming more popular.

Until recently, only large companies were willing to pay the high premiums — as much as 1 percent of sales. But now smaller, private companies are worried enough to consider it, both because of the weak economy and because there are fewer outlets for companies’ products.

“With all of the consolidation that has occurred in so many industries, everyone is concerned,” said Jim Dezell, senior vice president for Marsh. “Ten years ago, if you were selling PlayStation games, you had 10 major groups in the New York area; now you have one consumer electronics group.”

He said companies with as little as $5 million in revenue can get credit insurance. Premiums vary by the size of a business and its industry. Anything associated with home building and furniture is higher given the slowdown in that sector, while an essential service like a grocery store would be less. He added that the terms of trade are a crucial factor: a company that makes clients pay in 30 days gets better terms than one that allows 180 days.

The fine print here, though, is that insurance companies are making the terms of coverage more restrictive, even while keeping premiums the same, said John Korpics, area senior vice president in Miami for Arthur J. Gallagher & Company.

“When the market was softer, an insurer may have given one client a $500,000 rolling credit and said you can extend terms out to 120 days,” he said. “Now they’ll say you only get $200,000 to this client and only 60 days to pay.”

This leaves the insured company in a bind: does it trust that its clients will pay, or does it change the terms and risk losing them?

YOU’RE FIRED Donald Trump has elevated firing people to an art form. But the reality of letting someone go is much more complicated, particularly in an economy with an official unemployment rate of 8.9 percent, though that figure does not include people who have given up looking for work or those who have taken part-time jobs.

“When you have an unemployment rate of 5 percent, it’s easy to find a new job,” said Michael Lotito, a partner in the San Francisco office of Jackson Lewis. “When you have an effective unemployment rate of 15 percent and you don’t have those opportunities to go someplace else, your full-time job is vengeance.”

And that is when discrimination and wrongful termination claims increase. Some companies mitigate this with generous severance packages, ironclad employment-at-will provisions and employment practices liability insurance. But smaller businesses, particularly those that think of their employees as family, figure the expense is not worth it.

Yet a report in March from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said claims were up 15 percent last year, to 95,402, the highest number in the agency’s 44-year history. Given that the unemployment rate continues to rise, claims this year may well rise, too.

While the premium for a manufacturer is less than that for an investment adviser, the risk to someone’s wealth is still there. Oddly, the business owners who often overlook liability insurance are not the ones used to dealing with disgruntled employees but ones who know the need for insurance: doctors. Mr. Zeldes said he had been trying to show physicians how inexpensive the coverage was. A practice with 30 employees could get coverage for $3,300 a year.

CHARITY CASES In this time of economic need, being charitable is seen as a virtue. But litigiousness can strike nonprofits and board members can be personally exposed.

A member of a nonprofit board can buy a directors and officers policy to protect himself from litigation related to board decisions. A common lawsuit against a nonprofit board may come from not firing a director who repeatedly harassed other employees. But there are less obvious cases.

“With a synagogue, the board votes to do a major improvement but through poor planning it is too expensive and they can’t pay their staff and the religious school can’t operate and they lose the synagogue,” Mr. Zeldes said. “That’s a board mistake. It’s a breach of fiduciary duty.”

And the congregants could sue. Not only could such a mistake cost the board member the time and money he has donated, it could cost him personally.
565 2009-05-16 American consumers paid less for food and energy in April and overall retail prices remained flat from the month before, the government reported on Friday, a sign that demand was still tepid and inflation could remain subdued this year.

The Labor Department reported that its Consumer Price Index was unchanged last month from the March level, and 0.7 percent lower than a year earlier, the largest year-over-year decline in five decades. The decline from last year reflected a significant drop in the costs of energy, transportation and gasoline.

“What we see is a gradual disinflation,” said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Bank of America. “The deflationary fears don’t seem to be that pronounced here.”

The so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent, slightly more than its increases of 0.2 percent for each of the first three months of the year.

Much of that increase was the result of a 9.3 percent increase in tobacco prices in April, which followed an 11 percent increase in March. The price of tobacco has surged 30 percent over the last year as cigarette manufacturers raised prices ahead of a new federal tax on tobacco products. Economists said consumers were likely to see lower prices at cash registers and gas pumps this summer with oil prices now less than half their record high last summer of about $145 a barrel.
566 2009-05-17 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
567 2009-05-17 "Angels & Demons" opened to a sluggish $48 million in U.S. theaters, but did better overseas, and it was still good enough for first place....
568 2009-05-17 The combative proxy fight between Amylin Pharmaceuticals and two dissident shareholders including the billionaire Carl C. Icahn appears to be winding down after three influential proxy advisors came out in support of the dissidents....
569 2009-05-17 News, notes, results and more from the Memorial Cup and the world of junior hockey....
570 2009-05-17 The defending champion Zach Johnson matched the course record at La Cantera with a 10-under 60 to take a three-stroke lead in the suspended third round of the Texas Open in San Antonio. Johnson holed out from 84 yards for an eagle on the par-4 seventh and had eight birdies in a round interrupted by a five-hour rain delay. Paul Goydos and the three-time champion Justin Leonard were 12 under through 12 holes. They will resume the round Sunday morning.

¶The Irish amateur Shane Lowry bogeyed the final hole on a blustery day, falling into a tie for the lead with Robert Rock of England after three rounds of the Irish Open in Baltray. Play was delayed more than five hours because of winds. irishopen (AP)
571 2009-05-17 We approached Pittsburgh through a drizzly scrim of rain, then drifted through its version of Williamsburg in Brooklyn, an old blue-collar quarter called Lawrenceville. The row houses were small and irregularly packed, like bad dentition; what few pedestrians there were floated by in a haze. My friend looked out the car window and said, simply, “Matewan.” Then we found Brillobox.

Brillobox is a bar, cafe and arts space. On first blush, it looks like your average hipster oasis plunked down in the midst of urban blight. “You had to bust through four drop ceilings to get to the tin ceiling,” the co-owner Eric Stern told us. “There were so many holes in it, they had to build floating ceilings beneath it to patch it.” Now the place is filled with maraschino-red Naugahyde booths (“found on Craigslist”), bordello-red wallpaper (“I’m a sucker for deep, sensuous reds”) and tree branches that canopy out from behind the bar (“we took those from the cemetery”). A local artist has dotted these with pink blossoms.

My friend and I showed up on a Sunday night, to attend the weekly Starving Artists Sunday Supper. Five bucks gets you a sesame tofu wrap with fried rice, peanut curry sauce and house-made slaw. As we wolfed down what amounted to a perfect meal, Stern talked about the genesis of Brillobox. Stern, an artist in his early 40s, and his wife, Renee, are originally from Pittsburgh. Stern did a philosophy degree at Berkeley, an M.F.A., and then, with Renee, a stint in the New York art world. Burned out, they returned home to create . . . something. “We had no idea what we’d start,” he said. “We weren’t bar people. Our only guiding principle was: Make it a place we’d want to come to.”

Brillobox has drawn crowds of nonlocals —young people with Gmail accounts and unfinished degrees — into Lawrenceville. But for Stern, booze and lounging were just the beginning: “When I saw the second floor, I said, ‘O.K., this is it.’ This could coalesce the energies of the community.” Upstairs is a space for plays, music, art events, fund-raisers, comedy, readings. “We didn’t realize there were so many artists here, hungry for a place to call their own,” Stern said. The Box is now a neighborhood beachhead.

Our table was filling up. We were joined by a novelist, a D.J., a philosophy grad student, a liver specialist, a rock musician and a lapsed Mormon. Thankfully, the liver specialist claimed, we need only 40 percent of our liver to function; the table drank accordingly. “We didn’t start Lawrenceville, but we like to think we crystallized and focused it,” Stern said, and the table agreed. “Eric and his wife created a cool thing,” said John Greenwell, the Box’s daytime bartender. “My dad passed away a couple of weeks ago. He worked for the railroad. We came in for Pub Quiz, and we watched the Super Bowl here. I’ve never felt uncomfortable in here.”

Lauren, an animal-shelter worker, put the Box in Pittsburgh’s context. She’s from Duquesne, outside Pittsburgh, a town that went into free fall after the Carnegie Steel plant closed in the 1980s. “People are talking about the economic downturn, and I’ve hardly known anything else,” she said. “There’s a very blue-collar ethic here. Even if you’re a lawyer or a doctor, someone in your family is blue-collar.” Cory, a grad student on hiatus and a dead ringer for Gram Parsons circa “Sweetheart of the Rodeo,” chimes in. “For the sake of conversation, let’s call Pittsburgh a metropolitan area. It’s insanely cheap. And safe. In six years, I’ve only been accosted by teenagers, and children.”
572 2009-05-17 Besides the sweeping vineyards and spectacular chateaux, there’s a new reason to take the A10 motorway from Paris to Bordeaux this summer. Beginning in July, Domaine de Boisbuchet, the 19th-century castle on 370 acres near Poitiers, will open to the public for the first time. Bought in the late 1980s by the Vitra Design Museum director Alexander Von Vegesack, Boisbuchet has for years been something of a cult destination for designers, architects and artists who attend its yearly workshops, run by the museum in conjunction with the Pompidou Center in Paris and Cireca, a cultural and agricultural education center. Vegesack is finally offering the public a glimpse of its particular art-camp-for-adults charm: horses, meadows, a lake for swimming and canoeing, and numerous small architectural wonders dotting the grounds, like a bamboo gridshell by the German engineer Jörg Schlaich and a traditional Japanese guesthouse transplanted from Shimane Prefecture. Visitors can also sample the resident chef’s cooking at a new cafe, inside a restored mill, as well as look in on what some of the architecture students are up to, like the Swiss group who will be installing an exhibition of vernacular architecture models. Go to boisbuchet.org. [?][?][?] JILL SINGER
573 2009-05-17 A pair of new studies say that more people than ever lie in harm’s way from earthquakes, droughts, floods and other disasters, largely because of a surge in urban populations in developing countries.

Smaller or poorer countries can be devastated by disasters that are relatively inconsequential in places shielded by size or wealth, said one of the reports, a United Nations study that is being released Sunday in Bahrain.

That study, the Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction, compared the impact of cyclones in the Philippines and Japan, for example. While more people in Japan are exposed to cyclones, the estimated annual death toll from such storms is 17 times higher in the Philippines, the study said.

Yet the report’s authors concluded that the level of vulnerability does not always mirror economic conditions, with high rates of disaster losses seen in a mix of developing countries with growing or weak economies.

The other study, conducted by the Global Network of Civil Society Organizations for Disaster Reduction, a coalition of private nongovernmental groups, notes some isolated examples where communities acting on their own have found ways to reduce disaster losses. But it warned that many governments were lagging in efforts to make such resilience the norm, not the exception, despite having pledged to do so in a declaration in 2005.

The United Nations report is the most ambitious effort ever to compare data on all kinds and scales of disasters against population and economic trends, development and disaster experts said. It is available online at unisdr.org.

It offers hints of progress. While the economic cost from disasters has risen, the cost as percentage of the global economy has been flat. The mortality rate has been declining in many areas. But in hot spots combining dense populations with the risk of earthquakes, floods and other hazards, the potential for catastrophic impact is growing.

Additionally, the study shows how deep poverty and rapid economic growth can increase vulnerability to disasters.

In a telephone interview, Andrew Maskrey, the report’s lead author, noted, for example, that the breakneck pace of economic growth in China since 1990 had brought tens of millions of people to the eastern seaboard, “an extremely hazard-prone area that is regularly threatened by flooding and cyclones.” “The country has not yet developed the institutional mechanisms to reduce the risk that entails,” he said.

He pointed to the collapse of recently built schools last year in central Sichuan Province, another fast-growing area, as a sign of the problem. “Without governance capacity, the faster you develop, it’s almost like the faster you’re building disasters,” Mr. Maskrey said.

He added that Myanmar’s enormous losses in cyclone-driven floods last year resulted from virtually the opposite condition: no economic development. “There, people were killed not by schools falling down, but by a lack of schools and other buildings to shelter in,” he said.

At the same time, Mr. Maskrey said, there is evidence that a willingness to make disaster risk reduction a priority can forge progress even in struggling places.

Bangladesh has created effective evacuation programs for coastal flooding with scant resources, and Bogotá, Colombia, has found the means to greatly bolster buildings against earthquakes.

Sub-Saharan Africa and other rural areas dependent on rain-fed agriculture remain hot spots for drought-related mortality. But the dominant factor raising death tolls and economic losses from disasters is humanity’s hastening transformation into a mainly urban species, with a surge of people in search of work settling in marginal urban lands and shoddy housing.

“Some of the statistics are almost hallucinatory,” Mr. Maskrey said. “Some time before 2050, the urban population of India will rise by 500 million people. Mumbai and Calcutta are already very poor about providing land and housing. How will they accommodate tens of millions more? And both cities are in very hazard-prone locations.”

The other study of disaster risks took a very different approach from the United Nations analysis, using fewer official databases and relying more on 5,000 interviews with people in vulnerable urban and rural communities in 47 countries, said Marcus Oxley, its lead organizer.

It detailed some innovations that have helped some communities reduce their exposure. In one rural Indian village, the report’s authors said, cellphones have become a lifeline, allowing residents to track approaching cyclones through text messages sent by relatives watching Web sites in the United States devoted to weather conditions.

The report, “The View From the Frontline,” is to be released next month an international meeting on disasters, but organizers provided a draft to The New York Times to provide context for the United Nations report.

The isolated success stories are encouraging, Mr. Oxley said. But he added that the sweeping scale of vulnerability to disasters showed the need for systemic changes in policy by governments, aided by institutions like the World Bank and the United Nations.

Education in local communities is needed to overcome a tendency to accept high disaster tolls as a matter of fate, instead of, for example, lax building codes or warning systems.

Ben Wisner, a retired geography professor in Oberlin, Ohio, who is involved with the coalition and focuses on making schools in disaster hot spots safer, said the lack of accountability in many countries, and the tendency of international institutions to focus on symbolism more than concrete change, was blocking progress.

He cited a recent United Nations program that distributed posters and textbooks about disasters. “Does it make sense to teach lessons about natural hazards and disaster risk in a classroom that is a liable to collapse and kill students and teachers alike?” he said.

“There is a long, long way to go, and unless and until the U.N. system has the support and political will to name and shame, and to hold countries to account for failing to protect their citizens from avoidable harm in extreme natural events, most national governments won’t prioritize disaster risk reduction.”
574 2009-05-17 Top-ranked Rafael Nadal saved three match points before beating Novak Djokovic on Saturday, 3-6, 7-6 (5), 7-6 (9), to reach the Madrid Open final. He will face No. 2 Roger Federer, a 6-3, 6-4 winner over Juan Martín del Potro in the other semifinal. Nadal complained of discomfort in his right leg before the match, and he made uncharacteristic errors in allowing an early break in the first set.
575 2009-05-17 The Irish amateur Shane Lowry bogeyed the final hole on a blustery day to fall into a tie for the lead with Robert Rock of England after three rounds of the Irish Open in Baltray. Play was delayed more than five hours because of winds. Lowry and Rock had played one hole in the morning before play was suspended. Lowry three-putted the par-5 18th hole to finish at one-under-par 71, leaving him at 16-under 200 entering the final round. Rock made a 20-foot putt for birdie for a 69.
576 2009-05-17 “After the Stress Tests” (editorial, May 10) says banks are resisting an increase in regulatory oversight. In fact, the financial services industry and the Financial Services Roundtable, of which I am president, have supported comprehensive regulatory reform, even long before the current global crisis.

We support a uniform set of standards that increase transparency, apply nationwide and align with modern market conditions and global standards. Regulation must strike the right balance between enhancing stability in the system and maintaining American competitiveness. It must improve coordination between regulators, monitor systemwide financial risk and protect the consumer.

Now that the stress tests have shown that the industry is strong and the Troubled Asset Relief Program is stabilizing the system, we must return to the essential national debate on how to more effectively regulate financial services. I have testified before Congress on the subject three times this year alone, and our board of directors consistently reaffirms our commitment to the issue.

Make no mistake: the industry favors better, smarter, more effective regulation.

The writer is president and chief executive of the Financial Services Roundtable.
577 2009-05-17 Food prices are remaining entirely too high despite monstrous job losses and unfavorable business conditions.

Our government should find a way of making food prices come down so that American families can properly exist in these troubled times.
578 2009-05-17 There was a major explosion last year at a Bayer chemical plant in West Virginia, in which two employees were killed. Congressional investigators reported in April that the blast could have been far more deadly had it gone in a different direction. These revelations provide more evidence — as if more were needed — that the nation needs a tough chemical plant security law, this year.

The explosion last August sent a fireball into the air. The staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee reported that the blast nearly compromised a nearby tank filled with several tons of methyl isocyanate, the same toxic chemical that leaked from the Union Carbide plant in Bhopal, India, in 1984, killing thousands of people. If things had gone badly, according to the staff, the consequences might have been worse than in Bhopal.

Chemical plants, where large amounts of highly toxic chemicals are routinely stored, are the nation’s greatest terrorism vulnerability. Since the Sept. 11 attacks, environmental groups and others have been pushing for a federal law that imposes tough safety regulations on the plants. One of their highest priorities has been a mandate that plants replace particularly dangerous chemicals, like chlorine, with safer alternatives when practical.

So far, Congress has failed to come through. In 2006, it sided with the chemical industry and passed an extremely weak law. That faulty law sunsets this fall, which gives Congress a new chance to make things right.

The next law should impose strong, mandatory safety rules. It should contain a safer-chemicals requirement, protection for whistleblowers, and a provision allowing citizens to sue for violations. It should make clear that the federal rules do not pre-empt state laws, so states can do more to protect their residents if they want.

This will not be easy. The chemical industry, which is a major campaign contributor, has spent years fighting tougher safety rules, which it sees as a threat to its bottom line. The more the process is delayed, the harder it will be to get a good bill drafted and voted on.
579 2009-05-17 PHOENIX (AP) — The drug war in Mexico should not be used as an excuse to try to restrict American gun rights, Senator John McCain told thousands of people who gathered here for the National Rifle Association’s annual convention.

Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, said that the United States needed to do more to crack down on gun smuggling into Mexico, but that such assistance in Mexico’s war against drug cartels did not require restrictions on the gun rights of law-abiding Americans.

“It should be noted that any effort to restrict gun ownership in the U.S. will not stop Mexican cartels from acquiring guns and ammunition from other countries,” Mr. McCain said on Friday. He added that cartels were already getting grenades and other weapons from other countries.

Mr. McCain said the cartels threatened the security of the United States because America does not have a secure southern border and has a big appetite for illegal drugs from Mexico. Kidnappings tied to drug and immigrant smuggling have earned Phoenix the title of America’s kidnapping capital.

President Felipe Calderón of Mexico is waging a war against powerful drug cartels in his country. The drug organizations also are fighting each other for the most lucrative smuggling routes into the United States.

Since December 2006, Mr. Calderón has sent more than 45,000 soldiers into drug hotspots. More than 10,750 people have died in drug violence since then. Federal agents in the United States say many guns recovered at killings in Mexico were smuggled in from the United States.
580 2009-05-17 To many, the speech was a missed opportunity for both the headlines and the history books.

“This is the last pope, most certainly, who will have lived through World War II, grown up under the Nazi regime, and probably the last pope from Europe,” said David Gibson, the author of “The Rule of Benedict: Pope Benedict XVI and His Battle With the Modern World.” “In many respects I think he could have moved things forward in a remarkable way.”

Asked why the pope seemed tone deaf to the moment, the Vatican explained that he had previously spoken about his own experiences and had denounced the Holocaust in more emotional terms, and that he had no need to repeat himself. The pope’s seeming obliviousness, as well as the Vatican’s puzzled and groping response, echoed previous controversies of this papacy.

In January, Benedict reinstated four schismatic bishops, including one who had repeatedly denied the scope of the Holocaust. The Vatican said then that the pope had been focused on healing a rift in the church and was not aware of the Holocaust denial.

After a speech in 2006 in which he quoted a medieval scholar saying that Islam brought things “evil and inhuman,” he appeared to be taken by surprise by the wave of anger generated in the Islamic world.

Both episodes were followed by a series of official clarifications and apologies.

But whatever the failings in symbolism, his trip was in many ways a success in substance.

His complex itinerary through Jordan and Israel could have gone wrong at every turn, and at every turn the region’s opposing players tried to use his presence to make their own political points: the Palestinians spoke of Israeli oppression in his presence; the new Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, urged him to denounce Iran.

Yet Benedict managed to avoid missteps of the kind that previously outraged Muslims and Jews. His trip to the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem and endorsement of a Palestinian state while visiting the West Bank went a long way toward smoothing relations with the Muslim world.

In fact, the endorsement, delivered before a towering concrete-and-barbed-wire separation barrier, appeared to be one instance in which he effectively used the symbolism that the landscape offered. But that success had the side effect of magnifying the perception of his clumsiness toward Jewish symbols and history.

Perhaps most important, Benedict managed to avoid any major gaffes, a recurring problem in his papacy and no small feat given the sensitivities in the region.

In some ways the task before him, as a shy professorial church insider, was perhaps too great to overcome on one trip. Benedict also suffered from following in the footsteps of Pope John Paul II, whose trip to the Holy Land in 2000 was the culmination of a beloved papacy. A headline in Friday’s Jerusalem Post read: “After JPII, the Papal Rock Star, Benedict Seemed Cold, Distant.”

The trip’s shortcomings were all the more glaring given the kind of outreach he might have achieved in a land holy to three major religions.

Many Israelis are ignorant about the contemporary Roman Catholic Church. At a news conference in Nazareth on Thursday, a local journalist addressed the Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, a Jesuit priest, as “Mister Cardinal.”

But Israelis are taught from grade school about the church’s historic persecution of Jews, and many were disappointed that Benedict did not directly address that theme.

“They were looking for him to at least reflect and express regret about the role of the church and the role of Christians,” Mr. Gibson said. “That is something he has refused to do.”

In a farewell speech at Ben-Gurion Airport in Tel Aviv on Friday, Benedict recalled his visit to Auschwitz in 2006 and issued a plea that the Holocaust must “never be forgotten or denied.” Yet once again he did not use the term Nazi or German.

Israeli society — and the fierce Israeli press — is as direct and self-critical as the Vatican is baroque and reluctant to address its own failings in public. After he left, Israeli newspapers were already making light of their criticism of Benedict, whose visit required 80,000 security officers and threw Jerusalem traffic into chaos.

On Friday, the satirical page of the daily Yediot Aharonot had a “quote” from an anonymous Jerusalem resident: “I expected him to apologize. At least for the traffic jams. But nothing. Anti-Semite.”
581 2009-05-17 HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. (AP) — Syracuse, the defending national champion, advanced to the semifinals of the N.C.A.A. men’s tournament on Saturday by defeating unseeded Maryland, 11-6.

Kenny Nims, Stephen Keogh and Dan Hardy each scored two goals for the second-seeded Orange (14-2). Grant Catalino and Jeremy Sieverts led Maryland (10-7) with two goals each in the first of two quarterfinal games at Hofstra University.

Syracuse jumped out to a 4-0 lead 1 minute 50 seconds into the second quarter. The Terrapins cut the deficit to 5-3 by halftime, but the Orange pulled away in the final four minutes of the third quarter, scoring three straight goals to go ahead, 9-4.

CORNELL 6, PRINCETON 4 In the second game at Hofstra, Rocco Romero scored twice and Rob Pannell had three assists to send Cornell to the semifinals of the N.C.A.A. tournament for the second time in three years.

Cornell (12-3) jumped ahead, 5-1, at halftime. Tommy Davis and Chris McBride of Princeton (13-3) scored to cut the deficit to two entering the last quarter.

This was the 70th meeting between the universities, but the first in N.C.A.A. tournament play.
582 2009-05-17 After weeks of gains even when the economic news was bleak, the stock market dropped last week, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index back into negative territory for the year.

It wasn’t that the economic data was particularly grim last week. There were, in fact, some positive signs, including a rise in the University of Michigan preliminary consumer sentiment index, to 67.9 in May from 65.1 in April. In November, the index fell as low as 55.3.

But investors took profits after the stock market’s recent surge. Even after last week’s setback, the S.& P. 500 remained 31 percent above its March 9 low.

For the week, the Dow lost 306.01 points, or 3.6 percent, to close at 8,268.64. The S.& P. 500 dropped 46.35 points, or 5.0 percent, to close at 882.88. The Nasdaq composite index fell 58.86 points, or 3.5 percent, to close at 1,680.14.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.13 percent from 3.29 percent the previous week.

The futures price for a barrel of oil fell in New York to $56.34 from $58.63 the previous week. JEFF SOMMER
583 2009-05-17 MOSCOW — Police officers in Moscow quickly suppressed a gay rights demonstration on Saturday, detaining dozens of protesters who hoped to showcase discrimination in Russia ahead of the Eurovision song contest final on Saturday evening.

The approximately 40 people rounded up face misdemeanor charges for trying to hold what a police spokesman, Anatoly Lastovetsky, called “unsanctioned” demonstrations.

Such demonstrations have become an annual headache for the Moscow authorities, who refuse to grant permission to organizers to hold the events despite constitutional guarantees protecting freedom of assembly.

While there were no reports of violence on Saturday, the crackdown on this year’s protest could prove an embarrassment as thousands of European visitors were gathered here for the Eurovision final, a huge pop music spectacle. Dima Bilan, a Russian pop star, won last year’s contest in Serbia.

Gay rights campaigners called on participants and fans to boycott the contest in response to what they said was the government’s failure to guarantee even the most basic rights to gay men and lesbians.

No mention of the gay rights protest was made at the Eurovision final Saturday night, which was won by Norway’s Alexander Rybak.
584 2009-05-17 Many members of Congress remember the painful political lesson of 1993, when President Bill Clinton proposed a tax on all forms of energy, a plan that went down to defeat and helped take the Democratic majority in Congress down with it a year later.

Cap and trade, by contrast, is almost perfectly designed for the buying and selling of political support through the granting of valuable emissions permits to favor specific industries and even specific Congressional districts. That is precisely what is taking place now in the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has used such concessions to patch together a Democratic majority to pass a far-reaching bill to regulate carbon emissions through a cap-and-trade plan.

The bill is poised to win committee approval this week, although with virtually no support from Republicans. If there was a single moment when cap and trade crossed the threshold from relatively untested economic concept to prevailing government policy, it came in May 1989 in the West Wing office of C. Boyden Gray, counsel to President George H. W. Bush.

Mr. Gray had gathered a number of Mr. Bush’s economic and environmental advisers to try to come up with a politically palatable plan to break a decade-long deadlock on the problem of acid rain, caused by sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-burning power plants in the Midwest.

Mr. Gray and the other Bush advisers knew that the power companies — and their allies in Congress — would vigorously oppose a tax on sulfur emissions or stringent new regulations to control them. But the environmental costs of the problem were too big to ignore.

One of Mr. Bush’s outside advisers, Daniel J. Dudek, an economist with the Environmental Defense Fund, recalled that after years of unsuccessfully trying to sell the idea of setting a national limit on such emissions and letting companies trade permits or allowances to pollute, he finally came up with an analogy that broke the ice.

“I told Boyden: ‘Imagine you just fired up the government printing presses and dumped an endless stream of money into the system. You’d have no way of controlling the money supply,’ ” Mr. Dudek said. “He understood totally and intuitively the importance of maintaining the cap, the key ingredient in our acid rain policy.”

A month later, the Bush White House sent Congress a cap-and-trade plan for sulfur dioxide emissions that 18 months later became the linchpin of the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act, considered by many to be the most successful domestic environmental legislation ever enacted.

But the proposal came under ferocious political assault during those months. The final bill reflected a series of compromises needed to keep the coalition supporting it together. But the sulfur dioxide cap, a roughly 50 percent reduction in emissions over the next decade, held. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that compliance with the program is close to 100 percent.

“Our proposal was at first ridiculed by environmentalists as little more than a license to pollute,” said Representative Jim Cooper, a moderate Democrat from Tennessee and an early supporter of tradable permits. “But today, few dispute it is one of the government’s most successful regulatory programs ever.”

Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat and chairman of the energy committee, and his allies are marshaling many of the same arguments for the cap-and-trade approach as they used two decades ago for acid rain. A cap-and-trade program brings support from industries that prefer it to a top-down federal regulatory scheme, they say.

Many regard it as the lowest-cost solution to a global pollution problem and a means of producing clean-energy breakthroughs. And it is a much easier political sell than a tax on fossil fuels. A measure of the political appeal of the final compromise on the 1990 cap-and-trade plan can be seen in the final votes: 401 to 25 in the House and 89 to 10 in the Senate.

But despite its success in the relatively contained problem of acid rain in the United States, cap and trade has proved less useful in other environmental problems and has gotten off to a troubled start in Europe.

Even some early devotees of a system of tradable emissions permits believe that it will not work for carbon dioxide, by definition a planetary problem. A straightforward tax on each ton of carbon dioxide emitted by any source, they say, would provide more a more predictable price and a simpler system to police.

“If a philosopher king could design a system, he or should might pick a taxation system,” said Robert Hahn, a White House economist under Mr. Bush who backed the acid rain program but is skeptical that it will work for the much more pervasive problem of carbon dioxide.

Former Vice President Al Gore has long supported a carbon tax. “Tax what you burn, not what you earn,” he says, as a way of both attacking global warming and remedying some of the inequities in the income tax.

But Mr. Gore also says a domestic cap-and-trade system would be easier to coordinate with other countries’ carbon control programs.

Cap and trade evolved from an academic debate that began in the early 1960s when Ronald H. Coase, then a professor at the University of Chicago Law School, wrote an influential paper, "The Problem of Social Cost,” that examined when government should intervene in cases where a private entity causes public harm.

In 1971, W. David Montgomery, a Harvard graduate student in economics, fleshed out the idea of emissions trading in his doctoral thesis and has spent much of the last three decades trying to figure out how the marketplace can deal with environmental problems that are caused by relatively few actors but have consequences felt globally.

He supported the acid rain trading program, but said it was based on “unique historical and economic circumstances” that did not apply to the much more difficult problem of carbon dioxide emissions.

Mr. Montgomery, now a vice president at Charles River Associates International, a consulting firm, said Mr. Waxman’s proposal would ultimately act like a tax on carbon-producing industries, disguised by a complex cap-and-trade system.

“It is a steel fist of regulation covered by a velvet glove of emission trading,” Mr. Montgomery said. “Why not just impose a carbon tax?”
585 2009-05-17 Q. How do you assess job candidates?

A. If they come from inside the business, the best predictor of future success is past success. It’s not 100 percent, but it’s a reasonable predictor. For an external candidate, what I’ve found is that reference checks are super-important. I didn’t used to believe so much in reference checks. You can always get somebody to say something nice about you. But the truth is, if you ask enough questions and you ask around, you can really get a profile of who’s accomplished various things and who hasn’t.

And I try to figure out sort of a combination of I.Q. and passion. I just ask somebody to tell me what they’ve done that they are really proud of and tell me about it. And if it’s something you are proud of, you should be able to answer any question I can come up with, at least at a level that would satisfy my interest. I ought to be able to see your passion. It might be quiet passion; it might be bubbly passion. But I should be able to sense that you are one of those people who just sort of throws themselves into things.

Q. Is there a skill or qualification or trait that you’re looking for in prospective hires that didn’t matter as much 10 years ago?

A. Mostly, I’m still looking for what I’ve always looked for: extremely smart and talented people who love to work hard, who are passionate about technology and who have a great foundation in math and science. But compared to 10 years ago, technology is more complex, products and services span people’s lives in new ways, and our business is much more global. So it’s more important that people can think outside the confines of their individual expertise and their product group and connect the dots between technologies, customer needs and markets in new ways.

Q. What’s the most challenging part of your job?

A. Finding the right balance between optimism and realism. I’m an optimist by nature, and I start from the belief that you can always succeed if you have the right amount of focus combined with the right amount of hard work. So I can get frustrated when progress runs up against issues that should have been anticipated or that simply couldn’t have been foreseen. A realist knows that a certain amount of that is inevitable, but the optimist in me always struggles when progress doesn’t match my expectations.

Q. Fill in the blank. You want the culture of your company to be more _____ ?

A. Efficient. The right word is efficient. That’s the direction that every business leader is steering their company culture toward right now. Given the current economic climate and the uncertainty about how long the recession will last, this is a time when organizations need to do more with less, and Microsoft is no exception. We’ve made good progress, but for a company that has grown every year for more than 30 years, learning how to operate under more constrained circumstances is not always that easy.

At the same time, the need to be more efficient drives us all toward sharper focus on what is important and what can truly move the needle in terms of meeting customer needs and taking market share. Of course, we need to be innovative, but we also need to be efficient.

Q. Any books on management and leadership that you’ve found particularly useful?

Q. In all the speeches you’ve given, is there a favorite line or story or passage or quotation?

A. In February I was invited to share my business perspective on the economic downturn with House Democrats at their annual retreat. In that speech, I got to share something that my dad always told me growing up, which is a simple piece of advice that really shaped my approach to life and to business.

My dad worked for Ford for 30 years. When I was a kid, he’d say: “If you’re going to do a job, do a job. If you’re not going to do a job, don’t do a job.” What he meant was, if you really want to accomplish anything, you have to be committed, motivated, tenacious and smart about what you do. That’s really just the essence of the American work ethic, but it’s one of the most important things I ever learned.

Q. If you had to choose another profession, what would it be?

A. Education, probably. I like working with young people, and I think it’s really important to encourage talent. I love basketball, so I could see myself as a high school basketball coach. I think a basketball team that I coached would have a really good chance of being a winner.

Q. What would you like business schools to focus on more, or less?

A. I’d like to see more emphasis on the importance of taking the long view. Companies focus too much on short-term results in business. It takes patience to build a great business, and sometimes you have to be willing to make the long-term investment and then keep at it if you want to succeed.

Q. If you could teach any b-school course, including one that you create, what would it be?

A. Leadership. Microsoft has grown from 30 people to more than 90,000 since I started, so I’ve had the chance to play a leadership role at practically every stage imaginable in a company’s growth and development. I’ve learned a lot about leadership along the way from some great people that I’ve worked with and through experience.

I’ve come to believe that to be a great leader, you have to combine thought leadership, business leadership and great people management. I think most people tend to focus more on one of those three. I used to think it was all about thought leadership. Some people think it’s all about your ability to manage people. But the truth is, great leaders have to have a mix of those things.
586 2009-05-17 Known for his sumptuous menus and seamless service, Mr. Boulud — the name, brain and palate behind one of the country’s gold-plated dining empires — has already taken a bow for just about every round of applause that the industry has to offer. With the Dinex Group, a management company he co-founded, he and a team of managers and accountants oversee an operation with more than 900 employees in markets as far-flung as Beijing and Vancouver.

They have not misfired yet, but Mr. Boulud and his cadre might be trying their trickiest maneuver to date, creating DBGB at a moment that is smiling on fast food and little else. In this environment, you could forgive the man for cutting a few corners, or scaling back his ambitions.

But during Round 8 of recipe tests, on Tuesday, he refuses to grade on the curve. He stoically appraises entrees and appetizers in what feels like a marathon episode of “Top Chef” — except that this judge has helped conceive the dishes and never seems very pleased by the results.

The lamb ribs confit with roasted lamb leg and spring beans? “Maybe a little more herbs in it,” he suggests. The Maryland lump crab cake with a curry sauce and pickled radish? “More crab, less garnish.” The passion fruit crepe with mango slices? “We’re still not there.”

We sit across from Mr. Boulud, shamelessly pillaging the leftovers and thinking: huh? Each dish seems head-spinningly yummy, but Mr. Boulud summons enthusiasm only when he tries a sausage called the Vermonter, and he cracks a smile only after a forkful of beer-battered haddock beignets.

“I think it’s good,” he says, like a man enjoying a guilty pleasure.

A SELF-DESCRIBED “psycho” when it comes to details, Mr. Boulud, 54, had planned a Paris-meets-Texas diner before anyone had heard of credit-default swaps. The concept evolved a little, but not the price point. Homemade sausages and hamburgers will be the centerpiece at DBGB, and the average bill for a three-course meal will come to about $32, the price of an appetizer at Daniel, his flagship.

He brings to this enterprise something like home-field advantage, opening in the city that made him a culinary star. With that comes buzz; nearly every week, news about some element of the layout, design and construction of DBGB pops up on the most trafficked restaurant blogs in Manhattan.

But by Dinex Group’s own calculations, DBGB must generate $4.5 million a year in revenue to be profitable, not easy in a time that a spokesman for the National Restaurant Association called “the most challenging the restaurant industry has seen in several decades.” A consumer marketing firm, NPD, issued a report a few weeks back stating that national restaurant traffic had dropped for a second consecutive quarter.

“And there will be at least one more down quarter, maybe two,” says Harry Balzer, an NPD vice president.

In New York City, it’s been ugly at nearly all price levels.

“Does the word ‘bloodbath’ meaning anything to you?” asks Clark Wolf, a Manhattan restaurant consultant. “The fact is that if you built your restaurant business on all these Wall Street guys getting ridiculous bonuses selling stuff that turned out to be worth nothing, your business is in trouble.”

More than a few well-regarded New York restaurants, like Fleur de Sel and Bar Q, have closed in recent months, and many others are gasping. Gone are the days of private-room parties for 30 people, at $80 a head, with a few $1,500 bottles of wine.

Mr. Boulud isn’t the first to try to extend a gourmet brand from the high end to the affordable. He is hardly the most daring of those brand-extending chefs, either; his dishes are contemporary spins on French food, which he translates for Americans using ingredients rarely used in France, like Meyer lemons and risotto.

But nobody expects trailblazing invention from him, the sort associated with other French maestros. What distinguishes Mr. Boulud from his peers is that he emphasizes both hospitality and cooking.

“Daniel’s gift is that he’s actually interested in the people who are eating his food,” Mr. Wolf says. “It’s about his customers instead of his ego.”

IN late April, DBGB is a clamorous construction site near the corner of the Bowery and Houston Street on the ground floor of a new apartment building. You need to look under the plastic wrap that covers all the kitchen equipment to guess that a restaurant is being fabricated here. The dining room is a vast, concrete expanse. Men are drilling holes in the wall and ceiling, cutting sheets of metal, taking measurements. The leather banquettes are weeks from arrival, and there is still discussion about the design of the bar stools.

“It’s always like this,” says Dorothy Hom, who works for the company contracted to build DBGB. “It doesn’t look like a restaurant until right before you open the doors.”

Despite the name, which nods to CBGB, the famous punk rock club a block to the north, the restaurant’s design pays tribute to the area’s history as the restaurant supply center of New York. The walls will be lined with shelves and stocked with glasses and plates as well as pots and pans donated by great chefs from around the world. The kitchen is on the other side of the shelves, giving diners a semi-obstructed view of the cooking.

There is a weekly meeting here on Tuesday mornings, with Ms. Hom; Thomas Schlesser, the restaurant’s designer; Brett Traussi, the Dinex Group’s operations director; and Colin Alevras, DBGB’s sommelier. An agenda for the meeting is handed out, though it’s hard to hear anyone speaking over the din of saws and hammers.

You can hear enough to grasp that creating a restaurant is an endless series of decisions — the first few large (menu, location) and the next 7,000,000 tiny (where to hide an electrical cord). If there’s a guiding principle, it’s a preference for econo-class over luxury, without stinting on quality.

“This is a much smaller dishwasher than we’d like,” says Mr. Traussi, during a tour of the unfinished kitchen. “We also used a pot sink that was left over from the renovation of Daniel last year, and some old bar equipment, too.”

Plenty of decisions about DBGB are made on site at these Tuesday-morning meetings, but just as many come from the offices of the Dinex Group. Situated on the fourth floor of a Midtown building near Bryant Park, it has the open-air layout and décor of a dot-com start-up.

Many here are engaged in old-fashioned number-crunching — and there are plenty of numbers to crunch. After DBGB opens, there will be five New York restaurants, all of which are owned outright by Mr. Boulud and his partners. With the other restaurants — two in Vancouver, one each in Beijing, Palm Beach and Las Vegas — the company has management contracts with a variety of terms.

“When we manage a restaurant, we start making money from the first day,” Mr. Boulud explains. “When we own a place, it’s often five years before we earn the first penny that is clean of debt.”

Each restaurant is assigned a bookkeeper to track payroll and food costs. Alarms ring whenever gross margins drop below 10 percent. The chefs in each restaurant, all of whom Mr. Boulud has trained, have wide latitude when it comes to spending on ingredients, but if margins sag, forensic accounting will ensue.

“A few years ago, at Cafe Boulud, we couldn’t figure out why margins were so bad month after month,” says Lili Lynton, one of Mr. Boulud’s two partners. “Even the chef was baffled. We looked at everything and we finally realized — it was this reduction sauce, a really expensive reduction sauce, with truffles and mushrooms, which was in a bunch of dishes. Who would have thought? We figured it was the fish or the chicken or the meat. It was like a game of Clue, and the culprit was the gravy.”

A LOVE for minutiae is apparently a job requirement in this company. Consider the “mustard caddy,” a relish tray for DBGB that has taken months to design and is still a work in progress.

“Here’s the latest prototype,” says Michael Lawrence, assistant director of operations, sitting in a Dinex conference room. He has just retrieved an unadorned, dark-stained box, about 6 inches square and 4 inches deep.

“This is based on a sketch that Daniel drew — he’s a pretty good draftsman — and then we have a guy in upstate New York who will make them,” he said.

The idea was to build a snug little home for the collection of bottles, which will include two or three types of mustard, as well as ketchup, salt and vinegar. The box had to be durable, too.

“We were in here the other day slamming this box on the floor,” Mr. Lawrence says. “We also soaked it in water because these things are going to get wet.” He looked at the box with a bit of pride. “It warped a little but it stayed together.”

Mr. Lawrence has also taken the lead in choosing background music for DBGB, which he’s doing with Ear Networks, a company run out of the Hell’s Kitchen apartment-home office of Robert Drake, a sound engineer. The two have been fine-tuning the playlist for weeks, choosing from 45,000 songs in Mr. Drake’s library.

A few days after the mustard-caddy discussion, Mr. Lawrence invited a reporter along for a visit to Ear Networks, where he and Mr. Drake would designate tracks as “lunch,” “dinner” or “late night.” Generally speaking, the quiet stuff is lunch music — because nobody has been drinking — with livelier songs at dinner, and becoming more boisterous as the night wears on.

Mr. Drake clicked his mouse, and “Cowgirl in the Sand” by Neil Young blasted from the speakers.

“Late night or dinner?” Mr. Lawrence asked, shouting over the song.

“You tell me,” Mr. Drake said. “I was going to put it for dinner.”

In the end, DBGB will have a library of 4,000 songs and a sound system that can control the volume in different sections of the room.

For restaurants, music is one way to influence who shows up, or at least who comes back. You can aim at a demographic group by playing music that was beloved by its members when they were about 15 years old — the age when fandom typically leaves its most vivid tattoo. By that logic, DBGB is not exactly laying a welcome mat for the just-out-of-college set. There is little in the playlist that was recorded in the last 10 years.

That is no accident.

“It’s hard to get a liquor license around here, as you may know,” Mr. Traussi says, “and one of the things I heard when I canvassed people who live here is, ‘You’ll get kids in trucker hats and they’re never going to eat food and you’re going to turn into a bar before you know it.’ I think that’s an important concern. We’re not looking for that kid, right out of school who is 22 or 23. I think music is an important way to run a food-centric restaurant rather than a bar-centric restaurant.”

THE high-energy, persnickety style of the Dinex Group flows directly from the top. Mr. Boulud has a hard time ignoring the tiniest imperfections, and a harder time taking a day off. He describes the latter quality as a quirk that he really needs to work on.

Standing on East 65th Street near Park Avenue, on the sidewalk beside Daniel, he gestured to the apartment where he lives with his wife, Michelle. (The couple have a college-age daughter, Alix.) The apartment is almost directly above the dining room, a lifestyle choice that only a workaholic would make.

“I’m crazy,” he says with a shrug, pointing to where he lives. He spins one hand as if it holds a screwdriver. “I’ve got to fix myself.”

A 5-foot-6ish guy with the good looks of an anchorman and the eyewear of an architect, Mr. Boulud is an affable glad-hander when he’s working the front of the room, with an amazing ability to remember names and a warmth that can’t be faked. In the kitchen, he is serious and intense. He’s never been tantrum-prone like Gordon Ramsay, the British chef and reality-TV star, but he has said he’s capable of a good 10-second outburst.

He doesn’t seem particularly comfortable talking about himself or the source of his exacting standards. What he will say is that he’s been the same way since childhood, growing up on a 50-acre farm outside Lyon, France. He and his family raised chickens, goats and guinea fowl and grew vegetables and grains.

The farm taught him the fine art of frugality, a skill not normally associated with artistes of the kitchen. Everything was either consumed or repurposed, he recalls. If there was soup left over from dinner, you threw in some vegetables and bread and fed it to the pigs.

“A lot of chefs don’t have a natural sense of economy,” he says. “I was with one guy the other day and I had to show him how to peel a turnip, because the way he was peeling turnips, he was throwing half of it in the garbage. It’s not about being cheap. It’s about being proper.”

Mr. Boulud ran his first restaurant in Denmark, in 1980, and was executive chef at Le Cirque in Manhattan from 1986 to 1993. When he decided to light out on his own, Ms. Lynton, a longtime friend of Mr. Boulud’s wife and then a researcher at a Wall Street brokerage firm, offered to help put together a business plan and look for investors.

At the time, she was married to a man with a very wealthy uncle named Joel Smilow, who in 1992 retired from a business career that included plenty of leveraged buyouts and a stint as the president and C.E.O. of Playtex.

“I call myself a retired brassiere salesman,” says Mr. Smilow, now 76.

Already an active philanthropist, he was looking at the time for new investments that met two criteria: the venture had to be profitable, and it had to be fun. Mr. Smilow decided that Mr. Boulud’s venture would fit the bill if, and only if, he was the sole backer.

“I felt like if there were six investors, they wouldn’t get along with each other and they’d make life hell for the guy they were backing,” he explains. “That happens more often than not when it comes to restaurants.”

Mr. Smilow chipped in the roughly $2.5 million needed to open Daniel in its original location, on East 76th Street near Madison Avenue, the current home of Cafe Boulud, and he has bankrolled every subsequent opening or, in the case of DBGB, helped guarantee a bank loan. Naturally, Mr. Smilow gets the visiting-potentate treatment at all Boulud restaurants, not to mention bragging rights.

Years ago, Mr. Smilow attended a dinner party at a friend’s house in Florida, and the guests included Preston Robert Tisch, then a co-owner of the New York Giants. After the meal, over a cup of coffee in the living room, the two compared investments.

“Bob was a friend of mine and I said: ‘Bob, in a certain way, I think the same joy and pride you get by being co-owner of the Giants is what I have in my partnership with Daniel and the restaurants. The only difference is that every night we’re in the Super Bowl. And every night we win.’ ”

NOT surprisingly, the Dinex Group has a very precise idea of how busy DBGB must be. It needs to fill each of its 140 dining seats twice on high-traffic nights (Thursday, Friday and Saturday) and 1.25 times on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Anything in excess of those numbers — say 2.25 seatings on a Saturday night — is money in the bank. There are similar calculations for lunch.

Seated in his skybox at Daniel on Tuesday, Mr. Boulud finished his nibble-a-thon with a thumbs-down for a crepe with a brownielike chocolate center. (“It needs to be muddier.”) Then he tried to sound upbeat about his chances for succeeding in the worst economic environment in generations. Mostly, though, he exuded the uneasiness of a man who is unwilling to take much comfort in the winning streak of his past.

“It’s indulgence on a dime instead of indulgence on a dollar,” he said, summing up DBGB. Then he laughed and added, “Let’s hope we have it right.”
587 2009-05-17 Katherine Jeehae Park and Robert David Price were married Saturday at Ici restaurant in Brooklyn. Jesse D. Hendrich, a minister of the Church of Spiritual Humanism, officiated.

Mrs. Price, 34, works in Manhattan as the vice president of public relations at Harper’s Magazine. She also owns a media consultancy in Manhattan. She helps executives and professionals prepare for media interviews. She graduated from Emory and received an M.B.A. from Fordham.

She is the daughter of Kay Hee Park and Sunny K. Park of Atlanta. Her father is the chief executive of two Atlanta-based companies, General Building Maintenance, which provides janitorial and other services; and Global Sun Investments, a commercial real estate developer. He is also the founder and a director of the Good Neighboring Campaign in Atlanta, which helps Korean immigrants and other Asian-Americans and fosters their involvement in community affairs. He is also the vice chairman of the Georgia Ports Authority in Savannah.

Mr. Price, 30, is a senior designer in Manhattan at Olivet International, a Taiwanese handbag and luggage manufacturer. He is also the founder and creative director of Thwart Design, a design collective, which has exhibited at Spring Design & Art in Brooklyn. He graduated from Pratt Institute.

He is a son of Julie D. Price of Newport Beach, Calif. His mother is a registered nurse for Procel Nurses, an agency in Hermosa Beach, Calif. She specializes in neonatal care and works at various hospitals in Orange County, Calif.
588 2009-05-17 Olivia Selfridge Rissland and David John Knezevic were married Saturday in Lincoln, Mass. The Rev. Roger W. Paine III, senior minister of the First Parish Church at Lincoln, performed the ceremony in his church.

The bride, 26, and the bridegroom, 27, met as Rhodes scholars at Oxford, where each received a doctorate, she in biology and he in computational mathematics. They are doing postdoctoral research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where she is a molecular biologist at the Whitehead Institute and he is an applied mathematician in the mechanical engineering department.

Dr. Rissland, who is keeping her name, graduated magna cum laude from Brown and is the daughter of Edwina L. Rissland of Belmont, Mass., and the late Oliver G. Selfridge. Her mother is a computer science professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, where she is also a specialist in artificial intelligence. The bride’s father was an innovator in early computer science and artificial intelligence. He was affiliated with the Lincoln Laboratory at M.I.T., and later became chief scientist for GTE.

The bride’s paternal great-grandfather, H. Gordon Selfridge, was an American who founded the Selfridges department store in London.

Dr. Knezevic graduated from the University of Western Australia in Perth with two bachelor’s degrees, one in engineering and the other in computer and mathematical sciences. He is a son of Beverley Knezevic and Dr. Wally Knezevic of Perth, Australia. His mother is a supervisor of student teachers in the department of education at the Edith Cowan University campus there. His father is a neurologist in Perth.
589 2009-05-17 Rather than the mixed views that the headline promised, your article was a one-sided analysis of the financial and bureaucratic cons of an arts campus.

As a 12-year-old ballet dancer from the Deep South, I felt a sense of awe when in front of Lincoln Center, wondering how it could be possible that a city’s opera, ballet and symphony could each have their own home.

I still feel the same sense of joy and inspiration each time I step out at intermission at Lincoln Center and mingle with a crowd and then gaze across the square at equally large crowds at the symphony and Met. It is a shame that you left out any positive or creative reviews of this country’s crown jewel for the performing arts on its 50th anniversary.
590 2009-05-17 SHE is still slightly bleary-eyed — two weeks of poring over evaluations of 100 high school musicals will do that to a person — but Lisa Cooney, director of education for Paper Mill Playhouse, can see clearly enough to focus on what this year’s Rising Star Award nominees have in common: chutzpah.

“There were a lot of big production-oriented shows” that did well, she said, like “The Will Rogers Follies,” “Anything Goes” and “The Producers.” “Schools are being more ambitious, especially when it comes to dance,” Ms. Cooney said.

That said, a number of schools that have track records of excellence with the program, now in its 13th year, are well represented in this year’s nominations, which were announced Monday. The awards ceremony is June 16.

Summit High School’s production of “The Music Man” earned the most nominations, 17, including the categories of best overall production; best lead actress for Christine Conigliaro, a junior, as Marian Paroo; three nominations for best ensemble member (Brinden Elton, Anise Molina and Katherine Grayeski, all juniors); and best director for Anne Poyner, director of theater arts and forensics.

Fair Lawn High School’s “Thoroughly Modern Millie” racked up 15 nominations, including best overall production; best actress for Julia Knitel, a sophomore, as Millie Dillmont; best supporting actress for Megan Boseski, a senior, as Mrs. Meers; best supporting actress for Katya Stepanov, a senior, as Miss Dorothy Brown; and outstanding director for John Giresi, director of musical theater productions.

Rahway High School, which staged “The Will Rogers Follies,” garnered 13 nominations. Among them were best overall production; best lead actress for Sarah Lopez, a senior, as Betty Blake Rogers; best lead actor for Phelan Tupik, a junior, as Will Rogers; best featured role for Ashley Stretchen, a senior, as Ziegfeld’s Favorite; and best director for Alison Dooley, musical theater and dance teacher.
591 2009-05-17 The Treasury Department said last week that it would increase incentives for lenders to work out short sales when borrowers fail to keep pace with their loan payments. The department did not release details about those incentives.

Lenders have been eager for direction from the government, especially when more than one loan is involved. “To be able to systematize the negotiation would be a big plus,” said David Sunlin, Bank of America’s real estate management executive.

In the meantime, Mr. Sunlin said, Bank of America has shifted its own policy to encourage more short sales.

In the past, the bank followed the recommendation of Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored mortgage finance business, and gave second lien holders about 10 percent of the second mortgage balance in a short sale where Bank of America held the first lien. When Bank of America held the second lien, it also required first lien holders to forfeit that amount in a short sale.

Now, when it holds the second lien, Bank of America will accept 5 percent of the net proceeds of the short sale, Mr. Sunlin said. When it is the first lien holder, it will offer the same to holders of the second lien.

Banks encourage short sales because they lose less money on such transactions than they do in foreclosures, where they must sometimes carry the house for months before selling it.

Homeowners who are considering short sales can often make the process smoother by involving the bank early in the process.

For instance, if a home is worth $375,000, but has a first mortgage of $390,000 and a second mortgage of $20,000, the borrower might contact his or her first mortgage holder and raise the possibility of a short sale. If that lender knows it can negotiate successfully with the second lien holder, it can start those negotiations and put the borrower in touch with a real estate agent with experience in short sales.

The borrower would then list the home for its appraised value, and the agent, after conferring with the lender, usually accepts any offer close to that amount. After the house sells, the bank pays the agent’s commission of around 6 percent, and pays the second lien holder a portion of the proceeds. Both lenders then forgive the remaining debt.

The borrower is not off the hook completely, since after the short sale his or her credit score is likely to fall. But even then, the credit score would probably be far better than it would be after a foreclosure.

Mr. Sunlin said that homeowners who are considering short sales do not necessarily need to involve the bank early on. He said they can contact the bank within five days of getting an offer on the house and still expect good results.

That is especially true, he added, if documents are presented showing that the offer is in line with others in the local market, as well as pay stubs and other paperwork demonstrating the borrower’s financial hardship.

Mr. Mitchell of Lynx says short sales are often the best approach, even for homeowners considering a new loan to save the home.

“It’s gotten to the point where people understand that sometimes you have to start over,” he said. “A loan modification might help you in the short term, but sometimes what people need to do is get out completely.”
592 2009-05-17 When Tom McCarthy agreed to review Clancy Martin’s first novel, “How to Sell,” for us, he was tempted partly by the book’s setting inside the world of crooked jewelers.

“I’ve got a longstanding fascination with the way in which economics haunts literature, and vice versa,” he said in a recent e-mail message. “You can trace the history of this haunting from Joyce, whose writing is obsessed with credit, debt and forgery, right back through Shakespeare, whose ‘Merchant of Venice’ should be required reading for all economists — especially now.”

McCarthy’s own first novel, “Remainder,” took up the “problem of counterfeit” (as he puts it in his review) by having its narrator stage elaborate re-enactments of mundane events, thus grappling with questions of reproduction and authenticity. These questions are nothing new for McCarthy, an artist as well as a writer, whose artworks often draw on the history of literature. “Right now I’ve just installed a ‘Black Box Transmitter’ in an art institute in Germany. It sends out looping sequences of poetry created by cutting up and mixing together stock market prices, weather forecasts and lines of Hölderlin. Radio really interests me at the moment. I’ve just finished a novel about early radio and its relation to poetry and death. Technology is always haunted, too: that’s what makes it so sexy.”
593 2009-05-17 Emirates, the Dubai-based airline, recently introduced the Arabian Air Pass program. Valid for passengers planning to visit Dubai from outside the Gulf and the Middle East, the pass offers travelers the chance to take additional low-cost flights to destinations like Amman, Bahrain, Beirut, Cairo, Damascus, Dammam, Doha, Kuwait, Muscat, Riyadh, Sana and Tehran. There are no minimum-stay restrictions but the additional trips must all originate from Dubai and must be completed before travelers return to their home destinations.

Sample one-way economy fares include $50 to Doha and Muscat, and $150 to Amman, Beirut, Cairo, Damascus and Tehran. The pass is available to travelers who purchase a round-trip ticket to Dubai that costs at least $500 and must be purchased at the same time as the original ticket. No more than six one-way tickets may be bought with each pass. The offer ends Oct. 31 (www.emirates.com/usa).
594 2009-05-17 One of Manhattan’s best known hotels, the Pierre, will reopen on June 1 after having closed for 18 months to complete a $100 million renovation of its 189 guest rooms and suites and all public spaces.

The hotel, which originally opened in 1930 at 61st Street and Fifth Avenue overlooking Central Park, will also be the first North American location for the celebrated London restaurant Le Caprice, set to open by the end of summer. There will also be a new lobby lounge and bar, called 2 East.

Guest rooms have been repainted and decorated in tones of corals and blues, and now feature 40-inch flat-screen televisions, Wi-Fi and Bose Wave Music Systems with iPod docking stations, as well as artwork selected by Mortimer Chatterjee, a former Christie’s executive . Bathrooms have been outfitted in Turkish marble and feature glass-walled showers; most have also been enlarged to incorporate new separate soaking tubs. Nightly rates begin at $895 (www.tajhotels.com/pierre).
595 2009-05-17 In David Leonhardt’s interview with President Obama (May 3), the president provided a glimpse of what we should want from a reformed health care system. Implicitly, he held out the vision of individuals who, because they have insurance, feel encouraged to visit their doctors early in an episode of illness. Over time, doctor and patient build trusting relationships focused on the patient’s health as the only legitimate endpoint. And for their part, the doctors have both the information, available electronically, that they need to provide the most appropriate care and financial incentives that encourage them to do so.

This image reminds me of a study I did at the Harvard Community Health Plan in the 1980s. We heard repeatedly from physicians how much they appreciated the staff-model H.M.O. arrangements that allowed them to focus on doing their best for their patients. They felt relieved not to need to worry about, on the one hand, whether a patient could afford the appropriate treatment and, on the other, how their clinical decisions would affect their own financial well-being.

President Obama makes a strong case for education as the ticket to getting good jobs and securing the economic future of the nation’s middle class. Here’s another good reason: More education translates to better health. A new report from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Commission to Build a Healthier America demonstrates that people with more education are healthier. For example, compared with college graduates, people who don’t finish high school are more than three times as likely in some states to have less than very good health. Their rates of diabetes and heart disease are five times higher than those of people whose health is very good or excellent.

These health differences aren’t just a matter of extremes. What we see is a sliding scale of increasingly better health linked to increasing levels of education. Improving education can improve America’s health, which in turn can help our nation lower health care costs, which in turn can help our economy. Education, health and the economy are all linked. Policy makers should develop a unified approach to addressing these issues.

President Obama’s responses to David Leonhardt’s questions about health care are almost solely about the individual physician treating the individual patient — the already ill — and payment for one-on-one care of the ill. Yet most of the advances in public health — public health being the health of as many individuals as possible, minimizing the need and demand for critical care — have come about as a result of government involvement in what may be called indirect, nonclinical endeavors like healthful air, healthful water, healthful food, safe buildings, healthful waste disposal, large-scale epidemiology and basic scientific research. The extreme diversion of public funds to individual care shifts the public focus from public health to the financial benefit of the individual clinical practitioner, but it would be valuable for the government to consider “health care” in the more general sense of public-health programs.

In the article transcribing his conversation with President Obama, David Leonhardt wisely included nine footnotes, some of them quite extensive. Footnotes! In a presidential interview! I seem to recall a recent president who may never in his life have even read a footnote. Now we have one whose off-the-top-of-his-head comments require nine of them, so that we can fully understand his meaning. Breathes there a citizen with soul so dead that he can’t appreciate this improvement?
596 2009-05-17 Jon Lawson is a production electrician, which in “Mary Stuart” means he gets to activate the rain, real water that floods the stage. Rain is the domain of an electrician? “It involves electrical pumps,” Mr. Lawson said. “Traditionally in the theater any water effects have been the electrician’s department.”

Some backstage types may yearn for the limelight, but not Mr. Lawson. “I used to be a nauseating child actor years ago, and decided I would be more effective in the wings,” he said in a recent interview. As a high school student in Rye, N.Y., Mr. Lawson was asked to help hang lights for a show once “and something, pardon the pun, lit up inside,” he said.

After finishing college, he was a hippie for a while — it was the mid-1970s — but eventually settled into a career backstage. He has worked on Broadway for 25 years.

“I am presented with a design, a number of blueprints from the designer, and I am responsible for executing the design,” Mr. Lawson said, describing his function. “I hire crews to prep it, load it in and run it.”

On some shows, as he did for “Mary Stuart,” he stays on after opening night to run the computerized light board during performances instead of hiring someone else. The work starts well before curtain, when he tests the equipment.

On “Stuart,” he said, “we turn on all the stage lights and make sure our rain system is running properly.” Though he doesn’t have to worry about stage fright, the job is not without its hazards. “On ‘Frost/Nixon’ the light board froze,” he said. “All the lights went out onstage.” The show had to be stopped for about 15 minutes while he went to work. Such situations are rare, Mr. Lawson said, and even if the job is occasionally stressful, he keeps things in perspective.
597 2009-05-17 COPENHAGEN has two faces. One has regal architecture, populated with elegantly dressed bicyclists and citizens so polite they wait patiently for the light to turn green before crossing empty streets.

But along its eastern coast, just across the Knippels Bridge, is its grubby alter ego, Christianshavn — a tiny island lined with brick warehouses. It is also home to Freetown Christiania, a kind of hippie commune formed in 1971 after squatters took over abandoned military barracks and proclaimed themselves an autonomous neighborhood.

Respectable Danes once kept their distance, but in recent years, the island’s industrial warehouses and narrow canals have become a magnet for artist types and trendsetters who are transforming Christianshavn into the city’s bohemian heart.

Funky cafes and boutiques have opened up. Old warehouses have been carved into enviable lofts with original wooden shutters and rusty pulleys. And 19th-century factories mix with a new 21st-century glass opera house along its picturesque canals, making Christianshavn feel like a mini-Amsterdam.

The island’s quirky mix of creative professionals and polyglot lawyers in sharp suits can be found at Café Kejzer (Strandgade 20; 45-3296-0306; www.kejzer.dk), a sunny cafe with creepy pencil drawings on the walls. Dishes like asparagus soup with crab (64 kroner, about $11 at 5.7 kroner to the dollar) and red tuna with capers and saffron mayo draws a lively lunch crowd.
598 2009-05-17 I was dismayed to read in Jonathan Mahler’s review of my biography of Yogi Berra (May 3) that I am guilty of both abandoning “all pretense to objectivity” in my love for Yogi and at the same time of keeping Yogi “at arm’s length.” Surely I cannot be guilty of both at the same time?

I was also dismayed to find that I had failed to peer “into Yogi’s inner life” off the field when in fact I devoted a large portion of the book to detailing Berra’s childhood in the Italian-American “Hill” area of St. Louis and Yogi and Carmen’s home life in New Jersey. My research revealed no fireworks of the kind Mahler found in investigating Billy Martin’s life, but what the heck, that’s Yogi.

I am puzzled, though, as to the criticism that “Barra sticks to the facts, relying on other writers” and that “the book suffers” as a result. I don’t know how sticking to the facts can hurt a book, and the example that Mahler offers — my quoting Cornelius Ryan on the subject of the Normandy invasion — is even more puzzling, as I wasn’t there myself and could hardly give a firsthand account. Yogi was, and I let him tell his story — a fact Mahler neglects to mention. (Did Mahler not “rely on other writers,” many of them, in writing his own fine book on the Yankees, “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is Burning”?

I thank Mahler for complimenting my work for The New York Times, but that was more than six years ago. Since then I have been laboring in obscurity, contributing to The Wall Street Journal.
599 2009-05-17 Another form of the blink-and-you’ll-miss-it sale that has been gaining popularity is online auctions in which travelers bid on vacations at sites like and , which companies use to dispose of unsold inventory quickly. The number of auction listings at Luxurylink.com, which offers cut rates on high-end hotels and villas, has more than doubled to 14,532 from the start of the year through mid-March, compared with the same period last year.

A Luxurylink.com auction of a seven-night stay at the Grand Velas, an all-suites luxury resort in Nuevo Vallarta, , had a winning bid of $5,249 — more than 50 percent off the estimated $10,804 retail value, including all meals, airport transfers, resort and a number of treatments in March. Similarly, a week at BodyHoliday, a luxury resort on , went for $3,781 — half off the retail value of $7,462.

Mainstream tour operators have been getting into the act with auctions of their own. In February Abercrombie & Kent, which occupies a rung at the high end of the tour market, held a six-hour online auction of five “once-in-a-lifetime” trips to places like , and . Every half hour, starting bids were lowered an additional 5 percent until the discount reached 60 percent or the trip sold out. The company said the auctions attracted new business with 58 percent of bookings made by first-time customers. The sale was so successful that the tour operator conducted a second auction last week, offering $6,965 cruises for starting bids ranging from $2,786 to $6,617, and $7,040 East African safaris for $2,816 to $6,688.

Alvin Silverman, a certified public accountant from ., estimates he has won at least 15 auctions at Luxurylink.com, including multiple trips to the high-end CuisinArt Resort in , where starting rates are $400 a night in the summer, or $2,000 for a five-night stay. Mr. Silverman paid $1,150 to $1,200 apiece for five-night stays through his Luxurylink.com winnings, and the rates included add-ons like a dinner, lunch and massages.

In December, he won four nights in an over-the-top villa at Sheriva on Anguilla for $2,200. During the high season the same villa goes for $10,000 a night. “That was a super steal,” Mr. Silverman said. “This place is the best of the best. I had my own private chef, about a 10,000-square-foot villa, a staff of about five people, and you were able to use Cap Juluca facilities with signing privileges,” he said (Cap Juluca is a nearby luxury resort much favored by celebrities). “ couldn’t do better.”

Another Luxurylink.com enthusiast, Horst Brautigam, who says he regularly saves 50 percent on luxury hotels through the site, offers some bidding advice. Check the past auction results: “If only one or two bids were made for a particular auction, you should be successful at the minimum price.” Be patient: “Most auctions are repeated within a three- to four-day period.” Check hotel availability before placing a bid if you’re not flexible on travel dates: “They will not make a firm reservation before you actually secure your package, but at least they can give you an idea.”

But if you’re flexible, the sites can pay off. George Davis, 51, a fairgrounds manager from Marietta, Ga., has used FloridaVacationAuction.com many times for quick family getaways. For a four-night trip in February to Destin, Fla., with his 11-year-old son, , Mr. Davis won a bid for two nights at the Comfort Inn and two nights at the Wingate Inn for about $35 a night. “It was probably 50 percent off,” he said. “They gave us an upgrade to a suite, too.”

Michele Ash, a graphic designer from Sun City Center, Fla., who routinely uses FloridaVacationAuction.com, said, “I never pay more than 50 percent of retail.” For a four-night getaway to in July, for example, she is paying just $120 for two nights, including taxes and breakfast each day at the Crowne Plaza Hotel, normally $159 a night with breakfast. “I shouldn’t brag too much,” Ms. Ash said, “or I’ll have too much competition when it come to bidding.”
600 2009-05-17 BUKHARA GRILL in Hicksville specializes in the food of India’s northwest frontier, a cuisine dominated by dishes from the clay oven as well as the grill. The owners have had a restaurant of the same name on East 49th Street in Manhattan since 1999; the Hicksville location, where prices on many dishes are substantially lower, opened last August.

The Bukhara Grill in Hicksville is a spare, modern place with two walls of windows (unfortunately overlooking parking lots). The simple décor is defined by bare wood tables topped with votive candles and cloth napkins embroidered with the restaurant’s name. A second look revealed that the napkins were really full-size bibs, complete with strings to tie around the neck. (We didn’t see anyone doing that, though.)

Service was quietly efficient. Our pleasant waiter never took a note but got everything right. He also did a good job describing unfamiliar dishes. In contrast was a bubbling dynamo who stopped at our table, said he was an owner and promised: “You’ll come back” and “You’ll bring your friends.”

He was right. The food was not only tasty and well prepared but also modestly priced. Most entrees are in the $10 to $15 range, with lamb chops ($22) the most expensive. Between 5:30 and 7 weeknights, house wines and appetizers are half price.

Tawa crab and pickled mushrooms were favorites among those appetizers. The latter, hot from the clay oven, had been slathered in sour cream infused with turmeric and other spices. The very flavorful crab, served warm, was mixed with curry leaves, onions, tomatoes and ginger. Other tasty starters were the tandoori shrimp, two firm, lightly cooked jumbos marinated in yogurt and spices; fish tikka, marinated cubes of salmon; and lamb seekh, cigar-shaped rolls of minced lamb and spices. Quail from the tandoor oven were succulent but small and deemed not worth the effort to eat.
601 2009-05-17 Mr. Jankowski, who served in a similar position in Boston, said he sympathizes with people confused by Nassau’s assessments.

“I’ve asked all kinds of experts — lawyers and officials — if they can explain to me in 20 minutes or less how the system works,” he said. “So far, I haven’t found a single one.”

He is drafting changes to simplify the process, which is markedly different from the one in Suffolk, where the 10 towns individually set the assessments, not the county.

Nassau’s system is also under attack in State Supreme Court in a lawsuit from County Legislator Roger H. Corbin. He contends that when property owners win assessment reductions, the county should stop its practice of paying the refunds for excess taxes that school districts and other governments collected.

“It’s not fair, and it’s illegal,” said Mr. Corbin, who contends that the county has no authority to pay those refunds. The system hurts homeowners in districts with little commercial property because their county taxes help pay refunds for excess taxes collected by other districts with a large commercial base, he said.

The county attorney, Lorna B. Goodman, sides with the suit. “The law is what Mr. Corbin said it is,” she said.

But school districts oppose the suit, saying they have no control over assessments and cannot afford refunds. One of their lawyers, Gregory J. Guercio, said, “The county should pay for its own mistakes.”

Nassau’s assessments, based partly on 1938 construction costs before materials like wallboard and vinyl siding, hobbled along for decades. Then the system spun out of control in the 1990s, overwhelmed by challenges. Court cases dragged on for years, running up huge retroactive refunds. Eventually, refunds of nearly $2 billion were incurred.

To pay, the county borrowed so much that Nassau had the highest per capita county debt in the state. Nassau’s credit rating sank, and the county was forced to seek a state bailout. The state agreed but created the Nassau Interim Finance Authority for oversight.

The fiscal turmoil exacted a political price, too. After decades of Republican dominance, the Democrats won a majority in the County Legislature in 1999 and elected Mr. Suozzi in 2001.

Mr. Suozzi has been widely praised for reducing the county work force and other costs, balancing the budget, reducing debt and raising the credit rating. But assessment issues proved stubborn. He supported a general revaluation, ordered by a court because of racial disparities.

He tried to expedite challenges, correcting assessments quickly to avoid retroactive refunds. He planned to pay off the old case backlog and pay new refunds from current revenue instead of borrowing. He had hoped to do this by the end of his first term in 2005, but the efforts were incomplete.

“An ‘F’ across the board — they did not do any of the above,” said the Legislature’s Republican minority leader, Peter J. Schmitt. He has called for an assessment freeze. “We have a backlog of grievances, and we’ve returned to borrowing. It’s terrible.”

Renewed borrowing also drew the ire of the Nassau Interim Finance Authority, which last fall stated its “unanimous and unequivocal” opposition. Borrowing “was one of if not the pre-eminent reason for the original fiscal crisis of Nassau County, which led to the creation of Nifa by the state,” the agency said. “We cannot begin down that road again. Nifa cannot endorse a fiscal policy that it was created, in part, to end.”

Mr. Suozzi said he had made major progress, including nearly doubling the assessment staff to 252 from 130, correcting glitches in the computerized reassessment and paying off a record $251 million in refunds in 2005.

Mr. Suozzi attributed discontent over assessments to the old reputation of faulty valuations; high taxes — about $10,000 year for a typical homeowner; Republican campaign advertisements against assessments; and firms specializing in filing grievances that foster the notion of overassessment. The firms seek fees for such cases.

Ten companies widely solicit owners and account for 80 percent of residential assessment-grievance cases, Mr. Jankowski said. “Somebody remarked to me they got 12 different mailings to be signed up as a client,” he said. “People are being told their assessments are too high — even before they get their assessments.”

Owners of 46,471 properties filed for each of the last four years — even though 78 percent never won reductions, Mr. Jankowski said.

“They’ve made an attempt to keep the assessment rolls up to date, which didn’t happen before,” said Donald F. Leistman, who specializes in commercial cases. The process has accelerated and the backlog has dwindled, but assessors often ignore past reductions in setting new values, he said.

Fred N. Perry, a leading lawyer in residential cases, voiced a similar complaint. “They don’t honor court-ordered reductions,” he said, “and people in my field are continually scratching our heads.” He said the county’s Assessment Review Commission “has been getting up to speed in the last two years, but they’re not perfect.”

The county comptroller, Howard S. Weitzman, said Nassau had made big strides in resolving assessment issues, “but it may be that the goals were too optimistic.”

“By this time we had hoped assessments would not be a problem,” he said, “but it’s a work in progress.”
602 2009-05-17 To the Editor:     Re ''Peace and Love, Yes. But Understanding?'' (Sunday Styles, May 10):...
603 2009-05-17 To the Sports Editor:     I want to thank Jeré Longman for his nuanced and considerate article on Shawn Andrews's battle with depression. It seems as if only mainstream articles available about this debilitating disorder are tabloid features abou...
604 2009-05-17 For sellers, holding a garage sale is a way to make a little extra money and do some spring cleaning and purging at the same time. For buyers, the garage sale taps into that universal desire to score a bargain. All motives are in keeping with the ...
605 2009-05-18 Just how influential are stock analysts when it comes to their recommendations? Not very, according to a new study....
606 2009-05-18 A relapse is typically bad news, but in this case it’s a positive omen for fans of Eminem....
607 2009-05-18 A Q&A with Jane Lynch, a star of the new Fox series “Glee.”...
608 2009-05-18 A ring of thieves have used phone technology to steal an estimated $15 million over the past year....
609 2009-05-18 Final passage in the House of a financial fraud bill cleared the way for an investigative commission to examine the causes of the economic downturn....
610 2009-05-18 American Express, the credit card and travel services company, said Monday that it planned to eliminate 4,000 jobs, or 6 percent of its work force, as the weakened economy causes higher customer defaults....
611 2009-05-18 The Fairfield Greenwich Group, the hedge fund family that topped the list of losers in the Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme, has been sued by the trustee overseeing the search for assets in the case....
612 2009-05-18 Best Buy has convinced the record labels to lower their prices so it can offer the Napster subscription service for $5 a month. One problem: cellphones not included....
613 2009-05-18 Carlos Delgado will have surgery on his hip. Here's a look at the Mets' three in-house candidates to replace him at first base....
614 2009-05-18 Saks, the luxury department store, is coming under fire from the hedge fund P. Schoenfeld Asset Management, which believes the company has underperformed its competitors and needs to change its corporate governance practices....
615 2009-05-18 VENICE -- While the curator Daniel Birnbaum and his teams are still working day and night on the final installations for the 53rd Venice Biennale at the Giardini, the Arsenale and various Palazzos all around the city, another much anticipated cont...
616 2009-05-18 How the recession is affecting people and their decisions about having children....
617 2009-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
618 2009-05-18 Gov. David A. Paterson wants a new state ethics commission to replace the Public Integrity Commission, which was created in 2007....
619 2009-05-18 The Obama administration's new rules could lead to lasting reductions in gasoline consumption, and might reverse a constant factor in the nation's energy system: the inexorable rise in gas demand....
620 2009-05-18 Volkswagen warned Porsche on Monday that it would have to do a better job of explaining its finances before merger discussions could proceed, the latest indication that the talks were in trouble....
621 2009-05-18 The Center for Economic Opportunity was founded in 2006 as a public-private partnership within the mayor's office to test experimental antipoverty programs....
622 2009-05-18 State Street said Monday it would sell new stock and notes to repay the government's investment in the company, as many large financial institutions continue to seek an exit from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP....
623 2009-05-18 Facebook has almost finished raising $150 million in capital, money the social network hopes to use to buy out shares of hundreds of current employees, VentureBeat reported, citing undisclosed sources....
624 2009-05-18 The founder and manager of Ruderman Capital Partners bilked investors out of about $44 million while claiming annual returns of as much as 60 percent, prosecutors said....
625 2009-05-18 Two former traders at Ross Perot's investment firm Parkcentral Capital Management are seeking to raise funds to hang their own hedge fund shingle....
626 2009-05-18 A former partner at the accounting firm Ernst & Young was found guilty on Friday of securities fraud for an insider trading scheme but not guilty of conspiracy charges....
627 2009-05-18 Asian shares fell on Monday as concerns about slumping corporate profits and the still-uncertain outlook for the global economy fueled a retreat from recent highs, keeping the safe-haven yen broadly higher....
628 2009-05-18 Monday | Today's idea: Contrary to what you might think, many of the world's desperately poor do not live hand to mouth. They save to smooth out the roughest edges of existence, yet pay dearly for the privilege. [Economist, "Porfolios of the Poor,...
629 2009-05-18 “There are 18 days left in the Senate session,” said Thomas K. Duane, the Senate’s only openly gay member. “I need your help.”

As supporters of the bill work to round up the votes they need, opponents, who have so far struggled to organize an effective movement against same-sex marriage, appear to be making some headway. Thousands of people lined Third Avenue on Sunday to protest the bill, which Mr. Paterson introduced to the Legislature last month.

The New York Hispanic Clergy Organization, led by Senator Rubén Díaz Sr., a Pentecostal minister, organized the event. In a speech delivered in Spanish, Mr. Díaz warned the governor that there would be political consequences for supporting same-sex marriage.

“We’re here to say to the governor: Mr. Governor, look at the people that are here, these are the people who say we don’t believe in marriage between a man and a man and a woman and a woman,” Mr. Díaz said.

During the event, which took on the air of an evangelical church service at times, a number of speakers offered prayers as audience members stood with their arms raised and their palms facing outward.

One speaker, the Rev. Miguel A. Rivera, offered a prayer for the governor, who he said was not only “physically blind, but spiritually blind.”

Some gay rights advocates appear to be growing impatient with senators who are considering backting the bill but have not yet publicly committed.

At a gathering of gay rights advocates in Rochester on Saturday night, Alan Van Capelle, executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, said he believed that there were some politicians who felt that voting for the bill would be the right thing to do, but that they would not, for fear of the political ramifications.

“Because they’re either lazy or complacent or cowards, they do not act. And history will never forget them. They will not be forgiven,” Mr. Van Capelle said.

Mr. Bloomberg, also expressed a sense of urgency on Sunday, and he encouraged people to press their senators to support the bill. “We’ve got to put the pressure on them and not take any double talk for an answer,” he said. “We won’t stop until we put a bill on the governor’s desk.”

One person who was notably absent at the governor’s rally was Malcolm A. Smith, the majority leader of the Senate. His spokesman said he was in Albany. Mr. Smith was also absent during a news conference in Manhattan last month when Mr. Paterson introduced his bill, leading some gay rights advocates to question how committed he was.

The issue is a delicate one for Mr. Smith, who has pledged to steer the bill through the Senate and lobby for votes, but also faces resistance from his church and some socially conservative constituents of his district in Queens.

“I make nothing of it,” said Micah Z. Kellner, a Democratic assemblyman from the Upper East Side. “All I need from Malcolm Smith is a yes vote. He doesn’t need to be the grand marshal of the gay pride parade.”
630 2009-05-18 “I thought I took all the right decisions today,” Federer said. “In the end, it was a perfect game for me.”

Federer drew even with Nadal in Masters titles and also ended Nadal’s 33-match winning streak on clay. Nadal will be going for a fifth consecutive French Open title beginning May 25.

“I don’t think he’s going to take any damage away from this,” Federer said. “I’m sure he’s going to be rock solid in Paris again.”

Nadal’s loss was his fifth in his last 155 matches on clay.

“To me, this tournament has nothing to do with Paris,” said Nadal, who was troubled with the odd bounces and faster pace brought on by the higher altitude. “This tournament is practically another surface compared to Paris.”

The two met in a final for the 16th time, with Nadal having won 11 times. He leads the overall series, 13-7. Only Ivan Lendl and John McEnroe have met in more finals — 20.

Federer, who is also the only top-10 player to have beaten Nadal on clay, saved two Nadal break chances before converting his first try in the ninth game. Federer slapped a forehand winner down the near line to set up the point and converted when Nadal weakly backhanded into the net. Federer served out to love to take the opening set.

“He was simply better than me,” Nadal said.

Nadal’s grueling semifinal win against Novak Djokovic took its toll as he failed to reach many balls he would normally get.

“It doesn’t help to play four hours yesterday,” Nadal said.

Federer netted his first match point but replied with his 25th winner to close it out. Nadal, who has won five titles this season, had only 12 winners.

“Things are falling into place, and of course it’s the right time to get the victory,” said Federer, who will try for his first French Open title.

Earlier, top-ranked Dinara Safina of Russia won her second straight title on clay by beating the Danish teenager Caroline Wozniacki, 6-2, 6-4, in the women’s final. Safina overpowered Wozniacki with 24 winners.

“Since I became No. 1, I’m playing better and better,” Safina, 23, said.
631 2009-05-18 SAN FRANCISCO — When California voters go to the polls on Tuesday to decide the fate of six budget-related ballot measures, one could argue that they have only themselves to blame.

After all, most of the measures — Propositions 1A through 1F — alter laws or rules they previously passed by initiative. Proposition 1E, for example, temporarily redirects money guaranteed for mental health services by Proposition 63, which voters approved in 2004. Proposition 1D does the same for money due to early childhood programs and guaranteed by Proposition 10, passed in 1998. And Proposition 1C seeks to modernize the lottery, which was created by voters in 1984, and allow the state to borrow from future profits.

“No one piece is incredibly complicated,” said Mac Taylor, the head of the Legislative Analyst’s Office in Sacramento. “But with some I don’t know how a voter on their own would make sense of them.”

All six measures were put on the ballot after a much-delayed budget deal passed in February, closing a $42 billion gap. But pollsters say the complexity of the issues and a profound sense of voter discontent may have a deadening effect on turnout, something that proponents of the measures fear.

“I do hope that voters understand how serious this is,” the California Assembly speaker, Karen Bass, a Los Angeles Democrat, said in an interview last week. “I do think if we fail and if we have to impose more cuts, the outrage will far surpass the anger people feel in having to participate in fixing the budget.”
632 2009-05-18 The rich could use some money-management help right now. Or so hopes the publisher of the revamped Worth magazine.

“Previous recessions haven’t worried the ultrahigh net worth individual,” said Patrick Williams, a former Condé Nast Portfolio salesman who is Worth’s new publisher, while this one has. “There couldn’t be a more pertinent time for Worth to step up to the plate.”

Worth, a personal finance magazine, has been battened about like a badminton birdie since its inception. It was started by Fidelity Investments in 1992, but Fidelity sold it because of an apparent conflict of interest — the magazine promoted financial service, which was what Fidelity sold. It was subsequently sold to a private-equity firm, filed for bankruptcy, and most recently was owned by CurtCo Media, the publisher of Robb Report, before being purchased by Sandow Media just over a year ago.

Sandow’s plan for Worth is to keep the personal finance coverage, with stories on the pitfalls of philanthropy or interesting investment vehicles, but make it more luxe. It will use matte paper, and the covers will be artsy photographs unrelated to articles inside, Mr. Williams said. After the spring issue, which is being printed now, Worth will take a hiatus, then go bimonthly with the October/November issue.

The business model is different from before, and similar to Sandow’s magazine NewBeauty, which covers plastic surgery and includes promotions from surgeons. Along with regular advertisements, Worth will sell packages to financial advisers, who will pay $30,000 to have their essays on wealth and biographies included in every issue. The section will be marked as a paid advertisement.

For its circulation, Worth has selected about 110,000 high-end recipients. They have a minimum of $2 million in wealth, but because “we feel that even in today’s marketplace, $2 million doesn’t make you the most affluent American around,” Mr. Williams said, there are other requirements. They must live near other rich people and subscribe to financial publications. They will get the publication free, while newsstand buyers will have to pay $18.95 an issue. STEPHANIE CLIFFORD
633 2009-05-18 Men are from Mars. Women are from Venus. And Dell is from the school of marketing hard knocks.     The computer maker recently took the wraps off a Web site geared toward women, called Della, which advertises Dell's line of Inspiron Mini 10 netboo...
634 2009-05-18 LISS--Elliott R. July 6, 1931 - May 18, 2004. Five years since you left us, but you are missed everyday, and you are always in our hearts. Love, your family...
635 2009-05-18 GOOGLE IN THE BULL'S-EYE The newly aggressive antitrust policy announced by President Obama may have a significant effect on the way Google does business.      G.M. SEEKS TO IMPORT MOREGeneral Motors is engaged in negotiating a reorganization that...
636 2009-05-19 We asked readers to tell us what effect the economy is having on their life and work. Hundreds responded....
637 2009-05-19 The British police believe that they have solved the case of a Henry Moore sculpture that has been missing for four years, and now suspect that it was sold for scrap....
638 2009-05-19 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
639 2009-05-19 The young Somali man brought to New York last month and accused of piracy was indicted Tuesday by a federal grand jury in Manhattan, federal prosecutors said....
640 2009-05-19 A federal bankruptcy judge dismissed The Greenbrier resort's bankruptcy case on Tuesday, clearing the way for a new owner to make good on his pledge to return the iconic West Virginia property to its former glory and profitability, The Associated ...
641 2009-05-19 OpenTable is looking increasingly confident as it prepares to break a nine-month drought in venture-backed initial public offerings....
642 2009-05-19 Is Sprint's announcement that it will release the Palm Pre on June 6 risky?...
643 2009-05-19 Since I'm acknowledging everybody -- I'm in a voluble mood today -- let me go ahead and acknowledge my other members of the Cabinet who are here who are part of our energy green team and do just outstanding work on an ongoing basis. First of all, my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. (Applause.) The guy who's just cleaning up the Department of Interior and doing an extraordinary job, Ken Salazar. (Applause.) Our head of HUD, Shaun Donovan. (Applause.) And our Commerce Secretary, Gary Locke. (Applause.)

Now, thank you all for coming to the White House today, and for coming together around what I consider to be a historic agreement to help America break its dependence on oil, reduce harmful pollution, and begin the transition to a clean energy economy.

This is an extraordinary gathering. Here we have today standing behind me, along with Ron Gettlefinger and leadership of the UAW, we have 10 of the world's largest auto manufacturers, we have environmental advocates, as well as elected officials from all across the country.

And this gathering is all the more extraordinary for what these diverse groups -- despite disparate interests and previous disagreements -- have worked together to achieve. For the first time in history, we have set in motion a national policy aimed at both increasing gas mileage and decreasing greenhouse gas pollution for all new trucks and cars sold in the United States of America. (Applause.) And I want to applaud the leadership of the folks at the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Transportation, and the White House Office of Energy and Climate Change who've worked around the clock on this proposal which has now been embraced by so many.

Now, in the past, an agreement such as this would have been considered impossible. It's no secret that these are folks who've occasionally been at odds for years, even decades. In fact, some of the groups here have been embroiled in lawsuits against one another. So that gives you a sense of how impressive and significant it is that these leaders from across the country are willing to set aside the past for the sake of the future.

For what everyone here believes, even as views differ on many important issues, is that the status quo is no longer acceptable. While the United States makes up less than 5 percent of the world's population, we create roughly a quarter of the world's demand for oil. And this appetite comes at a tremendous price -- a price measured by our vulnerability to volatile oil markets, which send gas prices soaring and families scrambling. It's measured by a trade deficit where as much as 20 percent of what we spend on imports is spent on oil. It's measured in billions of dollars sent to oil-exporting nations, many that we do not choose to support, if we had a choice. It's measured in a changing climate, as sea levels rise, and droughts spread, forest burns, and storms rage.

And what is all the more tragic is that we've known about these costs in one way or another since the gas shortages of the 1970s. And yet all too little has been done. Calls for action rise and fall with the price of a barrel of oil. Worn arguments are traded across entrenched divides. Urgency fades, complacency grows, and time passes.

As a result, we have done little to increase the fuel efficiency of America's cars and trucks for decades. Think about this. Consider how much has changed all around us. Think of how much faster our computers have become. Think about how much more productive our workers are. Think about how everything has been transformed by our capacity to see the world as it is, but also to imagine a world as it could be.

That's what's been missing in this debate for too long, and that's why this announcement is so important, for it represents not only a change in policy in Washington but the harbinger of a change in the way business is done in Washington. No longer will we accept the notion that our politics are too small, our nation too divided, our people too weary of broken promises and lost opportunities to take up a historic calling. No longer will we accept anything less than a common effort, made in good faith, to solve our toughest problems.

And that is what this agreement seeks to achieve. Right now, the rules governing fuel economy in this country are inadequate, uncertain, and in flux. First, there is the standard for fuel economy administered by the Department of Transportation. On top of that, the Environmental Protection Agency, in response to a decision by the Supreme Court, may have to set limits on greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles -- establishing another standard. California has sought permission under the Clean Air Act to require that vehicles sold in California meet yet another even stricter emission rule. And 13 states and the District of Columbia have agreed to adopt California greenhouse gas reductions if the permission -- called a waiver -- is granted.

Car companies might then face three different sets of overlapping requirements, one administered by the Department of Transportation, one administered by the EPA, and still a third administered by California and 13 other states. This proposed national policy, under the leadership of two agencies -- and bringing together 14 states, 10 companies, as well as auto workers and environmental groups -- changes all that. The goal is to set one national standard that will rapidly increase fuel efficiency -- without compromising safety -- by an average of 5 percent each year between 2012 and 2016, building on the 2011 standard my administration set shortly after taking office.

A series of major lawsuits will be dropped in support of this new national standard. The state of California has also agreed to support this standard -- and I want to applaud California and Governor Schwarzenegger and the entire California delegation for their extraordinary leadership. They have led the way on this as they have in so many other efforts to protect our environment. In addition, because the Department of Transportation and EPA will adopt the same rule, we will avoid an inefficient and ineffective system of regulations that separately govern the fuel economy of autos and the carbon emissions they produce.

And at a time of historic crisis in our auto industry, when domestic auto manufacturers are making painful choices and restructuring their businesses to be viable in the future, this rule provides the clear certainty that will allow these companies to plan for a future in which they are building the cars of the 21st century.

Yes, it costs money to develop these vehicles, but even as the price to build these cars and trucks goes up, the cost of driving these vehicles will go down, as drivers save money at the pump. And this is a point I want to emphasize: If you buy a car, your investment in a more fuel-efficient vehicle as a result of this standard will pay off in just three years. In three years' time you will have paid off the additional investment required. So this is a winning proposition for folks looking to buy a car. In fact, over the life of a vehicle, the typical driver would save about $2,800 by getting better gas mileage.

The fact is, everyone wins: Consumers pay less for fuel, which means less money going overseas and more money to save or spend here at home. The economy as a whole runs more efficiently by using less oil and producing less pollution. And companies like those here today have new incentives to create the technologies and the jobs that will provide smarter ways to power our vehicles.

And that's why, in the next five years, we're seeking to raise fuel-economy standards to an industry average of 35.5 miles per gallon in 2016, an increase of more than eight miles per gallon per vehicle. That's an unprecedented change, exceeding the demands of Congress and meeting the most stringent requirements sought by many of the environmental advocates represented here today.

As a result, we will save 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the lifetime of the vehicles sold in the next five years. Just to give you a sense of magnitude, that's more oil than we imported last year from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Libya, and Nigeria combined. (Applause.) Here's another way of looking at it: This is the projected equivalent of taking 58 million cars off the road for an entire year.

I also want to note that the agreement we have announced today is part of a far larger effort. In fact, on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, Henry Waxman is chairing a meeting of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which is working on an equally historic energy bill that will not only help our dependence on foreign oil, prevent the worst consequences of climate change, and build a clean energy economy, but will provide more than $15 billion to help build the cars and trucks of the future right here in America. (Applause.)

And the recovery plan we've put in place, as well as the budget that builds on it, makes historic investments in a clean energy economy: doubling our capacity to generate renewable energy like wind and solar; investing in new battery technologies for plug-in hybrids; and building a smarter, stronger grid on which the homes, businesses and vehicles of the future will run. (Applause.)

Too often, lost in the back-and-forth of Washington politics, absent in arguments where the facts opponents use depend on the conclusions they've already reached, absent all that is this: Ending our dependence on oil, indeed, ending our dependence on fossil fuels, represents perhaps the most difficult challenge we have ever faced -- not as a party, not as a set of separate interests, but as a people.

We have over the course of decades slowly built an economy that runs on oil. It has given us much of what we have -- for good but also for ill. It has transformed the way we live and work, but it's also wreaked havoc on our climate. It has helped create gains in prosperity unprecedented in history, but it also places our future in jeopardy.

Ending this dependence will take time. It will take an incredible effort. It will take a historic investment in innovation. But more than anything, it will take a willingness to look past our differences, to act in good faith, to refuse to continue the failures of the past, and to take on this challenge together -- for the benefit not just of this generation, but generations to come.

All the people who have gathered here today, all the auto executives, all our outstanding elected officials and appointees -- Ron Gettlefinger, members of Congress, governors -- all these folks here today have demonstrated that this kind of common effort is possible. They've created the template for more progress in the months and years to come. Everything is possible when we're working together, and we're off to a great start. So thank you everybody. I appreciate it. (Applause.)

By the way, I just want to mention, I think I still have my Ford parked in Chicago. (Laughter.) It's a Ford hybrid, it runs great, you guys should take a look. (Laughter.) But there are also some outstanding hybrids -- (laughter) -- and energy-independent cars represented up here, so I didn't want to just advertise for one. (Laughter.)
644 2009-05-19 The hedge fund manager Daniel Och held about 35 percent of his $20 billion fund's assets in cash during the first quarter because he suspects global stock markets will start falling again, Bloomberg News reports....
645 2009-05-19 The perpetrators of financial abuse against the elderly most often are not strangers but family members, experts say....
646 2009-05-19 General Motors may be trying to stay out of bankruptcy, but it's taking all precautions. That apparently includes the purchase of a Web address for its potential bankruptcy filing....
647 2009-05-19 J. Ezra Merkin, the New York financier who lost more than $2.4 billion of his clients' money in Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme, has agreed to place his three hedge funds into receivership and turn them over to a liquidator, Guidepost Partners....
648 2009-05-19 The Feds are keen to make sure that a former show business attorney stays in the country as they probe his dealings....
649 2009-05-19 General Motors may be trying to stay out of bankruptcy, but it's taking all precautions. That apparently includes the purchase of a Web address for its potential bankruptcy filing....
650 2009-05-19 TuneUp Media, a Bay Area start-up, has forged a partnership to sell its software in Apple's retail stores....
651 2009-05-19 The Waxman-Markey climate bill now defines biomass in a way that would include small brush and slash culled from federal forests -- a change that could improve the economics of managing federal forests....
652 2009-05-19 So I see Richard Posner has decided that modern conservatism is intellectually bankrupt. And Bruce Bartlett has a new book saying it's time to let go of Reagan. At one level it's good to see decent people showing some intellectual flexibility (Bar...
653 2009-05-19 After 100 years in business and 10 months of frenzied but failed restructuring, General Motors is weeks from the bankruptcy filing experts say will be required to complete the Obama administration's bid to reshape a fallen icon of American industr...
654 2009-05-19 Wall Street's recent buying spree, interrupted last week, revved up again on Monday....
655 2009-05-19 A senior investment banker at Citigroup who worked on major bank deals is leaving to become vice chairman of Europe, the Middle East and Africa investment banking at Credit Suisse, according to an internal Credit Suisse memo obtained by Reuters....
656 2009-05-19 Renewed confidence about the state of the global economy gave a strong lift to stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region on Tuesday, prompting key indexes to gain 2 percent or more....
657 2009-05-19 When your iPod starts acting funny, a simple button combination can usually set things right.
658 2009-05-19 Portraits of artists affected by the economy....
659 2009-05-19 For taxpayers, a lot of money is at stake. The government has an option to buy stock in 579 banks. By some estimates, the warrants on JPMorgan alone are currently worth more than $1.1 billion. They could be worth much more if JPMorgan’s share price rose.

So far, one publicly traded bank, Old National Bancorp in Indiana, has repaid the government in full by returning its bailout money and repurchasing its warrants. (Two small privately held banks have done the same.)

How Old National pulled this off, and the seemingly favorable terms it secured, shows how aggressively banks big and small are pushing, even after they repay money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. Old National paid $1.2 million for its warrants. Analysts estimate the investments might have been worth as much as $6.9 million.

“It’s a great deal for Old National,” said Linus Wilson, a finance professor at the University of Louisiana, Lafayette. “Treasury accepted a lowball offer.”

Andrew Williams, a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment about the negotiations, but said the government “has a robust process in place for valuing warrants.” He added that the Treasury was required by law to sell the warrants once a bank repaid its bailout money.

Analysts say that has made it difficult for the government to pursue a goal of maximizing profits for taxpayers, though a recent change to the law might give the Treasury more flexibility. Even if it had the option, it is unclear how successful the government would be at actively managing such a complicated investment portfolio.

Mr. Williams said the Treasury’s total warrant holdings were worth more than $5 billion, but the value changes along with the underlying stock prices and other factors.

But Prof. Wilson estimated that the warrants on nearly 300 publicly traded banks, which account for more than 95 percent of the government’s investments, were conservatively worth $2.4 billion to $10.9 billion. Some lawmakers worry that taxpayers will lose out. “Taxpayers were there at a critical moment,” said Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island and a member of the banking committee. “They should enjoy the upside when these institutions recover.”

To extinguish the warrants, the banks can let the Treasury auction them off to private investors or can choose to buy them back themselves. As with other bank rescue efforts, like moves to buy banks’ problem assets, the central issue with the repurchases is determining a fair price.

“That is the problem in TARP asset purchases, and it is the problem here,” said Vincent R. Reinhart, a former Federal Reserve official who is now a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. “Do you value it at roughly comparable asset prices or do you acknowledge that the current market prices reflect an unusual uncertainty in markets and aversion to risk?”

For the government, the decision is about more than dollars and cents. It may be willing to sell the warrants simply to send a positive message about the stability of the banks.

“The U.S. Treasury would be better off rejecting a lot of these bids and selling these warrants to third-party investors,” Prof. Wilson, at the University of Louisiana, said. “Instead of having one buyer, they would have many buyers from all over the world trying to decide what the proper price should be.”

Old National’s move to buy back its warrants illustrates how tricky it is to strike the right balance. Executives at the bank, based in Evansville, Ind., and a large community lender with 100 branches and $8 billion in assets, began seeking to exit TARP almost as soon as the Treasury wired it the money in December.

By the end of March, Old National had won approval from its regulators to repay its $100 million of bailout funds. But the bank also wanted to repurchase its warrants, fearing it could remain subject to pressure from the government or another outside investor.

“We felt more comfortable that we controlled our own destiny rather than have the hands of the Treasury or a third party,” Bob Jones, Old National’s chief executive, said. “We think our stock has plenty of upside and would rather have that in our hands.” On April 20, Old National submitted an initial offer of around $600,000. Ten days later, Treasury officials, after gathering their own estimates from two asset managers and two market participants, rejected the bid as too low. Over the next week, both sides haggled over the price.

“We both walked through where we were,” Mr. Jones said. “They held their ground on a number of cases, and clearly we had to compromise.” On May 7, Old National was given approval to buy back its warrants for $1.2 million. The bank wired the money four days later.

At Old National’s annual meeting, shareholders were elated by the news. “It was the only applause I drew the whole meeting,” Mr. Jones said.
660 2009-05-19 At 12:01 a.m. Wednesday, Dennis J. Skillicorn is to be executed for his role in the murder of Richard Drummond, a businessman who had offered help to Mr. Skillicorn and two others when he saw their car broken down on the side of a road one night in August 1994. Mr. Drummond was forced to drive to a remote area, then was shot and killed, and the men drove away in his car.

In the final days of the state legislative session in Jefferson City last week, a death penalty moratorium was rejected, but the House, which Republicans control, passed a provision calling for a commission to study the question. The Senate, also controlled by Republicans, did not vote on the issue.

House leaders say their chamber’s vote sent a signal to Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat in his first term, who has yet to issue a decision on Mr. Skillicorn’s request for clemency.

People here are deeply split over Mr. Skillicorn. His supporters say that while he participated in robbing Mr. Drummond and was convicted of murder, another man (now also awaiting execution) was the one who fired the gun that killed Mr. Drummond. They point to Mr. Skillicorn’s work in prison leading a hospice program, editing a magazine for death row inmates, and, in the view of even some prison workers, helping to create a calmer, safer atmosphere behind bars.

“He is not the one who actually killed the person, and that just says to me: ‘Whoa! Let’s take a step back,’ ” said State Representative Steven Tilley, the Republican leader. “Look, I’m not soft on crime, but we can’t redo this once we’ve executed this person,” Mr. Tilley said, adding that he has been a supporter of the death penalty, but fears it is flawed as it is being carried out.

But State Representative Bob Nance of Excelsior Springs, the community not far from Kansas City where Mr. Drummond had lived, said Mr. Skillicorn “should hardly be held up as a poster child for what’s wrong with the death penalty.”

Mr. Skillicorn was implicated for his involvement in other murders — though never, he says, as the gunman. He was convicted of second-degree murder in a 1979 burglary with accomplices in which a farmer was killed. And in the days after Mr. Drummond’s death, he and his accomplice went on a cross- country spree and, the authorities say, his accomplice shot and killed an Arizona couple. Mr. Skillicorn pleaded guilty to murder in that case.

“When we look back on our lives, it is the sum of all the stories,” Mr. Nance said, “and frankly, it’s hard to believe someone would be at the wrong place at the wrong time so many different times.”

On Monday, the State Supreme Court rejected a request for a stay, and lawyers for Mr. Skillicorn filed a similar request with the United States Supreme Court. They have three other appeals pending in the federal courts, and met on Monday with counsel to Mr. Nixon, who previously served as attorney general.

Mr. Nixon declined interview requests. His aides said he was giving Mr. Skillicorn’s clemency request “a full and fair review.”

Mr. Skillicorn, 49, had by last week been transferred to the facility at Bonne Terre where executions take place. In a telephone interview, he said he was sorry for his drug-addled behavior of years past, but that he considered his death sentence arbitrary in a way, and said that he was not the worst of the worst. “I was there,” he said, “But in my case, I didn’t kill anybody.”

He said he was drawing strength from his wife, a former reporter for The Kansas City Star who met him after he was behind bars, and from his religious faith, a notion he was quick to note some people will find phony. “What good would it do me now,” Mr. Skillicorn said of his faith, “if it wasn’t real to me?”
661 2009-05-19 But now that she has landed on the short list of people being considered to succeed Justice David H. Souter on the Supreme Court, those old alliances are raising questions about whether her commitment to upholding the law is driven as much by political consideration as strictly legal ones.

To some, the fact that she has never been a judge makes Ms. Napolitano a long shot for the high court. To others, her success in elected office — putting pragmatic compromise ahead of ideology or standard partisan lines — gives her just the kind of real-world experience setting policy and reaching consensus that Mr. Obama might seek to add to a court filled entirely by former federal appellate judges.

When asked what he thought best qualified her for the court, Arizona’s current attorney general, Terry Goddard, said, “More than most people I’ve seen in public life, she knows how to keep out the noise that is a part of politics, and move her agenda down the field.”

Ms. Napolitano’s résumé looks a lot like Earl Warren’s did when President Dwight D. Eisenhower nominated him 56 years ago. However, if history is a guide, it would suggest that Chief Justice Warren’s time on the court, while momentous, was not at all what Eisenhower had hoped for.

Although Ms. Napolitano, 51, is widely praised for having an open mind, sharp analytical skills, and a deep understanding of the law, critics say her sensitivity to political winds could make her similarly unpredictable.

As homeland security secretary, she has faced Republican outrage for an intelligence assessment that characterized war veterans as potential threats.

Her liberal critics see her record on immigration enforcement and worry that although she describes herself as a moderate, she is more prone to lean toward the right — and the likes of Mr. Arpaio — than to the left.

“She seems malleable” said Michael Ratner, president of the Center for Constitutional Rights. “That doesn’t suggest she’d position herself as a strong liberal on the court,” Mr. Ratner said. “It doesn’t say that’s not how she’d position herself. But we just don’t know.”

To be sure, Ms. Napolitano has held firmly to certain positions, and as governor she used her veto power more than any of her predecessors.

But to map those positions is to zigzag the partisan divide.

Ms. Napolitano is as staunchly in favor of abortion rights as she is pro-death-penalty, which has been the focus of cases she has argued before the Supreme Court and the International Court of Justice. She was against Arizona’s “Victims’ Bill of Rights,” before running for office, and changed her position after working with victims as a federal prosecutor. She is opposed to tougher gun laws and same-sex marriage.

Immigration, Arizona’s hottest issue, seems where Ms. Napolitano is most all over the map. As governor, she played down the effectiveness of building walls, but called for the deployment of the National Guard along the border. She pushed through some of the country’s toughest sanctions against employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants, but vetoed bills she thought might tear immigrant families apart.

Ms. Napolitano takes pride in defying easy labels. Her supporters said her positions reflect clear-minded and nuanced assessments of problems, that she sees good ideas in people on both sides of the political divide, and that she is driven less by ideology than by a determination to achieve results.

“Being a leader who reaches out to people of both parties doesn’t mean you’re a weak leader,” Ms. Napolitano said in a speech two years ago. “It doesn’t mean you’re a pushover. It doesn’t mean you cave to pressure. It doesn’t mean you’re not serious about your principles and your values. And it doesn’t mean that you go along to get along.”

Ms. Napolitano is so action-oriented — as governor, she ticked off a project to accomplish each year — that some wonder whether the Supreme Court would be a good fit for her.

“She’s obviously very smart and she’s obviously a great lawyer,” said Andrew Hurwitz, who argued against Ms. Napolitano before the Supreme Court in Ring v. Arizona, and whom Ms. Napolitano as governor later appointed to be a justice of the Arizona Supreme Court. “But she’s an action person. She’s an executive. Is the court the best use of her talents? That’s a question she’ll have to answer.”

In just four months as secretary of homeland security, she has made changes in border security, immigration enforcement and led the government’s response to the swine flu outbreak. She has never talked about aspiring to join the court, friends say.

Still, they say she seems to thrive on challenges. She has climbed Mount Kilimanjaro, enjoys white-water rafting and survived breast cancer. She is rumored to live on almost no sleep and does not even indulge in social drinking.

Born in New York and raised in New Mexico, where her father was a scientist, she was thrust onto the political stage not long after graduating from the University of Virginia Law School when she was among the team of lawyers who defended Anita Hill during the highly-charged confirmation hearings for Justice Clarence Thomas.

“What I saw was a very smart, young lawyer who was not intimidated by the political hysteria,” recalled Charles Ogletree, a law professor at Harvard University who was also on the team. “She was not like others who were fighting to get in front of the camera, but she made an imprimatur on our thinking with her ability to focus.”
662 2009-05-19 But despite a television teaser campaign with the slogan “This changes everything” and comparisons to the moon landing and the Kennedy assassination, the significance of this discovery may not be known for years. An article to be published on Tuesday in PLoS ONE, a scientific journal, will report more prosaically that the scientists involved said the fossil could be a “stem group” that was a precursor to higher primates, with the caveat, “but we are not advocating this.”

All of this seems a departure from the normal turn of events, where researchers study their subject and publish their findings, and let the media chips fall where they may. But this campaign is only the latest example of the scientific media blockbuster, of which the National Geographic Society has become perhaps the most successful practitioner. It often gives grants to researchers, with National Geographic gaining the rights to produce television shows and magazine articles related to any discoveries.

And these kinds of publicity campaigns can backfire. In 2007, for example, the Discovery Channel ran a documentary called “The Lost Tomb of Jesus,” which had its share of detractors in the academic community.

Executives of A&E, which operates the History Channel, said they were mindful of that example, and were satisfied that the science behind the fossil discovery was solid. The media facets to the project began to coalesce last summer, when an A&E executive met in London with Anthony Geffen, a filmmaker and the chief executive of Atlantic Productions, who had been secretly working on the film with Mr. Hurum.

“I made the decision pretty close to on the spot,” said Abbe Raven, the chief executive of A&E Television Networks, which owns the History Channel. “Unearthing a piece of history like this is unbelievable. To do it on television is incredible.”

For almost a year, within the halls of A&E it was simply called “Project Y.” The company bought 51 percent of the film, giving it editorial control and the right to show the world premiere. (The film, a two-hour documentary, will be shown on Memorial Day on the History Channel.)

The BBC in Britain and ZDF, the German broadcaster, will show the film after the History Channel does. (A&E would not say what it paid for the film, but said it was the highest it had paid for a single documentary.)

A&E also took the project to the Natural History museum to arrange a big press conference, to be attended by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

A&E executives also approached the ABC News president, David Westin, and brokered a deal for exclusive access to “Good Morning America” (Wednesday morning the fossil will be in the studio), “Nightline” and “World News”; they helped line up a publisher for a book, which like the film is called “The Link,” being published by Little, Brown. The publisher shipped 110,000 copies, and sellers signed confidentiality agreements promising not to open the cartons before the publication date.

“It’s the most newsworthy and noteworthy special we’ve been a part of,” said Nancy Dubuc, the general manager of the History Channel. “We made a commitment early on to get behind it in a big way: to see it through peer review, and see that it is the media event it should be.”

The project had its origins in December 2006 at a mineral and fossil fair in Hamburg, Germany, where Mr. Hurum ran into a private dealer who, over fruity vodka drinks with umbrellas, showed him an image of the fossil, which had been found in a pit in Germany and lain in a collector’s drawer for about 25 years.

“It was incredible,” he said. “I could not sleep for two nights, just thinking about this specimen.”

Mr. Hurum then assembled what he described as a dream team of experts to study the fossil: B. Holly Smith, a dental anthropologist at the University of Michigan; Jens Franzen, a German fossil expert; and Philip D. Gingerich, the leading American primate specialist, also from the University of Michigan.

“I sometimes felt like a banjo player jamming with Pink Floyd,” Mr. Hurum said.

Most parties involved were required to sign nondisclosure agreements, including the two companies that the History Channel approached to advertise during the film. One of those, GMAC, signed on to publicize its rebranding as Ally Bank, though executives were not fully told what the subject of the film was.

Despite precautions, the 47-million-year-old secret broke early when The Wall Street Journal published a short piece about the find. The source proved to be Mr. Gingerich, who did not realize he was speaking on the record.
663 2009-05-19 ALBANY  Herbert Teitelbaum, the executive director of the State Commission on Public Integrity, resigned on Monday, less than a week after a report from the state inspector general accused him of leaking sensitive information about an investigation of the administration of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer to a top Spitzer aide, in violation of state law.

The move, however, does not resolve a standoff between Gov. David A. Paterson, who had called for Mr. Teitelbaum’s resignation, and the integrity commission, which enforces state ethics and lobbying laws. Last week, Mr. Paterson had called for the resignations of the 12 sitting commissioners, who were accused of ignoring evidence of the leaks. The commissioners have refused to resign. Since they serve fixed terms, the governor cannot force them out.

And Mr. Teitelbaum is not going quietly.

In a four-page letter, he urged the commissioners “to continue their principled stand in opposition to the governor’s call for their wholesale resignation.”

He said the governor’s calls for a shake-up were “an example of the very kind of pressure the commission’s enabling legislation sought to stem.”

And he defended his conduct, saying Inspector General Joseph Fisch “felt free to reach a conclusion based on surmise and the accounts of clearly biased Spitzer lieutenants.”

Mr. Fisch’s report found that Mr. Teitelbaum had exchanged at least 165 phone calls and held regular dinners over a five-month period in 2007 with Robert Hermann, a close friend who was a member of the Spitzer cabinet. During these conversations, Mr. Teitelbaum told his friend about the progress and details of an inquiry into the Spitzer administration’s handling of the travel records of the longtime State Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a political foe of Mr. Spitzer’s, according to Mr. Fisch’s report. Under state law, commission investigations are supposed to be confidential.

Michael G. Cherkasky, who was appointed chairman of the integrity commission by Mr. Paterson last week, said Mr. Teitelbaum “made a selfless decision in the wake of the inspector general’s report” and “has decided to put a stop to what has become a distraction to the commission’s critical work.”

Zachary W. Carter, the commission’s outside counsel, said Mr. Teitelbaum was not pushed out, but “made the decision himself to leave.”

Mr. Carter also said none of the commissioners had reconsidered their decisions not to resign.

Looking to end his standoff with the integrity commission, the governor on Monday proposed to essentially legislate it out of existence by creating a new ethics oversight commission. He said he would submit a new bill this week, but he would need to win the approval of the State Legislature, which has not embraced his call for the sitting commissioners to resign.

“The report of the inspector general released last week indicates that there were serious leaks of confidential information from the Public Integrity Commission that the commission tolerated by inaction,” the governor said in a statement. “It is my intention to put in place an independent commission structure that will restore the public’s confidence in our government.”
664 2009-05-19 For years, he commanded what amounted to a shadow state with its own flag, police and court system. He built a fanatical army, including many child recruits, and ordered them to abstain from sex and cut themselves off from personal ties.

Sri Lanka’s Tamils, who make up just 12 percent of a population that is largely Buddhist and Sinhalese, have been marginalized since independence from Britain in 1948.

The dominance of the Sinhalese was cemented with the declaration of Sinhala as the national language and Buddhism as the principal religion, and with privileges for Sinhalese in education and government jobs.

Mr. Prabhakaran was a pioneer in the tactic of suicide bombings, creating a squad called the Black Tigers that carried out scores of killings over the years.

The bombers attacked both government figures and moderate Tamils and claimed a long list of high-profile victims, including India’s prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi, in 1991 and Sri Lanka’s president, Ranasinghe Premadasa, in 1993.

Mr. Gandhi was apparently chosen for assassination in revenge for India’s military intervention against the Tigers in Sri Lanka in the late 1980s. India withdrew its troops in May 1990 after 1,200 soldiers were killed fighting the Tigers.

A chubby man with a bushy mustache, Mr. Prabhakaran (pronounced PRAH-bah-ka-ran) was a master of concealment and escape, rarely appearing in public.

It was his refusal to compromise that undermined repeated attempts at peace agreements and led to the final battles that destroyed the movement he had built.

As recently as last November, in his annual public address, he said, “No sane voice is being raised either to abandon war or to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict."

Born to a middle-class family in the Tamil heartland of Jaffna on Nov. 26, 1954, the youngest of four children, Mr. Prabhakaran dropped out of school and devoted his life to guerrilla war, going underground in 1972.

He announced himself with the assassination in 1975 of a governor of Jaffna, walking up to him at a Hindu temple and shooting him at point-blank range.

He was fascinated by shootouts in Westerns, according to his biographer, the Indian journalist M.R. Narayan Swamy. “He would take slow steps with a revolver stuck into his shirt, make a sudden turn, whip out the revolver and fire at an imaginary enemy,” Mr. Swamy quoted a friend as saying. “He never got tired of it.”
665 2009-05-19 The ruling party’s left-leaning allies in the previous coalition government worked to limit foreign investment and repel overseas influence in business and politics. For example, they helped prevent chain stores like Wal-Mart from setting up retail stores here, agitated against a nuclear deal with the United States and tried to limit privatization of state-run industries.

All the Indian National Congress party needs to do to form a government is stitch up alliances with a handful of independents and small parties to reach the 272-seat majority in Parliament.

But the euphoria of investors and analysts belied the Congress Party’s own spotty recent history when it comes to solving the problems that continue to plague India.

The party is widely credited with bringing free market reforms to India in 1991, when Manmohan Singh, an economist who was then the finance minister, scrapped the quotas and government monopolies that made up India’s “license Raj,” opening the country’s industry to private investors and foreign cash.

Mr. Singh, now prime minister, was responsible for “liberalizing the economy both within the country and opening it up to foreign investment and competition,” said Jaideep Prabhu, the Jawaharlal Nehru professor of Indian business and enterprise at the Judge Business School of Cambridge.

But Congress and its allies have been unable to effectively fight poverty and malnutrition, establish a comprehensive energy policy or orchestrate the sort of infrastructure projects that India sorely needs.

That did not stop executives and investors from predicting a new era for Indian business. The rupee strengthened Monday to its highest rate all year against the dollar, and stock markets hit curbs intended to prevent wild trading swings in just seconds.

The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensex index rose over 10 percent as trading opened to 13,479 points, setting off circuit breakers, while the National Stock Exchange’s Nifty rose 14.5 percent to 4,203. The Bombay exchange was closed for two hours, but when it resumed trading, the Sensex extended its gains to more than 17 percent, which set off a circuit breaker that halted trade for the rest of the day. The Sensex closed at 14,284.2 points, up 47 percent since the beginning of the year.

Morgan Stanley analysts raised their year-end Sensex target Monday to 15,300 points and said they expected Indian equities to outperform those of other emerging markets over the next 12 months.

Business owners anticipate widespread changes. “The people of India have given a decisive and clear mandate for continuity, stability and economic growth,” said Pawan Munjal, managing director and chief executive of Hero Honda Motors, India’s largest motorcycle maker. “This mandate will strengthen the hand of the central government to unlock long-awaited reforms.”

Mr. Munjal said government spending on infrastructure would help industries like cement, steel and aluminum, while lifting employment at a critical time when many big corporations have been cutting workers.

Many expect a sweeping overhaul of India’s energy policy. Power failures force many business owners to supply their own electricity for hours at a time, adding to costs and stifling productivity.

The gap between electricity demand and supply is as much as 15 percent during peak use hours, and is “increasing day by day,” said V. P. S. Chauhan, the chief executive of Kalpan Hydro, a hydroelectric power company.

Mr. Chauhan said Congress needed to streamline the process by which clearances to build new plants are granted.

Others are hoping for faster completion of infrastructure projects like roads and ports, which are often chronically delayed.

"One of the ways that India has been hampered relative to China has been the lack of infrastructure," said Wilbur L. Ross, chairman and chief executive of W.L. Ross, an investment company that has put money into airlines and textile manufacturing in India. Congress may move to privatize more infrastructure projects, he said, which could spur more growth in manufacturing, balancing the country's service-heavy export economy.

Executives and analysts say the problem is rarely a lack of money. Instead, projects are typically behind schedule because of lengthy approval processes, shoddy design work and corruption.

“The plans have started to look big now,” said Sunil Mittal, chairman of Bharti Enterprises, a conglomerate that controls the nation’s biggest cellphone company, Airtel. “But the last piece is implementation. That’s where we are struggling.”

The Congress Party, while celebrating its victory, has been trying to temper expectations. Kamal Nath, the current minister of commerce, cautioned specifically against expecting liberalization in the country’s financial sector.

In the face of the global financial crisis, India’s immediate priority would be to improve domestic demand and investment, he said in an interview Monday.

India is unlikely to throw open the doors to foreign banks anytime soon, he said, adding triumphantly that the tightly regulated Indian banking sector had remained largely insulated from the global downturn.

“As far as financial reform is concerned, we will have to be cautious looking at experience of the big financial icons of the Western world,” he said. “In the U.S., we are seeing government giving money to banks. In India, banks are giving money to government.”

The government is more likely than ever to advance “governance reforms,” he said, without specifying whether that meant streamlining government administrative services, fixing a dysfunctional police and legal system, or curbing corruption in government or business.

Many in corporate India say the country’s most pressing need is to fix the state itself, making a vast and often corrupt polity and bureaucracy more efficient and accountable.

“More important than economic reform today is state reform, administrative reform, police reform, bureaucratic reform,” said Gurcharan Das, an author who once headed Procter & Gamble’s Indian operation. “I don’t see anybody among the politicians come out and say, ‘I will make sure that teachers show up to work, and I will make sure the policeman doesn’t come harass you.’”

Indeed, the rhetoric during the election campaign — from all sides — revolved around promises to protect Indians from the vicissitudes of the global economy, not to advance India’s place in it.
666 2009-05-19 Moreover, the complaint said, the funds’ account records showed prices for 280 stock trades that did not match the actual price range for those stocks when the trades supposedly occurred. Some trades were shown as occurring on days that were actually holidays or weekends, according to the complaint.

“These trades were clearly fictional,” the complaint said.

Under federal law, Mr. Picard can sue to recover money withdrawn from the Madoff fund up to six years before its collapse. The lawsuit reported that Fairfield Greenwich funds withdrew $1.2 billion in the final three months of the fraud.

Mr. Picard also asked the court to allow him to deny the three funds any compensation from the Madoff estate “unless and until” they return the money they withdrew from their Madoff accounts in that six-year period.

The fund said it would fight the suit. “Fairfield Greenwich funds lost far more from the Madoff fraud than they ever redeemed,” a spokesman for the fund said. “There is no merit to this lawsuit, and it will be defended vigorously.”

The trustee’s lawsuit compounds the legal difficulties facing the Noel family and other Fairfield Greenwich partners.

Massachusetts regulators have filed a civil administrative action against the firm, saying it defrauded investors by misleading them about how diligently it had checked out Mr. Madoff’s operations over the years.

Mr. Noel, Mr. Tucker and Mr. Piedrahita are also among the fund managers being sued in Connecticut Superior Court by the town of Fairfield and two of its pension plans, which lost money in several feeder-fund investments — although not through any investment with Fairfield Greenwich.

That lawsuit claims that Fairfield Greenwich and two other feeder-fund managers had long been aware that Mr. Madoff was enhancing his track record through illegal activity — although they mistakenly thought he was engaging in front-running, a form of insider trading, not operating a Ponzi scheme.

The firm has also been named in several private lawsuits filed on behalf of investors.

Fairfield Greenwich significantly expanded Mr. Madoff’s reach and enhanced his credibility in wealthy circles far beyond his own Wall Street world.

Mr. Noel had a gilded résumé and a family linked by marriage to wealthy investors in Europe and Latin America. His sales force, led by his sons-in-law, brought in cash from wealthy enclaves in Europe, Latin America and the Persian Gulf.

Fairfield Greenwich clients had accounts valued at $7.3 billion when Mr. Madoff was arrested, about $60 million of which came from the firm and its partners. Internal documents show those investments had generated more than $500 million in fees since 2003 for Fairfield, enriching a handful of its top executives.

The fees financed the increasingly expensive lives of the firm’s partners, most visibly Mr. Noel, who had homes in New York, Connecticut, Florida and the Caribbean island of Mustique — properties collectively valued at about $20 million.

As it raised money, Fairfield made detailed pledges about how it would monitor and track Mr. Madoff’s investments.

The trustee’s complaint repeats the central accusation of other lawsuits: How could the firm have kept its promises to supervise Mr. Madoff diligently and still have missed all of the red flags in his operation?
667 2009-05-19 American Express, the credit card and travel services company, said on Monday that it planned to eliminate 4,000 jobs, or 6 percent of its work force, as the weakened economy causes higher customer defaults.

The cuts are part of the company’s plan to save $800 million over the rest of 2009.

American Express plans to take an after-tax charge of $117 million to $163 million in the second quarter, largely associated with the job cuts. It said the cuts would occur across a variety of businesses, saving $175 million.

The company also plans to cut spending by $500 million on marketing and business development and $125 million on consulting and other services, travel and overhead.

American Express was one of 19 banking companies to undergo government “stress tests” to gauge their ability to weather a deep recession.

After the tests, American Express was told it did not need more capital, but the company has been hurt by rising credit card defaults, as more cardholders lose their jobs.

“We continue to be very cautious about the economic outlook,” the chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, said in a statement. He said the cost savings would “be reinvested in the business to make sure we can take competitive advantage of opportunities as the economy begins to rebound.”
668 2009-05-19 A relapse is typically bad news, but in this case it’s a positive omen for fans of Eminem: the rapper is planning to play a free concert on Tuesday in Detroit to promote the release of his new album, “Relapse” (right), The Associated Press reported. The free show was announced on Eminem’s MySpace page, myspace.com/eminem, and tickets were scheduled to be given away on a first-come-first-served basis on Monday at 5 p.m. at Record Time, a music store in Roseville, a Detroit suburb. The site of the show, which will feature DJ Jazzy Jeff, was not revealed. Last Friday Eminem took about 200 unemployed auto workers to Los Angeles to watch his performance on the ABC late-night show “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Eminem will also appear on that show on Tuesday and Friday.
669 2009-05-19 Yet others have always been skeptical of the bacteria hypothesis. “Your average lion has a much dirtier bite,” said Bryan Fry, a biologist at the University of Melbourne. “It’s complete voodoo.”

Dr. Fry suspected that Komodo dragons were using venom instead. In 2006, Dr. Fry and his colleagues published evidence suggesting that some lizards share the same venom genes as snakes. They concluded that venom evolved about 200 million years ago in the common ancestors of the lizards and snakes. Studying an Australian lizard called the lace monitor, Dr. Fry found proteins in its mouth that were produced by those shared venom genes. When he tested the proteins, he found that some could cause a rapid drop in blood pressure, and that others stop blood from clotting.

Komodo dragons, like the lace monitor, are closely related to snakes, which suggested to Dr. Fry that the largest of all lizards might be venomous too. To test his hypothesis, Dr. Fry climbed into a Komodo dragon’s cage at the Singapore Zoo. “I dangled a rat above it and got it really excited,” he said. As mucus drooled out of the lizard’s mouth, he used a test tube on a pole to collect it.

Dr. Fry did not find any venomlike proteins in the mucus, but later he realized mucus was the wrong place to look. Studying other lizards, he discovered that the proteins were coming from a separate set of glands in their mouths.

A medical disaster offered Dr. Fry a chance to take another look at the Komodo dragons. During a mysterious outbreak at the Singapore Zoo, most of the Komodo dragons died. Dr. Fry and his colleagues were given permission to dissect jaw tissue from a terminally ill lizard and preserve the heads of two dead lizards for later study.

The researchers found the second set of glands in the Komodo dragon heads, and inside they found venomlike proteins. Tests showed that one protein keeps blood from clotting. Another one relaxes blood vessel walls. “It drops the blood pressure like a stone,” Dr. Fry said.

He argues that Komodo dragons depend on these venoms for their success. A Komodo skull is light, so it cannot generate a powerful bite or hold down a struggling victim, the way alligators do. “You’d expect them to be strong, but they’re not,” he said.

Instead, Dr. Fry argues, Komodo dragons slice open their victims, adding venom to the open wound. “If you keep it bleeding and lower its blood pressure, it’s going to lose consciousness, and then you can tear its guts out at your leisure,” he said.

Some experts praised the new study, which is published this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Science. “This paper clearly demonstrates that the Komodo dragon is a venomous predator,” wrote Nicolas Vidal, an evolutionary biologist at the National Museum of Natural History in Paris, in an e-mail message.

But Kurt Schwenk, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Connecticut, is not so impressed.

Dr. Schwenk finds the new mouth glands intriguing, but he considers most of the evidence for venom in the study to be “meaningless, irrelevant, incorrect or falsely misleading.” Even if the lizards have venomlike proteins in their mouths, Dr. Schwenk argues, they may be using them for a different function.

Dr. Schwenk also doubts that venom is necessary to explain the effect of a Komodo dragon bite. “I guarantee that if you had a 10-foot lizard jump out of the bushes and rip your guts out, you’d be somewhat still and quiet for a bit,” he said, “at least until you keeled over from shock and blood loss owing to the fact that your intestines were spread out on the ground in front of you.”
670 2009-05-19 A top Republican lawmaker has opened an inquiry into a former Walter Reed Army Medical Center doctor whom the Army has accused of falsifying a medical study involving a product made by Medtronic, a company for whom he works as a paid consultant.

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, released letters Monday seeking information about the physician, Dr. Timothy R. Kuklo. The letters were sent late Friday to Walter Reed officials, two medical journals and the head of Washington University in St. Louis, where Dr. Kuklo works as an associate professor in the medical school.

The New York Times reported last week that a British medical journal had retracted an article by Dr. Kuklo earlier this year after learning from Army officials that he had, among other things, forged the names of four other doctors he cited as the study’s co-authors.

Army investigators determined that Dr. Kuklo’s article had overstated the benefits of a Medtronic bone-growth product, called Infuse, that was used at Walter Reed to treat American soldiers who had suffered severe lower leg injuries in Iraq.

Army officials also cited discrepancies in the data cited by Dr. Kuklo, saying he had described more injuries than Walter Reed records showed.

Dr. Kuklo, who worked at Walter Reed from 2003 to 2007, has declined to respond to numerous telephone calls and e-mail messages seeking comment. Officials of Washington University have also declined to say whether they are investigating Dr. Kuklo, although Army officials and others say that the school is conducting such an inquiry.

Medtronic may also face repercussions from the case. Since last year Senator Grassley and, separately, the Justice Department have been investigating whether the company illegally promoted uses of Infuse that were not approved by the Food and Drug Administration  by paying doctors, among other alleged measures. The company has denied doing so.

Medtronic, while acknowledging that Dr. Kuklo is a company consultant, has repeatedly declined to say when it hired him as a consultant or how much it has paid him over the years, either directly or to support his research.

But the company’s and doctor’s financial relationship goes back to at least 2001. From 2001 to 2006, Medtronic spent more than $13,000 to pay Dr. Kuklo’s travel expenses to numerous medical conferences and other professional meetings, according to Defense Department records reviewed by the Center for Public Integrity and Northwestern University’s Medill Journalism School.

In a response to an inquiry last September from Senator Grassley, Medtronic provided the lawmaker with a list of outside doctors who were paid consultants for Infuse. Dr. Kuklo, who has made about 15 paid presentations for Medtronic about the bone-growth product, was not on that list, a spokeswoman for Senator Grassley said last week.

Asked last week by a reporter about that issue, a Medtronic spokeswoman, Marybeth Thorsgaard, said in a written statement that the doctor was not included because “some consultants, like Dr. Kuklo, have general agreements that are not specific to a single therapy or subject matter.”

In the Friday letter to Walter Reed officials, Senator Grassley asked for information about, among other things, direct or indirect payments by Medtronic to Dr. Kuklo and other Army doctors involved with Infuse or other company products. He is also seeking the full report of the Army’s investigation as well as relevant conflict-of-interest policies.

Col. Norvell V. Coots, commander of the Walter Reed Health Care System, said Monday that he welcomed the review.

“My guess is we will probably find something more here,” the colonel said in a telephone interview.

A spokesman for Washington University said it would cooperate with Senator Grassley’s request.

One of the medical journals that received the lawmaker’s inquiry was the British periodical The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, which published and later retracted Dr. Kuklo’s Infuse study.

The other was an American journal that has the same name but operates separately from the British publication. It had read but rejected Dr. Kuklo’s article before he submitted it to the British publication.

Senator Grassley asked the journals to provide him with any information relevant to the submitted article, including whether Dr. Kuklo disclosed receiving funding from Medtronic. The published article did not contain such a disclosure.

A spokesman for the British publication said it would provide whatever information it was able to Mr. Grassley’s committee. The American publication did not respond to a request for comment on Monday.
671 2009-05-19 “For seven long years, there has been a debate over whether states or the federal government should regulate autos,” said Dave McCurdy, president of the Alliance of Auto Manufacturers, the industry’s largest trade association. “President Obama’s announcement ends that old debate by starting a federal rulemaking to set a national program.”

Mr. McCurdy, a former Democratic congressman from , has been working with Mr. Obama and his advisers on the issue since early this year.

In announcing the new program at the White House, Mr. Obama will be accompanied by Gov. Jennifer Granholm of and Gov. of California, along with auto industry executives and environmental leaders.

The administration’s decision resolves a question over California’s application for a waiver from federal clean air laws to impose its own, tougher vehicle emissions standards. Thirteen states and the have said they plan to adopt the California program.

The new national fleet mileage rule for cars and light trucks of 35.5 miles per gallon by 2016 roughly corresponds to the California requirement, which will be shelved as a result. The current national standard is slightly more than 25 miles per gallon.

The California plan, first proposed in 2002, had been stalled by industry lawsuits and the Bush administration’s refusal to grant a waiver from less stringent federal rules, although California has been given dozens of such exemptions over the last 40 years.

The program will also end a number of lawsuits over the California standards, officials said.

“This is a very big deal,” said Daniel Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, who has pushed for tougher mileage and emissions standards for two decades with the goal of curbing the gases that have been linked to . “This is the single biggest step the American government has ever taken to cut greenhouse gas emissions.”

The administration had faced a June 30 deadline set by Congress to decide whether to grant California’s application to put its emissions rules into effect. President Obama became personally involved in the issue because he was also trying to find a way to rescue American auto companies from their financial crisis.

One ranking industry official said that the administration wanted to get the new mileage rules in place before General Motors made a decision on a bankruptcy filing, which could happen by the end of this month. The new rules also provide some certainty for Chrysler, which is already under bankruptcy protection, so that it can plan its future models.

To meet the new federal standards, auto companies will have to drastically change their product lineups in a relatively short time.

The companies have declined so far to comment on the costs involved in meeting a fleet standard of 35 miles a gallon. For starters, the automakers will probably have to sharply reduce the number of low-mileage models, like pickup trucks and large sedans.

The president’s decision will also accelerate the development of smaller cars and engines already under way.

But Mr. McCurdy said the industry could meet the new mileage targets using existing technology and improvements in future models. He said that 130 models already got 30 miles a gallon or better on the highway.

In January, Mr. Obama directed the to reconsider the Bush administration’s past rejection of the California application. He also instructed the Transportation Department to draw up rules to complement a 2007 law requiring a 40 percent improvement in mileage for autos and light trucks by 2020. The Bush administration wrote no regulations to enforce the 2007 law.

Mr. Obama will direct the E.P.A. and the Transportation Department to jointly write enforcement regulations.

Daniel J. Weiss, director of climate strategy at the liberal Center for American Progress, said that under the White House plan, California would retain the ability to set its own emissions standards in the future when the current program expired.

He also said the new administration program was very close in language and intent to a provision in the climate change and energy bill now before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. That bill calls for a “harmonization” of the California and federal regulatory programs to provide a nationwide standard.

Mr. Obama has been thinking about the future of the American automobile industry for years. He co-sponsored two bills in 2006, during his second year as a United States senator, one to raise fuel economy standards and the other to encourage the use of alternative fuels.

During the presidential campaign, he gave a speech in chastising the American automobile industry for doing too little to reduce the nation’s dependence on foreign oil and improve their vehicles’ efficiency.

“The auto industry’s refusal to act for so long has left it mired in a predicament for which there is no easy way out,” Mr. Obama said.

That inaction has been a factor in the current dire state in which General Motors and Chrysler find themselves. The Japanese automakers are far ahead in developing smaller, more efficient vehicles, although they, too, will have to adjust their product lines.

Fran Pavley, the California state senator who sponsored the legislation that established the California standard, praised the decision as she traveled to Washington Monday to join the White House meeting on Tuesday.

She said through a spokeswoman that California would work on its own rules while the federal regulations were drafted. “This cleans up our air, reduces our dependence on foreign oil and continues to allow California to lead the way,” she said.
672 2009-05-19 The two sides had said on May 6 that they hoped to have the deal wrapped up by June 3, but that deadline is looking less realistic.

“It’s still up in the air when talks will resume,” a VW spokesman, Michael Brendel, said. Asked if the merger was in trouble, a Porsche spokesman, Michael Baumann, declined to comment.

Porsche is facing more urgency than VW to lock up a deal. The sports car maker, which has a market value of about 7.2 billion euros, or $9.7 billion, ended up with debt of 9 billion euros on its way to acquiring 51 percent of Volkswagen Last year, it used so-called cash-settled options contracts to gain voting rights to an additional 20 percent or more.

“The main thing right now is that no one outside of Porsche has the details to make a clean calculation about what’s going on with those options,” Frank Biller, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Württemberg in Stuttgart, said. Additionally, there are rumors in the market that Porsche is sitting on risk positions that could leave it vulnerable to a decline in VW’s share price, he said.

Porsche is being investigated by the German securities watchdog BaFin in connection with its trades.

Mr. Winterkorn said in his letter that Volkswagen would not be pressured. “We are not in any hurry,” he said. “All the information and options must be thoroughly examined and a decision subsequently taken on the basis of the facts.”

Shares of Volkswagen were unchanged in Frankfurt afternoon trading, while Porsche fell about 0.9 percent.

On May 6, the companies agreed to create “an integrated automotive group in which each of the 10 brands would retain its independence.”

The working group charged with drawing up the actual merger includes representatives of both companies, workers and the state government of Lower Saxony, the holder of 20 percent of VW shares.

Thousands of Porsche workers demonstrated Monday to express concern that a deal would lead to job cuts. Uwe Hück, a labor leader, said in a statement that he had received assurances that “the owner families are strong enough to guarantee” Porsche’s independence.
673 2009-05-19 Wall Street’s recent buying spree, interrupted last week, revved up again on Monday.

Traders seized on last week’s stock declines as a chance to get back in at lower prices, and they pushed shares of financial firms sharply higher. Rising oil prices lifted energy producers, and a better than-expected profit at the home improvement chain Lowe’s helped to bolster consumer stocks.

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 235.44 points or 2.8 percent, at 8,504.08. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 26.83 points, or 3 percent, to close at 909.71, while the Nasdaq was up 52.22 points, 3.1 percent, at 1,732.36. Last week the Dow fell 3.6 percent and the S.&P. 500 skidded 5 percent.

Shares of Bank of America were up nearly 10 percent at $11.73 after analysts at Goldman Sachs named the company a “conviction buy.” The financial services provider Corporation rose 8.5 percent after announcing that it would raise more than $1 billion in stock and debt not backed up by the government’s liquidity-guarantee program as it seeks to repay its bailout funds.

Bailout recipients like Wells Fargo and Morgan Stanley have been raising new unsecured capital in recent weeks, intending to get out of the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program.

Weaker retail sales helped to stifle some of the momentum of Wall Street’s recent rally last week, raising concerns that talk of economic hope and “green shoots” of recovery could be overblown. But on Monday, many investors used the market dip as an excuse to buy.
674 2009-05-19 UNWANTED ATTENTIONBlackRock's role as a adviser and contractor in the financial crisis -- it has helped the federal government manage Bear Stearns, Citigroup and the American International Group -- is getting attention and scrutiny.       CREDIT C...
675 2009-05-20 The opening of the new Acropolis Museum will take place on June 20, almost five years after it was originally scheduled....
676 2009-05-20 The home of Rubina Ali Qureshi, who played the young version of the movie’s heroine, Latika, was torn down by demolition crews that clear away shanties before India’s monsoon season....
677 2009-05-20 Probably, according to a 2008 study from the Department of Transportation....
678 2009-05-20 NetApp, a data storage provider, said late Wednesday afternoon that it had agreed to buy Data Domain, a data backup company, for about $1.5 billion in cash and stock....
679 2009-05-20 The new financial panel would operate independently of Congress and have subpoena power....
680 2009-05-20 After years of feuding, the NFL Network and Comcast cut a deal about access to football games....
681 2009-05-20 A coalition of major companies plans to support the president's plans on energy, health care, financial regulation and other hot-button issues....
682 2009-05-20 Chrysler named its next chairman on Wednesday, choosing C. Robert Kidder, the former chairman of Borden Chemical and of Duracell International, to lead its board after the automaker emerges from bankruptcy....
683 2009-05-20 The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed rules on Wednesday that would make it possible for a company's shareholders to elect a limited number of independent directors, commission officials said....
684 2009-05-20 Although property prices in most of Europe continue to slide, Italy's second home market is holding steady, a new report says....
685 2009-05-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
686 2009-05-20 There are thousands of creditors lined up hoping to get their money from Chrysler as it goes through Chapter 11 bankruptcy. One of them, Jeremy K. Warriner, had his legs amputated after an accident in a Jeep Wrangler....
687 2009-05-20 It's not clear if Jim Cramer will be having a rematch with Jon Stewart anytime soon -- but if he does, there's a new study the two can spar over....
688 2009-05-20 A new report pulls back the veil on the extent to which colleges use standardized test scores as cut-offs for admission....
689 2009-05-20 App of the week is a speedy mobile browser that can display Flash video....
690 2009-05-20 A roundup, including views on the detainee debate and the push for financial regulation....
691 2009-05-20 Regions Financial said Wednesday that it would seek to raise $1.25 billion in new stock to fill in a capital hole as determined by the government's stress tests of the nation's biggest banks....
692 2009-05-20 The Obama administration, trying to crack down on abuses exposed by the financial crisis, is considering creation of a regulatory commission to protect consumers of financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, The Associated Press report...
693 2009-05-20 Allstate became the second insurer Tuesday to turn down a bailout from the Treasury Department after being approved for government funding....
694 2009-05-20 Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg will be sworn in as commissioner of food and drugs this week after the Senate voted unanimously on Monday night to confirm her. Dr. Hamburg, 53, is expected to join the agency next week in the midst of a government decision about whether and how to manufacture a vaccine for swine flu. She succeeds Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, who led the beleaguered agency from 2005 until the end of the Bush administration. Dr. Joshua Sharfstein, who has served as acting commissioner, will become the principal deputy commissioner. Dr. Hamburg inherits an agency that is widely acknowledged to be in distress. The Obama administration has promised reforms, and several bills circulating on Capitol Hill propose sharp changes. Dr. Hamburg served as the New York City health commissioner and was an assistant health secretary in the Clinton administration.
695 2009-05-20 The slowdown in global economic activity has tipped Norway into recession, despite the country’s deep oil reserves and strong budget position.

Gross domestic product for Norway, excluding petroleum-related activity, contracted by 1 percent during the first quarter of 2009 from the previous quarter, when it declined 0.8 percent, Statistics Norway, the country’s data agency, said on Tuesday.

That met the generally accepted definition of a recession — two consecutive quarters of contractions — for the first time since 1993. The economy of Norway expanded last year by 2.6 percent and by 6.1 percent in 2007.

Including oil-related activity, the contraction during the first quarter of 2009 was a more moderate 0.4 percent.

Continued investments in the energy industry have cushioned the effect of the global recession in Norway, which is not a member of the European Union. The state profits from oil and natural gas both through taxes imposed on production from its offshore fields and from direct investment in petroleum projects.
696 2009-05-20 J. Ezra Merkin, the prominent New York financier who lost more than $2.4 billion of his clients’ money in Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, agreed on Tuesday to cede control of three of his hedge funds to a liquidator.

The move comes at the request of New York’s attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, who last month charged Mr. Merkin with lying to his clients about how he was investing their money.

At a hearing in New York State Supreme Court on Tuesday, Justice Richard Lowe gave Mr. Cuomo’s office and Mr. Merkin’s lawyers until May 28 to complete the agreement. Under the preliminary deal, Mr. Merkin will hand day-to-day control of two funds, Ariel and Gabriel, to Guidepost Partners, which will oversee the liquidation of more than $1 billion in assets remaining in the funds.

Many of the assets in the funds are hard to sell, and most are managed by other subadvisers, including the private equity fund Cerberus Capital Management.

Control of Mr. Merkin’s Ascot Fund, which invested nearly all of its assets with Mr. Madoff, will be turned over to David Pitofsky, a litigation lawyer who was once a corporate fraud investigator for the federal prosecutor’s office in New York. The fund, whose investors included Tufts University and Yeshiva University, had $1.7 billion invested with Mr. Madoff. While there is little left in the Ascot fund, Mr. Pitofsky will oversee any recovery efforts.
697 2009-05-20 WASHINGTON — President Obama’s nominee to head the Federal Aviation Administration said on Tuesday that while the safety rules governing commuter carriers are the same as those for major airlines, the level of safety provided may actually be different and requires another look.

“The reality is, when you’re hiring a pilot at a major carrier, you’re probably going to get somebody who walks through the door with 5,000 hours” of experience, the nominee, J. Randolph Babbitt, a former captain at Eastern Airlines, said at his confirmation hearing. “When you’re hiring a pilot at a regional, you’re going to get somebody with considerably less time,” he said.

He said that if confirmed, he would review training standards.

Aviation safety rules have been under scrutiny since the Feb. 12 crash of a twin-engine turboprop on a flight from Newark to Buffalo, killing 50. Pilot error is suspected.

The regional carriers once operated under rules that were less stringent than those for the major carriers in several ways; for example, two-engine commuter planes did not have to be able to perform as well on a single engine as big airliners did, important in case of engine failure, and pilots were allowed to work longer hours. In the mid-1990s, the regionals were brought under the same set of rules as the mainline carriers, said Mr. Babbitt, who at that time was president of the Air Line Pilots Association.

Mr. Babbitt appeared before the Senate Commerce Committee, where he was questioned by Byron L. Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat who is planning a subcommittee hearing into the crash. Mr. Dorgan said he was “staggered” by details that emerged last week in a hearing by the National Transportation Safety Board. He said he suspected that while the rules were the same, they may be enforced differently.

He cited a salary for the co-pilot on the flight, which he put at $16,500 — a figure that was used at the safety board hearing but corrected a few hours later by the airline to $24,000. The co-pilot had flown across the continent on two late-night flights to arrive for work on the day of the crash. Mr. Babbitt did not comment on airline pay, and the F.A.A. does not regulate salaries.
698 2009-05-20 “It is a shame,” said Senator , Democrat of . “But you have to come to a realization around here that at this point in time, the N.R.A. gets the votes,” she said referring to the .

“Either you are going to bring down the whole Senate and never do anything or you or going to swallow hard and say, ‘I will just vote my conscience on those amendments and speak out until people get a hold of their senses,’ ” Mrs. Boxer said.

The ideological split should be on vivid display as early as Wednesday if House leaders follow through on their plan to have an unusual two-part vote on the card/gun bill.

Under the current plan, the House would vote separately on the gun provision and the credit card elements of the bill, allowing lawmakers who favor the credit card provision but not the gun measure to split their votes and allow those who want both to have it all. The two aspects of the bill would be joined again before the legislation was sent to the White House.

The Senate approved the credit card bill on Tuesday on an overwhelming vote of 90 to 5, showing that Democrats who oppose the gun provision were not going to let it interfere with their backing of the broader legislation.

Mr. Coburn and his allies in both parties say the provision is less about guns than it is states’ rights. Under the proposal, people who are otherwise authorized under state law to have firearms would be entitled to have them in national parks and wildlife refuges unless a state law prohibited it. Currently, firearms must be unloaded and secured on those national lands, creating what backers of the bill say is a situation where someone passing through a park with a firearm can be charged with a violation.

“I don’t like guns necessarily,” Mr. Coburn said. “What I want is those constitutional rights to be protected.”

Mr. Coburn has been trying for the past two years to get the measure through Congress. The Bush administration, in its final months, had pushed through a rule change that would have allowed the guns, but in March a federal judge blocked the change. The Obama administration chose not to appeal the decision while a review of potential impacts was made.

Gun control and conservation groups have urged the administration to insist on a credit card bill without the gun proposal. They have also joined top House Democrats in lamenting the inability of Senate Democrats to prevent Republicans from adding such politically charged proposals to unrelated legislation. A gun measure has also tied up a bill granting the full voting representation in the House, and Republicans are readying other gun rights initiatives for future consideration.

“I wish there could be more courage and leadership from our friends on the Hill,” said Paul Helmke, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, saying he believed that lawmakers were overestimating the gun lobby’s political might.

For their part, backers of the gun provision were relishing their looming victory.

“After using every legislative trick in the book to prevent a vote on gun rights, Democrat leaders are finally crying uncle and clearing the way for Congress to reinstate the Bush policy,” said Representative Doc Hastings of Washington, senior Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee.
699 2009-05-20 The last of the evening’s three novelties was “Pièce d’Occasion,” in which Herbie Hancock played a jazz piano piece of his own in idioms resembling now Falla, now Rachmaninoff. The dancers Jose Manuel Carreño and Stella Abrera joined him separately; Mr. Carreño briefly tried to do something with some routine ballet steps, then settled instead for nothing.

Everything else was, as is usual with Ballet Theater’s spring gala, a preview of the season’s coming attractions. If only the company would invest in a compère for these galas to explain what’s what and who’s who. Sure, we could all switch on our cellphones’ LCDs to see in the program book that the item after “The Procession” was from Act II of “La Sylphide,” but wouldn’t most of the audience have been happier if someone had informed us charmingly that this ballet is set in the Scotland that Walter Scott made Romantic? That it is the oldest choreography in international repertory (1836)? That this excerpt shows the enchanting moment when the hero, James, finds that the Sylphide to whom he has lost his heart is not the world’s only sylph but one of many? And that, unlike the lost 1832 original Parisian “Sylphide” and the many other 19th-century ballets that followed, this one shows the hero dancing the same steps alongside his beloved and her companions?

These facts aren’t arcane. They would deepen anybody’s pleasure in this “Sylphide” scene, which, out of context, may look more quaint than it is.

Gala audiences in my experience don’t mind being educated. Rather than being treated as if they know all they need to, they love being given things to look for. The same compère could have pointed out how the famous pas de deux from “Swan Lake,” Act II (in a version correctly described in the program as “after” Lev Ivanov’s choreography), is a late-Romantic variation on the original “Sylphide” idea. Here the princely hero is a nondancing cavalier amid the many swan-maidens who resemble the one with whom he is falling in love. (Though he dances elsewhere in the ballet, he does not in the presence of these enchanted beings.)

As it happens, Ivanov’s original 1895 “Swan Lake” pas de deux was actually a pas de deux à trois, with the prince’s friend Benno assisting in the partnering. (This version was still danced in the early 1960s, and it could be restored to good effect: it makes clearer that the heroine, in her alarm and conflicted feelings about the prince’s love for her, repeatedly falls away from him, only to be chivalrously caught by another man she doesn’t even see. Wouldn’t this make “Swan Lake” less like any other ballet?) And speaking of pas de deux à trois, wouldn’t a gala audience appreciate being told what on earth is going on in “Le Corsaire”?

We’re in a recession that may prove a depression. One way for ballet to survive is to keep shoveling out ever more fouetté turns and grandes pirouettes and multiple entrechat-six and circuits of turns or jumps on the assumption that audiences can’t get enough of them. Another is for those in charge to help audiences become more intelligently interested. Which will Ballet Theater take?

Parts of Monday’s gala showed that Mrs. Obama was right about innovative thinkers, but too little of the program helped us notice this. In the choreography by Ashton, Balanchine and Bournonville, you can see how these masters took standard ballet formulas and made ingenious rearrangements.

Fouetté turns, for example, are usually a stunt for a solo ballerina, but Ashton in Act I of “Sylvia” (we saw the dance in which the chaste huntress heroine and her companions enter) had the wit to make eight women do fouetté turns at the same time. (The conductor Ormsby Wilkins made Delibes’s thrilling fanfares more thumping than they need be, but Michele Wiles danced Sylvia with elegant flair.)

None of the three Balanchine excerpts made a full impression. Sarah Lane and Daniil Simkin led the “Theme and Variations” finale well, but you realize that this is the most exciting ending ever only if you see what has gone before. Gillian Murphy and Ethan Stiefel brought technical but not musical brilliance to the “Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux”; I have seen weaker dancers find more surprise in this number. Veronika Part was weightily pious in the “Mozartiana” Preghiera.

Occasionally Monday’s gala reminded me how much there is to look forward to in Ballet Theater’s spring season. Herman Cornejo’s James in “Sylphide,” Ms. Wiles’s Sylvia, Ms. Lane and Mr. Simkin in “Theme and Variations”: there is now good cause to have high hopes of these in complete performances.

Better yet were Diana Vishneva and Marcelo Gomes in the balcony pas de deux from Kenneth MacMillan’s “Romeo and Juliet.” Ms. Vishneva, a ballerina dancing for the first time on a New York stage in more than a year but now in the early summer of her gifts, danced Juliet with liquid ease and riveting focus; Mr. Gomes’s Romeo is an embodiment of chivalry. Ballet Theater has fewer true ballerinas than its repertory requires. On Monday, however, there was no doubting that Ms. Ananiashvili and Ms. Vishneva were among those few.
700 2009-05-20 For $17.99 I found a 2007 pinot gris from Ponzi Vineyards in the Willamette Valley of Oregon, dry and refreshing with intriguing aromas and flavors of lime, flowers and minerals.

And for $18.99 you can find one of the best champagne-style sparkling wines made outside of Champagne, from Roederer Estate in the Anderson Valley of California, for about half the price of an actual Champagne.

For all the hits, I had plenty of misses, wines that were simply, irretrievably dull. Some of these bottles are like food from franchise restaurants: assembled according to formula to achieve a predetermined flavor profile intended not to offend, which in itself is offensive. Even worse are the wines whose artifice is obvious — the layered vanilla of oak chips, the overly effusive fruit, each bottle “crafted,” as the wineries love to say, for your pleasure.

When it comes to inexpensive wines, the modern American wine industry is at a great disadvantage compared with Old World wine regions. The reasons are fairly simple.

Centuries ago in Europe, when winemaking and distribution were largely local, each region, and sometimes each town, had its own set of grapes. In northern Italy, for example, grapes for white wines include ribolla gialla in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, garganega for Soave in the Veneto, arneis and cortese in the Piedmont and blanc de Morgex in the Valle d’Aosta. These are just a small fraction of the grapes that were once grown and are still grown today. Because so many of these wines are little known, the demand for them is low and they sell for far less than the higher-status wines.

Compare that with the white grapes you might see in American wines on a typical shelf: chardonnay, sauvignon blanc; sauvignon blanc, chardonnay; viognier, maybe. You get the idea. European wines have a built-in historical variety to them that is sustained by tradition, though in many areas of Europe these traditions are threatened. That’s another story.

In modern American wine history — post-1960 — the selection of grapes is monochromatic. Particularly in California, American wine producers set their sights on the pinnacle of winemaking. That meant cabernet sauvignon and chardonnay, and to a lesser extent, merlot, pinot noir and sauvignon blanc. Sure, other grapes are grown — zinfandel, petite sirah, syrah nowadays, a little marsanne and roussanne. But the variety of wine grapes that once existed in California, like gamay noir, charbono, barbera, has dwindled as producers have sought to capitalize on the popularity of a very few grapes.

In effect, then, California produces a small amount of top-flight wine along with an ocean of generic wine that seeks to imitate the top echelon, often through artifice like oak substitutes and additives. All too often, the choices are expensive cabernet or chardonnay, and imitation expensive cabernet or chardonnay. Is this always the case? Of course not. But it’s true often enough that the search for good and interesting values is not an easy one.

Nonetheless, wines are out there, generally off the beaten track, like the Lieb pinot blanc. Personally, I think Oregon pinot gris is a wonderful source of good wine values. The Oregon pioneers who planted pinot gris in a chardonnay world were brave souls. At one time, producers treated pinot gris as if it were chardonnay, giving it the full oak treatment. And even today, many in Oregon would prefer to upsell consumers to pinot noir rather than pinot gris, but wines like the Ponzi, and the tangy, delicious 2007 King Estate pinot gris, are excellent values.

Sparkling wines, too, are great deals. I mentioned the Roederer Estate. Equally good is the rich, toasty 2005 brut from Domaine Carneros for $19.99, while the brut blanc de noirs from Gruet in New Mexico is a perennial steal.

The search for distinctive American wines at reasonable prices almost requires ventures into the wine industry’s back roads. Few bottles will be so rewarding as the 2006 Hermann J. Wiemer dry riesling from the Finger Lakes. This wine has enough citrus and mineral complexity that you don’t want to mask it by drinking it too cold.

I haven’t mentioned any red wines yet. I tasted many inexpensive bottles made in the prevailing style that features a soft, round texture, little acid structure and plenty of fruit. It’s a style that doesn’t much interest me.

Why are interesting inexpensive reds harder to find? I don’t honestly know. I can speculate that the public has embraced a greater stylistic range for whites than for reds, which accounts for the many crisp, lively whites available. Reds are still mimicking the expensive wines. Or maybe I looked in all the wrong places. But I did find a few wines that I really liked, and I’m sure more are simply awaiting discovery.

Pinot noirs are hard to make cheaply, since inexpensive grapes are generally grown in the wrong places. But I loved the 2007 Oregon pinot noir from A to Z, a garnet-colored, earthy and restrained wine for $19.99. I find a lot of zinfandels to be too big or too sweet, but I really liked the 2005 Quivira zin from the Dry Creek Valley in California, with classic peppery berry flavors. And if you are a Napa cabernet fan, Oberon makes that very rare bird, an affordable Napa Valley cabernet that is in fact very tasty. The 2006 is ripe, fresh and dry, with classic cedary cabernet flavors gently underscored with a bit of oak.

Beyond those, I was sorely challenged to find reds I liked for less than $20. It’s not so hard to find good whites, though, like the 2007 Suisun Valley sauvignon blanc from Manifesto!, a new outfit declaring itself dedicated to making “simple wine for a complex world.” Yeah, I know it’s hokey, but the wine itself, made in a brashly fruity style, was dry and refreshing with flavors of mint and herbs for intrigue’s sake.

And, as summer’s coming up, let us not neglect rosé. The 2008 Bone-Jolly gamay noir rosé, made by Edmunds St. John from a rare stand of gamay in the Sierra foothills, is lively and dry, with spicy fruit and mineral flavors. It just makes you feel good to drink it.

The Bone-Jolly, like many of the inexpensive American wines I found, was closed with a screwcap. This is great news. If you’ve found a wine that you really like, at least it won’t be corked.

Lots of Adjectives, No More Than $20

Here are a dozen American treasures, great wines under $20:

Earthy and restrained, with delicate cherry and herbal flavors.

Toasty and creamy, with lively flavors of lemon and apple.

Fresh and dry with lively, lingering fruit and mineral flavors.

Fresh and lively with citrus flavors and distinct berry notes.

Tangy and delicious with flavors of grapefruit, minerals and almonds.

Dry and creamy with a rich texture and a touch of citrus and anise.

Brash and zesty with lemon, mint and herbal flavors.

Dry and refreshing with aromas of flowers, lime and minerals.

Light and elegant with flavors of lemon and grapefruit.
701 2009-05-20 PAIN FOR THE CREDITWORTHY Credit card companies, about to be barred from profitable tactics that penalize people who fail to pay on time, are setting their sights on those who pay in full each month.      RETURNING THE BAILOUTS Now that big banks ...
702 2009-05-20 One of the more historic advances in baseball's most historical period is ready for the historians to analyze, if you can forgive the histrionics. The wizards at Retrosheet, the volunteer organization that for more than 20 years has compiled, proo...
703 2009-05-20 “It is a shame,” said Senator , Democrat of . “But you have to come to a realization around here that at this point in time, the N.R.A. gets the votes,” she said referring to the .

“Either you are going to bring down the whole Senate and never do anything or you or going to swallow hard and say, ‘I will just vote my conscience on those amendments and speak out until people get a hold of their senses,’ ” Mrs. Boxer said.

The ideological split should be on vivid display as early as Wednesday if House leaders follow through on their plan to have an unusual two-part vote on the card/gun bill.

Under the current plan, the House would vote separately on the gun provision and the credit card elements of the bill, allowing lawmakers who favor the credit card provision but not the gun measure to split their votes and allow those who want both to have it all. The two aspects of the bill would be joined again before the legislation was sent to the White House.

The Senate approved the credit card bill on Tuesday on an overwhelming vote of 90 to 5, showing that Democrats who oppose the gun provision were not going to let it interfere with their backing of the broader legislation.

Mr. Coburn and his allies in both parties say the provision is less about guns than it is states’ rights. Under the proposal, people who are otherwise authorized under state law to have firearms would be entitled to have them in national parks and wildlife refuges unless a state law prohibited it. Currently, firearms must be unloaded and secured on those national lands, creating what backers of the bill say is a situation where someone passing through a park with a firearm can be charged with a violation.

“I don’t like guns necessarily,” Mr. Coburn said. “What I want is those constitutional rights to be protected.”

Mr. Coburn has been trying for the past two years to get the measure through Congress. The Bush administration, in its final months, had pushed through a rule change that would have allowed the guns, but in March a federal judge blocked the change. The Obama administration chose not to appeal the decision while a review of potential impacts was made.

Gun control and conservation groups have urged the administration to insist on a credit card bill without the gun proposal. They have also joined top House Democrats in lamenting the inability of Senate Democrats to prevent Republicans from adding such politically charged proposals to unrelated legislation. A gun measure has also tied up a bill granting the full voting representation in the House, and Republicans are readying other gun rights initiatives for future consideration.

“I wish there could be more courage and leadership from our friends on the Hill,” said Paul Helmke, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, saying he believed that lawmakers were overestimating the gun lobby’s political might.

For their part, backers of the gun provision were relishing their looming victory.

“After using every legislative trick in the book to prevent a vote on gun rights, Democrat leaders are finally crying uncle and clearing the way for Congress to reinstate the Bush policy,” said Representative Doc Hastings of Washington, senior Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee.
704 2009-05-21 Johnson & Johnson announced late Thursday that it had agreed to buy Cougar Biotechnology for about $1 billion, or $43 a share in cash, in a move aimed at strengthening its position in the cancer drug market....
705 2009-05-21 The new station cost $91 million -- $39 million financed by the city and the rest by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority -- and it was concluded in exactly two years....
706 2009-05-21 TAG Heuer is reissuing the watch that Steve McQueen wore in the movie "Le Mans."...
707 2009-05-21 The American International Group said Thursday that Edward M. Liddy was stepping down as chairman and chief executive of the troubled insurance conglomerate....
708 2009-05-21 David Pogue discusses the pros and cons of the Verizon Hub.
709 2009-05-21 MMI Investments, the activist hedge fund, abandoned its months-long attempt to put five nominees on the board of Chemed, owner of the Roto-Rooter drain cleaning service....
710 2009-05-21 After a nine-month drought in public offerings, venture capitalists have an embarrassment of riches this week. OpenTable, the online restaurant reservation service, went public on Thursday, a day after the debut of SolarWinds, a software company....
711 2009-05-21 Dr. Pauline Chen explores the personal health risks doctors and nurses face when they care for sick patients....
712 2009-05-21 Solitary conditions have taken a toll on Abduwali Abdukhadir Muse, his lawyer said....
713 2009-05-21 Over and over again, my beeper went off. And I continued ignoring it until the fifth page, when I began to worry that there might be an emergency elsewhere in the hospital. I wriggled my hips against Jean’s nightstand, trying to dislodge the beeper from my waist without touching it or contaminating the sterile field. I shouted for help, but no one answered my calls.

Finally, when my pager went off for the sixth time, I pulled off my left glove and reached down, groping for the beeper hanging on my right hip while walking toward the door to find a phone.

I felt a sharp sting. Looking down, I saw a small scarlet drop emerging from the tip of my left index finger. I had stabbed my finger against the needle I had just used to anesthetize Jean’s skin, a needle I still held in my right hand.

I stared at the tiny red bloom on my fingertip. And for a moment, I felt the floor beneath my feet give way, pulling everything — Jean, my heart, my work, my life — down with it. I stood there paralyzed, staring at the puncture wound on my fingertip and unable to stop the movie playing in my mind’s eye, a movie of a future like Jean’s. Jean would never leave the hospital and, a few months later, would die in the I.C.U., succumbing to a final, massive infection.

Over the years, I have been stuck, cut, coughed on, scratched and splashed several more times. Each time, I feel the floor and my life fall away. I have never contracted a life-threatening infectious disease; but sometimes I catch myself wondering if it’s only a matter of time. During the SARS epidemic a few years back, for example, health care workers were disproportionately affected; certain hospitals in affected areas reported that over half their workers contracted the disease.

And then every day there is news that swine flu may still reach pandemic proportions.

When I think about the possibility of becoming infected with a potentially deadly disease during the course of my work — when I allow myself to think about it — I struggle to reconcile my beliefs about a doctor’s responsibilities and my fears about my own safety.

But, always, I arrive at the same conclusion. Like that senior doctor, I believe it’s a privilege, a calling, to take care of patients. And I believe that in deciding to practice medicine, I have consented to an unspoken contract with the public, one that requires that I take care of those who are sick.

Lately, however, I have also begun to think that there is another side to that contract. Maybe there are obligations that the general public has to its health care workers.

Four years ago, Dr. Kent A. Sepkowitz from Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York and Dr. Leon Eisenberg from Harvard Medical School published a study on occupational deaths among health care workers. They estimated that anywhere from 17 to 57 deaths per million workers occur annually in the United States as a result of occupational exposures. When placed in the context of other occupations, this calculated death rate was more than the national average, less than that of policemen and firefighters, and much less than that of the most dangerous occupations like fishing, construction, flying and being a part of the military. (Lawyers and waiters, interestingly enough, came at the bottom of the entire list with some of the safest jobs.)

But with some nine million people working in the health care industry, health care workers end up with one of the highest numbers of total deaths, upwards of more than 300 per year.

There is a flaw, however, in all of these comparisons. And it is that the estimated annual death rate for health care workers is, well, just that — a calculated guess that is an underestimate at best. Despite the very real risk that exists for all health care workers, the actual number of deaths from occupational injuries or infections is unknown. Unlike policemen and firefighters and other high-risk occupations, health care workers have no national registry to track deaths caused by infections or injuries acquired on the job. As Drs. Sepkowitz and Eisenberg are quick to point out, the figure they use is based on their best educated guess regarding occupational deaths from only four infectious diseases: hepatitis B, hepatitis C, H.I.V. and tuberculosis.

In a recent e-mail, Dr. Sepkowitz confirmed that four years after the publication of their paper, we still do not know what the actual occupational death rate is for health care workers. No federal or national organizations have stepped up to the plate and taken on the task of tracking these deaths. Without those numbers, without a clear idea of just how many people are affected, there is no way any of us can come up with better ways to protect those workers who put themselves at risk to care for others.

I recently spoke to Gerald M. Oppenheimer, a historian who has written extensively about the doctors who chose to care for AIDS patients just as the disease was emerging in the 1980s. It was a frightening period; no one understood how the illness was transmitted or infected.

“We are so used to seeing heroes as different, as people who are larger than life and who prepare all their lives for this event. But it’s not that at all,” Dr. Oppenheimer said. “[These doctors] were ordinary people who were responding to something that appeared to be very dangerous. And they were willing to take that risk because of their beliefs.”

Supporting a national registry of occupational deaths in health care workers would go a long way toward recognizing and supporting some of the extraordinary decisions of ordinary individuals. And that registry, I believe, should be part of the agreement between health care workers and those they serve.

Join the discussion on the Well blog.
714 2009-05-21 The former secretary of state testified that the philanthropist Brooke Astor, around the time of her 100th birthday in 2002, stopped being able to recognize him....
715 2009-05-21 Does President Obama's plan for closing Guantánamo Bay detention center adequately address security concerns?...
716 2009-05-21 We're No. 1: This recession is now the worst in at least 60 years....
717 2009-05-21 As promised, we have more answers from Robert Desimone to your questions on the science of paying attention, which was the topic of my Findings column....
718 2009-05-21 Expenses scandal? What expenses scandal? On Thursday, the British government gave newspapers an alternative front-page story by agreeing to allow Nepalese soldiers who served in the British army to live in Britain, after a campaign led by a well-k...
719 2009-05-21 News, notes, results and more from the Memorial Cup and the world of junior hockey....
720 2009-05-21 Chrysler recently said it would close 789 dealerships around the country by June 9 as part of its bankruptcy filing. So you know what that means? Closeout bargains for shoppers!...
721 2009-05-21 First Lady Michelle Obama, in an interview with Time magazine, describes a comfortable and fulfilling family life in the White House....
722 2009-05-21 Industries worry that a new climate treaty could erode the value of a new idea, and the incentives to create new ideas....
723 2009-05-21 The small offering may provide hope for other tech companies in the I.P.O. pipeline....
724 2009-05-21 The Treasury Department has decided to bail out GMAC, the former financing arm of General Motors, with $7.5 billion, which would bring its total federal assistance to more than $12 billion, The New York Times reported....
725 2009-05-21 Britain's Serious Fraud Office is building a system to help it detect hedge fund fraud, according to Reuters....
726 2009-05-21 April was good month for hedge funds, with $15.4 billion flowing into their coffers on the back of a stock market rally, according to Eurekahedge....
727 2009-05-21 OpenTable, the second venture-backed initial public offering to launch this week, priced at $20 per share Wednesday, 54 percent above its above its original price range....
728 2009-05-21 Fifth Third Bancorp announced plans Wednesday for a stock offering, making it the ninth of the 10 large U.S. banks ordered by federal regulators to bolster their finances to announce a capital-raising plan....
729 2009-05-21 Johnson & Johnson told Merck it plans to seek arbitration on whether it can pull out of a blockbuster drug partnership with Schering-Plough as that company sells itself to Merck for $41.1 billion, The Associated Press reported....
730 2009-05-21 Shares of Hertz Global Holdings tumbled on Wednesday after the car and equipment rental company announced that it plans to sell shares and convertible notes to raise cash....
731 2009-05-21 Sixteen people who worked for defunct securities firm Joseph Stevens have been indicted over a scheme that netted $6.2 million in unlawful stock commissions, the Manhattan district attorney said on Wednesday....
732 2009-05-21 “That’s kind of what we’ve been dealing with this whole series,” Manager Jerry Manuel said. “Not getting the big hit.”

Murphy missed a great chance, falling deeper into a 2-for-24 skid, but he compensated by playing outstanding defense. Instead of giving away runs, Murphy prevented them. The Dodgers made him work, spraying hard-hit balls at his feet, his stomach, his head, and he vacuumed every one. He made all the routine plays and an inordinate share of difficult ones, too, leaping to snare Rafael Furcal’s fifth-inning liner and then stepping on the bag to complete the double play.

Murphy’s misadventures in left field, combined with Delgado’s long-term absence and a dearth of better options, prompted Manuel to change his mind and give Murphy a try at first. He said Murphy, who played 13 games at first last season for Class AA Binghamton, was scheduled to play first all three games this weekend at Fenway. As with everything else involving this team, he added that the plan was subject to change. But Murphy’s performance probably instilled some confidence, making Manuel a little less “scared to death” than he was before the game.

“I have more experience in the infield throughout my entire life,” said Murphy, who borrowed his mitt from Cora, who commandeered it from Delgado. “And I think I probably look a little bit more comfortable in the infield just because I’ve played there more often.”

Pitching as confidently and smoothly as he did in spring training, Hernandez bounced back from an uneven start Friday in San Francisco. He has worked hard in his bullpen sessions to improve his cutter, and Hernandez, after allowing a first-inning run, used that pitch to plow through the highest-scoring team in the National League. Retiring 12 of 13 batters over one stretch, Hernandez defused a tense situation in the seventh. After putting on Casey Blake (walk) and Matt Kemp (single), Hernandez snuck an 87-m.p.h. fastball past Juan Pierre to end the rally.

By taking first-inning leads in the series’s first two games, the Dodgers put pressure on the Mets. They scored again in the first inning Wednesday, relying on a familiar blueprint. For the third straight game, the Dodgers’ first two hitters —Pierre and Rafael Furcal — reached safely. Their consecutive singles put runners on first and second, a groundout moved them over, and Ethier’s sacrifice fly knocked in Pierre. The Dodgers’ effortless manufacturing made Manuel envious.

The Mets’ week-long streak without a home run nearly ended in the second inning, but Ryan Church’s deep fly to right caromed high off the fence, forcing him to settle for a double. Another streak — the Mets’ scoreless streak — continued when none of the next three hitters could drive him in. Manuel said he was not concerned about the homerless drought, which increased to 69 straight innings, “as long as we’re hitting well.”

They have not been hitting well since winning the first three games of this trip in San Francisco. After pounding 42 hits — 19 with runners in scoring position — in those victories, the Mets managed 29 in the four losses. Until Beltran doubled off Jeff Weaver in the first inning Wednesday, the Mets’ previous 11 hits had been singles. Beltran added another double in the third, ripping a one-out grounder past first baseman James Loney and into the right-field corner. Castillo, who had singled, came sprinting around third and was able to score easily when Hudson juggled the cutoff throw from Ethier. The Mets did not score again, and Manuel is more than a little worried.

“It’s going to be challenging in the position that we are in now,” Manuel said. “With the pieces that we have now, it’s going to be challenging for us to put a lot of runs on the board.”
733 2009-05-21 WASHINGTON — The Treasury Department has decided to bail out GMAC, the former financing arm of General Motors, with $7.5 billion, according to people familiar with the discussions, which would bring its total federal assistance to more than $12 billion.

The deal is expected to close on Thursday and comes two weeks after federal regulators concluded from a stress test on GMAC that it needed an additional $11.5 billion in capital to weather a severe downturn in the economy.

GMAC continues to provide crucial financing for car sales by General Motors, and Treasury officials recognized that its survival was essential to the government’s broader attempt to rescue and restructure the automobile giant, according to the individuals who were briefed on the discussions and who spoke only on the condition that they not be identified.

General Motors and Chrysler are both in the midst of arduous efforts to shrink in size, wring more concessions from labor unions and rethink their fundamental business strategies.

The company is reeling from the broader credit crisis and the recession, as well as from its losses from subprime mortgages. During the housing boom, GMAC acquired a major subprime lender and became one of the biggest players in that segment of the mortgage industry.

The Federal Reserve allowed it to convert to a bank holding company last year, a move that allowed it to apply for rescue help from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.
734 2009-05-21 A death row inmate, Dennis Skillicorn, 49, was executed. Mr. Skillicorn was one of three men convicted in the 1994 murder of Richard Drummond, who had stopped to help the men after their car stalled on Interstate 70. Mr. Skillicorn’s execution was the first in Missouri since October 2005. In 2006, capital punishment was suspended over concerns about lethal injection in general and Missouri’s three-drug method in particular. The courts ruled last year in favor of lethal injection and Missouri’s protocol. Mr. Skillicorn was pronounced dead at 12:34 a.m. Supporters wanted Mr. Skillicorn’s sentence commuted to life in prison, calling him a role model for other inmates. But Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat, noted Mr. Skillicorn was on parole for another murder at the time Mr. Drummond was kidnapped, robbed and killed. Mr. Nixon also noted that Mr. Skillicorn, 49, was convicted of two subsequent murders in Arizona.
735 2009-05-21 Facing condemnation for the arrest and trial of the pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar said Wednesday that it would allow some diplomats and locally based journalists inside the courtroom. Embassies were told that they could send one diplomat to the trial and apparently were offered the chance to meet with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, left, who is on trial after the intrusion into her compound of an American who swam across an adjacent lake. The British ambassador, Mark Canning, who attended the hearing on Wednesday, said Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, 63, appeared “composed, upright, crackling with energy” and “very much in charge of her defense team,” the BBC reported.
736 2009-05-21 A federal magistrate judge with a taste for sports metaphors has found that Andrew Giuliani’s lawsuit against Duke University for letting a coach push him off the university’s golf team is “a swing and a miss.”

Mr. Giuliani had sued the university last summer, claiming that it breached its contract with him by removing him from the team without cause. But Magistrate Judge Wallace W. Dixon in North Carolina said in an opinion Tuesday that he found no evidence that such a contract, written or otherwise, had ever existed.

“Plaintiff’s reliance on four student policy manuals as evidence of a contract is a swing and a miss,” the judge wrote. He noted that the manuals state that they can be changed by the university at any time unilaterally and said Mr. Giuliani’s overall legal analysis “slices far from the fairway.”

The opinion, in which the judge also found room to cite the golf movie “Caddyshack,” recommends a dismissal of the case by the United States District Court that is overseeing it. An attorney for Mr. Giuliani, Robert C. Eckstrand, said his client planned to challenge the decision.

Mr. Giuliani, the son of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, graduated from Duke this month but did not attend the ceremony. He has been playing golf professionally and is trying to qualify for the United States Open.

In the absence of an actual contract, the judge said in his ruling, the court cannot entertain the accusations that Duke did not deal fairly with him in allowing Coach Orrin Daniel Vincent III to suspend him from the team. The university has said that Mr. Giuliani had acted inappropriately in some settings, like throwing an apple at a teammate and violating “the rules an the spirit of the game of golf,” and considers the suspension an appropriate exercise of the coach’s discretion.
737 2009-05-21 Two networks faced off this week over extending the life of a show about dead people.

“Medium,” which has been successful, if not quite a hit show, on NBC for the last five seasons, got less love from that network than it expected when its contract came up for renewal. CBS, the network that owns the studio that produces “Medium,” stepped in, first to defend the show from what CBS executives considered some disrespect by NBC, and then to appropriate the show itself.

The conflict over “Medium” was emblematic of what transpired at every network this week, when money and ownership were major factors in scheduling decisions. CBS had no trouble committing to ordering a full season of “Medium,” which NBC had resisted, because as owner of the show it will benefit financially from the future sale of the episodes of the show produced for the coming season.

That surely factored into the decision by ABC to again renew the now low-rated comedy “Scrubs” (which NBC walked away from last year) because ABC’s studio produces it and will reap the benefits from sales of reruns and DVDs.

NBC also passed on one of its former hit comedies, “My Name Is Earl,” after seeking a sharp cut in its budget, because the show’s ratings had dipped; the fact that NBC did not own the show surely did not help its cause. “Earl” is produced by 20th Century Fox Television, but its network, Fox, has expressed no interest in adding it to its schedule.

Other shows faced cloudy forecasts this month because of costs and owners that were not in-house. The CBS comedy “The New Adventures of Old Christine” had to line up a prospective deal with ABC before CBS would consent to a full 22-episode offer. Less fortunate was the CBS drama “Without a Trace,” which was canceled this season rather than being renewed at a high cost. Warner Brothers owns that series.
738 2009-05-21 Many Web sites provide information on choosing products that are “green” or “nontoxic” or “cruelty free,” but GoodGuide.com is one of the first that rates products on potential environmental, health and social effects. The site, which is still in beta test mode but has already had more than a million visitors, is the brainchild of Dara O’Rourke, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who studies global supply chains and who started the project with grants from nonprofit foundations.

Why did you start GoodGuide.com?

I have a daughter who is 6, and a few years ago I was putting sunscreen on her face and stopped myself. I just didn’t know what was in there. So I brought it to campus for testing and turns out there was a suspected endocrine disrupter and a photocarcinogen — a chemical that, when exposed to sunlight, has a carcinogenic potential to it. That set me on the path of researching basically every single product in our household. From her products to our products to food products to electronics, I found chemicals that had been banned in Europe, or are being phased out in Japan, Australia, Canada. Meanwhile, every time I gave a lecture about global supply chains, people would come up and say, “Look, can you just tell me what to buy?” It made me realize I need to translate all this academic and scientific research to make it useful to the public.

So how does the site work?

This is going to sound geeky, but we developed something called “product ontology,” which is basically a process to determine what matters scientifically in evaluating a product. You see products that say they are ozone-friendly or don’t contain CFCs, but the real impact is somewhere else in the life chain, like in the manufacturing step or end-of-life disposal. So we have a team of scientists who figure out what matters most in a product category. Then, we flow data about the product into a system that uses an algorithm to weight all the variables and turn the data into a rating.

Is the site useful to someone who cares about global warming but not about, say, animal welfare?

We’re not trying to tell you how to live your life or what social issue we think you should live by. We want you to make choices that better match your values or your concerns, so you can personalize the information using several filters.

What types of products do you rate?

So far we have personal care products, household chemicals, food products and toys. We asked our users what do you want next. They said pet food. We’re adding products gradually and also plan to do electronics, household furnishings, paper products and apparel.
739 2009-05-21 Being selective with munis is key. The first risk investors need to understand is the difference between general obligation and revenue bonds. General obligation bonds are sold to finance the daily operations of a municipality. Legally, that entity is obligated to do whatever it needs — from cutting services to raising taxes — to make its bond payments.

A revenue bond is sold to finance particular projects like hospitals, utilities and stadiums. The receipts from such projects are used to make the bond payments, and many investors have started to wonder how these will hold up.

“Stay away from revenue bonds, backed by projects like a parking lot at a university,” warned Gregg S. Fisher, chief investment officer of Gerstein Fisher, an investment advisory firm in New York. “If cars stop showing up, then you could have trouble getting your money.”

Hospital bonds also need to be evaluated carefully. “Community hospitals with A and BBB ratings are feeling the pinch because people without insurance go to them and can’t pay,” said Ronald J. Sanchez, director of fixed income strategies at Fiduciary Trust, a unit of Franklin Templeton Investments. “You need to avoid certain segments with greater risk.”

This points to another issue: liquidity. Roughly $360 billion of new bonds are sold annually. New York and California are the benchmark issuers and their bonds are traded often. But there are scores of municipalities that sell bonds that buyers may have to hold for their duration because of illiquid markets.

Munis are traded in an over-the-counter fashion, which means finding a price quote, let alone a buyer, can be difficult at times.

For those aware of the risk, there are investing opportunities. During the first quarter, few municipalities sold bonds because they were waiting to see what the stimulus plan would bring them. Now, cities and states are making up for lost time.

Several portfolio managers advise that shorter-dated munis are safer. “The longer the duration the more volatility,” said Mr. Strickland, who likes the two- to three-year range.

Diversification is also being pushed for munis. Historically investors have concentrated on bonds from their state to get the full tax deduction. But owning bonds from other states could give them a greater return, as in the case of California, where a fiscal crisis has pushed up yields.

The recession has brought about new securities, known as Build America Bonds, to help ailing municipalities raise money. They allow municipalities to sell taxable bonds for capital projects while receiving a rebate from the federal government for a portion of their borrowing costs. The program is meant to attract institutional investors who typically do not buy munis. But they could also suit a retail investor who wants to put them in a taxable retirement account.
740 2009-05-21 Citing privacy concerns, lawyers and clients are reluctant to share details. Adult adoptions include not only same-sex couples, but also others who want to provide for a stepchild, a loyal employee or a distant relative.

Still, for those contemplating adult adoption, the cases that go awry are more informative, teaching valuable lessons in how to avoid mistakes.

Trusts often have current beneficiaries — who are entitled to assets immediately — and future beneficiaries, who do not receive distributions until an event like the death of another beneficiary. Often a son or daughter, rather than a spouse or partner, is next in line to receive a share under a family trust, said Mary F. Radford, a professor at Georgia State University College of Law in Atlanta.

In some families, adult adoption leads to a struggle between blood relatives trying to keep an inheritance in the family and an adult whose legal status in the family has come through adoption.

The law requires trustees to honor the intentions of the person who created the trust. That means interpreting the trust’s wording, and when that is done in court there is often conflicting evidence about what parents or grandparents would have wanted.

“Not too many of them might even think of the possibility that somebody might adopt another adult with whom they were living,” said Joshua S. Rubenstein, a lawyer with Katten Muchin Rosenman in New York.

Almost half the states prohibit adult adoption, and laws, which vary by state, can be restrictive. Even in states that allow such adoptions, a trust’s creator can exclude people adopted after a certain age (say, 10 or 18), preventing adopted adults from becoming trust beneficiaries.

Given the complexities, those who want to explore adult adoption would do well to consult with both an adoption expert in the state where they might adopt and an estate-planning lawyer. Names can be found on the Web site of the American Academy of Adoption Attorneys and the site of the American College of Trust and Estate Counsel, a group of trust and estate lawyers.

Many of the challenges and pitfalls of adult adoption — and the passions that can surround it — are illustrated by two lawsuits involving Olive F. Watson, whose grandfather Thomas J. Watson Sr. founded I.B.M.

In 1991, Ms. Watson, then 43, adopted her lesbian partner, Patricia Ann Spado, who was then 44, after they had been together for 14 years. The relationship ended less than a year later, and Ms. Spado received $500,000 in cash from Ms. Watson but did not give up the right to inherit as her adopted child.

The lesson? Painful as it may be to contemplate an end to a relationship, consider the possibility and think about what rights you might want to retain for any children you may subsequently have.

After Ms. Watson’s mother died in 2004, Mr. Keyko, representing Ms. Spado, asserted in a letter to the family lawyer that she should share in three multimillion-dollar family trusts. The trustees disagreed and asked a probate judge in Greenwich, Conn., to decide whether the trusts, which included biological and adopted descendants, covered her. According to court papers, Thomas J. Watson Jr., who died in 1993, had not known about the adoption, and Olive Watson said in a deposition in a different suit that she had not told her father about it because he would not have approved.

The court ruled that the trusts were designed for grandchildren — by then there were 18 — who had a “typical parent/child relationship” with Mr. Watson’s children. “Watson did not intend to benefit someone who is adopted for no reason other than to obtain his money,” Judge David W. Hopper of the Greenwich probate court wrote in his decision in 2006. Ms. Spado has appealed.

Separately, the trustees filed a case in Maine, where the adoption took place, to have it annulled, and a probate judge in Rockland granted their request last year, 17 years after the adoption took place.

It is extremely rare for a court to annul an adoption; in this case, the judge ruled that the adoption was based on fraud because Ms. Spado did not live in Maine but went there only during the summer. (New York, where the couple spent most of their time, does not allow adoption of a sexual partner.) Ms. Spado has appealed that ruling, as well.

Her lawyer, Michael P. Koskoff, of Bridgeport, Conn., who estimated that Ms. Spado’s share of the trusts was $5 million to $15 million, called the suits a “multistate attack” against “this woman who was a partner in a gay relationship.”

Ms. Watson, who declined to comment, lives in Miami with her current partner and their two children, ages 8 and 10, beneficiaries of the same trusts to which Ms. Spado makes a claim. Not a party to either lawsuit, Ms. Watson said in a deposition for the Maine case that when she adopted Ms. Spado she had sought to make her the beneficiary of her own trusts, not the trusts for the Watson grandchildren.

The lessons here? Family opposition to an adult adoption should never be underestimated. And family members should be informed about your intentions; don’t surprise them.

Also, it is important to make sure that the lawyers advising you have all the facts. In wealthy families with multiple trusts, you need to consider the impact of an adult adoption on these documents. While parents and grandparents have no obligation to share every detail of their financial planning, it doesn’t hurt to ask. Communication is crucial to mutual understanding.

Over time, changes in the legal landscape might create other ways for gay couples to provide for each other, said Mary L. Bonauto, civil rights project director at Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders, a legal advocacy group in Boston. The group is seeking to overturn the federal Defense of Marriage Act of 1996, which defines marriage as a union between a man and a woman, and thereby excludes same-sex couples from the financial benefits that spouses are entitled to under other federal laws.

For example, same-sex couples cannot file joint income tax returns, receive Social Security survivor benefits or postpone estate tax on assets inherited from each other. This is true even if they are married in one of the five states that allow same-sex marriages.

Were the federal law repealed by Congress or found to be unconstitutional, adoptions by same-sex partners could become “a historical anomaly,” said Keith Bradoc Gallant, a lawyer with Day Pitney in New Haven, Conn.

But that day will not come soon. Meanwhile, lawyers say same-sex partners will continue to struggle to find ways to provide for each other.
741 2009-05-21 At the time, yogurt was exotic. Although a traditional food in Greece, the Middle East, southeastern Europe and large parts of Asia, it was known elsewhere only to a small population of health faddists. Early on, Danone was marketed as a health food and sold by prescription through pharmacies. Gradually it found favor as a milk product that did not spoil in the heat.

In 1923 Daniel Carasso enrolled in business school in Marseille and, the better to understand yogurt, took a training course in bacteriology at the Pasteur Institute.

In 1929 he planted the Danone flag in France, just in time for the worldwide business slump. “I barely realized that there was a financial crisis raging around me,” he said at a news conference in April. “I was too caught up in trying to find dairy stores to sell my product.”

His efforts paid off, as the French took to this newfangled food, but in 1941 the arrival of the Nazis forced him to flee to the United States. There he formed a partnership with two family friends, Joe Metzger, a Swiss-born Spanish businessman, and his son Juan, whose flair for marketing would make Dannon a household name in the United States.

Mr. Carasso and the Metzgers bought Oxy-Gala, a small Greek yogurt company in the Bronx, and in October 1942 began producing unflavored yogurt in half-pint glass bottles under the Americanized name Dannon.

Customers paid 11 cents and a 3-cent deposit. Juan washed out the returns. “We only sold $20 worth a day, but even then we were the bigger of the two companies in the business,” Juan Metzger, who died in 1998, told People magazine in 1980. (Joe Metzger had died in 1965.)

The little company operated at a loss until 1947, when, in a concession to the American sweet tooth, strawberry jam was added to the yogurt. Sales took off, new flavors were added to the product line, and Dannon yogurt made the leap from specialty product to snack food and dessert. In 1959 the company was bought by Beatrice Foods.

Mr. Carasso returned to Europe after the war to restart Danone in Spain and France. He then embarked on an aggressive campaign to expand the business by establishing Danone plants in other countries and merging with other food companies. It acquired the fresh-cheese company Gervais in 1967 and in 1973 merged with the bottle maker BSN, which was eager to expand the food side of its business.

The new company, BSN-Gervais Danone, bought Dannon from Beatrice Foods in 1981 and changed its name to Groupe Danone two years later. One of France’s largest food conglomerates, with revenue of nearly $19 billion in 2008, it ranks first in the world in sales of fresh dairy products and second in sales of bottled water and baby foods.

Mr. Carasso is survived by a daughter, Marina Nahmias, four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
742 2009-05-21 SAN FRANCISCO — In a move that could blunt some of the criticism of Google for its settlement of a lawsuit over its book-scanning project, the company signed an agreement with the University of Michigan that would give some libraries a degree of oversight over the prices Google could charge for its vast digital library.

Google has faced an onslaught of opposition over the far-reaching settlement with authors and publishers. Complaints include the exclusive rights the agreement gives Google to publish online and to profit from millions of so-called orphan books, out-of-print books that are protected by copyright but whose rights holders cannot be found.

The Justice Department has also begun an inquiry into whether the settlement, which is subject to approval by a court, would violate antitrust laws.

Google used the opportunity of the University of Michigan agreement to rebut some criticism.

“I think that it’s pretty short- sighted and contradictory,” said Sergey Brin, a Google co-founder and its president of technology. Mr. Brin said the settlement would allow Google to offer widespread access to millions of books that are largely hidden in the stacks of university libraries.

“We are increasing choices,” Mr. Brin said. “There was no option prior to this to get these sorts of books online.”
743 2009-05-21 The opening of the new Acropolis Museum in Athens will take place on June 20, almost five years after it was originally scheduled to open, the Greek culture minister told reporters at a news conference in Athens on Wednesday.
744 2009-05-21 The shanty home of another child star of the movie “Slumdog Millionaire” has been demolished by the authorities in Mumbai, The Associated Press reported. On Wednesday the home of Rubina Ali Qureshi, who played the young version of the movie’s heroine, Latika, was torn down by demolition crews that clear away shanties before India’s monsoon season. Last week municipal workers destroyed the home of Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, who played the character Salim as a child. The government of Maharashtra State previously promised to provide housing to both actors.
745 2009-05-21 Glympse solves the creepiness issue, and while you still need T-Mobile’s G1 to broadcast your whereabouts, any Web-enabled phone or PC can receive and display your location information. The broadcasting app is also coming soon to iPhones, Windows Mobile phones, BlackBerrys and other devices, and it is promising enough that such people should keep it on their radar.

Here’s how it works. First, buy a G1 from T-Mobile — which, if you happen to live in an area where T-Mobile’s coverage is good, is a fine idea. The phone’s selection of add-on applications isn’t nearly as big as the iPhone’s, but it is decent and growing quickly.

You can find Glympse in the Android Market, the G1’s answer to Apple’s App Store. After downloading the app, you can send your whereabouts to anyone who can receive SMS messages or e-mail.

When you want someone to know where you are — say, if you’re on your way to a meeting or coming home from work — you open the app and enter the phone number or e-mail address of the person with whom you’d like to share that information.

If the creepiness quotient is still too high for you, Glympse takes care of that problem with the next step. Users can select the length of time recipients can track them. The default is 30 minutes, but you can extend that to as long as four hours.

You can include your destination — if, for instance, you’re headed somewhere other than the location of the recipient. And you can also add a message or select one of several scripted phrases to include, like “Stuck in traffic,” or “I’ll meet you in the lobby.”

Click “send,” and as long as your recipient has Web access on their phone (or whatever device on which they receive your message), they can call up a Glympse Web page showing exactly where you are, and your speed.

This is bad news for people like me, who’ve grown dependent on the “got stuck in traffic” excuse when I actually just started off late. But otherwise, it’s a good way to save multiple phone calls while you’re in transit. Send someone a Glympse message, and they can track your progress as often as they like.

The tracking is fairly accurate. As long as the phone’s GPS has a line of sight to satellites, Glympse will show your location within a range of 10 yards or less. If you’re in a grove of trees or something else that impedes the GPS technology but you’re still within reach of a cell tower, Glympse will use the towers to determine your location.

In urban environments with many cell towers you will still do well, but in rural areas the system will have much less accuracy. This is worth remembering when Glympse becomes available on a wider selection of phones — including those without GPS technology.

Of the two phones my wife had in her bag, one was an iPhone that was running a trial version of Glympse. Initially, I had much better luck tracking the iPhone than the G1. When my desktop PC opened the link sent by the iPhone, I saw my wife moving around a building, then crossing to the parking lot to get on the road again. When I clicked over to see the map being transmitted by the G1, it showed my wife was still in our driveway. (She was most definitely not.)

Glympse executives suggested the problem was with the G1’s tracking satellite or perhaps a bug in the beta version of the software. Sure enough, when I used the publicly available version, it worked well.

Now, what happens when an intensely suspicious spouse or parent tries to track the phone’s location after the time set on the initial entry has expired? Nothing. They can click the old link you sent them as much as they like, but it will divulge no information.

The app is free, but your carrier could charge you and your friends for the message or the e-mails sent, so if you become big fans of the software it might make sense for everyone to have an unlimited data plan.

At least at the start, the app will present a distraction, as you get accustomed to the novelty of watching someone’s every move. I had no idea my wife covered so much ground. A bit puzzled, I called her.

“Why are you making a turn there? Are you going to meet a lover?”

“Yes,” she said. “At the nursing home.”

Just as I suspected. The woman is trouble.

Windows Mobile aficionados have flocked to Samsung’s Blackjack phones in recent years. Now they can swing to a new version, the Jack, on AT&T. The device includes a camera, built-in Wi-Fi and GPS, and you’ll be able to upgrade the device’s software to Windows Mobile 6.5 when it is released later this year. The Jack costs $200 with a two-year contract, but a $100 AT&T gift card comes with the phone. ...Starting this week, Windows Mobile Version 6 users can also back up their phone’s data for free, using Microsoft’s My Phone service. See myphone.microsoft.com for more. ...NBA fans with G1 from T-Mobile can watch live feeds of the Eastern Conference Finals for $1. The “T-Mobile Close Up” app lets users change camera angles to follow certain players. (Be sure you have a high-speed data connection, or you won’t see much.). ... Hate your phone’s font? Monotype Imaging’s FlipFont lets Nokia or Samsung owners swap their phone’s typeface with one of 19 others ($3 a font, at Flipfont.mobi).
746 2009-05-21 A. The first thing they have to realize is that they need to create a sense of accountability before they can be successful. With equity comes ownership and responsibility. They need to learn to be for the company as a whole and not just their own interests.

Q. Do you have any advice for them?

A. I have always used open-book management as a pattern changer. I sit someone down with a balance sheet and a case of beer and open it up and say here’s what it is. We’re staying here either until you understand how to read a balance sheet or we get drunk. They need to find something like this that creates that collaborative spirit, that fire in the belly.

A. The downturn really hit our engine remanufacturing business hard in November. Our plant was faced with a six-month gap in orders, which was trouble. The entire plant collaborated on how to schedule their workloads — they basically had to take eight hours out of their work week to save money until we could get back on a full schedule. Because everyone knew the numbers, they scrambled to find new products and clients, like the post office, to fill the gap faster. The result was that we lost money in December and January but we were back to full employment in February. And we didn’t do this through the old command-and-control method; everybody knew the gravity of the situation, and all the great ideas came from within. That’s how open book drives collaboration.

Q. What other role models can the new owners of Chrysler look to as an example of what you’re talking about?

A. Harley-Davidson is open book, and they have great collaboration with the union there. Open book has helped them innovate and create new product lines and diversification throughout the company. Everyone there has a passion for their company. They love to wear those Harley colors. They have a parking lot where I don’t think they let anyone ride in unless they’re on a Harley. That’s the lesson for the automotive industry — that it’s about people who want to buy the car that they make.

Q. Are there other lessons you think the industry needs to learn to become successful again?

A. At the end of the day it’s about relationships, and I think that too many American automakers didn’t like anybody. I often got the feeling that they didn’t like their employees, their suppliers, their dealers and even their shareholders. At some point, I think they needed to ask themselves who they did like. I participated in several roundtable discussions that wanted to drum up some solutions for the industry. And my solution has always been about building relationships. If you go into a Toyota factory, for example, they have tremendous relationships with their people. When they invest capital in something, they do it to make a worker’s job easier, not to eliminate his job.

Q. Of course, Toyota is struggling as well these days.

A. That’s simply a product of the down economy. But they haven’t lost their focus on building relationships. That means that when the economy comes back, they’ll be in a perfect position to come back strong with it.

Q. Do you think open-book management could save the automotive industry?

A. Just because you open the books doesn’t mean doves and rainbows will fly out of them. What it does do is let people face the competitive reality of the marketplace. Rather than having some engineer with a stopwatch trying to get people to work faster for less money, open book gives everyone the chance to see what they need to do to succeed. In a macro sense, I believe that lack of open book has created this meltdown we are in today. We need to undo 100 years of top-down management practice. That means we need to start from scratch.
747 2009-05-21 WASHINGTON — A federal district judge on Tuesday sought to define how much involvement with Al Qaeda or the Taliban is necessary to make someone subject to indefinite detention without trial at Guantánamo Bay. The ruling gave neither the Obama administration nor the attorneys representing the detainees what they sought.

In a 22-page opinion, District Judge John D. Bates said that a detainee must have been an actual member of Al Qaeda, the Taliban, or associated forces, or have directly participated in belligerent acts, to be detained indefinitely. Judge Bates rejected the Obama administration’s contention that it should also be able to indefinitely detain people who merely “supported” those organizations.

But the judge also ruled that anyone who “receives and executives orders or directions” from those groups may be detained, even if he never directly participated in hostilities. That part of the ruling rejected the detainee lawyers’ claim that the laws of war do not allow the president to detain “civilians” merely for being members of an enemy group.

Judge Bates’s ruling was the latest step in long-running litigation over the rights of terrorism suspects. The Supreme Court has ruled that the military can imprison Al Qaeda and Taliban members indefinitely and without trial, but it has also ruled that detainees have a right to go to court and make the case that they are not terrorists.

In order to make such a determination, district judges first need a standard for how much involvement with Al Qaeda or the Taliban is required to make someone subject to detention. Earlier this year, the Obama administration changed the standard that the Bush administration had proposed using — for one thing, dropping the term “enemy combatant.”
748 2009-05-21 G.M., which has struggled with its European business but now finds itself with three competing bids, is promising to evaluate all equally.

“We expect that the offers will be examined in the next few days, and only then will we be able to decide which negotiations will take place,” a G.M. spokesman, Frank Klaas, said.

Opel’s assets are likely to be placed into a trusteeship if G.M. goes into bankruptcy after the June 1 deadline that Washington has set for it to produce a restructuring plan.

A meeting in Berlin between German state governors and bankers on Monday increased the likelihood that Opel would get some sort of bridge financing, which, with a trusteeship, would protect its assets from any bankruptcy proceedings.

The governments are likely to guarantee a bank loan of 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion), German officials said Wednesday.

Fiat, fresh off its successful effort to take a stake in Chrysler, has sought to move quickly to clinch a deal for Opel. But it has recently faced criticism over its plans to shut a engine plant that employs 3,490 in the western city of Kaiserslautern. Fiat also has said other layoffs are possible.

“There is overcapacity and some of the low-quality stuff has to be cut out,” said Arndt Ellinghorst, head of automotive research at Credit Suisse. “That is something people have to understand if they want to set up a sustainable business.”

But labor officials criticized a plan by Fiat’s chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, when he visited Germany on Monday. They also objected to his offer of management skills and technology, as opposed to cash, in return for an Opel stake.

By saying it would close the Kaiserslautern plant, which is in the western state of Rhineland-Palatinate, Fiat has created a political opening for Magna, a supplier of parts and engineering services that has roots in neighboring Austria as well.

Hendrik Hering, the state’s economy minister, argued that Fiat’s proposal is “all about size,” and pointed to the failure of the Daimler-Chrysler merger as a reason to avoid the Italian company’s overture.

“As industrial policy, Magna’s concept is better,” Mr. Hering said. “It is the logical continuation of a very strong supplier.”

The bid by Magna has taken on a foreign policy dimension because it is supported by Gaz, a Russian automaker, and Sberbank, a Russian bank. Commercially, that appeals to G.M. because Opel has made strides in the Russian market despite being hampered by a 25 percent import duty, which would disappear if Opel struck an alliance with Gaz.

German politicians with deep ties to Russia, including former Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, have helped ease the way for the Magna-Gaz-Sberbank bid, a person with knowledge of the situation said. Mr. Schröder maintains a close friendship with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian prime minister.

Fiat, which wants a partnership with Opel to complement the deal it recently struck for a stake in Chrysler, kicked off the week by wooing Opel’s powerful employee leader, Klaus Franz. Mr. Franz has fretted that a deal with Fiat would cost more jobs than one with Magna, which would offer Opel free rein to expand in Europe.
749 2009-05-21 While Mr. Ahmadinejad is often prone to exaggeration, outside experts said that clearly Iran was on a path to producing more reliable, longer-range missiles. In November, Iran’s defense minister, Mostafa Mohammad Najar, was quoted by state-run television as saying the Sejil missile was “very fast,” could be produced and stored “in mass” and was easy to prepare for launching. Its launcher can immediately be removed from the firing location, he said.

Its range — believed to be more than 1,200 miles — is comparable to the liquid-fueled Shahab III, which Iran first obtained from . But a solid-fuel rocket, experts said, can be stored in mountains, moved around and reassembled, and fired on shorter notice, and thus could be harder for Israel or other nations to target.

Mr. Najar said Wednesday that the Sejil-2, the version involved in the latest launching, differed from an earlier version of the Sejil in that it “is equipped with a new navigation system as well as precise and sophisticated sensors,” according to Iran’s official news agency.

Charles P. Vick, an expert on Iranian rockets at the private research group GlobalSecurity.org, in , Va., said the launching was part of a broader Iranian effort to develop solid-fueled missiles. The earlier version of the Sejil was fired late last year. Mr. Vick said that the Iranians had now begun to deploy the missiles as military weapons.

Mr. Vick added that Tehran test-fired an even longer-range missile that used solid fuel, the Ashura, in late 2007 and several times afterward.

“They’re designing a whole family of solids to replace their liquids,” he said in an interview.

It is that transition that has caught the attention of the White House. “I think it is a significant technical development,” Gary Samore, Mr. Obama’s top official for arms control and nuclear security, said at a presentation at the Arms Control Association in Washington. “From a mobility standpoint, it is much easier to move around.”

Mr. Samore said he hoped that the Obama administration “will be able to capitalize on this launch to strengthen our case” on the dangers of .

Secretary of State told a Senate panel that she was concerned about a series of developments in Iran that could set off an arms race in the Middle East. She warned that if Iran obtained a nuclear capacity in the next several years, it would constitute an “extraordinary threat,” saying, “Our goal is to persuade the Iranian regime that they will actually be less secure” if it moves ahead with its nuclear program.

Though she avoided details, Mrs. Clinton was giving voice to a growing concern among administration officials, who have now had time to review the intelligence, that Iran seems to have made significant progress in at least two of the three technologies necessary to field an effective nuclear weapon.

The first is enriching uranium to weapons grade, now under way at the large nuclear complex at Natanz. The second is developing a missile capable of reaching Israel and parts of Western Europe, and now the country has several likely candidates. The third is designing a warhead that will fit on the missile.

The greatest mystery surrounds the warhead program, which intelligence agencies said in late 2007 had been halted at the end of 2003. Asked Wednesday whether he had seen additional evidence to indicate that the weaponization program had been restarted, Mr. Samore declined to comment.

Iran’s announcement was likely to reinforce Israeli concerns, voiced strongly by Prime Minister before his visit to Washington this week, about the pace of Iran’s nuclear and missile development programs. But Mr. Netanyahu, facing little other choice, grudgingly supported Mr. Obama’s effort to try direct diplomatic talks with Iran on its nuclear program. Mr. Obama, in a concession to Israeli impatience, said that he expected to make a judgment by the end of the year about whether Iran was making “a good-faith effort to resolve differences” on stopping the nuclear program.

The president declined to define what would constitute progress. But after the meeting, a senior Israeli official who met with reporters said the most important measure would be a suspension of Iran’s uranium enrichment program.

It is difficult to know how closely linked the launching was to Mr. Ahmadinejad’s efforts to lift his fortunes in the June election. He was shown after the launching on state television, waving out of an open-roofed car, surrounded by men showering him with confetti.

According to Iran’s Interior Ministry, the electoral authorities on Wednesday confirmed the eligibility of four candidates: Mr. Ahmadinejad; , a moderate politician and a former prime minister; Mehdi Karroubi, another moderate politician and a former speaker of Parliament; and Mohsen Rezai, a former head of the .
750 2009-05-21 A tangy smoothie with an adult appeal....
751 2009-05-21 NEWS MEDIA AND EXONERATIONS  As resources in newsrooms have dwindled, opponents of the death penalty say they have been losing an ally in exonerating wrongly accused prisoners. Barry Scheck, above, a founder of the Innocence Project, said the situ...
752 2009-05-21 This week I am going all '90s on App of the Week and recommending a browser.      My hands-down favorite mobile browser is Skyfire, a browser that is still in beta test phase, but works on Windows and Symbian phones....
753 2009-05-22 Wisdom, insights and random observations from this weekend’s Arts & Leisure section....
754 2009-05-22 Steven Patrick Morrissey, the dapper, depressive pop singer known simply by his last name, turns 50 years old on Friday....
755 2009-05-22 In what we assume is the first cinematic competition in which a graphic and divisive movie by Lars von Trier has faced off against a family-oriented Disney-Pixar film, the animated feature has prevailed....
756 2009-05-22 A subsidiary of PennyMac, the firm founded by former Countrywide Financial executives to invest in home mortgages, will seek $750 million in an initial stock offering, according to a regulatory filing made on Friday....
757 2009-05-22 It doesn't seem to, at least according comparisons of price and broadband penetration in developing countries around the world....
758 2009-05-22 Forty-seven federal databases are opened up online for public perusal, and users are asked to post more ideas for making government efficient and transparent....
759 2009-05-22 Martin Wolf has some ideas....
760 2009-05-22 Despite periodic warnings that terrorists might try to shoot down commercial jets using shoulder-fired missiles, only one such attack has even been tried in recent years....
761 2009-05-22 Numerous studies show grilling at high temperatures can add cancer-causing compounds to meats, but a few simple steps can make grilling safer....
762 2009-05-22 Barack Obama was standing on a riser inside a warehouse in Los Angeles, delivering an inspirational speech about the blessings of freedom, when his left index finger began to twitch uncontrollably, unnerving his aides....
763 2009-05-22 A new Web portal in Massachusetts will help students prepare for the college admissions process....
764 2009-05-22 Is the former vice president turning national security into a new front in the culture wars?...
765 2009-05-22 The presidential rivals may meet again....
766 2009-05-22 Rafael Nadal will begin his quest to be the first man to win five consecutive French Open singles titles....
767 2009-05-22 After a private equity consortium won a deal to buy BankUnited, the F.D.I.C., which is expected to face further bank failures in the coming months, indicated that it might soon release policy guidelines for potential private equity investors seeki...
768 2009-05-22 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts may take advantage of the U.S. government's infrastructure stimulus plan but is not as keen on buying banks or their troubled assets, the private equity firm's co-founders told The Financial Times....
769 2009-05-22 Efforts by THL Partners and Bain Capital to restructure Clear Channel Communications' debt have run into trouble after two senior lenders opposed the private equity firms' debt-swap proposal, The New York Post reported....
770 2009-05-22 The Obama administration is considering a new agency to better protect consumers from practices like those that led to the current financial crisis, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said on Thursday....
771 2009-05-22 Henry Blodget's business blog network, Business Insider, has closed a third round funding, Mr. Blodget, the firm's co-founder, editor and chief executive, announced Thursday....
772 2009-05-22 Target took aim at a report by RiskMetrics, a leading proxy advisory firm that sided with activist investor William Ackman in his proxy battle against the retailer, saying it contains statements that are "inaccurate or misleading."...
773 2009-05-22 Ion Media Networks, the owner and operator of 60 TV stations in the U.S., said Thursday it has received approval to use its cash on hand and access $25 million in new funding to keep operating while in bankruptcy court proceedings....
774 2009-05-22 Another bad signal from the job market and concern over a possible downgrade of British government debt sent stocks sharply lower Thursday....
775 2009-05-22 NYTtimes.com tech producer (and first-time marathon trainee) Danielle Belopotosky begins a multiweek series where she tests the latest in running tech....
776 2009-05-22 Few things are as tiresome as listening to people rant about their conspiracy theories. While there are, no doubt, tantalizing speculations to be made about the “inside job” that demolished the World Trade Center and the nefarious agenda of the global elite, movies about such things do well to involve James Bond and giant explosions.

“New World Order,” an unrelentingly tedious documentary by Luke Meyer and Andrew Neel, follows a group of considerably less glamorous truth-seekers. The most prominent of the filmmakers’ subjects, the radio host Alex Jones, who is based in Austin, Tex., rails against the powers that be  all of them  in a manner that reinforces every cliché of the conspiracy theorist loon: paranoid, megalomaniacal, delusional, sweaty. The documentary’s most action-packed scene finds Mr. Jones throwing a major hissy fit when his hotel fire alarm goes off, thereby proving, without a shadow of a doubt, that “they” are trying to suppress his revelations.

On the (somewhat) mellower side, Luke Rudowski, a 21-year-old New Yorker, spends all his free time distributing fliers and DVDs purporting to uncover the truth about 9/11. Seth Jackson, a relief worker in Louisiana, does his part by heckling Bill Clinton and other dark overlords. A retired police officer, Jack McLamb, meanwhile, has retreated to the safety of a separatist militia group.

There’s a movie to be made about the psychology of such men, their personal lives and private obsessions. “New World Order” merely gawks at them.

Directed by Luke Meyer and Andrew Neel; directors of photography, Mr. Meyer, Mr. Neel and Ethan Palmer; edited by Nathan S. Caswell; music by Jonn Ollison and Jonah Rapiro; produced by Tom Davis; released by See Think Films and IFC TV. At the Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 23 minutes. This film is not rated.
777 2009-05-22 The national intelligence director, Dennis C. Blair, has tapped the deputy director of the Sept. 11 Commission, Christopher Kojm, to lead the top federal office for intelligence analysis. Mr. Kojm would become chairman the National Intelligence Council, which oversees the analysis and production of interagency intelligence reports.
778 2009-05-22 Pakistani fraudsters set up a network of fake colleges that helped thousands of Pakistanis enter Britain on student visas, The Times of London reported Thursday. The students at 11 bogus colleges included 8 of the 10 suspects arrested last month in a terrorism inquiry in northwest England, the newspaper said. It said one college sold hundreds of places to men from the North-West Frontier Province, where the Taliban are fighting the Pakistani Army.
779 2009-05-22 Bowing to a campaign led by the actress Joanna Lumley, the government of Prime Minister Gordon Brown said Thursday that it would ease immigration laws to allow as many as 36,000 Nepalese soldiers who served in the Gurkha units of the British Army before 1997 to settle with their families in Britain. The announcement was made less than a month after Ms. Lumley, 63, led protests that contributed to the Brown government’s defeat in the House of Commons on a policy that she said could have resulted in as few as 100 of the Gurkhas being granted residence in Britain. The government, which had said that allowing all the Gurkhas into Britain could cost as much as $2 billion, estimated that about 10,000 Gurkha veterans and dependents would apply under the new, less restrictive rules. Ms. Lumley is the daughter of a World War II officer who served with the Gurkhas.
780 2009-05-22 WASHINGTON — The United States signed an agreement with the United Arab Emirates on Thursday to help develop its civil nuclear program, despite an outcry over a video depicting the torture of an Afghan man by a member of the ruling family of Abu Dhabi, one of the emirates.

The agreement now goes to Congress, where it will face resistance from some lawmakers, who say the gruesome video, at a minimum, raises concerns about the legal system in the Emirates and its ability to prevent sensitive nuclear technology from leaking to its neighbors.

These opponents are unlikely to amass the necessary two-thirds majority to strike it down. But Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat and a longtime critic of these agreements, filed a resolution opposing it.

“With the recent revelation of the U.A.E. torture tapes, it is clearer than ever that the rule of law in the U.A.E. cannot be trusted to safeguard sensitive U.S. nuclear technologies,” Mr. Markey said in a statement.

Supporters say the agreement contains unprecedented safeguards against the diversion of technology or fuel to a weapons program. Under the terms of the deal, the United Arab Emirates would not enrich or reprocess uranium.
781 2009-05-22 A legislative deal reached in February to address part of the budget problem came under such fierce attack from the left (for its spending cuts) and from the right (for its tax increases) that voters rejected five of its major components in a special election on Tuesday. The state Republicans, egged on by right-wing talk radio hosts, have started campaigns to recall two Republican lawmakers who voted for the compromise. California is not a patient that can heal itself.

What to do? Bankruptcy would appear to be out. Federal law authorizes only local governments, not states, to seek bankruptcy protection. Yet in California, irresponsible voices on the right (and a few on the left) have suggested testing the limits of the law and forcing the state to begin to delay or default on its obligations.

That would be a disaster, not only for California, but also for the country. Financial analysts fear that the failure of California’s government could further damage the state’s economy (and by extension, the nation’s) and shake confidence in the bond markets, making it difficult for cities and counties to borrow and perhaps sending some local governments into real bankruptcy.

Others in Sacramento — including the Assembly speaker, Karen Bass, and the state treasurer, Bill Lockyer — are investigating the possibility of federal assistance. This could take several forms. The Treasury could offer guarantees on any short-term bonds that California sells to raise cash. Or money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program could be used to backstop such notes. Or Washington could speed up some of the stimulus money earmarked for the state.

Each of those ideas, or a combination of the three, offers hope. However, as a condition of any assistance, the federal government should charge the state a fee that includes penalties if it fails to make major changes in its budgeting process. At a minimum, California should be required to submit for federal approval a multiyear plan to meet its obligations and to eliminate its structural deficit. Washington might also require the establishment of a board to oversee state finances. (Federal loan guarantees to New York City in the 1970s provide one model.)

There would be fierce resistance to federal aid. Other states may wonder why California deserves special attention — it’s a fair point, and it might be wise for the government to offer similar guarantees to other states in distress. California officials might worry about the loss of sovereignty. And Democrats in the administration and Congress, many of them Californians, may be tempted to help a Democratic state without conditions.

But they shouldn’t. By attaching strings to any aid, the federal government would give the state its best chance at saving itself.

Most important, President Obama should press California’s elected officials and its voters — 61 percent of whom supported him last November — to make constitutional changes. Among these would be the elimination of the gridlock-creating two-thirds vote for budgets and tax increases, and new curbs on ballot initiatives that mandate spending for popular programs without identifying new tax dollars to pay for them.

Federal officials may resist intervening at first, out of misplaced caution. But the combination of the state’s size and its dysfunction means that Washington will probably have to intervene sooner or later. There can be no American recovery if California collapses.
782 2009-05-22 As American regulators slept through the past eight years, several authorities overseas decided that the Intel Corporation has been abusing its near monopoly position in the microchip market to squeeze out its smaller rival Advanced Micro Devices, constraining consumers’ choice.

It is now the United States’ turn. The Federal Trade Commission, which opened a formal investigation into Intel’s business a year ago, should decide without delay whether to pursue the company in court. The issue is not just whether Intel’s tactics against A.M.D. amount to illicit behavior. The larger question is whether Washington is willing to pursue monopolies vigorously for predatory practices and foster an environment where competition and innovation can thrive.

Since 2005, regulators in Japan and South Korea have ruled against Intel. This month the European Commission slapped the company with a $1.44 billion fine. It found that Intel has been giving hidden rebates to computer makers that bought all or virtually all of their chips from Intel and paying some to delay or hinder the introduction of products that had A.M.D. microprocessors.

Intel denies those accusations, arguing that the volume rebates it offers never carried the alleged quid pro quos. The company appealed the Korean fine and said it would appeal the European decision.

For much of the Bush administration, regulators declined to look formally into the charges against Intel. That reluctance was the product of an extremely narrow reading of antitrust law, validated by a conservative Supreme Court that has become increasingly hostile to antitrust enforcement.

In the Bush administration’s view, to get in trouble a monopolist must do worse than use unfair methods to undermine a competitor. Regulators must usually prove that consumers were directly hurt, typically through high prices. When the wrongdoing is to offer a client conditional rebates — meaning lower prices — that can be especially hard to prove.

That view of consumer harm is too restrictive. It often seems to ignore the fact that a dominant firm that uses unfair tactics to marginalize its rivals deprives consumers of choice, another form of harm. Without competitors there is no competition. Without competition there is no incentive for innovation, or to reduce prices.
783 2009-05-22 Remarkably, vast passages of the conspiracy the federal authorities described — the talk of killing Jews, the testing of the men’s would-be weaponry — played out on a veritable soundstage of hidden cameras and secret microphones, and involved material provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. A house in Newburgh, a storage facility in Stamford, the planting of the would-be bombs in the Bronx neighborhood of Riverdale — everything was recorded, according to the complaint.

“It’s hard to envision a more chilling plot,” Eric Snyder, an assistant United States attorney, said on Thursday in federal court in Manhattan. “These are extremely violent men. These are men who eagerly embraced an opportunity” to “bring deaths to Jews.”

On Thursday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly appeared at the Riverdale Jewish Center, which the F.B.I. identified as one of the targets of the plot. Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Kelly praised the work of the agencies behind the arrests and sought to tamp down any fears of a larger terrorist organization at work.

“Sadly, this is just a reminder that peace is fragile and democracy is fragile and we have to be vigilant all the time,” said Mr. Bloomberg, who along with Mr. Kelly stressed that the four men had no connection to any international terror groups. “The good news is that the N.Y.P.D. and F.B.I. prevented what could have been a terrible event in our city.”

The case is the latest in a series in New York and around the country since Sept. 11, 2001, and sounded familiar in some ways. The investigation, for instance, began with the work of a confidential informant, who portrayed himself as an agent of a Pakistani terror organization, and who became a critical member of the men’s plot.

The full nature and extent of the informant’s role in facilitating the plot is unknown. In other cases, defense lawyers have sought to portray these informants as engaging in entrapment, suggesting they had, in effect, provoked and fueled the actions of their clients.

But where past terror prosecutions have been based mostly on conversations about a planned or imagined attack, this one went further, the authorities alleged: the men went through critical acts in what they believed to be a deadly assault.

As for the defendants — James Cromitie, 44; David Williams, 28; Onta Williams, 32, and no apparent relation to David; and Laguerre Payen, 27 — most of the details that emerged on Thursday stemmed from their criminal pasts.

David Williams, who lately had grown a beard and taken to reading the Koran on slow nights at a steakhouse job, was described as particularly violent by prosecutors on Thursday. When the plan to buy guns from a woman in Newburgh fell through, it was David Williams who quickly improvised, arranging to buy a gun from a man he described as a “supreme Blood gang leader” in Brooklyn, Mr. Snyder said. After buying the gun in the company of the informant, David Williams said he would have shot the gang leader if he were alone with him, and kept his $700.

Mr. Payen, described as a nervous, quiet sort who took medication for schizophrenia or a bi-polar disorder, was unemployed and living in squalor in Newburgh. His last arrest, in 2002, was for assault, after he drove around the Rockland County village of Monsey, firing a BB gun out of the window — striking two teens — and snatching two purses. A friend who visited Mr. Payen’s apartment on Thursday said it contained bottles of urine, and raw chicken on the stovetop.

Onta Williams had been addicted to cocaine since he was a teenager, according to his lawyer, Sol Lesser, at his sentencing in 2003. Mr. Cromitie has spent 12 years in prison, most recently for selling drugs to undercover officers behind a school.

Law enforcement officials initially said the four men were Muslims, but their religious backgrounds remained uncertain Thursday. Mr. Payen reported himself to be Catholic during his 15-month prison sentence that ended in 2005, according to a state corrections official. Mr. Cromitie and Onta Williams both identified themselves as Baptists in prison records, although Mr. Cromitie changed his listed religion to Muslim upon his last two incarcerations; David Williams reported no religious affiliation.

The men never served in the same prison together. Three of them regularly lunched together at Danny’s Restaurant in Newburgh, chatting over plates of rice and beans, said Danny DeLeon, the owner.

Salahuddin Mustafa Muhammad, the imam at the mosque where the authorities say the confidential informant first encountered the men, said none of the men were active in the mosque. An assistant imam, Hamin Rashada, said Mr. Cromitie and Mr. Payen occasionally attended services.

Mr. Cromitie was there last June, and he met a stranger.

He had no way of knowing that the stranger’s path to the mosque began in 2002, when he was arrested on federal charges of identity theft. He was sentenced to five years’ probation, and became a confidential informant for the F.B.I. He began showing up at the mosque in Newburgh around 2007, Mr. Muhammad said.

The stranger’s behavior aroused the imam’s suspicions. He invited other worshipers to meals, and spoke of violence and jihad, so the imam said he steered clear of him.

“There was just something fishy about him,” Mr. Muhammad said. Members “believed he was a government agent.”

Mr. Muhammad said members of his congregation told him the man he believed was the informant offered at least one of them a substantial amount of money to join his “team.”

The informant met Mr. Cromitie, and it quickly appeared that Mr. Cromitie was of a like mind with the apparent radical before him, according to the complaint. Mr. Cromitie said his parents had lived in Afghanistan before he was born and that he was angry at the killing of Muslims there.

The next month, on July 3, the two men met and discussed the terror organization Jaish-e-Mohammed, based in Pakistan, with which the informant claimed to be involved. Mr. Cromitie told him he wanted to join and “do jihad,” according to the complaint.

All of this came as a shock to Mr. Cromitie’s mother after his arrest on Wednesday. Adele Cromitie, 65, said her son was raised a Christian, and that neither she nor his father, who left the family when Mr. Cromitie was a young child, had lived in Afghanistan. She said Mr. Cromitie visited her, at her apartment in the Castle Hill neighborhood of the Bronx, for the first time in nearly 15 years about three years ago, after getting out of prison, and announced he had converted to Islam.

“When he told me that, I said, ‘Get out of here,’ ” Ms. Cromitie recalled.

About six months ago, Mr. DeLeon, the restaurant owner, noticed that a new man was showing up for lunch. He was about 50 and appeared to be South Asian, and he usually paid for the group. Mr. DeLeon thought he was the boss.

Beginning in October, the informant began meeting Mr. Cromitie at a home in Newburgh that was wired with hidden cameras and microphones, the criminal complaint said. David Williams, Onta Williams and Mr. Payen attended these meetings, and the group discussed Mr. Cromitie’s desire to strike a synagogue in the Bronx and military aircraft at the Air National Guard base in Newburgh, according to the complaint.

In December, the plan began to take shape in the Newburgh house. On Dec. 5, Mr. Cromitie asked the informant whether he could acquire “rockets” and “devices” for attacks, and the informant said he could provide C-4 plastic explosives to fashion improvised bombs. On Dec. 17, Mr. Cromitie said he wanted to case the air base later that week, and that he would remove his traditional Muslim attire — a white jalabiya and cap — so as not to draw suspicion. David Williams suggested they refer to the synagogues as “joints.”

On April 10, Mr. Cromitie, David Williams and the informant drove to a Wal-Mart in Newburgh and bought a camera, and then went to the Bronx, where Mr. Cromitie took pictures of synagogues. He said blowing up the Riverdale Jewish Center would be “a piece of cake.”

Several days later, the three men met again and discussed picking up a Stinger heat-seeking missile in Connecticut and synchronizing the aircraft strike and the bombings.

On the night of April 28, after figuring out where they could get a gun, the men reinforced their commitment to the plan to one another, according to the authorities. They each said they were willing to perform jihad, and Onta Williams spoke, saying the military is “killing Muslim brothers and sisters in Muslim countries, so if we kill them here with I.E.D.’s and Stingers, it is equal,” according to the complaint.

On May 6, the five men drove to Stamford to pick up the explosives and the Stinger, according to the complaint. The location was carefully chosen in advance, but not by any of the men in the vehicle.

The Stamford police were approached by the F.B.I. several months ago, officials said, and asked for help in finding a warehouse where a meeting with the suspected terror cell could take place. A warehouse on the Waterside section of town was chosen and wired for video and audio for the meeting.

The men, after the brief scare about being followed, eventually made it to Stamford. There, they inspected the explosive devices. Each weighed 37 pounds and was inside a canvas bag. None of them, nor the Stinger missile at the warehouse, was operational, having been disabled by the F.B.I.

The four men tested one of the detonators for the bombs, which was to be set off with a cellphone, the compliant said. They drove the weapons to Newburgh, locked them in a storage container and celebrated.

The five men met at the storage unit to inspect the weapons on May 8. Twelve days later, they drove to the Bronx with the bombs.
784 2009-05-22 A lawyer for the Somali teenager charged with piracy said on Thursday that his client has been held in virtual isolation since being brought to New York last month  put in solitary confinement, barred from calling his lawyers, and limited to a single one-minute phone conversation with his mother.

The teenager, Abduwali Abdukhadir Muse, has also been unable to communicate with others in the jail, the Metropolitan Correctional Center, because of a lack of interpreters, the lawyer, Philip L. Weinstein, said.

“It has an impact,” Mr. Weinstein told a judge in Federal District Court in Manhattan, where Mr. Muse was arraigned on a 10-count federal indictment.

The charges include piracy and conspiracy to seize a ship by force and to take hostages; piracy carries a mandatory life term.

In contrast to the beaming smile Mr. Muse offered to cameras when he first arrived in New York, he appeared subdued and downtrodden in court.

Wearing a dark smock over an orange shirt, he kept his hands clasped in front of him and gazed downward as he responded to questions through an interpreter.

Mr. Muse is the only survivor from the group of four men who authorities say boarded an American-flagged cargo ship, the Maersk Alabama, off Somalia on April 8. The ship’s captain, who had offered himself as a hostage, was later rescued in a daring Navy Seal operation, in which three of his captors were killed.

In court, Mr. Weinstein said Mr. Muse needs surgery on his left hand, where the authorities say he was stabbed during a struggle with the crew.

A prosecutor, Michael Farbiarz, said the government would work to remedy the problems. “There’s no one here,” he said, “who wants there to be any difficulty whatsoever with respect to the defendant’s medical situation, or his ability to communicate freely or as frequently as he would like.”

A federal Bureau of Prisons spokeswoman declined after the hearing to address Mr. Muse’s case, but said generally that inmates “are provided the necessary and appropriate security for their specific needs.”

Idd Beddel Mohamed, the deputy permanent representative to the Somali Mission to the United Nations, who attended the hearing, said “Over all, we have full confidence in the American legal system, and I think in due course justice will be served on both sides.” He said that his government had confidence in the defense lawyers and sympathized with the hostages’ families.

Prosecutors say Mr. Muse is over 18. His lawyers and father say that he is as young as 15, and should be treated as a juvenile. For now, he is being treated as an adult.

“He’s confused. He’s terrified,” another lawyer, Deirdre von Dornum, said. “As you can imagine, he’s a boy who fishes, and now he’s ended up in solitary confinement here.” She added, “He’s having a very difficult time.”
785 2009-05-22 Mr. Obama has seen renderings of the figure, telling a Disney employee, Pamela Fisher, “that we had made him better-looking than he was.”

Mr. Obama is not the first president to send his voice, or inseam, to Disney World; George W. Bush and Bill Clinton were also given speaking roles in the exhibit during their terms and assisted Disney’s “imagineers” in the creation of their likenesses. But the Obama figure is assuredly the most lifelike of them all.

The public is to get its first glimpse of “Robobama,” as it is known among some handlers, on July 4. The unveiling will be in a Disney World theater, alongside animatronic figures of every other president. As in the past, the program will end with each president nodding or turning toward the audience during a roll call, as if Mount Rushmore had suddenly come alive.

“Young children watch this, and you want them to feel a sense of identification with the president,” said Doris Kearns Goodwin, a presidential historian, who was recruited by Disney two years ago to write a Hollywood-style treatment about the presidents, which became the basis for a 20-minute documentary made for the exhibit. “This makes the president someone not so far removed from them.”

The exhibit opened in the early 1970s and has resulted in countless middle school term papers about the presidents. It has been closed since Election Day as it receives the biggest face-lift in its history.

The company has much riding on the exhibit, with visitors’ spending at Disney World having dipped sharply in the midst of the economic downturn.

The exhibit will open with the new film, narrated by the actor Morgan Freeman. At a certain point, the Abraham Lincoln figure will rise and speak to the audience, as it always has, but now it will deliver the Gettysburg Address in its entirety.

“And this is the first time George Washington will have a speaking role,” said Kathy Rogers, a senior show producer for Walt Disney Imagineering, the unit that oversees the creative side of the theme parks.

But the emotional high point is intended to be the introduction of the Obama figure, who will yet again be heard taking the oath.

Mr. Obama recorded this version on March 4 in the White House Map Room — the same room where he retook the oath after a minor flub on Inauguration Day — to accommodate the Disney World theater’s new sound system. At that time, Mr. Obama also read aloud a short speech to be delivered by the figure, one that ultimately passed through the computer of Jon Favreau, a presidential speechwriter.

“That speech took a village,” said Ms. Fisher, the senior Disney writer on the project who along with Ms. Rogers traveled to Washington in March to guide the president through his role.

The Obama figure’s closest forefather is not Lincoln but a modern-day Capt. Jack Sparrow. Assisted by Johnny Depp, who played the captain in the “Pirates of the Caribbean” movies, Disney recently installed an animatronic version of the Sparrow character in the Orlando theme park.

The Obama figure is the result of attention to minute details by Disney sculptors, animators, engineers and even anatomists who pored over presidential photographs and video of him and then drew on the latest advances in robotic technology.

Thus the audio-animatronic Obama purses its lips to pronounce its b’s and p’s in a way frighteningly evocative of the real one, and raises its hands, open-palmed, while shrugging its shoulders, in a way that can only be described as Obamaesque. Even the president’s wedding ring, with its braided design, has been recreated.

After their work was done with the president, Ms. Fisher and Ms. Rogers said they were given a special tour of the White House.

For Ms. Fisher, there was a sense of déjà vu. She had traveled to the White House on Disney’s behalf in 2001 to capture the voice of Mr. Bush. After he had finished his “take,” she said, he stiffened his arms and “started acting like he was an animatronic figure.”

“He’s got a sense of humor,” she added.
786 2009-05-22 He publicized the Muppets, for whom he grandiosely but unsuccessfully campaigned to get Miss Piggy nominated for an Oscar. Other clients included circuses; movies like “The Graduate”; events at presidential inaugurals; ice shows; television shows like “Dallas”; a woman Mr. Solters said was the first over-50 model to pose nude in Playboy; the city of Las Vegas; and Jackie Gleason.

In 2000 he orchestrated naming Pope John Paul II an honorary member of the Harlem Globetrotters before 50,000 people in St. Peter’s Square.

Though he did his most effective work behind the scenes, Mr. Solters was known for “giving good quote,” in the phrase of jaded reporters. When supermarket tabloids offered him $20,000 in 1993 to pinpoint the whereabouts of Michael Jackson, he snapped back that he would give the tabloid editors $30,000 for the same information.

When, in 1990, rumors buzzed that Bubbles, Mr. Jackson’s chimpanzee, had died, Mr. Solters referred to Mark Twain’s remarks on false reports of his own passing and said, “When Bubbles heard about his demise he went bananas.”

After Kitty Kelley, author of unauthorized biographies, announced in 1983 that she was taking aim at Mr. Solters’s prize client, Sinatra, the publicist castigated her as “modern mud-slinging’s miniscule mistress of malice.”

William Safire in his language column in The New York Times suggested, perhaps charitably, that Mr. Solters misspelled minuscule because “the word’s spelling has been confused by miniskirt.”

It was Mr. Solters’s strategic acumen that impressed other press agents, whose profession he thought should be licensed to improve its quality. A classic coup in the late 1960s was inviting columnists into Sinatra’s dressing room minutes before he was to go onstage.

The New Yorker in 2002 reported: “The first columnist they tried this on was Larry Fields of The Philadelphia Daily News, whose wife fainted when Sinatra kissed her cheek. ‘Take care of it, Lee,’ Sinatra said, and he was off.”

Oft repeated, the technique created a nationwide journalistic chorus whom Mr. Solters trusted to warble his essential message: “He’s not an ogre.”

Lee Solters was born in Brooklyn on June 23, 1919. He studied journalism and advertising at New York University and wrote for Stars and Stripes, the military newspaper, as a draftee in the Army.

He started his own publicity firm in 1948, quickly mastering the “planting” of items with columnists like Walter Winchell and Hedda Hopper in places like Toots Shor’s. An early triumph was helping the producer David Merrick to salvage a foundering Broadway show: the two of them took out a newspaper advertisement with quotations from men they had found in the phone book with the same names as top theater critics.

In the late 1970s Mr. Solters moved to Hollywood, where he helped set the pattern for using entertainers to sell products and images. Mr. Digney recalled the time he went to Detroit to compete with a half-dozen agencies for an auto account. After the others’ slick multimedia pitches, Mr. Solters waved his client list and declared, “That’s my presentation.” He won.

Mr. Solters’s wife, Ann, died four years ago, Mr. Digney said. He is survived by his daughter, Susan Reynolds; his son, Larry; two grandchildren; and a great-grandson.

Mr. Solters once allowed that doing publicity came naturally to him, “like putting on a pair of shoes.”

To promote a delicatessen, he had a giant matzo ball dropped from the roof into a giant bowl of soup. To usher celebrities through crowds, he excitedly shouted, “Hot coffee!” And when an athlete he represented was accused of lying his head off, he had the perfect response.
787 2009-05-22 “It’s a marquee title sponsorship, almost like you would see at a stadium like Citi Field,” Mr. Heller said.

There will be Axe branding on the D.J. booth, menu and valet tickets; an Axe-themed drink; and Axe products in the men’s and women’s bathrooms (though whether women will yearn for Axe aftershave after washing their hands remains to be seen).

The décor is patterned after a similar project Axe sponsored for a few nights during the Sundance Film Festival this year; it was successful enough that it extended the experiment to the full summer and the Hamptons club.

But, Mr. Heller said, the branding will be relatively subtle.

“It’s not like you’re going to walk in and it’s going to be overwhelming with branding,” he said. Because the club would be there all summer rather than for a single night, he said, the marketing did not need to be especially overwhelming.

“If consumers can come back over and over again, the messaging becomes better,” he said. Mr. Heller’s company also arranges celebrity appearances at events, and he is paying people, including Nick Cannon, D J Cassidy and the musical duo LMFAO to show up at the club. Coverage of the partying celebrities by magazines and gossip columns should then raise the club’s profile, he said. “It helps the club because the club becomes — well, it already is — a hot place in the Hamptons,” he said.

For noncelebrity patrons, the bouncer would not be given “a specific message of who’s in and who’s out” in terms of looks or clothing, said Mike Dwyer, the marketing director for Axe. And for now, the club would not have a cover charge.

Axe, owned by Unilever, is paying the owners of the Dune space for the promotion; it will not share in revenues or profits from the club this summer, which will go to the club owners and managers.

Axe has been on a commercial blitz lately, and has sold $72 million of shaving cream alone in the last year, according to Information Resources Inc., whose figures exclude Wal-Mart, warehouse club stores and convenience stores.

Mr. Dwyer said with the club, Axe was trying to “drive relevancy and image credentials, and really get the brand right, squarely in front of where the guys are.”

But Axe’s male-focused marketing has drawn objections. The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood has complained about what it sees as sexism in its commercials. “Axe is owned by Unilever, which also owns Dove,” said Susan Linn, the director of the consumer advocacy group, in an e-mail message.

Ms. Linn added: “Our campaign was launched when Dove released a video that was supposed to promote healthy body image for girls, even as they were degrading and objectifying women in their Axe marketing. There is an inherent hypocrisy in a company promoting girls’ well-being with one product’s advertising and sexualizing them in another.”

“I don’t know if the Axe nightclub is a continuation of its history of promoting a product by sexualizing and objectifying women,” she continued in the message. “What I can say, in general, is that an Axe nightclub is emblematic of the troubling phenomenon of the current 360-degree marketing strategy to immerse us in brands and branding every waking moment and to blur the lines between marketing and every other aspect of our lives.”

Axe may come under scrutiny for the club’s goings-on, too. A brand willing to slap its name on a Hamptons club must be willing to deal with mishaps that could include drunken driving or under-age patrons.

But Mr. Dwyer said that “it would be difficult for us to live the lifestyle that our guys are looking for” without taking a few risks.

A challenge the club might face is attracting patrons. Axe’s target market is 21-year-old men, many of whom are having a difficult time finding jobs, much less financing summer houses in the Hamptons.

But Mr. Heller said he hoped that New Yorkers would still crowd the Hamptons, since it was cheaper, or at least closer, than an overseas vacation.

“Girls and guys need a place to hang out and socialize,” he said.

But Arvin Pasricha, a 32-year-old business strategy consultant who regularly goes to Hamptons clubs, said that Axe’s target audience and the people who actually went to the Hamptons were different sorts.

“When you think about these clubs in the Hamptons, it’s not really 21-year-old guys coming in and buying bottles,” he said. “I’m not sure the Hamptons is the forum” for Axe, he said. “It sounds a little cheesy.”
788 2009-05-22 In retrospect, shareholder democracy issues should have been considered when these derivative securities were being invented and allowed to trade. But they were not.

Just why that happened is a question that Congress and the Obama administration should ponder as they revamp the American regulatory structure. Perhaps the S.E.C. would have considered the effects of divorcing votes from economic interest when the derivatives began trading. But some of these products were completely unregulated, and others went through the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, which in recent years was uninterested in regulating anything.

In other words, if they are going to make it easier for shareholders to cast meaningful votes, perhaps they should also do something to assure that the voters have no financial interest in the company’s failure. Henry T. C. Hu, a law professor at the University of Texas who has written extensively on this question, told me this week that it might make sense to require those casting large blocks of votes to certify they did not have an economic interest contrary to that of the company. But defining that could be treacherous.

The proposal put forth by the S.E.C. this week would let any holder, or group of holders, of at least 1 percent of the shares in large companies nominate a director candidate. To do that, the nominating group would have to certify that it was not interested in a takeover of the company, and that it had owned the shares for at least one year.

How many directors could be so nominated? Up to a quarter of the board, so two seats could be contested if the board had eight members. And if two groups want to make nominations for one seat? The first one in gets on the ballot.

That holding period could raise its own questions. If an institution lends out shares for shorting, it at least theoretically also lends out the voting rights. Does that loan stop the holding period? If so, would that cause some institutions to stop lending shares, making it harder to short stocks and perhaps contributing to market volatility?

If a director contest does emerge, the proxy sent out by a company might end up listing five candidates for four seats. We’re all used to that in political campaigns, but it is unheard of in corporate contests. In conventional proxy fights, each side sends out its own ballot. If you support management, sign the white card, which lists only its candidates. If you support the insurgents, sign the blue card.

Decades ago, it was very expensive to mount such a proxy fight, given the cost of mailings to individual shareholders who collectively dominated many companies. Now, however, a majority of votes is often held by a relatively small number of institutions, and a proxy fight can be mounted for much less, with communications done by phone and e-mail with major holders. The individual investors may never be contacted.

A few years ago, it appeared to be a sure thing that a much milder rule on shareholder access would be adopted. That rule, endorsed by William H. Donaldson, then the S.E.C. chairman, set up a lot of hoops to be leaped through before an institutional shareholder could nominate a rival candidate to appear on the company’s proxy.

Mr. Donaldson, a Republican, had the support of two of the other four commissioners and could have forced through a rule. But his supporters were Democrats. Republicans bemoaned his lack of party loyalty and he did not bring the issue to a vote. He was eventually succeeded by Christopher Cox, who pronounced “consensus” to be his goal. Shareholder access was dead.

Since then, some companies have made it easier for shareholders to reject directors by requiring majority voting for elections. If an unopposed candidate is opposed by more owners of most shares being voted, no one is elected to the seat. A pending rule of the New York Stock Exchange would bar incumbents from being backed by brokers who are voting shares owned by clients who did not bother to vote. Had that rule been in effect this year, two Citigroup directors would have been denied re-election.

In principle, shareholder access seems to be an obvious good idea. Companies do, after all, belong to their shareholders. We will see if this does become, as its advocates forecast, a rarely used instrument to change companies whose boards have failed to perform adequately, or if it will lead to a series of bitter battles — sometimes instituted by institutions with ulterior motives — that result in divided boards and divert both directors and managers from running companies to benefit all shareholders.
789 2009-05-22 Edward M. Liddy, the retired insurance executive drafted by the government to lead the American International Group after it nearly collapsed last fall, is stepping down after eight grueling months with virtually no pay.

Mr. Liddy took on the job of chairman and chief executive of the insurer as a form of public service, but he ended up being castigated by members of Congress who seemed unable to separate him from the financial turmoil he was brought in to calm.

Even he said on Thursday that the job was too big and complex as currently designed, and that the company and its government backers would not find anyone else who could take it on for a salary of $1 a year, as he had.

“This is going to be much more of a classic succession process,” Mr. Liddy said. He recalled that before he “parachuted in” last September on a day’s notice, A.I.G.’s previous three chief executives had all been forced out, each leaving a wider array of accounting and financial problems in his wake.

He said he had begun discussing his own departure with A.I.G.’s board a number of months ago, and had agreed to stay until the company arrived at what he called “a logical inflection point,” with stable liquidity and no potential threat to the global financial system. A.I.G. was now at that point, he said, acknowledging that it still had several years’ worth of problems ahead. He said he would continue at the helm until a search firm found a successor.

“This isn’t exactly what I thought I’d be doing in retirement,” he said Thursday in an interview.

Separately, lawyers representing A.I.G.’s insurance policyholders sued A.I.G. on Thursday in California Superior Court. The suit also named its executives, including Mr. Liddy, and its outside auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers. The lawsuit accused A.I.G. of improperly diverting money from its insurance units, exposing policyholders to the risk that their claims might never be paid.

Linda M. Harris, a financial planner and one of the plaintiffs, said she had put her clients into millions of dollars’ worth of life insurance policies and other contracts that she feared A.I.G. might not honor. She said she was an A.I.G. policyholder herself.

The complaint asserted that in many cases, she and her clients could not get out of these contracts without losing some or all of their investments.

State insurance regulators are supposed to prevent holding companies from stripping necessary capital out of insurance subsidiaries. But Ms. Harris and her lawyers said in the suit that they believed A.I.G. had pledged the insurance subsidiaries’ money to pay back the Federal Reserve, as part of the most recent restructuring of A.I.G.’s federal bailout.

One provision of the latest agreement calls for A.I.G. to turn the future cash flows of its American insurance businesses into a security, which would be used to pay back roughly $9 billion of its rescue package from the Fed.

A spokeswoman for A.I.G., Christina Pretto, said the insurer had not had a chance to review the suit and could not comment. The lawsuit is just the latest in a string of painful and debilitating disputes that have pitted A.I.G. against shareholders, former executives, federal and state prosecutors, members of Congress, unions and regulators.

In March, for instance, A.I.G. was roundly criticized for paying retention bonuses to people in its financial products unit  the division that sold the notorious credit-default swaps at the heart of A.I.G.’s near collapse. Even though the bonuses were granted before his tenure, angry members of Congress grilled Mr. Liddy for paying them, which they saw as an abuse of taxpayer money. Afterward, the recipients of the bonuses complained bitterly that Mr. Liddy had not backed them up. Some resigned.

“There are a lot of cooks in the kitchen,” Mr. Liddy said Thursday, when asked if he thought his position at A.I.G. required him to deal with conflicting demands that were impossible to meet.

He said the job entailed answering to the board, the Fed, the Treasury, Congress and 450 regulatory bodies in 130 countries.

“It doesn’t make sense to have one person do it,” he added.

He has recommended that A.I.G. separate the chairman and chief executive jobs into separate positions. That would let the chairman concentrate full time on the governance of A.I.G. and the companies it will be spinning off. The chairman would also be responsible for “walking the halls of Congress” and keeping government officials informed of A.I.G.’s activities, which could avert surprises and scandals. That would free the chief executive to oversee A.I.G. operations.

Mr. Liddy said that in the months immediately after the rescue it was hard to sell A.I.G.’s operating units because the economy had slowed so much. He said that now the markets seemed to be recovering and the plan could move forward more smoothly.

But even so, he predicted it would take “three-plus years” for the restructuring of A.I.G. to be completed and bailout money to be repaid.

“At 63 and one-half years of age, I don’t want to be doing this when I’m 67,” he said.

The company also said Thursday that three of its nine directors had decided not to stand for re-election at the company’s annual meeting in June. They are Stephen F. Bollenbach, a former chairman and chief executive of Hilton Hotels; Martin S. Feldstein, a Harvard economics professor; and James F. Orr III, chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation. This month, A.I.G. named six new directors, expanding its board.
790 2009-05-22 The most prominent case of supposed company complicity — the execution of Mr. Saro-Wiwa and eight other members of the Ogoni tribe — led to fierce protests against Shell, which was already under heavy criticism from environmentalists for its record in the Niger Delta. The event, which ignited worldwide condemnation of Nigeria, prompted changes in Shell’s approach to community relations in Nigeria and elsewhere.

While civilian rule has returned to Nigeria, violence in the delta has escalated in recent years, fueled by poverty, corruption and graft. Over the last week, there has been a new round of fighting between government forces and militant rebel groups, which have declared an “all-out war” in the region and threatened the operations of oil companies.

The civil suit was brought by relatives of Mr. Saro-Wiwa and other victims of Nigeria’s former military regime, who are taking advantage of a decision that gives foreign victims of human rights abuses a measure of access to American courts.

The suit asserts that in the early 1990s, Shell became worried about Mr. Saro-Wiwa’s campaign to protest the impact of oil production throughout the Niger Delta. The suit asserts that Shell feared Mr. Saro-Wiwa’s activities would disrupt its operations and tarnish its image abroad, and “sought to eliminate that threat, through a systematic campaign of human rights violations.”

Shell said the allegations were “false and without merit.” In a statement, Stan Mays, a company spokesman, said: “Shell in no way encouraged or advocated any act of violence,” and, in fact, "attempted to persuade that government to grant clemency."

The case could have global repercussions for the oil industry, said Arvind Ganesan, the head of the business and human rights practice at .

In the last decade, oil companies have been under increasing pressure to comply with strict standards of behavior while operating in countries with poor human rights records and few democratic controls.

“The lesson here is that these cases aren’t going away,” Mr. Ganesan said. “If a jury found Shell guilty, this would change the behavior of the industry pretty quickly.”

The lawsuit was filed by the Center for Constitutional Rights, a New York law firm specializing in human rights, on behalf of Mr. Saro-Wiwa’s son and other plaintiffs who fled Nigeria’s military regime and did not trust they could sue Shell in Nigerian courts even after civilian rule returned in 1999.

The current suit was brought under the Alien Tort Claims Act, an arcane law written in 1789 to fight piracy, which is increasingly being used for lawsuits asserting human rights violations that occurred overseas. The Supreme Court ruled 6 to 3 in 2004 that foreigners could use American courts in limited cases, like crimes against humanity or torture. While sovereign states cannot be sued, American courts have accepted that a wide variety of actors, including corporations, can be called to account.

So far no corporation has been found guilty under the alien tort law, though human rights lawyers note that several cases are still moving through the court system.

In 2004, Unocal, a oil company accused of using slave labor in the construction of a pipeline in Burma during the 1990s, agreed to compensate villagers there. The terms of the settlement were not made public.

Last year, Chevron was cleared of wrongdoing by a jury after being accused of complicity in the shooting of Nigerian villagers who occupied an offshore oil barge in 1998 to protest its environmental record and hiring practices.

Shell’s activities in the Niger Delta, a region of mangroves and swamps roughly the size of where most of Nigeria’s oil is located, have long been criticized by environmentalists. Shell drilled the country’s first successful well in 1956, and has since dominated Nigeria’s oil sector, through decades of civil war, military rule and authoritarian governments.

In recent years, protests against government corruption have become more violent. The operations of Shell, in particular, have been come under attack from militant groups seeking a greater share of the country’s oil wealth.

For Ken Saro-Wiwa Jr., who returned to Nigeria from exile in 1999, the trial could provide bittersweet vindication of his father’s campaign.

“My father always said that one day Shell would be on trial,” said Mr. Saro-Wiwa, who now works as an adviser to the government on community issues. “It’s important for those involved in the conspiracy against my father to be held to account. It’s a communal exorcism, if you like, for Shell to account and bear responsibility for what it did.”

The elder Mr. Saro-Wiwa, who founded the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni Peoples in 1990, was one of the most vocal critics of Shell for the damage done to the delta communities, including gas flaring and the destruction of mangroves to make way for pipelines.

According to the lawsuit, a Shell official identified Mr. Saro-Wiwa as being “influential” in organizing the protests and sought the assistance of the Nigerian government to silence him.

The company is also accused of paying soldiers who committed human rights abuses and providing them with transportation, including helicopters. During a military raid, one plaintiff, Karalolo Kogbara, was shot by Nigerian troops while she was speaking out against the destruction of crops bulldozed to build a pipeline.

“We are not saying that Shell just did business in a bad place,” said Jennie Greene, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights. “Shell was an actor here. Shell wasn’t just standing by.”

Mr. Saro-Wiwa was arrested in 1994 and put on trial before a special military court along with the other Ogoni advocates, on charges that human rights groups and Western governments said were trumped up. Despite international pressure, Shell initially refused to intervene, saying at the time, “the company does not get involved in politics.”

The lawsuit charges that Shell bribed at least two crucial witnesses to change their testimony during the trial. It also asserts that Shell’s manager in Nigeria at the time, Brian Anderson, met with Owens Saro-Wiwa, Mr. Saro-Wiwa’s brother and also a plaintiff, and tried to pressure the jailed activist to abandon his struggle in exchange for help in securing his release. Mr. Saro-Wiwa reportedly refused.

Shell’s chief executive eventually faxed Gen. , Nigeria’s military ruler, a request for a pardon after Mr. Saro-Wiwa’s appeal for clemency was denied. By then it was too late: Mr. Saro-Wiwa and the other advocates were hanged on Nov. 10, 1995.

Shell denied it had sought to silence Mr. Saro-Wiwa.

“Shell attempted to persuade that government to grant clemency; to our deep regret, that appeal — and the appeals of many others — went unheard,” Shell said in its statement. “We were shocked and saddened when we heard the news.”
791 2009-05-22 Denis Menchov, a Russian who rides for the Rabobank team, hopes there is truth to that. With his head down and teeth grinding, he won the stage. Menchov moved to first place from second in the overall standings.

“It’s an important step in trying to win,” he said of Thursday’s stage. He added, “But there are a lot harder stages to come.”

In the longest, toughest time trial most riders here could remember, Menchov finished in 1 hour 34 minutes 29 seconds. He grabbed the pink leader’s jersey from Danilo Di Luca of Italy.

Di Luca, wearing a shiny pink skin suit, entered the stage with a 1:20 lead. But that disappeared on the picturesque roads of Cinque Terre, where tutti-frutti-colored buildings hug hillsides above the sea. He finished sixth, 1:54 behind Menchov, and was in second place over all, 34 seconds behind the leader.

Levi Leipheimer, a teammate of Lance Armstrong’s on the Astana squad, demonstrated why he has been considered a contender to win the Giro. He finished 20 seconds behind Menchov, ticking off the miles without betraying even the slightest look of distress.

“Twenty seconds on this course is not so much,” said Leipheimer, who lives in Santa Rosa, Calif. “I can be satisfied. Menchov is clearly better than me.

“I took a lot of time off the others, so I am happy,” he said.

Leipheimer’s effort, however, allowed him to climb to third from fourth in the overall standings, where he is now 40 seconds behind Menchov and the pink jersey with nine stages left. “I always believe it is possible to win the Giro,” he said, adding that he was looking forward to the remaining mountain stages.

Armstrong, a seven-time winner of the Tour de France, finished 13th, 2:26 back. He is in 12th place over all, 6:34 off the leader’s pace. He stopped speaking to reporters several days ago after he was criticized for his role in protests over the difficulty of an earlier stage.

Di Luca, meanwhile, said he would have been happy to lose 40 seconds to Menchov. But it ended up being nearly three times that.

“Menchov was just too strong today,” Di Luca said. “I’m happy with the results. Now we’ll have to wait for the third week of the race.”

The course, a made-for-television coastal route through one of the most breathtaking parts of Italy, ran more than 30 minutes longer than a usual time trial course in a Grand Tour.

Although some teams expected gaps as great as four minutes among the leaders, the difference between the first and 10th riders was 2:17. Between first and last, it was nearly 18 minutes, a lifetime in cycling.

Those in the back, though, had a little more time to enjoy the scenery. Riders could catch a peak at the glistening sea in the distance or the vineyards on terraces cut into the hills. Down below, sailboats, schooners and speedboats floated by on water as flat as a tabletop.

“I thought it was pretty interesting and fun to ride because I didn’t have to go as hard as possible, as some of the other guys had to,” said Michael Barry, a Canadian who is working as a support rider for Team Columbia-Highroad. “But I didn’t take any risks. If you did, it could have been very fast, very dangerous.”

On a course with snaking roads and steep descents, the riders could not take their eyes off the road for long. They might not have stayed on their bikes — or the road. That would have spelled the end of their participation in this three-week race, which ends on May 31 in Rome.

Danny Pate of Colorado Springs lost control on one descent and veered straight through a hospitality tent.

“I just rode into there, went around some tables and shot back out,” he said. “I didn’t have any time to grab Champagne.”
792 2009-05-22 CAIRO — Libya’s most prominent political dissident, Fathi al-Jahmi, died in a Jordanian hospital on Thursday after falling ill during years of detention in Libya, where he had been held because he called for democracy and criticized the country’s leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

Mr. Jahmi died about 9 a.m. in the cardiac care unit of the Arab Medical Center in Jordan’s capital, Amman, a hospital spokesman said by telephone. The spokesman did not identify the cause of death. Mr. Jahmi was 68.

His death after years of imprisonment underscores the challenge Western nations face as they try to expand relations with Libya.

Colonel Qaddafi has given up his unconventional arms program, become the African Union’s leader and begun to open his nation to foreign investment. But Libya remains a police state with Colonel Qaddafi as its unchallenged leader. Its human rights record has been criticized by human rights groups and Western governments.

Mr. Jahmi, a former provincial governor and an engineer, had a falling out with the leadership when he called for free elections and a free press and criticized Colonel Qaddafi. He was first arrested in 2002 and released in 2004 at the request of Joseph R. Biden Jr., who was then a senator and now the vice president.

But Mr. Jahmi refused to be silenced. “All that is left for him to do is hand us a prayer carpet and ask us to bow before his picture and worship him,” Mr. Jahmi said, referring to Colonel Qaddafi, in an interview with Al Hurra, an American-financed satellite television network, in March 2004. Ten days later he was rearrested.
793 2009-05-22 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — The Obama administration is considering a new agency to better protect consumers from practices like those that led to the current financial crisis, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said on Thursday.

Testifying before a House Appropriations subcommittee, Mr. Geithner said a broad set of regulatory change proposals should be ready to unveil soon, and a new entity to protect consumers of financial products could be part of that effort.

“We are examining the merits of setting up a new independent commission or agency to help provide stronger rules to protect consumers and better enforcement of those rules,” he said in response to questions.

“We are not at the point yet ... where we’ve made a judgment on what precise structure or form this should take, how broad its authority should be, how it relates to existing authorities that exist across the agencies now,” he added.

Mr. Geithner said government efforts to bolster the financial system were bringing “immediate stability,” and it was now time to turn attention to badly needed regulatory reforms to create a system that would be less vulnerable to collapse.

Lawmakers have shown strong interest in adopting a consumer-oriented approach to rewriting rules for banks and the financial markets. Capitol Hill aides said earlier this week that some type of financial product safety commission was moving to the forefront of fast-moving efforts to overhaul regulation.

In his testimony, which was intended to focus on the Treasury’s operating budget, Mr. Geithner said the administration was seeking to strike “the delicate balance between intervention and allowing market participants latitude to operate” as it tried to restore economic growth.
794 2009-05-22 ISTANBUL — Turkan Saylan, a champion of women’s rights and education for poor children in Turkey and a leader in the fight against leprosy, died here on Monday. She was 73.

The cause was breast cancer, which she had for 19 years, said her doctor, Yavuz Dizdar.

One of the first women to work as a dermatologist in Turkey, Dr. Saylan became active in the fight against leprosy in the 1970s, founding the Turkish Leprosy Relief Association. Later, she was a consultant to the World Health Organization on leprosy and a founding member of the International Leprosy Union.

She worked for years in rural Turkey with limited resources, an experience that inspired her to organize an effort to provide education for poor children. In 1989 she helped found the Association to Support Contemporary Life, which focused primarily on the education of young girls.

A staunch secularist, she was put on a watch list compiled by public prosecutors looking into allegations that conspirators were planning a military coup against the Islamic-inspired Justice and Development government. A police raid on her home and office last month outraged many critics of the government, who say that the investigation is part of a power struggle between the secular establishment and the religiously conservative governing party.

After the raid, in which both private and professional documents were confiscated, Dr. Saylan appeared on television, looking weak but insisting that her association favored neither an Islamic state nor a military coup. “We want democracy and contemporary values to rule,” she said. “Therefore, we are ready to fight for this cause as long as it takes.”

Dr. Saylan promoted the image of secular Turkish women and denounced the sexual inequality often associated with the world view of the governing party.
795 2009-05-22 Another bad signal from the job market and concern over a possible downgrade of British government debt sent stocks sharply lower Thursday.

Major stock indicators slid more than 1.5 percent, cutting nearly 130 points off the Dow Jones industrial average, after continuing claims for unemployment benefits were worse than analysts had expected.

A report from Standard & Poor’s said Britain might have its rating cut because of rising debt levels, which added to recent anxiety that the market may have moved too high too quickly on early signs of economic recovery.

The report led investors to worry about how well governments worldwide, including in the United States, can keep up with public spending to stimulate their economies.

“It raises questions about our own situation in terms of our deficits and our national debt,” said Alan F. Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones, of the S.& P. report. “There are limits to how high you can take these numbers longer term.”
796 2009-05-22 XEROX LEADERSHIP CHANGE  The chief executive of Xerox, Anne M. Mulcahy, announced that she would retire but remain chairwoman. Her successor will be Ursula M. Burns, the president of the company, and she will be the first African-American woman to...
797 2009-05-23 Vera Zvonareva of Russia, a semifinalist at this year's Australian Open who was seeded sixth for the French Open, has withdrawn from the tournament because of an ankle injury....
798 2009-05-23 OpenTable already reaches a third of its available North American market. Is the stock already getting ahead of itself?...
799 2009-05-23 Forty-seven federal databases are opened up online for public perusal, and users are asked to post more ideas for making government efficient and transparent....
800 2009-05-23 A Q&A on parents on keeping kids safe, without wrapping them in bubble wrap....
801 2009-05-23 PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust, the firm led by Stanford Kurland, the former president of Countrywide Financial, filed to raise $750 million from an initial public stock sale. PennyMac plans to invest “in residential mortgage loans and mortgage-related assets,” many of them with borrowers who have fallen behind on payments, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Kurland may benefit from the housing market’s bust after he spent almost three decades at Countrywide, which was the nation’s biggest home lender.
802 2009-05-23 A letter says “the chief executive as rock star, deserving of unimaginably astronomical compensation, is a self-serving lie and must be rejected immediately.” Tell that to those of us benefiting, directly and indirectly, from Steve Jobs’s rock-star leadership at Apple!
803 2009-05-23 The documents covered by the court’s decision involved 23 lawsuits filed in the early 1990s. They represent sexual-abuse claims against five diocesan priests involving actions that the plaintiffs said occurred between the 1960s and the mid-’80s.

Joseph Zwilling, the spokesman for the New York Archdiocese, said the sexual abuse on which the initial lawsuits were based occurred before Bishop Egan took over as head of the Bridgeport diocese.

Under Bishop Egan’s leadership, the Bridgeport Diocese mounted a vigorous defense against the victims’ claims.

His defense theory, reported widely at the time, was that the diocese was not liable because diocesan priests were not employees of the diocese but private contractors.

The documents that the court ordered released on Friday were ordered sealed in the mid-1990s to avoid prejudicing potential jurors. The suits were all settled in March 2001, four months after Cardinal Egan left for New York, but the documents remained sealed. In 2002, The Times filed suit to obtain them. Other newspapers joined the suit.

George H. Freeman, vice president and assistant general counsel of the New York Times Company, said on Friday: “It’s gratifying that at long last these documents should see the light of day. It’s a shame that all the parties involved didn’t see fit to release these documents, which are so much in the public interest, without the need of all these years of litigation.”

In his statement on Friday, Mr. McAleer said the Bridgeport diocese was “deeply disappointed” by the decision. Among other things, he said, the ruling overlooked what he said was the compromised impartiality of a lower court trial judge, Superior Court Judge Jon C. Alander, who sat on a judicial committee charged with reviewing the issue of public access to court records.

The diocese claimed that assignment made him, in effect, an advocate on the side of the newspapers — a claim that the Supreme Court said was unfounded.

Mr. McAleer said that the decision ignored the state’s statute of limitation on the unsealing of court documents, which he said had passed before the newspapers sued.

“Sadly, the history of this case has been about access by the secular media to internal church documents of cases more than 30 years ago to suggest, unfairly, that nothing has changed,” the statement said. “This is despite the extraordinary measures the Catholic Church has undertaken over the past several years to treat victims with great compassion and dignity, and to put in safeguards and educational programs to ensure that such a tragedy will not happen again.”

Barbara Blaine, president of SNAP, the Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests, which has been highly critical of the way the church handled accusations against predator priests, applauded the decision.

In a statement, she said, “This much remains unchanged in the church: no matter what the cost, bishops will fight tooth and nail to the bitter end to keep hidden evidence that they ignored and concealed devastating child felonies.”
804 2009-05-23 BEIJING — For more than a week, Bao Tong, a former senior Communist Party official now under strict surveillance, openly promoted an insider’s account of Chinese political infighting sure to be banned in China.

The book is the posthumous memoir by Mr. Bao’s boss, Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party chief fired in 1989 for opposing the use of troops to quash pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square. Before his death in 2005, Mr. Zhao furtively recorded his account of that period.

When the memoir became public last week, Mr. Bao, the most senior Communist Party official imprisoned after the crackdown, quickly claimed responsibility. In a string of interviews with the foreign press that security officials did not initially seek to prevent, he said he had collaborated with other liberal party elders to slip the cassette recordings out of the country for publication.

“In the past, the minute these things appear, the party would say, ‘This is turmoil; we must crack down,’ ” he said in one telephone conversation early this week. “But if the party can maintain this current calm, then maybe it can eventually be saved.”

By Friday, though, the government’s restraint appeared to be wearing thin.

Highlights of Mr. Zhao’s memoir and audio clips of his original dictation, which were accessible for days within the mainland on the Web sites of American newspapers, including The New York Times, now appear to be blocked.
805 2009-05-23 In almost every way, Zamboni is a revered model of consistency. Its form, function and sales output — 200 to 250 of its all-in-one machines are produced each year, the company said — have barely changed in decades.

“It’s kind of weird — even people that don’t know anything about the sport know the Zamboni,” said Dave Schneider, a founding member of a hockey-themed band called the Zambonis. When the company learned of the band years ago, the musicians pleaded, “Please don’t make us change our name to the Ice-Resurfacing Machines,” Mr. Schneider said. The name stayed, and a licensing agreement was struck.

After inventing his machine, Frank J. Zamboni, the son of Italian immigrants, wanted to name his company Paramount Engineering, to give it more credibility. The name was taken.

Canadians, especially, are surprised to learn that Frank J. Zamboni & Company is not only American but based nowhere near naturally frozen water. The factory sits in the side-street sprawl of south Los Angeles, between Compton and Bellflower, amid other industrial buildings but within a block of homes and strip malls.

When Zamboni engineers want to do some on-ice testing, a machine is driven several city blocks beneath a skyline of palm trees and fast-food signs, to the Iceland skating rink, where Zamboni became Zamboni in the first place 60 years ago.

The original machine sits in a far corner of the rink.

“The one from 60 years ago would still make a halfway decent sheet of ice,” Mr. Zamboni said. “Just not as good as the new ones.”

Moving in slow ovals, the machine scrapes the rutted surface. It gathers the ice shavings and dumps them into an on-board bin using hidden augers. It spreads water with a squeegee to leave a smooth sheen on the ice.

Charlie Brown once said there are three things in life that people like to stare at: a flowing stream, a crackling fire and a Zamboni clearing the ice.

Fans at hockey games — children and the childlike, mostly — often cheer the Zamboni when it takes the ice. They applaud precision and jeer missed spots.

On the television sitcom “Cheers,” Carla’s hockey-playing husband, Eddie LeBec, died when he was run over by a Zamboni. Sarah Palin said last year that she always wanted to name a son Zamboni. Car and Driver recently test-drove one, finding that “the vague steering is totally ’70s Cadillac.”

Mr. Zamboni’s father, with Frank’s brother and a cousin, opened the nearby skating rink in 1940. Frank Zamboni spent much of the next decade building a contraption to smooth the ice and eliminate the time it took crews to scrape, shovel and spray.

The Model A made its debut in 1949. The rest of the fleet was numbered, in order. Sonja Henie took Nos. 2 and 3 for her ice show. No. 9,056, almost complete, is headed to a rink in Monterrey, Mexico.

“It’s a small, family-owned business,” Mr. Zamboni said. “It’s got a name, but it’s sure got a small niche in a small industry when you get down to it.”

That is the key to success, according to Ron Pinelli, president of motorintelligence.com.

“It enjoys a unique niche in the market,” he said. “Your large automakers do not. Their business model is based on consumer products on a high-volume basis.”

Zambonis are custom-made, not built until the order arrives. The lead time is usually at least six months.

Richard and Alice Zamboni have been married 56 years, and four of their five children work for the company. A fourth generation has helped, too, and the family still owns the Iceland rink.

The factory has about 30 employees and produces about 100 machines a year. A second factory, run by Richard Zamboni’s son Frank in Brantford, Ontario — Wayne Gretzky’s hometown — has similar output. Most are part of the 500 series, found in most N.H.L. arenas. Such machines cost at least $75,000 and sometimes hit six figures.

The company is privately held and declined to disclose financial information. But 200 machines at $75,000 each would be $15 million in annual sales.

“Thirty years ago, my dad said: ‘Gee, the market’s saturated. We’re going to run out of customers,’ ” Richard Zamboni said. “I don’t know where that saturation point is that my dad was talking about. We’re not there yet.”

Most would-be competitors have come and gone. But one, the Resurfice Corporation, of Elmira, Ontario, said it produces about the same number of machines as Zamboni. The companies are, in effect, the Boeing and Airbus of ice resurfacing.

Resurfice is owned and operated by the Schlupp family, with none of the name recognition of its competitor. Don Schlupp, the company’s sales and marketing director, says he is used to hearing people call its machines Zambonis.

“We refer to it as the Kleenex syndrome,” he said.

All the off-hand familiarity makes Zamboni a bit nervous. It has trademarked its name (and the block shape of its machines) but fears the name becoming a lowercase zamboni, suffering the same fate as Aspirin, Escalator, Zipper and other brand names that lost trademark protections.

The company also asks that Zamboni not be used as a noun (as it has been throughout this article) or a verb. The ice does not get Zambonied, then, and the vehicle is a Zamboni brand ice-resurfacing machine. Good luck with that.
806 2009-05-23 The W.H.O., starting in April, quickly raised its alert level to 4 and then 5 as the virus spread in North America. But even as the virus infected people in Britain, Spain and Japan, the agency did not go to Level 6, which signifies spread to a new continent. Dr. Fukuda argued that there was still no proof of “community spread,” meaning beyond travelers, schools and contacts. Some experts were skeptical.

While acquiescing, he noted that experts hashed out these issues in 2005. Geographic spread is easy to detect, but severity is highly subjective. Death rates are impossible to calculate before many people are infected; if they turn out to be high, precious time has been lost. Viruses can mutate, becoming more lethal, and even a less lethal strain can kill many people in poor nations with young, malnourished and AIDS-infected populations.

Separately, federal health officials said a study of flu genes released Friday showed that the virus could have been circulating undetected in pigs for years, and called for better surveillance.

The study, published online by Science magazine, was a collaboration between virologists from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the W.H.O., along with others from Mexico, Britain, the Netherlands and the health departments of several American states and New York City.

After sequencing virus genes from 76 Americans and Mexicans and comparing them to known human and pig sequences, the study found no identical matches but concluded that the virus could be in pigs anywhere in the world, said Dr. Nancy Cox, chief of the federal agency’s flu division.

The closest match, surprisingly, was found in Thailand in 2005 — a pig with both North American and Eurasian flu genes.

Since the outbreak began, virologists have wondered how Eurasian genes got into a North American pig. Live pigs are moved through the Americas fairly easily, but rarely are legally moved across oceans, because they carry diseases. Even a single breeding boar must be tested and quarantined.

Now that the mixed genes have been found in Asia, it is possible that they came from a North American pig that was taken there. There is little flu surveillance of pigs in much of the world, and even in the United States it is “not very systematic,” Dr. Cox said.

Canadian pig farmers are required to report flu; Americans are not. Early this month, the United States Agriculture Department’s chief veterinarian said it sequenced only 500 samples a year from 100 million pigs.

In 2006, facing the avian flu threat, the United States chicken industry began voluntarily testing 1.6 million chickens a year.

Dr. Paul Sundberg, head of science for the National Pork Board, said it was planning more tests, especially on pigs in contact with people at fairs or livestock exhibits.

Henry L. Niman, who runs a Web site tracking flu mutations, complained that many swine sequences are posted by American universities and in Mexico only on private databases. “Those sequences would be very useful for figuring out how the H1N1 emerged,” he said.

The flu could also be in an intermediate host, said Dr. Cox, as the 2002 SARS virus passed from bats to humans through palm civets. But she said scientists “don’t have a hypothesis for alternative hosts.” Not enough is known about how many species carry flu, Dr. Cox said. For example, virologists were surprised to learn in 2004 that bird flu could kill zoo tigers and house cats.

Dr. Fukuda also said the new virus has been confirmed in 42 countries and had killed 86 people. About half of those hospitalized are young and healthy with no underlying conditions, he said. In the United States, such conditions are more common among the 300 now hospitalized.
807 2009-05-23 Principals are struggling to string together enough substitutes; the algebra class actually had one, but he was not up to speed on the subject matter. Teachers are grappling with whether to start new lessons or repeat old ones, all while trying to watch for suspicious coughs or lethargic pupils.

“It’s incredibly hard to keep up continuity of instruction,” said Ms. Ophals, noting that attendance had dropped to about 70 percent from the 97 percent it is accustomed to. In one class on Friday, just 7 of the 26 students were present.

Ms. Ophals was ambivalent about whether the school should have been closed. “I’m glad I’m not the one who has to make that decision,” she said.

The Bloomberg administration has been attacked almost daily by the teachers’ unions, elected officials and many parents for not moving quickly enough to close schools with large numbers of students calling in sick.

The mayor has said that shuttering schools for a sickness that generally has proved to be mild is a difficult call that can disrupt educations and leave working parents in a bind, and health experts do not uniformly agree that it makes any difference.

The mayor’s office this week bent to criticism about a lack of transparency by publishing absentee rates for every school at the end of every day on the Internet. But it maintains that there is no set number of absences needed to close a school; it focuses on schools where there are clusters of students who are sick with symptoms like high fever and persistent coughs.

Many students who are calling in sick may not have the flu or may be staying home out of fear. But the teachers’ union has been collecting reports from teachers and nurses, and on Thursday its president, Randi Weingarten, began publicizing what she said were rates of students sent home with flu symptoms at schools that are open. In two of those schools, more than 10 percent of students were sent home sick, according to union figures.

Education officials say they always follow the health department’s recommendations.

On Friday, the Education Department announced it was closing four more schools until next Thursday: P.S. 58 and I.S. 384 in Queens, P.S. 160 in Brooklyn and P.S. 138 in Manhattan. (A private elementary and middle school, the School at Columbia University, also closed on Friday.)

Five schools that have been closed for several days reopened on Friday, although at two of them only about half the students returned.

In schools that are open, there is plenty of debate over whether to start new lessons or spend time reviewing older material. Many teachers are assuming that the students who are out sick will spend time attending after-school sessions once they return, though they are skeptical about whether they are doing any work while at home.

If continuing on means that one student is on the sixth chapter of a novel while another is still working through Chapter 3 next week, so be it, one teacher said.

“You have do the same thing, have them come in the morning, and do whatever it is you planned to do,” said Bruce Adler, a special education teacher at P.S. 120 in Flushing. “You don’t have them sit there. If they come in and don’t do anything new, we’re not doing what’s required of us.”

There are other practical concerns — while the absentee rates do not affect how much money a school receives, state law requires that money be withheld from schools that do not meet for 180 days of instruction, which is likely to happen at schools closed for several days.

While the law includes provisions for extreme weather or blackouts, for example, there is nothing about widespread illness. Jonathan Burman, a spokesman for the State Education Department, said that it planned to ask for legislation allowing exceptions for the flu outbreak.

The state is also working on contingency plans in case some schools are closed for Regents exams, , which are required for high school graduation.

For the students who are coming to school each day, there are a few perks — normally crowded hallways and cafeterias suddenly feel spacious and teachers can spend plenty of one-on-one time with them.

At P.S. 21, the principal announced that to reward students, there would be no homework for the weekend. At Hunter College High School on the Upper East Side, the principal sent a memo to parents explaining there would be no new material covered in class on Friday or Tuesday, and no homework assigned.

With classrooms less cramped, normally rambunctious students seem far more well behaved, making teachers both thankful and worried. They are fielding questions like, “Will I have to stay at home by myself if I get sick?” and moving farther away from students with the sniffles.

At I.S. 227, a classroom was turned into a sick room after it became obvious that the three chairs in the nurse’s office were insufficient. Many children were coming in with wads of tissues and bottles of hand sanitizer, and more than a few were wearing face masks. Teachers have taken to spraying disinfectant in their rooms.

“It’s like a domino effect — every day you wonder how many kids are coming into class and how many are going to be there at the end of the day,” said Judith Glazer, a teacher at I.S. 125. On Wednesday, Ms. Glazer felt fine, but she had a 100.9 fever by Thursday evening and spent Friday at home in bed, frustrated. “I know I wouldn’t be sick if they would have just closed down.”
808 2009-05-23 “Some of these prices are so embarrassing,” the owner, Mike Finnin, said. “We’re just doing whatever it takes to sell these vehicles. We’re losing money on most of them.”

Because Chrysler is operating in bankruptcy protection, it is refusing to buy back any of its dealers’ vehicles. When it announced the dealer cuts May 14, it said there were 44,000 vehicles at those stores.

The Jeep dealers that Chrysler is cutting are selling their vehicles for about $1,205 less than other dealers, according to Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers. At the beginning of this year, those same dealers were selling vehicles for about $710 less than the others.

The difference has more than quadrupled at dealers selling Chrysler models, which generally sell for $20,000 to $30,000. Shoppers are saving an average of $2,672 by buying a Chrysler model from a dealer being terminated rather than another Chrysler brand dealer, Edmunds said. The savings offered by Dodge dealers that are being cut over other Dodge dealers is $823.

Dealers say business has been brisk, though not very profitable, since starting their big sales, as consumers hearing about the dealer cutbacks rushed out to find deals. They expect sales to slow as lots begin to get picked over and more popular models become harder to find.

Pohanka Chrysler Dodge in Leesburg, Va., sold 20 new vehicles in the first few days of its liquidation sale and still has about 100 left. Normally the store would need three months to make that many sales.

This week, Pohanka sold a Dodge Nitro sport utility vehicle for $17,510, 40 percent less than its sticker price of $29,170.

“That’s thousands of dollars less than what we would have gotten before,” the dealer, Ray O’Bryhim, said. “We’ve got a very short period of time.”

Although General Motors also is cutting a large number of dealerships, they are not scheduled to lose their franchises until late next year, so most have not started liquidation sales.

Many of the Chrysler stores plan to stay open and sell used cars or other brands. They are in the awkward position of trying to unload their inventory without giving the impression they are closing. That is why Fury Dodge, in Lake Elmo, Minn., is having a “not going out of business sale.”
809 2009-05-23 The Securities and Exchange Commission said Friday that it would toughen rules on stock trading by its employees after an investigation of possible insider trading involving two lawyers at the agency.

The new rules, which are subject to approval by the Office of Government Ethics, would require employees to obtain clearance for all securities trades.

Employees would also be barred from trading in securities of companies under S.E.C. investigation regardless of whether they had any knowledge of the inquiry.

”These measures will further bolster our standing by helping to prevent not only an actual impropriety, but the appearance of one as well,” the chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, said in a statement.

A report by the S.E.C.’s inspector general made public last week said that two agency lawyers, who were not identified, were under investigation by the F.B.I. and federal prosecutors for possible criminal and civil violations related to insider trading.
810 2009-05-23 In what seems to be the first cinematic competition in which a graphic and divisive movie by Lars von Trier has faced off against a family-oriented Disney-Pixar film, the animated feature has prevailed. The movie “Up,” a 3-D cartoon, above, has won the Palm Dog prize, an award given annually during the Cannes Film Festival for best canine performance, BBC News reported. The prize, a satirical alternative to the Palme d’Or and voted by British film critics, was given this year to the animated character Dug, a dog that uses a high-tech collar to talk. The critics made an exception this year by considering a talking fox from Mr. von Trier’s violent horror film “Antichrist” for the award; a black poodle from the Quentin Tarantino action movie “Inglourious Basterds” was also in the running. In Mr. von Trier’s defense, his film “Dogville” won the Palm Dog in 2003.
811 2009-05-23 The attorney general of Missouri announced a $500,000 settlement between the state and a lawyer who said he was wrongfully fired by former Gov. Matt Blunt and other officials after questioning the destruction of official e-mail messages. The settlement includes no admission of wrongdoing by Mr. Blunt, a Republican, or his staff. Scott Eckersley, who was a lawyer in the governor’s office, sued Mr. Blunt and four administration officials in 2008, accusing them of retaliating against him after he raised concerns that the office may have violated public records laws. Mr. Blunt has said he was fired for justifiable reasons.
812 2009-05-23 The academic year at the Juilliard School has come to an end, and on Thursday evening James DePreist put the double bar at the end of the conservatory’s concert schedule with finely burnished performances by the Juilliard Orchestra at Alice Tully Hall.

The program offered something for nearly everyone: Aulis Sallinen’s short, evocative “Shadows” and Launy Grondahl’s virtuosic Trombone Concerto were for fans of contemporary music and orchestral oddities. And a warm-hued reading of Schubert’s Fifth Symphony, as well as Hindemith’s “Symphonic Metamorphosis on Themes by Carl Maria von Weber,” with its cornucopia of solo passages, undoubtedly gave parents (on hand for commencement ceremonies on Friday) a sense of what they had paid for.

The runaway hit of the evening was the Grondahl. Trombone concertos are rare, but a work like the Grondahl, which requires a solo trombonist to play with the suppleness of a violinist and the energy of a trumpeter, makes you wish more composers would take up the challenge.

Grondahl’s style was unabashedly Romantic, and he orchestrated with a seductive richness. Against that backdrop he gave the solo trombone a singing line full of chromatic twists and turns, which touches on both the upper and lower reaches of the trombone’s range and provides flourishes that in another context would sound operatic.

This ambitious score was beautifully served by Vanessa Fralick, a Canadian working on her master’s degree. Ms. Fralick played with a sweet but firm tone and brought a superb lyrical sensibility to her account. Even more striking, she created the illusion that her quietly virtuosic performance came easily.

Mr. Sallinen’s “Shadows,” a dark, moody prelude, put the spotlight firmly on the low strings and woodwinds and the percussionists (six of them, with a lot of thundering to do), with an occasional sweeping violin line cutting through the gloom. Mr. DePreist drew a suitably fluid performance from his young players, and he had the strings sounding better still in his lively, finely balanced performance of the Schubert.
813 2009-05-23 “I’m delighted to be here,” Federer said. “I’m in good shape mentally. When someone dominates a surface like Rafael, it’s good to see that he can lose and that Djokovic played well against him and that if you play well, it’s possible to beat him.

“If it’s been 40 matches in a row on clay, and you can’t beat him, you’re more pessimistic. But if you play well, there’s always a chance. That’s good. But in the end you have to concentrate on yourself. I’ll see what comes out of it.”

Federer had not won a tournament this season until Madrid and had lost to Nadal five times in a row, losing the No. 1 ranking and his aura of invincibility. “To have to repeat yourself and explain yourself is not really fun,” he said. “Sometimes you start almost to think whether it would be better to perhaps not play a tournament. Not because you’re afraid. But because you don’t feel like explaining yourself.”

Meanwhile, Nadal, despite his undeniably strong ties to Spain, sounded delighted to be out of his capital and back on French soil and at a lower altitude.

“Madrid was very difficult tournament, no?” he said. “The court was very fast. The ball was flying a lot. It was very difficult to control the ball, and I didn’t play very well in Madrid during all the tournament. Only one set and a half in the semifinals against Novak. The rest I didn’t play well.”

If form is respected, Friday’s draw did not produce anything too daunting for any of the men’s favorites in the early rounds. Nadal will face MarcosDaniel of Brazil in his opening round and is in the same eighth of the draw as David Ferrer, his tough Spanish compatriot, whom he beat in the Barcelona final earlier this year.

Federer will face Alberto Martin, a Spanish 30-year-old who once upset Pete Sampras but whose career is now faltering. Federer is in the same quarter with the Frenchman Gaël Monfils, who has not played of late because of knee problems; and with the Americans Andy Roddick and James Blake, neither of whom has experienced significant success at Roland Garros over the years.

But, for a change, he does have the potential disadvantage of having Djokovic in his half of the draw. Djokovic, seeded fourth, has lost to Nadal here the last three years: in the quarterfinals in 2006 and in the semifinals in 2007 and 2008. This year the only round in which the Serb could play Nadal is in the final.

Instead of Djokovic, Nadal has the third-seeded Murray in his half. Clay has traditionally not been Murray’s best surface, despite his decision to move to Spain as a junior and train on the surface. But Murray, who will face Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina in the first round here, has had a successful clay-court season so far, reaching the semifinals in Monte Carlo and the quarterfinals in Madrid.

Serena Williams has not had nearly as reassuring a spring. When the season began, performing well at Roland Garros was her highest priority after a shock defeat in the third round here last year to Katarina Srebotnik. But knee problems have disrupted her preparation. She has lost all three of her clay-court matches, and to players ranked far below her. She was beaten by Klara Zakopalova of the Czech Republic in Marbella and by the Swiss veteran Patty Schnyder in Rome and forced to retire from her opening-round match in Madrid after losing the opening set to Francesca Schiavone of Italy.

While most of her peers looked content to play the question-and-answer game on Friday, Williams looked as if she had just been dragged into the room by tournament personnel. Most of her answers were short enough to be Twitter messages.

“I’m all better now, thanks,” she said of her health.

“I don’t think I’m the favorite coming in,” Williams, who is seeded second, said. “That’s, you know, it is what it is. I’m glad to be here more than anything.”

How long she will stay here is the bigger question. She faces Zakopalova in the first round. Time and Grand Slam tournaments past have proved that counting out Williams is a losing strategy, but this is also the Grand Slam tournament that has been the biggest challenge for her. Since winning it in 2002, she has yet to return to the final.
814 2009-05-23 Ms. Nipp, who looks and dresses her age but has the soft-spoken competence of someone much older, will begin counseling people on their portfolios for the financial services giant USAA early next month. Here is a preview of what she may tell them, drawing, in part, on personal experience. Plenty of the advice, it turns out, is useful for people far older than new college graduates.

CARDS ARE NOT EVIL The credit card bill that passed Congress this week makes it harder for college students to get a . Ms. Nipp, however, wishes she had gotten one sooner. When she tried to get an apartment in , the management company for her building told her that she hadn’t had long enough to sign the lease by herself.

“They wanted at least three years of history,” she said. “I wish I would have gotten a credit card earlier, since I really didn’t want my parents to have to co-sign the lease.”

This advice comes too late for recent college graduates who thought they were doing the right thing by steering clear of the plastic menace. But if they do not have their own credit cards yet, they should get at least one now to start establishing a good credit history. Without one, buying a house later could be more difficult and expensive.

BALANCE YOUR CHECKBOOK As a peer counselor in Texas Tech’s “Red to Black” financial assistance program, Ms. Nipp first worked with a client who needed help balancing her checkbook.

But why bother? Doesn’t most online banking software add up the numbers for you these days? Well, sure. But as Ms. Nipp pointed out, you need to keep track of what you are spending, in part, to make sure the bank got it right. “Or a check may not go through for a while, you may not remember that you spent it, and you might overdraw your account,” she said.

She does not speak from experience on this front. “My dad would kill me,” she said, noting that her parents are co-signers on her old bank accounts at home in . And while she admits to neglecting the balancing chore herself, she keeps enough of a cushion in her account to avoid surprise overdrafts.

BUDGETS ARE NOT COMPLICATED A few years ago, Ms. Nipp had a boyfriend who was considering transferring to Texas Tech but wasn’t sure he could afford it. So Ms. Nipp, then an 18-year-old freshman, made him a budget.

“It seemed intuitive to me,” she said. “I wrote it on a piece of paper. I guess it was before I knew anything about Excel. I didn’t know how much anything would cost, like the electric bill, so I asked my mom.”

Ms. Nipp’s boyfriend ended up at Tech. “His mom told me one time that she didn’t think he would have ever gone if I hadn’t helped him,” she said. Not long after she created that chicken-scratch spreadsheet, she decided to switch into the financial planning degree program.

BEWARE OF DADDY’S WALLET When I asked Ms. Nipp what she learned from observing the spending habits of her Pi Beta Phi sorority sisters and other undergraduates, it was clear she had taken careful notes. “All of the people who were spending ridiculous amounts of money were on their daddy’s wallets,” she said. “They were buying $500 purses and having $100 bar tabs, and it was like nothing to them.”

Ms. Nipp has no problem with the finer things in life. She just worries about the habits that form when you come to expect them. “When you get used to having expensive things, you want them more,” she said. “They’re not going to be able to live like that when they get out of school, and they have to get used to that as soon as possible before they get themselves into trouble.”

For those who were on the dole in college, this is a fairly harsh reality check. But facing it down squarely upon graduation is a terrific tactic for preventing credit card debt.

DON’T BUY A HOME The notion of a 22-year-old buying a home sounds laughable to anyone living on the coasts. But Ms. Nipp and her brother, who is also a financial planning graduate of Texas Tech, lived in a $60,000 house in Lubbock that their parents had bought for them. And she could afford the down payment and on a condo in San Antonio right now.

But she ran the numbers, and it would put her in too tight a financial vise. “A lot of people don’t realize the expenses that come with a house,” she said, though she knows, having taken care of the one in Lubbock. “There is upkeep. . . It’s a lot more than just a mortgage payment, and just because your mortgage payment doesn’t go up doesn’t mean taxes and insurance won’t.”

DON’T MESS WITH TAXES Nobody knows where income tax rates will be in 30 or 40 years. “But the fact is, people my age are in a lower tax bracket now than we probably ever will be in again,” she said.

So her strategy is to take full advantage of the (incredible 8 percent) match that USAA offers on its and then save as much after-tax money as she can in a Roth Individual Account. Under the current rules, the earnings in that account will come out tax-free when she retires.

It is a smart strategy, but what if the Roth rules change and diligent savers like Ms. Nipp are someday taxed on Roths over, say, $500,000. She says it doesn’t much matter, since the 401(k) rules could change, too. If either set of rules changes, at least she has two different types of accounts and thus is hedged through tax diversification.

Want to know more? Ms. Nipp will answer questions next week on . Joining her there will be the authors of the two best books on money for young people that I have ever read: Ramit Sethi, the author of “I Will Teach You to Be Rich,” and Beth Kobliner, who recently updated her 1990s classic “Get a Financial Life.” If you’re a recent college graduate, or simply a parent or relative who’s worried sick about one, please send questions for the trio to and let us know if we can use your name and hometown.
815 2009-05-23 FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Flipping through the rosters of the teams in the N.C.A.A. men’s lacrosse semifinals, one notices a potpourri of geography unique to this generation. Some players are from untraditional lacrosse bases like Denver, Seattle and San Diego.

But for all of the game’s growth over the last two decades, the old guard continues to dominate college lacrosse. Syracuse, Princeton, Johns Hopkins and Virginia have combined to win the last 17 national championships. Those teams and North Carolina have won the last 31.

“I’ve gone to almost every final four since I was born,” Matt Abbott, a Syracuse midfielder, said. “And it’s pretty much been the same teams.”

So, with No. 1 Virginia facing No. 5 Cornell and No. 2 Syracuse playing No. 3 Duke on Saturday afternoon to set up the title game Monday, the central tension this weekend will be whether some new blood can join the bluebloods.

There is some mystery about the monopoly. Virginia Coach Dom Starsia, whose Cavaliers are the top-seeded favorites, says the dominance comes down to teams stockpiling top-tier skill players.

“There are still only a limited number of really, really skilled offensive players, in particular,” Starsia said. “Those kids are mostly Northeast kids, and those kids still grow up wanting to go to Syracuse and Virginia and Hopkins and those schools.”

Starsia should know. Cornell Coach Jeff Tambroni joked that Starsia’s Cavaliers include quite a few high school all-Americans who do not get to play often. Virginia’s midfield features six scoring threats, including the explosive twin sophomores Rhamel and Shamel Bratton. The team also has three savvy attackmen in Garrett Billings, Danny Glading and Steele Stanwick.

It is the nuanced skill of those kinds of players, Starsia emphasized, that is lacking in players from nontraditional lacrosse areas. Players who receive top-flight instruction in junior high school in the mid-Atlantic states are the ones, he said, who typically end up as college all-Americans.

“There are lots more athletes out there,” Starsia said. “We have two players from Illinois. We have a kid from Florida and a kid coming from California. There’s no question that those kids are out there. But you win with that really skilled middie and attackman. That kid that’s really good close to the cage. You would be hard pressed to find one of those kids in the emerging areas.”

Syracuse Coach John Desko agreed with Starsia to a point. He feels the gap is shrinking.

Desko recalled Syracuse’s first national lacrosse championship, in 1983, to illustrate his position. In the ’83 title game, Syracuse trailed Johns Hopkins, 12-5, in the third quarter, and Desko said a lot of fans began streaming for the exits at the old Rutgers Stadium. But Syracuse came back to win, 17-16, in one of the program’s seminal moments.

“It’s getting there and getting the first one that is the toughest part,” Desko said. “In some ways it’s because of ability and in some ways it’s because we’ve been through it and experienced it.”

Duke’s lack of experience in the national semifinals might have hurt it last year. The Blue Devils were seeded first and considered one of the sport’s greatest teams before being upset by Johns Hopkins in the semifinals.

The Blue Devils have rebounded nicely, especially considering the firepower they lost from last year’s team, including Coach John Danowski’s son, Matt, who finished as the career scoring leader in Division I.

Duke returns in a more familiar role: it joins Cornell as a potential spoiler. Syracuse and Virginia have won 7 of the past 10 titles, and if they meet Monday, it will be engaging because of their history of epic games.

Duke lost in the championship game in 2005 and in the semifinals last year. To get the program’s first national title, it will rely on its two elite attackmen, Max Quinzani and Ned Crotty.

Cornell won the last of its three national titles in 1977 but has reached the semifinals in two of the last three seasons. The Big Red is led by Rob Pannell, a freshman attackman, and a defense anchored by the long sticks Pierce Derkac and Matt Moyer.

Although Duke and Cornell have flirted with the top echelon of the sport lately, they will not be considered true members of the present-day elite until they win a national title.
816 2009-05-23 BERLIN — Microsoft and the European Commission have canceled the only hearing planned in an antitrust investigation into the company’s Internet browser because of a dispute over the attendance of European regulators serving as advisers.

As a result, the commission, which began its inquiry after a complaint by Opera, a small browser maker in Norway, will reach its decision and levy a fine based on written statements from Microsoft and its adversaries. Microsoft decided not to give oral evidence in the case after it was unable to persuade the commission to move the meeting, scheduled for June 3 through 5, so that it did not conflict with a global antitrust conference in Zurich that draws European antitrust regulators.

Dave Heiner, a Microsoft vice president and deputy general counsel, said the conflict would have prevented some regulators from attending the hearings as observers and advisers.

“It appears many of the most influential commission and national competition officials with the greatest interest in our case will be in Zurich and so unable to attend our hearing,” Mr. Heiner wrote on his blog on the Microsoft Web site.

The regulators’ attendance was important, Microsoft said, because they may have been more sympathetic to the company’s argument that the bundling of Internet Explorer in Windows did not represent a breach of European law. The commission typically consults with the national regulators before issuing sanctions and fines in the case.
817 2009-05-24 It was a fascinating race today, despite the urge to fall asleep because of the procession. No, the fascination was not so much with the winners of the race and the other "contenders" – which I have reported on in my race report – but on the p...
818 2009-05-24 The French Open begins on a Sunday with a defending champion winning her first-round match....
819 2009-05-24 In absence of an Obama plan for what to do with detainees when the Guantánamo prison is closed, Republicans have offered up their own narrative, and it seems to be sticking....
820 2009-05-24 The world's leading producers of wealth and greenhouse gases meet again to mull climate and energy....
821 2009-05-24 Sixth-seeded Vera Zvonareva has withdrawn from the French Open because of an ankle injury. Zvonareva injured her ankle chasing a ball last month at the Family Circle Cup in Charleston, S.C. She pulled out of the French Open, the season’s second Grand Slam tournament, on Saturday, a day before play begins on the red clay at Roland Garros.
822 2009-05-24 “No Bill Needed” (Breakingviews.com, Business Day, May 20) clearly agrees that the principles in our Shareholders Bill of Rights Act like “say on pay,” eliminating “staggered boards” and separating the position of chairman and chief executive are sound.

And the article is certainly correct that many companies are already carrying out some or all of the changes we propose. But it misses the point of the bill.

We are not pursuing this legislation to go after those companies doing the right thing, but rather to address the significant number of outliers who are shirking these reforms. Companies with overly dominant C.E.O.’s can wreak havoc that goes far beyond their shareholders and employees — it can affect the whole economy. Witness the problems of C.E.O.-dominated companies like A.I.G. and Bear Stearns.

Charles E. Schumer

 U.S. Senator from New York

 Washington, May 20, 2009
823 2009-05-24 KATMANDU, Nepal (Reuters) — Nepal’s Parliament elected a moderate Communist leader as the new prime minister on Saturday, hours after two people were killed in an explosion that ripped through a church near Katmandu, the capital.

About three weeks ago the Maoist prime minister, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, who goes by the name Prachanda, resigned, plunging the nascent republic into a crisis set off by his failure to fire the army chief.

Madhav Kumar Nepal, 56, a veteran leader of the moderate Communist Party of Nepal (United Marxist Leninist), or U.M.L., was elected unopposed after the Maoists refused to field a candidate and said that they would boycott the vote.

“Since there is only one proposal to elect Madhav Kumar Nepal as prime minister, I declare him elected unopposed,” said Subas Nemwang, the speaker of the Parliament, as the Maoists stormed out of the Legislature.

The former Maoist rebel leader Prachanda, whose name means “the fierce one” in Nepali, resigned on May 4 after President Ram Baran Yadav stopped him from firing Gen. Rookmangud Katawal.
824 2009-05-24 Austerity is rippling down the social hierarchy, as the affluent cancel vacations, middle-class people fret about social descent, and Dickensian scenes of destitution multiply.

In Riga, the capital, abandoned construction sites, vast lots of repossessed cars and a new, utterly empty shopping mall testify to the misery. But the government’s tough medicine for the crisis, stiffer than Black Balsam, the syrupy herbal liqueur that is the country’s national drink, has defined the times.

Latvia is racing to halve an enormous government budget deficit, now estimated at 12 percent of gross domestic product, even as its economy is expected to contract by 16.5 percent this year. That is a condition of the $10 billion bailout by the I.M.F. that the European Union, of which Latvia is a member, also supported.

Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, acutely aware that the previous government fell after Riga was shaken by riots in January, must now convince wary lawmakers that the country’s choices have narrowed to bad and worse.

“There is a growing awareness of what the problems are, but also what the alternatives are,” Mr. Dombrovskis said in an interview. “The alternative is not receiving international financing.”

The alternative, in other words, is default.

In better times, the global financial system would barely flinch at the idea of Latvian insolvency. But the other Baltic countries, Estonia and Lithuania, as well as Romania and Bulgaria and even Western stalwarts like Ireland all gorged on cheap credit and are all groaning under a heavy debt load. The last thing they want to see is a default, which could reignite a crisis that appears to be easing.

“Latvia is a reminder that there are other countries struggling with huge imbalances, though nobody has turned out as bad as Latvia,” said Lars Christensen, chief analyst at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, who has long warned of a convulsion in the region. “Some come pretty close.”

In the heady days after it gained membership in the European Union in 2004, Latvia pegged its currency, the lat, to the euro in anticipation of eventually adopting the European currency. Its economy blossomed and Riga, blessed with its abundance of stunning Art Nouveau architecture, emerged as a kind of capital of the Baltics.

Euro-denominated lending exploded, to the point where 85 percent of household debt was held in euros. But that seemed immaterial at the time, since the euro would soon replace the lat as the country’s currency, or so it was thought.

The lat is still with Latvia, however, and so is a colossal problem of how to devalue the currency — the usual adjustment mechanism in a financial crisis — without creating a crushing debt burden. Rather than let the currency decline, the government has chosen what it calls an “internal devaluation,” in which wages are forced downward to restore the economy’s equilibrium.

In December, the previous government reduced wages by at least 15 percent for most civil servants, and Mr. Dombrovskis is promising more. The government’s procurement budget was cut by a quarter, while the value-added tax increased to 21 percent from 18 percent. Exceptions for books and hotels fell away; excise duties on alcohol and gasoline rose.

The experience is weakening the bonds that Latvians feel for their state. Though proud of their heritage in language and culture, many now speak openly of emigration, and fading memories of citizens standing together with leaders to throw off Soviet domination 19 years ago only accentuate the alienation.

“Independence or bondage is an easy question to answer,” said Krisjanis Karins, a former Latvian economy minister. “This time it is not so cut and dried.”

Girts, a lanky 40-year-old doctor’s assistant, works three jobs in three hospitals for a monthly salary of $1,350 and spends half his income servicing a euro-denominated mortgage on his apartment.

The mood at Latvia’s state-run hospitals, he said, is now one of foreboding, as employees gripe that managers did not share in the pain of a 20 percent wage cut in January — one that covered all government workers — and will dodge another later this year. “I have very little faith left in the Latvian state,” said Girts, who asked that his surname be withheld for fear of retribution by supervisors. “I don’t know how much longer this can go on.”

For Latvia’s poor, the mood falls somewhere between bewilderment and frustration, as families struggle to comprehend why their world has come apart.

It did not make them rich, but Latvia’s boom over the past few years reached Aija Voitov and her husband, Juris, who live in a two-room shack heated by a crude metal stove down a dirt road outside Riga.

Though Mr. Voitov switched jobs from time to time, work was plentiful, and Mrs. Voitov had only to walk over to the nearby main road to find work at a big supermarket. Three months ago, Mr. Voitov lost his job at a food processing factory where he had earned $735 a month, a tiny enough sum. Since then, as the family scrapes by on state assistance, Mrs. Voitov confesses little comprehension of exactly what went wrong, only that in the past, things were better.

“It was normal, it was good,” Mrs. Voitov said. “There was plenty of work.”
825 2009-05-24 Mr. Obama continued on the offensive against straw men that day in Los Angeles, pointing out that critics told him not to go on “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno” on NBC because “I can’t handle that and the economy at the same time.” Then, his audience primed, he delivered his standard kill line: “Listen, here’s what I say. I say our challenges are too big to ignore.”

And who can argue with that? Like most straw men, Mr. Obama’s are not complete fabrications. White House officials correctly pointed out that Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, took a crack at Mr. Obama for appearing on the Leno show, saying that his “suggestion is that he come back, since he’s taken full responsibility, and get his people together” to confer on the budget.

But that is still a ways from the tortuous construct which Mr. Obama ended up with, that turned Mr. Kyl’s remark into one that somehow needed the “our challenges are too big to ignore” rebuttal, since it suggests that one of those challenges was apparently appearing on Leno.

“Here’s the trick: Take your opponent’s argument to a ridiculous extreme, and then attack the extremists,” said William Safire, the former presidential speechwriter who writes the “On Language” column for The New York Times Magazine. “That leaves the opponent to sputter defensively, ‘But I never said that.’ ”

The telltale indicators that a straw man trick is on the way are the introductory words “there are those who say” or “some say.”

“In strawmanese, you never specify who ‘those who’ are,” Mr. Safire said. “They are the hollow scarecrows you set up to knock down.”

Mr. Obama’s straw men are not limited to the economy. On his maiden overseas trip, he shot down one after another in quick succession, for the benefit of students in Istanbul. “Some people say that maybe I’m being too idealistic,” he said. “I made a speech in Prague about reducing and ultimately eliminating nuclear weapons, and some people said, ah, that will never happen. And some people have said, why are you discussing the Middle East when it’s not going to be possible for the Israelis and the Palestinians to come together? Or why are you reaching out to the Iranians, because the U.S. and Iran can never agree on anything?”

Who would not be ready to cheer the knockdown of such pessimism after all that? “If we don’t try, if we don’t reach high, then we won’t make any progress,” Mr. Obama concluded.

To Mr. Obama’s credit, several pundits, including the Washington Post columnist Anne Applebaum (who called his no-nukes speech “quixotic”), dumped cold water on the idea of getting to a nuclear-free world anytime soon. And White House officials pointed to columns in both The New York Times (William Kristol) and The Washington Times (Jeffrey Kuhner) that criticized Mr. Obama for trying engagement with Iran’s leaders.

But by saying “Iranians,” instead of the more specific “Iran’s leaders,” Mr. Obama took that criticism a step further, before knocking it down. He did the same thing in his video message to the Iranian people in March. “There are those who insist that we be defined by our differences,” he said, before going on to quote a Persian poet who said “the children of Adam are limbs to each other, having been created of one essence.”

Jason DeSanto, a Democratic speechwriter and lecturer at Northwestern University, said Mr. Obama’s rhetorical device reflected his search for common ground among foes. “Some might say he pushes the various poles of the argument too far to the left and the right to find a middle ground,” Mr. DeSanto said. “It does project his own world view, but it can make him appear more reasonable.”

Mr. Obama’s backers say his use of straw men does not approach the level of former Vice President Dick Cheney. Indeed, just Thursday, Mr. Cheney offered this one: “I might add that people who consistently distort the truth in this way are in no position to lecture anyone about values.”

“Intelligence officers of the United States,” Mr. Cheney said, “were not trying to rough up some terrorists simply to avenge the dead of 9/11.”
826 2009-05-24 Talk radio and cable news hosts warned viewers that dangerous terrorists might end up in a neighborhood jail, with of Fox News even broadcasting an online video from House Republican leaders that juxtaposed the security of the detainee camps with images of the twin towers in flames. And from and to the small town of Hardin, Mont., Democratic lawmakers began fending off questions about whether they would admit terrorism suspects into their own communities.

Senate Democrats, who last week broke with their president to join a 90-to-6 vote against funds to close Guantánamo, faulted the White House for failing to provide political cover by reassuring the public that he had a clear plan the for the prisoners. The Democrats left open the possibility of authorizing the money later this year, once Mr. Obama provides a detailed plan.

Mr. Obama has pledged to press ahead, saying he is doing his best to correct the mistakes the last administration made with the prison. But Republicans have now beaten the Democrats twice on this issue in the last two years with overwhelming votes against transferring detainees to the .

In an interview Friday in his Capitol office, the Senate Republican leader, of , who has warned for months about the dangers of transferring detainees, said Mr. Obama’s chance of closing the prisons was now “a very slim possibility.”

In July 2007, Mr. McConnell forced a vote in which even the fiercest Senate critics sided with Republicans in a 94-to-3 vote to declare that detainees should not be “transferred stateside into facilities in American communities and neighborhoods.”

Mr. Obama, campaigning for the presidency in , missed that vote. “This was a mistake from the beginning.” Mr. McConnell said.

Congressional Republican leaders, many of whom opposed closing Guantánamo all along, began strategizing about how to defeat Mr. Obama on the issue almost as soon as the campaign came to a close.

And to help sharpen the Republican attacks, Ed Gillespie, who was an adviser to President , and Whit Ayers, a Republican pollster, distributed a survey in April indicating strong support for the idea of keeping “people who would kill Americans” at Guantánamo. Cable news and talk radio hosts seized on the relocation of the prisoners as an urgent threat. “These are the worst of the worst,” Mr. Hannity of Fox News warned. “We seem to be letting our guard down again.”

, a former Bush administration lawyer and an architect of the detainee policies, speaking on Fox News, said, “Nobody wants to have a detention center for terrorists in their backyard.” And released a new edition of his Guantánamo Bay T-shirts with a new past-tense subtitle: “Club Gitmo — When America was safe.”

Meanwhile, Mr. McConnell began raising the question of where detainees would be relocated in near-daily speeches from the Senate floor. Several Republican lawmakers in both chambers taunted California Democrats like Representative of California, the House speaker, and Senator of California, a leading Guantánamo critic, by proposing that the prisoners should be sent to the prison Alcatraz. Democrats brushed off the idea, pointing out that Alcatraz is now a museum and tourist attraction.

In , home to the maximum security prison, Representative Todd Tiahrt, a Republican candidate for the United States Senate, said Democrats would welcome detainees from Guantánamo. “Not on my watch,” , Republican of Kansas, declared in another online video depicting frightening images of Guantánamo inmates.

In , several Republicans criticized Gov. Bill Ritter Jr., a Democrat, for observing that the supermax federal prison in was specifically designed to handle dangerous prisoners, including terrorists. In , when Hardin offered its jail space, the state’s Democratic senators and Republican representative all leapt to nix the idea.

In Virginia, Representative Jim Moran, a Democrat, touched off an uproar this month when he declared in a newspaper column that his constituents would rise to their patriotic duty if detainees were brought to trial in . Republicans and Democratic rivals used the column to attack the congressman’s brother, Brian, a Democratic candidate for governor who in the end said he disagreed with his brother.

With public opinion moving against them and still no detailed plan from the president, House Democrats were the first to block the $80 million the White House had requested to close the prison. Senate Democrats initially tried to preserve the money but then bowed to Republican pressure.

Mr. McCain said he still supported closing the prison, as he did in the campaign. He voted against the money, he said, because “the American people deserve a detailed explanation of what will take place the day after Guantánamo is closed.”

Some Democrats have angrily accused the Republicans of fear-mongering for political advantage. “Republicans are criticizing the president, but the reality is, they do not have a plan themselves to deal with Guantánamo,” Senator of , the No. 2 Democrat, said in a speech on the floor.

Stanley B. Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, argued that the Senate setback was “small potatoes” but said the backlash against the closing was “probably foreseeable.”

“I am sure it would have been better if there were a plan on how they were going to do this,” Mr. Greenberg said.

The Obama administration, meanwhile, said it was looking ahead. It said the detainees would be kept in maximum security and noted that there were already terrorists housed in American prisons.

“We have a strategy,” said , a White House adviser on national security issues. “We have been very aggressively pursuing that strategy. And what we understood this week and over the last 10 days or so is that Congress, particularly after the last seven years and mindful of that failed situation, wants more details. And we will provide those.”
827 2009-05-24 The investigations into Wall Street practices found that stock analysts might have felt pressure from the investment banking and brokerage sides of their firms to have a buy-side bias that would please executives of the companies being analyzed.

Professor Barber said the transparency rule, in itself, appeared to have cut down on this buy-side bias. By the time Wall Street firms began distributing independent research, he said, there was no significant difference between them and independents in their share of buy, hold and sell recommendations.

Other than this shift, the overall quality of proprietary Wall Street research hasn’t changed much in recent years, he said, although he said that there isn’t enough data to yield more than a tentative conclusion.

BEFORE N.A.S.D. 2711, stocks receiving buy recommendations from Wall Street analysts didn’t perform as well, on average, as the “buys” of independents. But when it came to sell recommendations, Wall Street analysts were more on target: stocks getting their sell signals performed worse, on average, that those with “sells” from independents.

This isn’t so surprising, Professor Barber said. Because buy signals were so common on Wall Street, the more discriminating independent analysts, on average, could be expected to fare better. But on the other side of the coin, Wall Street analysts were stingier with sell recommendations — and, sure enough, came out ahead.

A separate, forthcoming study in the Review of Financial Studies has also found that the difference between Wall Street and independent stock research has largely disappeared. (It was conducted by Ohad Kadan of Washington University of St. Louis; Leonardo Madureira of Case Western Reserve; Rong Wang of Singapore Management University and Tazchi Zach of Ohio State.)

Professor Barber offered another factor to consider in interpreting a Wall Street analyst’s research report: the buy, hold, and sell recommendations may be less valuable than supporting data and analysis. And when measured along other dimensions, Wall Street analysts often compare favorably with independents. For example, he says, a number of studies have found that Wall Street analysts’ earnings forecasts are more accurate, on average.

The bottom line is this: It’s doubtful that investors will be worse off come July, when the regulatory arrangement expires, especially if they look beyond specific buy-hold-sell advice and focus on the underlying data and analysis.
828 2009-05-24 If the rules go into effect, they will be a force for major change. In the past, only those shareholders with millions to spend on hard-fought proxy wars could hope to influence a board’s makeup.

For the next two months, the agency is seeking public comments on the proposal. Get ready to hear squawks and howls from those who think that shareholders should let wiser heads — like those on board nominating committees — decide who is fit to be a corporate director.

Naysayers will no doubt predict that the world will end and that stocks will fall if dissident slates of directors muscle their way into the boardrooms.

But a new study of 120 so-called hybrid boards — those formed when activist shareholders won one or more director seats from 2005 through 2008 — tells a different story. On average, these companies’ shares outperformed their peers in both short- and longer-term periods.

From the beginning of the contest period for a board seat through the first year of a hybrid board’s existence, companies’ total returns were 19.1 percent, or 16.6 percentage points better than peers’. And total share price performance through the three-year anniversary of the hybrid boards averaged 21.5 percent, almost 18 percentage points more than their peers.

To be sure, much of the excess return occurs shortly after an activist announces his or her intention to battle for board seats at a company. Investors, taking their cue that the company may be undervalued, typically bid up its shares in the three months leading up to the formation of a hybrid board. Keep in mind, too, that averages mask both exceptional and disastrous outcomes.

But the study, conducted by the Investor Responsibility Research Center Institute, a nonprofit organization, and Proxy Governance, a proxy advisory firm, certainly shows that directors put in place by dissident shareholders do not generally wreak havoc at these companies. In almost 90 percent of the cases, hedge funds were the driving force behind the hybrid boards.

The degree of outperformance registered at these companies varied in surprising ways. One element that seems to affect results was the size of the stake held by the dissident shareholder. The greater the stake, the bigger the gains.

At companies at which dissidents held 5 to 10 percent of shares, for instance, results over the following 15 months moderately exceeded those of their peer groups. But for companies in which the dissidents owned 10 percent to one-quarter of the stock, price appreciation significantly outshone peers, averaging almost 68 percentage points higher over the ensuing 15 months.

Performance at the companies where dissidents held less than 5 percent of shares was only in line with peers, on average.

Here is another interesting data point from the study: A company’s share performance varied based on the number of director seats that a dissident holder won. Less is more, as it turns out. Compared with their peers, boards that seated a sole dissident moderately outperformed but those companies with three new directors significantly underperformed.

In addition to allaying fears about the impact that dissident directors may have on a company’s prospects, the study provides context on the issue of proxy access to shareholders and how broad it should be. That is the view of Jon Lukomnik, director of the I.R.R.C. Institute.

“I think what it says is there is some value to owners being able to challenge existing management and that there are also some limits to that value,” Mr. Lukomnik said. “Dissidents can clearly get the market to focus on the hidden value in these companies, but delivering on it takes hard work.”

Scott A. Fenn, managing director of policy at Proxy Governance, said the study’s findings should also help dispel the myth that those who try to shake up boards are interested only in short-term profits. “On average, anyway, when hedge funds get on boards,” he said, “at least they have a decent track record of creating some value.”
829 2009-05-24 Rather than presenting silver-bullet formulas that are easily forgotten, Mr. Collins’s books offer tangible frameworks for understanding why organizations succeed. His winning streak is about to be tested with his just-released book, which takes a turn, as he says, to the “dark side,” focusing on why companies fail. At any other time, it would seem a long shot, in that it lacks the upbeat message of his previous books. But his timing, given the number of once-great companies now in ruin, couldn’t have been better.

It seems that Mr. Collins, for all his exacting approaches to time management and research, has been blessed with something he cannot control: repeated bouts of flat-out luck.

He started researching his new book, titled “How the Mighty Fall: And Why Some Companies Never Give In,” in 2005. Back then, the Dow Jones index had passed 10,000 and was still climbing, eventually to more than 14,000, and Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, General Motors and Fannie Mae still had bright futures.

Now the stages of decline that he maps out in the book — hubris born of success; undisciplined pursuit of more; denial of risk and peril; grasping for salvation with a quick, big solution; and capitulation to irrelevance or death — offer a kind of instant autopsy for an economy on the stretcher.

He writes that he’s come to see institutional decline as a “staged disease” — harder to detect but easier to cure in the early stages — which is likely to foster a sense of corporate hypochondria in many readers.

He started working on his previous book, “Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap ... and Others Don’t,” in the mid-1990s, smack in the middle of New Economy fever.

“Good to Great” was finally published in late 2001 — not long after the dot-com bubble burst, the pixie dust surrounding visionary leaders had fallen away, and the 9/11 terrorist attacks shook the country to its core. The book struck a chord with its back-to-basics message: Quiet but determined leaders who remained focused on clear and simple goals were the real success stories of corporate America.

It won a following, about four million copies’ worth, that extended well beyond the business world and included football coaches, pastors and school principals.

“We were really slow, and so it comes out right after everything is falling apart,” Mr. Collins recalls. “If we had come out in 1998, I don’t think anyone would have read it.”

His first best seller, “Built to Last: Successful Habits of Visionary Companies,” another five-year project, which he co-wrote with Jerry I. Porras, came out in 1994, on the heels of the re-engineering craze in corporate America; it also went on to sell millions of copies.

And his next book, which he is writing with Morten T. Hansen and is due out in two or three years, is about why certain companies manage to thrive through tumultuous times.

“I think it’s just pure luck,” says Mr. Collins, parsing his track record in an interview here. “You flip a coin and it comes up heads, and you flip a coin and it comes up heads, and you flip a coin and it comes up heads, and one day you have four heads in a row. You can’t really say you made it come up heads.”

But it’s not all luck, of course.

PART of the Jim Collins method borrows from other hypersuccessful people. He approaches every aspect of his life with purpose and intensity.

Four days after his first date with Joanne Ernst in the spring of 1980 — an eight-mile run when both were students at Stanford — they were engaged, and married later that year.

When she announced over breakfast one day that she thought she could win an Ironman Triathlon, Mr. Collins gave up his job at Hewlett-Packard to help her train, be her roadie and negotiate her sponsorships with companies like Nike and Budweiser. Joanne won the 1985 Hawaiian Ironman Triathlon.

Back then, he says, his wife was the better-known half of the couple, and everyone assumed that his name was Jim Ernst.

For his 50th birthday — his “gift to myself,” as he put it — Mr. Collins, a lifelong climber, trained for 18 months to try a climb El Capitan, the 3,000-foot vertical rock formation in Yosemite National Park.

Most climbers take a few days for the ascent. He wanted to do it in less than 24 hours. So he trained with a younger, stronger partner. He studied weather patterns at Yosemite going back almost 100 years to figure out the best window for an attempt. They climbed the first 1,400 feet in the dark, and completed the ascent in 19 hours.

Oh, he sleeps with vigor, too. He figures that he needs to get 70 to 75 hours of sleep every 10 days, and once went to a sleep lab to learn more about his own patterns. Now — surprise, surprise — he logs his time spent on a pillow, naps included, and monitors a rolling average.

“If I start falling below that,” he says, pointing to the short list on his whiteboard, “I can still teach and do ‘other,’ but I can’t create.”

Mr. Hansen, his co-author on the current turbulence project, occasionally teases Mr. Collins about his relentless self-improvement.

“I always laugh about the sleep log,” he says.

Mr. Collins also is quite practiced at saying “no.” Requests pour in every week for him to give speeches to corporations and trade associations. It could be a bustling sideline, given that he commands a top-tier fee of $65,000 to dispense his wisdom. But he will give only 18 speeches this year, and about a third of them will be pro bono for nonprofit groups.

Companies also ask him to consult. But he mostly declines, agreeing only if the company intrigues him and if its executives come to Boulder to meet him. Over two half-day sessions, for $60,000, he will ask pointed questions and provide very few answers.

“I am completely Socratic,” he said, “and I challenge and push; they come up with their own answers. I couldn’t come up with people’s answers.”

Book tours? No. Splurging with the millions he’s earned from his books? No, too.

He and his wife still live in the 2,500-square-foot Craftsman-style house they bought when they moved back from California 14 years ago to Boulder, their hometown. He keeps his overhead low, with a staff of five people, and adds students for research work as needed.

This orientation — a willingness to say no and focus on what not to do as much as what to do — stems from a conversation that Mr. Collins had with one of his mentors, the late Peter F. Drucker, the pioneer in social and management theories.

“Do you want to build ideas first and foremost?” he recalls Mr. Drucker asking him, trying to capture his mentor’s Austrian accent. “Zen you must not build a big organization, because zen you will end up managing zat organization.”

Therefore, in Jim Collins’s world, small is beautiful.

“We could have had a big consulting firm and training firm and it would have been a huge lucrative machine,” he says. “But I want to answer the questions.”

THOSE questions have a certain good-dumb flavor. Why do certain companies enjoy enduring success? How did some companies make the transition from good to great? Why do certain companies thrive in turbulent times?

Whenever an intriguing question arises, usually spawned by a good conversation, Mr. Collins becomes obsessed with it. “Like a wolf, it grabs me around the throat and it won’t let go,” he says.

His new book, “How the Mighty Fall,” grew out of a discussion he led in the fall of 2004 at West Point, with 12 Army generals, 12 chief executives and 12 leaders of nonprofit organizations.

Mr. Collins put this question on the table: “Is America renewing its greatness, or is America dangerously on the cusp of falling from great to good?”

At a break, one C.E.O. pulled him aside and asked him a question that boiled down to, “How would you know if your successful company is on a path to decline?”

An article trying to answer that question grew into his current book. He looked for useful matched pairs — similar companies whose performance clearly diverged at a certain point.

Once he narrowed the field, he compiled decades of data and articles on each company to help explain what led to an inflection point, then kept sifting the data for patterns, divining theories from the data, and seeking out arguments to tell him why the theories were flawed.

It’s roughly the same method he’s used for all of his books.

“Jim is a very interesting combination of things,” said Mr. Porras, his co-author on “Built to Last” who taught Mr. Collins many of the research techniques he uses today. “He’s amazingly creative, amazingly disciplined, amazingly thorough. He has strong opinions about things, but after a lot of arguments, he certainly would change his mind. A lot of people who have strong opinions never really let go of them.”

For each book, he hires a research team of university students, up to a dozen at a time, to help him during long summers of work. He is picky about whom he hires, typically from Stanford and the University of Colorado. They’re not always business students; they might be studying law or engineering or biochemistry.

He prefers to learn as much as he can about them before he meets them. “Because if I meet them, I may like them, and then all the assessment of the person is going to be filtered by the fact that I like them, and what I really want to see is the quality of their work,” he says.

So he will look at their transcripts. “If they even have a small glitch in their academic record over the last year, they don’t really get considered,” he says. “I need people who have that just weird need to get everything right.”

He gives the candidates a list of different academic activities, including field work and lab work, and makes them rank the activities in order of preference, to give him a clear idea of their interests.

If they clear other hurdles, he will finally meet them in person. He’s looking for four intangibles: smart, curious, willing to death-march (“there has to be something in their background that indicates that they just will die before they would fail to complete something to perfection”) and some spark of irreverence (“because it’s in that fertile conversation of disagreement where the best ideas come, or at least the best ideas get tested”).

“So I look for somebody who on the one hand was an Eagle Scout, because that’s death-marching,” he explained. “And, on the other hand, somebody who took time off to travel to 14 third-world countries on no money.” One of his researchers, an M.B.A. student, had studied medieval literature at Princeton and served in the Marines.

The research on his books can cost up to $500,000. (For the first two, he was writing personal checks out of his and his wife’s personal savings.) With the research complete, Mr. Collins retreats into “cave mode” for months and months, seven days a week — a period when his wife says he is “there, but not there.”

He will read through every page of every binder that’s been assembled, making notes that he will then use for a first draft.

“I call it monk mode, and I love monk mode,” he says.

Writing is not so much fun — “painful,” “excruciating” and “brutal” is how he describes the process. It’s not that he’s after a certain lyricism. His writing is clear and unadorned. But it does feel as if every sentence has been pressure-tested and carefully calibrated so that it doesn’t go beyond what he can back with evidence from one of his binders.

It is slow going.

“If I’m going really, really fast, I can do a page of finished text a day, on average,” he says. A 36-page monograph he published, “Good to Great and the Social Sectors,” took him the better part of two years to write. It sold 400,000 copies.

He then gets feedback from a large circle of people. To make sure they don’t hold back, he refers to them as his “critical readers,” and types in large letters atop the manuscript, “Bad First Draft.”

“That gives them the freedom to say, ‘Jim already knows it’s bad, so let me tell him how it’s bad,’ ” he says.

THE findings are by no means pure science — everything does get filtered through Mr. Collins’s brain, after all. And there are plenty of critics, taking issue with what they say are generic and obvious points, based on research methods that are not as ironclad as they appear.

Others have pointed out that some of the companies he held up as models in “Good to Great,” including Fannie Mae and Circuit City, no longer look so good or great — or, in the case of Circuit City, are even in business.

On his Freakonomics blog, Steven D. Levitt wrote last year that the message of a book like “Good to Great” is “that the principles that these companies use not only have made them good in the past, but position them for continued success.” He added, “To the extent that this doesn’t actually turn out to be true, it calls into question the basic premise of these books, doesn’t it?”

Mr. Collins takes issue with the criticism, even devoting a long passage in his new book to defending “Good to Great” in light of the subsequent failures of some companies it praised.

“Just because a company falls doesn’t invalidate what we can learn by studying that company when it was at its historical best,” he writes.

He says the merits of analyzing the reasons for a company’s long winning streak — or, for that matter, a sports team’s — are just as valid even if the company or team can’t maintain the winning formula. If people eat right and exercise, then stop doing so, it doesn’t make those habits any less valid, he writes.

Still, anyone looking for code-cracking formulas for success in business is going to be disappointed by Mr. Collins’s books — and every other book, for that matter. What he offers are provocative models for assessing why companies succeed and fail, supported by research that fills dozens of boxes now stored in his basement.

He also has a deft touch with metaphors that enliven what might otherwise read like dry case studies — flywheels and doom loops, hedgehogs and foxes, and a bus analogy borrowed from “The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test” by Tom Wolfe.

VIGOROUS debates continue on blogs about the merits of Mr. Collins’s books. One of the more thoughtful comments, on Business Pundit, says, “The points in the Good to Great book may seem very general, however you’ll be amazed that not many people understand ‘general’ concepts like that things don’t happen overnight or the importance of facing facts.”

Given that every company and industry is different, the books’ real value may be not so much in the answers they provide, but in the questions they raise — the kind that every company and manager should be asking.

Mr. Collins’s success has provided him with a financial cushion that allows him to search around, without worry, hoping to stumble upon more of those throat-grabbing wolves. “Now, fortunately, I can probably spend the rest of my life picking any question I want to, regardless of whether it will be profitable,” he says. “I can just let my curiosity wander unleashed.”
830 2009-05-24 How you can economize on clothing (a working woman really can’t afford to burn bras):

A. Wear no clothes when in your apartment alone.

B. “Forget” some of your lingerie.

C. Wear a union suit with a drop seat.

How you can save money on washing your hair: 

A. Wear a blonde wig.

B. Rinse once.

C. Use Woolite instead of shampoo.

When you should read newspapers:

A. At breakfast.

B. In the office.

C. In your landlord’s apartment.

What she thinks it’s sexy to own:

A. A small portfolio of stocks.

B. A Picasso.

C. A season ticket to the Met, or the Mets.

What literary character you should not imitate to achieve the life you really want:

A. Madame Bovary

B. Lorelei Lee

C. Elizabeth Bennet

Who has enough money to do what he or she is doing:

A. Girls with high-society beaus.

B. Nobody.

C. John D. Rockefeller.

When you can split the check with a date:

A. If you love him and he’s desperate.

B. If it’s a project you promoted that he hates, like the ballet.

C. If he can’t even pay his rent.



* “I have known girls making $100 a week who have bailed out their idiot boyfriends who had $25,000-a-year salaries.”
831 2009-05-24 There is no single solution for a problem with so many facets, and hospital officials in Berega are trying many things at once. The 120-bed hospital here — a typical rural hospital in a largely rural nation — is a case study in the efforts being made around Africa to reduce deaths in childbirth.

One stopgap measure has been to train assistant medical officers like Mr. Makanza, whose basic schooling is similar to that of physicians’ assistants in the United States, to perform Caesareans and certain other operations. Tanzania is also struggling to train more assistants and midwives, build more clinics and nursing schools, provide housing to attract doctors and nurses to rural areas and provide places for pregnant women to stay near hospitals so that they can make it to the labor ward on time.

But there is a shortage of Emmanuel Makanzas, too. As he began to operate, he said he should have had another pair of skilled hands to assist him. But, he said, “we are few.”

He made a quick, vertical cut, working down from just below the navel, through one layer at a time: skin, fat, muscle, the peritoneal membrane. Within three or four minutes he had reached the uterus, sliced it open and wrestled out a limp, silent baby boy exhausted by the prolonged labor and knocked out by ether. It took a nurse 5 to 10 minutes of vigorous resuscitation to get him breathing normally and crying.

There are many nights like this at the hospital here, 6 miles from the nearest paved road and 25 miles from the last electric pole. It is not uncommon for a woman in labor to arrive after a daylong, bone-rattling ride on the back of a bicycle or motorcycle, sometimes with the arm or leg of her unborn child already emerging from her body.

Some arrive too late. In October, a mother who had been in labor for two days died of infection. In November and December, two bled to death. Doctors say they think that more deaths probably occur outside the hospital among the many women who try to give birth at home.

A few minutes’ walk from the hospital is an orphanage that sums up the realities here: it is home to 20 children, all under 3, nearly all of whose mothers died giving birth to them.

“You can never get used to maternal deaths,” said Dr. Siriel Nanzia Massawe, an obstetrician and the director of postgraduate studies at Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences in Dar es Salaam, the country’s largest city. “One minute she’s talking with her husband, then she is bleeding and then she is gone. She’s gone, very young. You cannot sleep for one week. That face will always come back to you. Too many die, too young. But the people in power, they have not seen it. We need to make them aware.”

Over the course of several days at Berega, the difficulties became clear. At times, Mr. Makanza performed one Caesarean after another, sometimes in the middle of the night. One mother was only 15. Another had already had two Caesareans, adding to the risk of this operation or any future pregnancies, but she declined Mr. Makanza’s recommendation to be sterilized.

Others had hoped to speed their labor by taking herbal medicine but were suffering dangerously strong contractions. Hospital staff members struggled to keep up with the operations, handwashing bloodstained gauze and surgical drapes in basins and mopping blood from the floor between cases.

Two women had severe problems from high blood pressure. One came to the hospital after giving birth at home and having a seizure. Another delivered a full-term infant who had died in her womb at least a week before; her only other pregnancy had ended the same way.

A mother in the maternity ward had arrived in labor with twins, one already dead. A Caesarean had saved the second.

Women in Africa have some of the world’s highest death rates in pregnancy and during childbirth. For each woman who dies, 20 others suffer from serious complications, according to the W.H.O. “Maternal deaths have remained stubbornly intractable” for two decades, Unicef reported last year. In 2000, the United Nations set a goal to reduce the deaths by 75 percent by 2015. It is a goal that few poor countries are expected to reach.

“Why don’t we have a global fund for maternal health, like the one for TB, malaria and AIDS?” Dr. Massawe asked.

Tanzania has reduced its death rate for young children, but not maternal mortality. The Ministry of Health says its maternal death rate is 578 per 100,000 births, but the World Health Organization puts the figure at 950 per 100,000. By contrast, the health organization estimates the rate in Ireland, the world’s lowest, to be 1 per 100,000.

The women who die are usually young and healthy, and their deaths needless. The five leading causes are bleeding, infection, high blood pressure, prolonged labor and botched abortions. Maternal deaths from such causes were largely eliminated nearly a century ago in developed countries. In poor countries a mother’s death leaves her newborn at great risk of dying as well.

Experts say that what kills many women are “the three delays” — the woman’s delay in deciding to go to the hospital, the time she loses traveling there and the hospital’s delay in starting treatment once she arrives. Only about 15 percent of births have dangerous complications, but they are almost impossible to predict.

A case in the Tanzanian city of Moshi late last year reveals how suddenly a seemingly normal labor can turn into an emergency in which every second counts. Hawa Khalidi, 36, who had five normal births, gave birth to her sixth child a few hours before dawn on Nov. 19 at a health center staffed only by nurses in one of the poorer sections of the city.

Then she began to hemorrhage, and by daybreak she was dead.

An autopsy found that Mrs. Khalidi bled to death because the nurse who delivered her baby failed to perform one basic task, essential to prevent deadly bleeding: removing the placenta after she gave birth.

Normally, pulling on the umbilical cord will extract the placenta. But the autopsy revealed that the cord broke off. The nurse apparently did not know how to reach into the womb to remove the placenta. She sent Mrs. Khalidi to a hospital, but by then Mrs. Khalidi had lost so much blood that doctors could not save her.

In an interview, Mrs. Khalidi’s husband said nurses at the clinic had scolded her because she was too poor to bring her own “delivery kit” containing gloves, clamps and other supplies. Some maternity wards are so crowded that women sleep two or three to a bed, or lie on the floor, along with their newborns. Although the government has promised to build more clinics and to put one within three miles of every village, it cannot even fully staff the clinics it already has. Health workers — overworked, underpaid and sometimes poorly trained — often become demoralized and resigned to the high death rates.

Women lack education and information about birth control, and some become pregnant too young to give birth safely. Husbands and in-laws may decide where a woman gives birth and insist that she stay at home to save money. Malnutrition, stunted growth, malaria and other infections, anemia and closely spaced pregnancies all add to the risks.

In rural areas, many women use traditional birth attendants instead of going to the hospital. The attendants usually have no formal training in medicine or midwifery. Many doctors blame them for high rates of maternal death and complications, saying they let labor go on for too long, cannot treat complications and fail to recognize emergencies that demand hospital care. But many women are loyal to them. For one thing, the price is right. Around Berega, they charge about $2 per birth. A normal birth at the hospital costs about $6, an emergency Caesarean $15.

Dr. Jeffrey Wilkinson, an obstetrician from Duke University who is working at the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Center in Moshi, pointed out that other African countries, like Niger, had even higher maternal death rates. Despite the many obstacles in Tanzania, “there is hope here,” he said.

Even though it serves an area with about 200,000 people, the hospital in Berega has no obstetrician or pediatrician. It has only one fully trained doctor, Dr. Paschal Mdoe, 31, who became the medical director in August, fresh out of medical school.

Like most hospitals in Tanzania, the one in Berega tries to compensate for the doctor shortage by relying on assistant medical officers like Mr. Makanza to perform many Caesareans and a few other relatively simple operations like hernia repairs. Although such assistants eventually become quite adept in such operations, most other countries do not recognize their credentials and so do not try to lure them away, a big plus for Tanzania, which loses doctors and nurses to Botswana and other countries that pay more.

Periodically, visiting surgeons repair fistulas, a severe childbirth injury that causes incontinence in the mother. Other outside experts like Dr. Wilkinson have also taught staff members how to resuscitate newborns and treat obstetrical emergencies like hemorrhages and severe high blood pressure.

To persuade more women to give birth at the hospital instead of at home, the hospital is sending health workers with that message to marketplaces, churches, village elders and religious leaders.

In addition, the hospital is creating a “maternity waiting home” so that pregnant women who live far from the hospital can travel to Berega before labor starts and have a place to stay until it is time to give birth. Officials are also negotiating with the government to cover all fees for pregnant women and children, and to acquire an ambulance. (The hospital, a mission institution supported partly by the Anglican Church and the government, does not receive enough money to cover its costs, so it charges fees to make up the difference.)

But there is a long way to go. Only 20 percent of women in the area give birth at the hospital, and many do so only when they need Caesareans. Many women say they simply cannot afford the hospital. More than 50 percent stay home to give birth, and the rest go to local clinics that cannot handle emergencies or perform Caesareans.

“We lost four or five babies this week,” the Rev. Isaac Y. Mgego, an Anglican priest and the hospital’s director, said in an interview in January. “Our doctors have to play with two bad things, to save the mother or save the child.”

It is not easy to lure doctors and nurses to Berega, where most people live in mud huts with no electricity, flush toilets or running water. Malaria is common.

To attract staff members, the hospital provides concrete houses with access to a pump. The church “tops up” government salaries for doctors and nurses, and Dr. Mdoe successfully lobbied church officials to give his staff a raise. A nursing school is being built, with the hope that it will draw local students who will want to remain in Berega.

The hospital has four nursing officers, 10 midwives and 2 other workers known as clinical officers, a total of 16.

“We used to have 34,” Mr. Mgego said. “People leave. We are struggling to retain them. They don’t want to live in villages. Some go without saying goodbye. Those who are committed, they are working tirelessly.”

It costs about $200,000 a year to run Berega Hospital, Mr. Mgego said. He said he hoped the hospital would find ways to prevent the serious problems that required mercy missions and visiting surgeons from groups like Amref, the African Medical and Research Foundation, also known as the flying doctors.

“Coming here to cure people is good, but what can we do to prevent this?” Mr. Mgego asked. “So that one day we can say, flying doctors, you can come, but we have only one patient, or nobody, around here.”
832 2009-05-24 Madeleine Day Delpha, the daughter of Kathleen Sharkey Delpha and Joel David Delpha of St. Louis, was married there Saturday to Scott Nathanael McClure, the son of Betsy August McClure and James Patrick McClure of Princeton, N.J. The Rev. Julie Allen Berger, a Presbyterian minister, officiated in Tower Grove Park.

The bride and bridegroom met at New York University, from which they both graduated magna cum laude.

The bride, 26, will continue to use her name professionally. She received a master’s in visual arts administration from N.Y.U. earlier this month.

Her father is a religion teacher at Christian Brothers College High School in St. Louis. Her mother is the chief financial officer of Safe Connections, an organization in St. Louis that provides assistance to victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault.

The bridegroom, 25, is a candidate for a doctorate in linguistics at Yale. His mother is a basic skills teacher at Littlebrook Elementary School in Princeton. His father is a senior associate editor of the Papers of Thomas Jefferson, a project of Princeton University that catalogs Jefferson’s correspondence and papers.
833 2009-05-24 THE poetry of the real estate listing may help to sell an apartment, but what matters most to buyers in this choppy market is the cold-blooded price. The best listings dangle a price designed to quicken the pulse of an uncertain buyer.

Appraisers and real estate agents sometimes spend years learning the fine points of estimating the value of an apartment, but these prices are guesswork at best — especially so in a depressed market.

With more sales information available on the Web, sellers may want to create their own market report, by gathering data on recent sales and competing listings. This can be a useful reality check when hiring a broker or, later, when considering an offer.

Shaun Osher, a broker and the head of CORE Group Marketing, said that in this market, setting an asking price is like solving a jigsaw puzzle. “You are taking bits of information and putting them together to create the big picture,” he said.

First, compare your house or apartment with those that have recently sold.

Listings on Web sites like trulia.com, streeteasy.com, propertyshark.com and the real estate listings at nytimes.com provide a variety of tools to review recent sales in individual buildings or by neighborhood. Condominium and co-op boards or managing agents may be able to provide information as well.
834 2009-05-24 “In a normal school year, in a normal economic situation, we would see very little of what’s going on now,” he said.

In , where the Bloomberg administration said last week that schools would face a 5 percent cut, the said there had been no discussion of reopening its contract, which runs through October. And in and much of , where districts face similarly tight times, calls for teacher givebacks have largely been ignored, or rejected.

The teachers’ union in Ridgewood, N.J., voted this spring against a district proposal to renegotiate salaries. “We’re sympathetic to the economic situation, but we just don’t believe that teachers and school employees are overpaid,” said Steve Baker, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association. “Our members are the same middle-class people feeling the pinch of this recession as well, so we don’t feel it’s appropriate to target them for givebacks.”

Even in some of the places where unions have voted to help out management, some members have balked. In the William Floyd district, 60 teachers — about 8 percent of the total — voted against giving up what amounted to $1,190 apiece, while 580 teachers voted to do so (those who voted no still have to forgo the money). In Tarrytown and Sleepy Hollow, donations have been kept confidential.

“We didn’t want people to feel that it’s some kind of contest,” said Howard Smith, the Tarrytown superintendent.

Richard Perugini, a physical education teacher who is president of the Tarrytown teachers’ union, said he had pledged to give money even though his wife, Carmen, a teacher’s aide, is to be laid off from a nearby school district in June. “We’ll be living paycheck to paycheck,” he said.

Tarrytown’s budget for next year is $62.5 million, a 3.8 percent increase. That is about half the amount that budgets grew in recent years, leading the district to cut four teaching spots, four teaching assistants and 10 bus drivers and monitors. White Plains’s increase, by contrast, is 0.74 percent, to $185.7 million, the smallest in decades.

Yonkers, ’s largest school system, has a planned budget increase of 0.81 percent (to $487.1 million), after increases of at least 5 percent in each of the past two years. District officials say they must buy fewer supplies, negotiate lower rates for food and busing, suspend supplemental teacher training and pare special education costs by more than $3 million to cover rising expenses for salaries and benefits.

“There’s a real sense that we’ve reached a limit, and in many communities, that translates into, ‘We can’t even raise it one dollar,’ ” Dr. Smith said.

In most districts, personnel costs are the largest expenses, so renegotiating terms with teachers is one of the only ways to avoid cuts in the classroom.

In , N.Y., about 50 miles north of , the 980-student district had proposed to lay off a teacher, two teaching assistants and five aides. Instead, the teachers agreed, in a vote of 68 to 22, to reopen their contract and accept smaller stipends for advising clubs, coaching teams and chaperoning events. Savings to the district: $67,868.

“I laid out the problem,” said Daniel Severson, the superintendent. “Everybody knows everybody because it’s small; we all live in the same town.”

William Floyd teachers averted the layoffs of nine teachers, and helped the 9,600-student district restore 10 other teaching positions, by agreeing to give up part of their raises.

“We did not want to see any of our teachers lose their jobs, or good programs suspended, and that’s what was going to happen,” said Karen D’Esposito, a high school social studies teacher who is president of the union.

In Tuckahoe, teachers already contribute $10 annually to a $1,000 scholarship awarded to a graduating student. But last fall, Michael V. Yazurlo, the superintendent of the 1,000-student district, approached the union about trying to keep next year’s property tax increase at 2.88 percent, the lowest in more than a decade.

The teachers’ union had initially proposed that its members voluntarily contribute between $200 and $600, based on salary, to support the school budget. But that amount was rejected — as too little — by many teachers. The final amount was $1,000 per teacher.

Marianne Amato, a 12th-grade English teacher and president of the teachers’ union, said, “Everybody really understood that this is a different time and we have to do something to help as a community of teachers.”
835 2009-05-24 To the Editor: Your recent article by Somini Sengupta, “A Walk in Calcutta” (May 3), was an engrossing one. Her coverage of the historical, social, political and gastronomical facets of Kolkata brought a nostalgic flavor to me. However, I do not know why she missed mentioning two historic figures of the city: Swami Vivekananda and Ramakrishna Paramahansa. The fundamental changes in the socio-religious outlook of Bengal and consequently in India were brought about by these personalities. The Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture at Belur Math should have had some place in Somini Sengupta’s otherwise highly readable travelogue.
836 2009-05-24 “Relapse” is the latest episode in a soap-opera career that has always mingled confession, melodrama, comedy, horror, media baiting, craftsmanship and tabloid-scale hyperbole on every front.

“I don’t know if I’m exposing myself,” Mr. Mathers said by telephone from his studio in Detroit. “I’m kind of just coming clean and exhaling.”

He speaks amiably and coherently, without defensiveness, chatting with the zeal of a recovering addict about both his old excesses and his new clarity and productivity, sounding like someone relieved of a burden. “I was the worst kind of addict, a functioning addict,” he said. “I was so deep into my addiction at one point that I couldn’t picture myself being able to do anything without some kind of drug.”

He has been watching videos of himself onstage and in interviews from his drug days, including one from Black Entertainment Television that he said he has no memory of doing, when Ambien made him so befuddled he couldn’t even respond to simple questions. “I want to see what I looked like when I was on drugs, so I never go back to it,” he said.

In the five years between his own albums, he worked as a producer, making beats for other rappers, and occasionally showed up as a guest rapper; he now calls his verse on “Touch Down,” with the Atlanta rapper T.I., “horrible.”

But last year, just two months out of rehab, Eminem met Dr. Dre met in Orlando, Fla., to try recording. Eminem had been doing what he called “mind exercises” to get himself writing. “I’d stack a bunch of words and just go down the line and try to fill in the blanks and make sense out of them,” he said. “For three or four years I couldn’t do it any more.”

When he was sober, he said, “the wheels started turning again.” Working in Orlando and then in Detroit, Eminem and Dr. Dre recorded hundreds of tracks and finished enough new songs for three albums. They have culled them to two; Eminem plans to release “Relapse 2” before the end of this year. “The deeper I got into my addiction, the tighter the lid got on my creativity,” he said. “When I got sober the lid just came off. In seven months I accomplished more than I could accomplish in three or four years doing drugs.”

From the beginning Mr. Mathers has smeared the boundary between Eminem and Slim Shady. In “97 Bonnie & Clyde” from the 1999 “Slim Shady LP,” the rapper takes along his gurgly baby daughter — named Hailie, like Mr. Mathers’s real daughter (who lives with him in Detroit) — while disposing of her mother’s murdered corpse. The new album traces Eminem’s addictive tendencies to one of his earliest and most frequent targets: “My Mom,” who, the song says, used to mix Valium into his food to make him manageable.

But the music for songs like those is reassuring, even perky. Dr. Dre has long provided clean, crisp tracks that are far from ominous. Often they have the bouncy beat and singsong choruses of kiddie music. That smiley-faced nastiness was enough to make Eminem a target for the censorious, which in turn gave him a new bunch of antagonists to provoke. “It ended up pushing my buttons,” he said. “You’re only going to make me worse now.”

Now, a decade into his major-label career, “I’m done explaining it,” he said. “Here’s my music. Here’s what it is. Get what you get from it. I didn’t get in this game to be a role model.”

Eminem was always an anomaly in hip-hop, not only because he’s white but also because he presents himself as multiple personas — rarely ingratiating, often belligerent or psychotic — rather than a single heroic face. Yet he was accepted within Detroit hip-hop, where he made his reputation in battle raps that were later depicted in the quasi-autobiographical 2002 movie “8 Mile.” (The rapper Proof — his mentor, best friend and “ghetto pass,” as Eminem called him in his 2008 memoir, “The Way I Am” — was shot dead in 2006, and the grief was a factor in Eminem’s addiction.) And he was abetted by the leading hip-hop producer of the ’90s, Dr. Dre, who also helped establish Snoop Dogg.

From the beginning Eminem was perfectly attuned to MTV: making videos full of snide pop-culture sendups and catchy pop hooks as well as news headlines with his marital and legal troubles. (Mr. Mathers has divorced, remarried and re-divorced Kim Scott. His mother, Debbie Mathers-Briggs, sued him in 1999 for defamation for $10 million but later said it was her lawyer’s idea and settled out of court for $25,000, most of it legal fees.)

As Slim Shady, in a tight white T-shirt with his hair bleached blonde, Eminem quickly became an offensive scourge to those who took Shady’s fantasies literally, or worried that others might; that made him a surly antihero to some fans. At the same time he was a pop pinup who made girls squeal. But he stayed in his hometown, Detroit, and never joined the celebrity culture. Although he has a local hip-hop posse, D12, that he remained loyal to (and produced) when he grew famous, he hardly raps about friends or community; Eminem and Slim Shady are loners, estranged from virtually everyone. “Relapse” plays like the work of someone who’s been long isolated, seeing only his family, his pills and a TV; it’s not as funny as past albums.

Both Eminem and Dr. Dre thought hard about how Eminem should re-emerge. And both concluded that the world wanted more Slim Shady. “I talked to my son about it,” said Dr. Dre, “and he was like: ‘The kids want to hear him act the fool. We want to hear him be crazy, we want to hear him be Slim Shady and nothing else.’ ”

“Relapse” sets out to recapture the audience for his previous studio albums by presenting the familiar Eminem, which is to say, a ruckus of multiple personalities. “The album walks a fine line,” Mr. Mathers said. “My fans, and people who genuinely listen to hip-hop and love it for the art form, they know what’s Eminem, what’s Marshall and what’s Shady.”

On the album Eminem is self-consciously autobiographical when he rhymes about himself — sometimes painfully frank, sometimes self-mocking. “Not only is honesty one of the biggest parts of recovery,” Mr. Mathers said. “I’m blessed enough to be able to have an outlet.”

The song “Deja Vu” chronicles that night in December 2007 and the escalating drug habit that led up to it, with Eminem offering and then demolishing his old excuses; he rhymes “pneumonia” with “bologna.” In “Beautiful,” a grudgingly self-affirming song built on a power ballad, he wonders aloud whether he’ll ever rap again; he started writing it during the first day of one attempt at rehab, alone with a pen in a hospital room.

The album revisits Slim Shady’s usual obsessions so thoroughly that it sometimes threatens to become a rerun. It isn’t the first time he’s rapped about abducting women, or used the sound effect of duct tape peeling off the roll. Eminem once again mocks Christopher Reeve, who died in 2004; he has lines about slightly stale targets like Britney Spears, Lindsay Lohan, Kim Kardashian and Sarah Palin. “Once he makes a painting, once he lays a lyric down, it’s impossible to get him to change it,” Dr. Dre said. “If there’s a couple of lines he says on a record that’s not relevant today, it’s, ‘No, that was that painting. That was for that moment.’ “

After five years’ absence Eminem still looms over hip-hop; the rapper Asher Roth devotes a song, “As I Em,” to complaining about being compared to Eminem because both are white. But “We Made You,” the second single from “Relapse,” had middling success on Top 40 radio; some references were dated. Dom Theodore, vice-president for Top 40 pop programming at CBS Radio, had mixed expectations for “Relapse” because Eminem’s hits had always been his humorous ones. “This album tends to be a little darker,” he said. “It’s still edgy, but not in a fun way. But I’d never write him off. You’d be hard pressed to find someone more talented.”

Despite his nine Grammy Awards, many MTV appearances and tens of millions of albums sold, Eminem hasn’t put himself on the celebrity circuit. “If it could just be about the music, I would only do the music,” he said. “I don’t hate the limelight, but I don’t like it.”

In the songs Slim Shady still reacts to celebrities not like a fellow star but like a consumer stoking his crushes and fantasies from images on the airwaves. He just happens to be more extreme.

Confessions and broken taboos aren’t Eminem’s only concerns; he’s also a virtuoso of phonetics. His raps rhyme internal vowel sounds along with the syllables that end words, and he’ll let a chain of sounds take him wherever free-association might lead. “I’m taking celebrity names just out of the air, or just putting them in a hat and mixing them up and drawing a name,” he said. “If your name happens to rhyme with something good, then you might get it too.”

Word sounds are the genesis of “Insane,” a song on “Relapse” that accuses a stepfather of raping him as a child. “It’s pretty much all fiction,” he said. “It’s a perfect example of a rhyme gone bad.”

There are so many references to prescription drugs on “Relapse” that Eminem could have earned product-placement deals from pharmaceutical companies. One reason, he said, is that the trademarked names are memorable words. “In my experience through rehab and the hospital and the overdose with the methadone, I learned so many different names of medications,” he said.

“At the end of the day, it’s just words,” he added. “That’s all it is to me.”

But he also admits that he’s inseparable even from Slim Shady’s darker fantasies or, “obviously, I wouldn’t be able to think of this.” In one song, “Must be the Ganja” — which rhymes “dilemma,” “Dalai Lama” and “Jeffrey Dahmer” — he boasts about being able to name “every serial killer who ever existed” in chronological order along with all the details of their murders. Mr. Mathers said that was him: watching documentaries and writing down information, “dates and times and places.” He was fascinated by “serial killers and their psyche and their mind states.”

He continued, “You listen to these people talk, or you see them, they look so regular. What does a serial killer look like? He don’t look like anything. He looks like you. You could be living next door to one. If I lived next door to you, you could be.”

Was that Slim, or Eminem, or Marshall? “That was Marshall,” he said. “Uh-oh, I mean, that was Shady.”
837 2009-05-24 Adapted from Sam Sifton's recipe, which was adapted from Kenny Callaghan at Blue Smoke in Manhattan.

1. Place the ribs meat-side down on a baking sheet or cutting board and remove the papery membrane from the back of the rack by inserting a small knife beneath it and levering it. Peel off the membrane and discard.

2. Mix the salt, pepper, brown sugar, paprika and a pinch of red pepper flakes to taste, breaking up the brown sugar with a fork. Using your hands, cover the meat entirely in this rub.

3. Place a stovetop smoker on a burner. (Alternately, you can make one by lining the inside of a large wok with wide, heavy foil.) Place the wood chips on the bottom of the smoker, toward the center. Cover with the drip pan. Set the grate over the drip pan. (If using a homemade wok smoker, place the wood chips on the bottom of the foil-lined wok. Make a drip pan by placing a heavy piece of foil over both the chips and the bottom of the wok, but do not let it rise up the sides. Set a small, round baking rack, about 9 inches in diameter, over the drip pan.)

4. Cut each rib rack in half. Place two rib pieces, meat-side down, on the baking rack, then set a second baking rack - about 11 inches in diameter, if using a wok - over the ribs and place the remaining two rib pieces, meat-side-down, on top. Cover tightly with foil, making sure there is at least 1 inch of space between the foil lid and the ribs. Set the heat to high. When smoke appears, lower the heat to medium-high and smoke for as long as you can stand the smoke, no more than 2 hours. (The tighter the lid, the less smoke will be released.) Transfer the wok outdoors before removing the lid.
838 2009-05-24 Adapted from Kenny Callaghan of Blue Smoke in Manhattan.

2cups hickory chips, soaked in water for at least 30 minutes

1.On one-half of a grill fitted with a cover, build a small charcoal fire, about the size of a loaf of commercial sandwich bread, making sure all the charcoal becomes engulfed in flame.

2.Place the ribs meat-side down on a baking sheet or cutting board and remove the papery membrane from the back of the rack by inserting a small knife beneath it and levering it up to give you enough to gain purchase with a dish towel. Peel off the membrane and discard.

3.Mix the salt, pepper, brown sugar, paprika and, if you choose, red-pepper flakes in a bowl, breaking up the brown sugar with a fork. Using your hands, cover the meat entirely in this rub.
839 2009-05-24 The White House announced on Saturday the nomination of Charles F. Bolden Jr., a former space shuttle astronaut and Marine general, to head the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.     A White House official, who spoke on the condition o...
840 2009-05-25 Most opinions on Niklas Kronwall's hit to Martin Havlat hold that the refs were too harsh, but everyone seems to have missed a more blatant attempt to injure....
841 2009-05-25 MR. SETHI A Roth I.R.A. is a type of retirement account with significant tax advantages that can make you tons of money over the long term. Once you contribute money to it — currently up to $5,000 per year — you can invest in whatever you want: target-date funds (my favorite), stocks, bonds, etc.

A Roth I.R.A. account is better than just saving cash or a regular (taxable) account: First, it allows you to invest, which will make you significantly more over the long term that simple savings alone. More important, you save hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxes.

Compare these scenarios for someone who invests $5,000 per year:

ѽ After five years, you’ll have about $31,000 within a Roth, or just under $30,000 in a taxable account.

ѽ But after 20 years, you’ll have $247,000 in your Roth, or only $194,000 in a taxable account.

ѽ And after 30 years, you’ll have $611,000 (Roth) versus $419,000 in a taxable account.

Taxes eat huge parts of your returns, so most people would be better served to forget about fancy tax-optimization strategies and simply max out their 401(k)’s and Roth I.R.A.’s with target-date funds.

And don’t worry about your money being locked up for 30 years. Many people don’t know this, but you can withdraw your principal — that’s the amount you contribute to your Roth I.R.A. — at any time, penalty-free. If you don’t have money for a six-month emergency fund, your Roth can effectively serve as a replacement savings account if you seriously need it.

You mentioned being concerned about future laws and rule changes to Roth I.R.A.’s. Don’t worry about that now — while most people spin their wheels and debate minutiae, the most important thing is to get started today. Focus on what you can control, not what’s on the news every night.

MS. KOBLINER Don’t worry about rumors of what may happen with Roth I.R.A.’s. There are always people out there blogging about how this or that may happen with the tax code, but we don’t really know. I like Roth I.R.A.’s more than traditional I.R.A.’s for a lot of reasons. The big one is that you can withdraw the money you put into a Roth I.R.A. for any reason without taxes or penalties. Although you’ll ideally keep that money in there until you retire, life can trip people up sometimes and with the Roth it’s good to know the money is there — and you won’t get hit with penalties and taxes if you absolutely need it.

But there are situations where a traditional IRA makes more sense. Ask yourself these questions:

ѽ Can a traditional I.R.A. get you a tax deduction? You can deduct up to $5,000 a year in contributions to a traditional I.R.A. if you aren’t eligible for a 401(k) or if your adjusted gross income is under $55,000 as a single person or $89,000 in a married couple. If you don’t qualify for the break, the Roth is your answer. Case closed, you don’t have to read anymore. (The cutoff for full Roth contributions is $105,000 for single people or $166,000 for married couples.)

ѽ Can you contribute the full $5,000 this year? A Roth I.R.A. doesn’t provide any upfront tax break, so depositing $5,000 in the account will cost you $5,000. If you can do that comfortably, go with the Roth. Otherwise, someone in the 25 percent tax bracket may still be able to deposit the full $5,000 in a deductible I.R.A., collect a $1,250 tax break and only end up $3,750 out of pocket.

ѽ Will you be in a higher tax bracket when you retire? No one can answer this. It’s one of those eternal personal finance questions, but some people say it can make a difference in your decision. With a traditional I.R.A., you pay tax on the money after you turn 59½ and start withdrawing it. With a Roth, money is taxed before you contribute, but after that it will grow tax-free forever. I say forget this one and just go with the Roth if you can afford it.

Q. With all the media attention on the down housing market it is hard not to consider the possibility of owning a home. At what percentage of your monthly income would you consider committing to a mortgage payment? How do you factor in insurance, taxes, and the age of the home?

MS. KOBLINER Mortgage interest rates are crazy low, less than 5 percent if you have good credit, and home prices in many areas are down. But I believe it really only makes sense to buy a home if you know you will stay in it for a while. So make sure it’s big enough for you now, and in five years or so. I’ve known so many people who bought tiny places in their late 20s and then suddenly got married and had a kid or two and had to sell.

Here’s the scoop on the percentage of your monthly income that should go toward paying a mortgage. A few years ago, the housing world went crazy and lenders were handing out mortgages to anyone, regardless of income or down payment. But now, something like the old rules are back in vogue and lenders want to make sure you can actually afford your payments. They’re looking for proof that your future monthly housing costs (principal, interest, property taxes and insurance) will be around 28 to 33 percent of your gross monthly income. One tip: Look into Federal Housing Administration mortgages at www.fha.gov, since they require lower down payments.

Q. Our son, graduated from college (debt-free, due to parental support) and for the past five years has had low-level jobs in which he was paid “under the counter.” For almost two of those years, he lived abroad, part of it employed as a language teacher in foreign countries. To our knowledge, he has never filed a tax return, had health insurance, etc.

He’s now back in the United States, living in a large city. How can we encourage our son to evaluate his options — and stay out of trouble with the I.R.S.? They have a long reach. I don’t imagine he’s alone in this regard. I also don’t think he has any idea of what to do to get back on track and avoid prosecution.

We are definitely not interested in having him pay back taxes. It would be horrendously complicated and not worth the trouble in our humble opinion. We just want him to be able to “get back on the merry-go-round” when he does find a job.

Among other reasons, we’ like to see him start amassing quarters of work so that if he were to become disabled — some of the jobs have been risky — he’d be eligible for Social Security disability payments.

Also, just to head off any potential insistence that he pay his back taxes: Does that somehow make sense, with an income under $10,000.What are the tax rules on income earned abroad? What triggers the designation as taxable income? Amount earned? Length of time away from the United States?

MS. KOBLINER Geez. This one is complicated. I should say upfront that I would contact the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (www.aicpa.org) to see if they can steer him to a one-time consultation with a good accountant. You want to make sure to do this correctly, and while I’ve dated some accountants, I am not one myself.

In the meantime, get the rules for what he should have done when he was living abroad by searching IRS.gov for “citizens overseas.” This is what I got from that site: The rules for reporting foreign income got more lenient in the 1990s; last year, for example, he might have been able to exclude up to $87,600 from his taxable income, and he wouldn’t have had to file at all if he earned less than $8,950. But if he had to file, I think the I.R.S. still wants to see his returns, no matter how late they are.

Q. I am 23 and I graduated from college in December. I graduated with about $60,000 in student loans and a job as a research assistant that pays $30,000 per year. My parents offered to let me move in with them and live with them rent-free while I pay off my student loans. This seems to me to be a good deal and I accepted it.

I have been putting all of the money I earn from my job toward my student loans in an aggressive attempt to pay them off. Is this the wisest choice? I wonder if I should put some of my money into a retirement or other savings account instead of putting all of it into student loans. My employer offers a 401(k) plan, but is not currently offering any matches because of a budget deficit. Is it worth putting money into a 401(k) anyway? Thanks.

MS. KOBLINER You’ve made a smart choice living with your parents. I did that, too, the first year I was out of school, for that same reason: paying off student loans.

It sounds as if you may have some private student loans, which often carry much higher interest rates (easily 14 or 15 percent) compared with federal student loans. (Stafford loans charge 6.8 percent.) If that’s the case, pay off high-rate private loans as fast as you can. Paying off a loan that charges you 14 percent is the equivalent of earning 14 percent on your money guaranteed after taxes. That’s a great investment.

You may want to consider switching to income-based repayment (which calculates your monthly payment by taking a fixed percentage of your salary) or stretching out the term of your Stafford and other federal student loans to 20 or 30 years to free up more cash. I would then split that extra money and use half of it to pay off your high-rate private loans more quickly and put the other half into a Roth I.R.A.

I’d skip the 401(k) without a match. The reason: You can withdraw Roth I.R.A. contributions at any time, whether that’s for emergencies or even to get a place of your own when the time comes. Good luck. You’re definitely on the right track.

Q. I’ve got $3,500 in a Target 2050 retirement Roth I.R.A., $3,000 in certificates of deposit that will mature in a year, and $3,000 in a regular savings account. I make about $8,000 a year (parents/financial aid help with rent and major bills) and have no credit card debt or student loans, and I save or invest 25 percent of all my income. I’ll be graduating college in a year and am planning on going for a Ph.D. afterward. In my field, doctoral students get a $17,000 to $25,000 stipend (plus tuition and health insurance) annually. So I won’t have loans, though I won’t have much disposable income.

My financial needs for the next couple years include saving for a down payment, paying for part of a (modest) wedding, and potentially getting a car, in addition to continuing to build wealth and save for retirement. I feel like I am in pretty good shape, but I want to know how I can best take advantage of my situation to achieve the goals I mentioned. Also, if I need a car during graduate school, I’m loath to get a car loan. I’ve heard different opinions: Should I buy a used or cheap car out of pocket, or should I lease?

MR. SETHI This is a great example of one of the most important differences between rich people and non-rich people: Rich people plan for things before they need them, while others are caught treading water when something bad happens.

You’re doing a great job already. Now, one of the most astonishing things in personal finance is how much the next 10 years of your life will cost you. Looking down the road, you’ll have a wedding, kids, a house, a car, vacations, and maybe even some large unexpected expenses.

Let’s take an example of how much a wedding costs. We know the average amount and average ages when people get married. So here’s what you “should” be saving:

¶At age 20, you should be saving $333 per month for your wedding — even if you’re not engaged.

¶If you start saving at age 25, you should be saving $1,167 a month.

The point is not to freak you out with those numbers, but to encourage you to write down the three to five most important expenses in the next five to 10 years, set up sub-savings account, and begin automatically saving for them. The sooner you save, the less you need to put away each month.

In terms of a car, don’t ever lease. It’s almost always a bad decision. I’ve written about buying a new car, but in your situation I’d find a reliable used car. Ideally, you can save for it, but if not, a low-interest car loan isn’t the worst thing in the world. Just remember to factor in phantom costs like gas, insurance, registration, and maintenance.

One last thing: When it comes to saving, most people think it’s all about cutting down and saying, “No, no, no.” No, I can’t buy those lattes. No, I can’t afford those jeans. No, forget about vacation. But remember the C.E.O. Model: Cut costs, Earn more, and Optimize your spending. As a Ph.D. student, you’ll have a lot of time (and great skills) to try to earn more money. When you do, you’ll be able to hit those major goals for the future. And instead of money being about saying “no,” it will be about figuring out how to say “yes.”

MS. KOBLINER Wow. You sound like a together guy. First off, definitely get a used car. No question about that. Leasing is for someone who wants to drive a fancy new car to impress others. That’s not you. There are a lot of car sites out there, but Edmunds.com is one of the best places to start.

My advice is to keep filling the Roth I.R.A. with up to $5,000 a year in earned income if you can do it. (The stipend will probably count as earned income. Help from your parents probably won’t.) You’ll be able to tap this money for any of your near-term goals, and if you don’t use it, it’ll keep building up tax-free for your retirement. I’m not a huge fan of the target funds because I’d prefer you put half your money in the Vanguard Total Stock Market Index fund and divide the rest between a money fund and the Vanguard Total Bond Market Index fund — simply because the expenses are lower. But there are worse things you could be buying. If you’re getting a full ride, it sounds as if the school isn’t going to expect you to contribute much of your short-term savings to graduate school costs. So that’s good. If that’s true, go ahead and keep saving any extra money beyond that $5,000 a year in the bank. (Monitor bankrate.com for the best rates out there.)

Q. My husband is graduating this June and he is finishing his medical training (fellowship).

We are planning on putting away $16,500 pretax through his salary (I already put away money through my salary) beginning this summer, when he starts his new job. I’ve briefly read about post-tax Roth I.R.A.’s but am not sure how much we can put away post tax. So, how much can he put away for retirement post tax? Is it a percentage of his salary? If he puts away the maximum pretax, does this limit how much he puts away post-tax in an I.R.A.?

You also caution on purchasing a house. We are planning to purchase a condo next year. Most recommendations I hear and read are that your mortgage should not be more than 38 percent of your gross income. We want to purchase a condo that would cost 25 to 30 percent of his net income. Is this a sound plan? Or does this put us in a higher tax bracket? We don’t want to be house poor and we don’t need/want a large place.

MS. KOBLINER It’s great to hear that you plan to max out your 401(k) contributions this year. Beyond that, you can each contribute up to $5,000 (in post-tax money) a year into a Roth I.R.A. as long as your combined married adjusted gross income is under $166,000. (Contributing to a 401(k) may affect your eligibility to contribute to a deductible I.R.A., but for a Roth, it’s just about how much you make.)

Lenders look at your gross income because it’s easier for them to verify. At the moment, they want to see your total monthly housing costs (mortgage plus property tax and insurance) come in at around 28 to 33 percent of your monthly gross income. I checked with my favorite mortgage source, Keith Gumbinger at HSH.com, and if payments on the condo would be 25 to 30 percent of just your husband’s net income (which will be lower than gross, and isn’t even factoring in yours), you should be comfortably within that threshold, with room to spare. But there’s no real reason why you should bite off any more of a home than you need or want.

Q. Why should I invest in mutual funds and stocks, when you either have to be high up in the corporate structure, run a mutual fund or work at it 8 hours a day as a trader to make it work.

Most people get taken to the cleaners. People are stupid!

The game is rigged, yet most people are dumb as door nails.

MS. NIPP A passively managed fund is cheaper and mostly follows an index. An actively managed fund has people who research the investments for you. There are many advantages to investing in stocks and mutual funds. The first is the rate of return. There are few other investments that receive better returns. Some safer, easier to understand investments barely keep up with inflation. The nice thing about mutual funds is that they have managers. You can choose between funds with passive or active managers. Then, you don’t have to be a day trader or investment wizard to keep up with what is going on. They do all the work for you. Individual stocks are a little different. They do not have managers so if you decide to invest in individual stocks it would take more financial knowledge.

MS. KOBLINER Hey Mark, you hit on something most people are too squeamish to address. There’s no question that it’s hard for the “little guy” to beat the market. Some argue that it’s impossible. Just check out Burton Malkiel’s excellent book, “A Random Walk Down Wall Street” for a lucid explanation of why you’re right about playing the market. But if you’re talking about investing over a long period of time, it’s still the best guess of many experts that stocks, and especially stock mutual funds with low expenses and high diversification, are the way to go for at least some of your money.

If you look back over the last eight decades, stocks have substantially outperformed bonds and savings accounts. Even considering last year’s terrible performance, large-cap stocks delivered an average annual return of 9.8 percent since 1926; long-term government bonds returned only 5.6 percent and “cash” or Treasury bills returned 3.7 percent. That’s barely above the long-term average inflation rate of 3 percent. If you’d kept all your money in bank savings accounts, inflation would have weakened its buying power. (In effect, you would have made only 0.7 percent or so on your money.) True, there have been long periods (like the last 10 years) when stocks have not done well. But most experts feel that over long periods of time, you want some of your money in stocks. Of course, there are no guarantees. The only thing you can do, if you’re willing to take some risk for the potential of higher gains, is to minimize the expenses of investing (don’t trade a lot; don’t pay commissions; go with low-cost index funds) and maximize any tax-favored plans (401(k)s, I.R.A.s, 529s).

MR. SETHI You’re right that most people make catastrophic (and stupid) mistakes with their investments. And today, I would like to take the opportunity to mock them all.

But before I do, let me emphasize that simple low-cost investing works. The quiet, boring people who read John Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group, and my book get better returns than portfolio managers on Wall Street. Yet it’s sexier to invest in hedge funds and alternative assets than slow, long-term investing, isn’t it? The game isn’t rigged. As individual investors, we just pick the wrong arena to play in.

So if that’s true, why are we all in such poor financial shape?

Sure, we can blame Wall Street, which uses sophisticated tricks like survivorship bias and incubator funds to hide the real performance of their (mostly terrible) funds. And yes, I hate every media article called “The Best Stocks for 2009.”

We can blame our education system, our government, and even our parents for not teaching us this — and I love to blame everybody — but there’s one group of people who are primarily responsible for our financial problems: ourselves.

For all the people who complain about macroeconomic policy and President Obama and Wall Street, have you ever picked up one good personal finance book? Have you ever rebalanced your investments, or learned what diversification really means? We love to complain, but knowing that our No. 1 worry throughout life will be money, how much time do we spend watching “The Hills” versus learning about money?

Here’s what you need to know in 47 words: I call it the Hierarchy of Investing. Max out your 401(k) to the employer match. Then pay off debt. Then max out your Roth I.R.A.. Then go back to your 401(k) and continue maxing it out. Still have money left over? Open a taxable account. In all cases, invest in low-cost target-date funds.

In short, open the right accounts. Pick a simple, low-cost investment. Funnel as much money as possible into it. Automate your money. And get on with your life — rich isn’t just about money, but about living a rich life.

Q. I am a recent college graduate of the class of 2008. Although I am compensated well for my position, my company does not offer a 401(k). I graduated with over $20,000 of student loans with interest rates ranging from 4.2 percent variable to 6.8 percent fixed. My strategy has been to save a buffer amount (approximately $8,000) in an online savings account making 1.55 percent interest, and then pour the rest of what I can save (which averages around $1,000 per month) into paying off the student loans, starting with the ones at higher interest rates. I am now down to a little over $8,000 in student loans. Should I continue this strategy? If so, what do I do once I’ve paid it all off, and if not, what should I be doing instead, keeping in mind that I may end up applying to graduate programs for Fall 2010? I’ve heard of a Roth I.R.A., but that’s about as far as my knowledge goes.

MS. NIPP Your current strategy sounds very well thought out. It is close to what I would have recommended. It is important to start off with an emergency fund in case of large unexpected expenses. Especially when you are trying to pay down debt, an emergency could put you back in the hole just as bad as or worse than where you started.

After you get your loans paid off, you may want to start putting your money into a Roth I.R.A. Most of the time, when you make a withdrawal from an I.R.A. before you are 59½, you are charged a 10 percent penalty tax, but in some cases that penalty is waived as may be the case for a higher education expense. If you put money into a Roth I.R.A. you could save for both retirement and/or your education. If you decided to take out loans for your education, the money would be saved toward retirement.

MS. KOBLINER You already uttered the magic words: Roth I.R.A.s. These make sense for all kinds of reasons. First, if you invest $1,000 a year for the next 10 years in a Roth and stop, that money can easily grow into almost $200,000 by the time you retire. (I’m guessing you’re around 22.) Due to the advantages of tax-free compounding, starting young offers a huge payback. (In fact, if you wait and start at age 32 and then saved for 30 years, you’d actually end up with only $154,000.) Plus, the money’s easy to get to if you need it before you retire; you can withdraw every dollar you contribute at any time, for any reason, without penalty or taxes. (The interest is off limits until retirement, unless you’re willing to pay a penalty and taxes.) Finally, putting money in an I.R.A. may shield it from the financial aid process if you’re going to graduate school. Some schools don’t factor in retirement savings when they assess your ability to cover tuition and fees.

The interest on your student loans is probably tax deductible. So if your combined interest rate is about 5 percent, after the tax break that comes to about 3.5 percent. You have to ask yourself: Can you get better than 3.5 percent guaranteed after tax by investing in an I.R.A.? Although Roth I.R.A.s don’t guarantee that, the tax advantages are so impressive that it’s worth the gamble.

MR. SETHI In a single sentence: It’s working for you, so keep it up.

You’re actually a great example of the 85 Percent Solution: Getting 85 percent of the way is good enough, and then you can get on with your life. Too many of us think we have to get everything right before we get started: "I need to get all my accounts together and the logins/passwords and figure out my investing goals and tweak my asset allocation and. ...” Of course, the result is usually the same: We do nothing.

Getting 85 percent of the way there is better than doing nothing at all. You’re doing it.

You’ve paid off $12,000 in loans and you’ll pay off the rest in about eight months. That’s excellent. I’d stay on track and start planning for what you’ll do with that extra $1,000 once the debt is paid off.

Since your work doesn’t offer a 401(k), max out your Roth I.R.A. up to $5,000 — assuming you’re under the income limit — and then open up a regular taxable investment account. You can do this at Vanguard, T. Rowe Price, TIAA-CREF, etc. In both accounts, you’ll be able to invest in anything you want. I’d encourage you to look at my earlier recommendation for lifecycle funds (also known as target-date funds). The only difference is this: a taxable account won’t have the same tax advantages as a Roth I.R.A. or 401(k).

That’s O.K. As I mentioned with the 85percent Solution, it’s better to open a taxable account and continue investing than to get overwhelmed by choices and do nothing at all.

Q. I graduated law school last June and was one of those unfortunate individuals who was "laid off" before I even started working. I fortunately found a job at a rising firm in Long Island, but currently is so new I had to ask for health insurance. Since it is so small. they do not offer retirement saving plans or any other perks that my friends are getting at larger firms/companies. I would like to start saving but I also have $150,000 law school debt, which I am paying off plus more per month.

Should I start saving money for retirement. If so, where should I put my money to reap the best benefits? Or should I just take all of the extra money I have left at the end of the month and put it into paying off my student loans faster?

MS. NIPP If I were you, my first goal would be to create an emergency fund. It is important to have some money saved in case of large unexpected expenses. After creating an emergency fund, I would start to pay down your student loans, beginning with the ones with the highest interest rates first. After you have paid down your loans and have some left over money each month, you can start to save for retirement. Because you are young and your employer does not offer any retirement accounts, I would suggest investing in a Roth I.R.A.. You will deposit after-tax money in this account, but all your distributions will be tax-free. Right now, you are probably in a fairly low tax bracket and can take advantage of this type of account. After you start making more money, you may be over the income limit to invest in a Roth I.R.A.. In 2009, for single taxpayers the amount you can contribute starts to decrease when you make $105,000 and you can no longer contribute if you make over $120,000. At this point you can start a traditional I.R.A. and/or start contributing to your employer’s (hopefully) retirement accounts.

MS. KOBLINER If it helps, know that you’re not alone. In the last couple of months, I’ve met dozens of new graduates who’ve had job offers rescinded or postponed. It’s good news that you found something.

My answer to your question depends on the interest rates on your law school loans. Because of your huge volume of debt, I assume you have some private student loans in the mix. While federal loans like Staffords charge a somewhat attractive 6.8 percent, your private loans could easily be 14 or 15 percent. If you have rates in this range and you’re wondering whether to save for retirement or dedicate the money to paying your debt, you need to ask yourself: Can saving earn me more that 14 or 15 percent guaranteed after taxes? The answer is no. I.R.A.s are a nice savings option for you thanks to the tax advantages, but if you have high-rate private loans, you have to deal with those as fast as you can.

One idea: Split the difference. Dedicate half your spare money to paying off high-rate loans and put the rest into a Roth I.R.A.. For low-rate federal student loans, it may make sense to extend the term of the loans. This will reduce the monthly payments and free up more cash to pay off the high-rate private loans. Depending on how much you’re making, switching to income-based repayment may make sense for your federal loans. Check out http://www.finaid.org/calculators/ibr.phtml to see if it makes sense for you.

MR. SETHI The technical answer: If you are an emotional robot (as I am), assuming your student loan is lower than 8 percent, you can simply go with the math and pay the minimum off and invest the rest. For example, if your student loan is 5 percent and we know you can make roughly 8 percent in the market over the long term, then it makes sense to pay the minimum on your student loan and invest the rest in low-cost funds (ideally target-date funds). If it’s 7.5 or 8 percent, then it’s a wash and we move on to the next choice.

The emotional answer: Some people absolutely hate debt. So in this case, you’d pay off your debt first, then move on to investing. I had a friend in a similar situation who wanted to get rid of debt as fast as possible — and no arguments about investing for the long term would work with him.

But emotions matter. If you feel uncomfortable having your law school debt and want to get rid of it as quickly as possible, then trust your gut and pay it off. The minute your personal finance system becomes oppressive is the minute you stop using it. Just realize that paying off low-interest debt may cost you in future investment earnings.

The hybrid answer: In this situation, you take part of your money and pay off your student loans (always paying at least the minimum), and use the rest for investments. By investing early, you can get the benefits of compound interest. Most people will simply choose a 50/50 split to keep things simple, but if you’re more aggressive, you can invest more.

In terms of investing, open a Roth I.R.A. at a company like Vanguard, T. Rowe Price, or TIAA-CREF. A simple target-date fund is easy to choose. And remember, you can always withdraw the amount that you contribute to your Roth I.R.A., penalty-free, in case you need the cash. Over the next few years, you’ll want to build up an emergency fund, set up a Conscious Spending Plan and automate your money. But for now, you’re doing exactly the right things.

Q. I’ve been reading about this credit card bill that was passed, and there does not seem to be anyone answering this question. I’m a sixteen year old currently in the foster system. When I turn eighteen, I will age out of the foster system. Will I be able to get a credit card without a parent on the account? As I have no parents in the legal sense, what am I and others in my situation supposed to do?

MS. KOBLINER You’ll be able to get a card as long as you can either prove to the card companies that you have the “independent means to make the payments” — which means a job with an income that meets the card company’s standards — or can find someone 21 or older who’s willing to be liable for your debt. If you want more details, please send me a message on my site (bethkobliner.com) and I’ll look into it further for you. Once you get a credit card, be sure you use it for convenience only. Pay it off in full each month. And the only way to do that is to not buy items you can’t afford. This will help you establish good credit and start your adult financial life on the right foot. This is really important.

Q. Hello. At 22, I wish I’d known that good salaries, degrees, and job titles don’t secure you financially. Steady jobs with benefits are rare and short lived (given business downsizing, mergers, and bubbles). I try to live within my means and work hard, but gaps in employment wipe out my savings. Financial advice seems stuck in the 1950s, assuming everybody has a steady job with benefits. Is financial planning really possible in our increasingly turbulent employment environment?

MS. NIPP I think now is a time that financial planning is needed more than any other time in recent history. It is easy to plan for yourself when everything is going exactly as it should. Financial planners can be there to help you think of ideas that you haven’t thought of and lead you through the rough patches. If nothing ever went, wrong then there would be less of a need for planners.

MS. KOBLINER This may sound corny, but the turbulent employment environment means financial planning is no longer an option. It’s a requirement. Though it’s tempting in tight times to just give up on saving, having some money tucked away is critical in case of job loss. Where do you get the money to save? Cut expenses. Sometimes that’s the only way. And then, really know the hierarchy of savings options, so you make the most of every penny.

Here’s how: If you’re lucky enough to be in a job with benefits, your first cash priority is to take full advantage of the matching plan offered by your company’s 401(k). That’s free money, and it’s the best possible investment/savings plan out there.

If a 401(k) with matching is not available to you, use any spare cash you can regularly pull together to chip away at high-rate credit card debt. That’s not saving, you say? It is. If you have a credit card with an interest rate of 14 percent, paying off that debt is equivalent to earning 14 percent on your money.

No credit card debt? Funnel a small amount each month directly into a Roth IRA (available to you if you earn less than six figures). If you should find yourself in a situation where you need this cash for living expenses, you can get it, penalty free. And if you don’t end up needing it, it will grow tax free till you access it for retirement. (More details at www.bethkobliner.com.) To start an IRA by automatically setting aside $50 a month, go to T. Rowe Price (www.trowe.com). By the end of 2010, you’ll have enough to switch to Vanguard’s STAR fund (www.vanguard.com), where the fees are lower but the account minimum is $1,000.

Q. My 24-year-old daughter is attending graduate school to get an M.F.A. in theater. She has never had a credit card. She does get a stipend from her school, and student loans are in her name. What is the best way for her to develop a decent credit rating?

MS. NIPP Sherry, there are many ways to develop credit other than credit cards and you have mentioned a few. Any time a financial commitment is in your name, it affects your credit rating. This includes bills, loans, etc. It is important to make sure that you are responsible about these commitments. You can look on the Internet at the different variables that make up a credit rating.

MS. KOBLINER The only way to get a good credit rating is to borrow money and pay it back on time, over and over. If your daughter has started paying back her undergraduate loans, she’s beginning to establish her credit score. If those loans are deferred while she’s in graduate school, it makes sense for her to get a credit card in her own name. It’s your job as a parent to put the Fear of FICO in her. Hammer it into her head in any way you can that she should use the card reasonably and pay off the balance each month. She should think of her credit card as a tool for establishing a great credit score, rather than one for buying things she can’t afford. If she doesn’t get it, hit her with this example: If she charges $1,000 on her credit card but only makes the minimum monthly payment, it would take her 12 years and more than $1,800 in total payments to kill that $1,000 debt. But if she pays off her balance each month, she’ll never pay a penny in interest and will build excellent credit in the process.

MR. SETHI The simplest way to build credit is to pay her loans on time, and to get a credit card and use it responsibly. Many people feel guilty about their $3 coffee or $5 cab rides, but neglect to focus on good credit, which saves tens of thousands of dollars over the long term. For example, when I bought my first car, my credit was excellent, but I didn’t have enough sources of credit, so the higher interest rate ended up costing me over $2,000.

While bad credit will hurt your finances, so will having no credit.

Here’s how your credit score is calculated (from myfico.com):

¶35 percent: Payment history. How reliable you are. Late payments hurt you.

¶30 percent: Amount owed. How much you owe and how much of your credit you’ve used.

¶15 percent: Length of history, or how long you’ve had credit.

¶10 percent: New credit. Older accounts are better because they show you’re reliable.

¶10 percent: Types of credit (for example, credit cards, student loans).

Why is credit important? Let’s say your daughter will someday buy a house that costs $300,000. If she has excellent credit, she’ll save more than $10,000 per year on her mortgage compared with someone with poor credit. While her friends are wringing their hands over the $2.50 Cokes they order when eating out, your daughter will be focusing on building her credit, which is of the biggest wins she can target.

Note: If your daughter can’t get a credit card because she doesn’t have enough credit, ask for a “secured credit card,” which will help her get started.

Although we love to point to credit cards as convenient villains (and they are — nobody hates credit card companies more than I do), they are simply the most convenient way to build your credit score.

Q. I’m a university student with one year of study left. A few years ago, I got a student credit card for emergencies and to build up credit history, on the advice of a family member. I always paid off the minimum balance, paid off the full balance within the grace period and used my credit card responsibly. In mid-2006 I left the country for a brief vacation (I’m an international student in Canada), which turned into 22 months for unavoidable reasons. Unfortunately, when I left, there was a balance on my credit card. And although I tried to pay off as much as I could, I wasn’t able to.

Now I’m back in Canada and I’d like to pay off my balance, get a new card (too late to renew the old account) and continue with life. However, it appears that my credit history is now ruined. I hadn’t realized how pervasive the issue of “credit history” in North America is. Can I get this cleared from my credit file?

MS. KOBLINER Jina, I’m sorry to hear this happened to you, and I’m afraid there’s no way to clear your credit report overnight. You can fix things, but it takes time. The first thing to keep in mind is that you should ignore companies that claim to repair your credit for you. They’re costly and useless.

Your first task is to begin paying off that old credit card. Whether it takes months, years or decades to complete the payments, it’s the only way to rectify your situation. After about a year of on-time payments, you should see significant improvement in your credit score; it could jump by as much as 75 points. Check next year at this time by getting your credit score at www.equifax.ca and www.transunion.ca (for readers in the United States, go to www.myfico.com). It costs about $23 to $24 in Canadian dollars for each score ($16 in the United States).

As for your current financial life, don’t apply for any credit cards right now. Stick with cash. A recent M.I.T. study found that people spend half as much when they stick with cash as they do using cards. So it’s just a smart habit. Set yourself up to stay on top of bills by signing up for automatic payment. And if money is tight and you’re tempted to make only the minimum payment each month on that big credit card bill, force yourself to pay a little more. Why? If you owe $5,000 and make only the minimum payment, it will take you 29 years and $6,555 in interest to eliminate that debt. Pay just $10 more per month and that debt will be gone in five years and you will have paid $2,166 in interest, which means $4,000 more for you.

Q. Your column on financial planning for college students prompted me to pose a question that I have had difficulty answering, even though I am a college professor, not a student:

How can I tell what is the appropriate percentage of my income to ideally spend on various, particularly unfixed, costs?

For example, I think of myself as a thrifty grocery shopper. But that is a relative value, and I can’t really determine that for sure until I know what the average percentage of income a middle-class couple, no children, spends per week or month on food (exclusive or inclusive of restaurants).

Similarly, for even more discretionary leeway — what percentage of income should I be spending annually on my clothes? Sometimes, when I want to buy something, I can’t tell if it is a reasonable expenditure, because I don’t spend much on clothes, or is extravagant, because it seems more expensive than I usually pay for such an item. It would help to know what other people, such as middle-age professional women, feel is an appropriate percentage of income to spend on clothes.

I know a lot of these depend on individual values, income level, savings amount and rates of savings (20 percent of our modest incomes), debts (none except mortgage), etc. but nevertheless, having a ballpark percentage of how other people in similar circumstances distribute their income would ease my apprehensions of either being “pathologically frugal” (per husband) or excessively self-indulgent (he doesn’t know how much I spent on that sweater).

Is there a guide somewhere to this?

MS. NIPP Suzaan, everyone has a different opinion of what are appropriate spending habits. There is not one answer for everyone. The first step in figuring out a budget is to determine your after-tax take-home pay. Once you know that, you can subtract all your fixed expenses and find out how much money you have left. You will use this money to invest/save and spend on your variable expenses. It is recommended that you save around 15 percent of your salary. You can use the leftover money for other expenses. This should give you a good idea of how much you can spend on variable expenses. Another factor to a budget is determining what is important to you. If you really enjoy buying nice clothes, then you may decide that you would rather eat at home instead of a restaurant and save the money for a nice outfit.

MS. KOBLINER Leave it to a woman from Queens to ask such a great question (I grew up in Bayside). According to the Census Bureau, the typical American household spends 27 percent of its after-tax income on housing, 10 percent on food, and 3 percent on clothes; Census figures on just professionals reveal spending of 3 percent on clothing and 8 percent on food. (You can convert your own expenses into income percentages on my site, www.bethkobliner.com.)

If you’re saving 20 percent of your income, which is great, make sure at least half of that is in retirement accounts. The next priority is to keep nine months of living expenses in an easy-access location like a bank account or money fund. Once you have all this in order, give yourself permission to buy any sweater you want, in your two favorite colors.

MR. SETHI Good news. There are two ways to do this:

First, you can use Mint.com to see what other people in similar situations are spending. (Here’s an example: Compare auto spending for people who live in San Francisco.) Mint is one of my favorite online personal finance applications, and it allows you to manage your accounts.

Next, here’s a very rough idea of how much 20-somethings should be spending. This is from chapter 4 of my book, “I Will Teach You To Be Rich.”

¶50 to 60 percent of take-home pay: Fixed costs (rent, utilities, debt, etc)

¶20 to 35 percent: Guilt-free spending (eating out, going out, clothes, etc.)

These numbers are just a rough guide, but I am serious about spending extravagantly on the things you love, and cutting costs mercilessly on the things you don’t. For example, if you’ve hit your savings and investing goals and you want to buy $250 jeans, great. Go for it. On the other hand, if I catch a father of three at the club spending 35 percent of his take-home pay going out, I might have to beat him with an onion (that way, it’s unclear why he’s crying).

And remember, if you’re not hitting your savings or investing goals, you can use the C.E.O. model — Cut costs, Earn more and Optimize your spending.

Q. My recently graduated-from-college daughter is taking a year off from school, living in Washington, D.C., with girlfriends while working at a low-paying job, with plans to attend graduate school in a year for a career in occupational therapy. While this is a growing field, and many employers offer tuition reimbursements as recruitment tools, my daughter will most likely accumulate student loan debt. What suggestions do you have for her in getting loans for graduate school and repaying those loans, and what is the state of graduate school loans in this economy?

MS. KOBLINER So glad you asked this one! Occupational therapy is a great field and you’re right; she may be able to get help from her employer when she graduates. In the meantime, it’s important that your daughter borrows in the smartest way that she can.

First, some back story on this. For the last decade or so banks have not only been doling out crummy subprime mortgages but they’ve also been shoving equally crummy private education loans down the knowledge-thirsting throats of undergraduates and graduates students alike.

These private loans are very, very expensive, often charging 13 or 14%. That’s about the same as many credit cards. But starting in 2006, graduate students were allowed to pay for all of their graduate school with federal student loans. Your daughter needs to fill out the FAFSA form and then take out all the Stafford loans that she can. Once she’s maxed out of Staffords, she can get the new Grad Plus loan for the rest of the money she needs.

Please, please, please make sure she asks her financial aid office at her school for these federal loans and does not end up with the private loans often peddled alongside them. Banks are still pushing those pricier student loans because they make more money on them. There may also be ways she can defer her loans (meaning putting off repayment) if she ends up working in a low-income area.

In the meantime, please make sure that she doesn’t rack up credit card debt on this year off in Washington. It’s the mother in me, but I would hate for her to build up $10,000 or so in credit card debt without thinking about it. I’ve toured the country and met hundreds of 20-somethings that have done just that. Tell her that if she does rack up debt, it will likely take her until her 40s, or even 50s, to pay it off (and make it clear you’re not going to help with it if she does). It’s so much better to have this talk now than at the end of the year when she’s drowning in credit card debt.

One final note: After she graduates, she will probably be able to deduct the interest on her student loans up $2,500 a year. But she can’t do it if she fills out the EZ tax form. So she should fill out the 1040A or 1040 instead. This will sound like alphabet soup to her now, but hold onto this and show it to her after graduation. It would be the equivalent of a many-hundred dollar graduation present! (Shameless plug: All of this is in Get a Financial Life on page 50 to 58.)

Q. Just a quick question, I’m will be entering law school this fall. I am 25 years old with just about $10,000 in savings. I have no investments, nor a retirement savings account such as a 401(k). My question is this: Can I even think about saving for my retirement at this point? Should I stop feeling guilty if I can’t? I plan on going about $80,000 into debt with my school bills during the next three years. I have been trying to save for the past couple of years with the intention of using my savings for law school.

I was raised in a household where saving for one’s retirement was emphasized. Furthermore, it seems that saving for one’s retirement gets a lot of attention from financial planners. I already scrimp and save and consider myself to be extremely frugal - almost to a fault. I don’t think I can cut many more corners.

MS. NIPP Yes, the earlier you start saving for retirement the more years the money has to compound and grow into a nice lump sum. But stop feeling guilty! The fact that you have good habits right now and that you are thinking about saving for retirement tells me that you know how important it is.

I think that as long as you start saving when you start working you should have plenty of time to build a nest egg for yourself. When you finish law school, you will hopefully be making a good salary and be able to pay off your student loans and save for retirement at the same time. The fact is, you will probably still be ahead of many people your age.

MS. KOBLINER You are a marvel to even ask this question. But I’m not sure if you will like my answer. It’s amazing that you’ve saved $10,000. Could you put half of that into a Roth IRA this year? Let me explain why.

First, when you apply for loans to law school, the school may not expect you to contribute your retirement savings to tuition, so you’d be better off putting it there. Second, if you put $5,000 into an IRA now and never contribute anything more (I’m assuming you’re 25 perhaps?), you’d have $ 105,000 by age 65 (assuming an 8 percent rate of return). That’s the magic of tax-free compounding for many, many years that gets financial planners all excited. It’s been called the eighth wonder of the world (at least by a few accountants I dated in my twenties...).

The other thing about a Roth IRA is that you can withdraw what you’ve contributed without paying taxes or penalties. A lot of people don’t know this. So while ideally it will sit there earning interest tax-free until you’re ready to retire, you *can* get at it without too much bother if you need it. If you’re really nervous about losing any of that money in the short-term, you can invest a Roth IRA in money market funds or even bank CDs for the next couple of years as you make your way through law school. Once you’re out, you can switch a portion of it to stock index funds.

As for your scrimping and saving, don’t ruin your life but do know that it’s very, very smart to be careful with your money. When all your friends who are using credit cards with reckless abandon reach their 30s and are still paying them off, you’ll be able to do the things you want to do (Buy a home? Start a family? Take a trip to Bali?).

Keep up the good work.

Q. I just recently graduated from Georgia Tech with a Bachelor’s in Nuclear Engineering and I respectfully disagree with Ms. Nipp’s advice to not buy a home. The situation is different for everyone when they get out of college. On average, it is probably true that most recent college graduates cannot afford a home, but I can say confidently that I am living proof as an exception.

I will be closing on a townhome in Charlotte, N.C., and this will become a significant investment. If you have the money for a down payment and can make the monthly payments (taxes and insurance included) on a townhome I do not see the big deal. Townhomes also do not have the upkeep expense. You just pay $100/per month or so for a homeowners association fee. Thus, it’s a good option for first time home buyers. An F.H.A. loan only requires 3% down payment, and if a college student just saves a little bit of money during four plus years of school or even beginning in high schoo, then he or she could easily afford to buy a place.

Madison, please let me know your thoughts on this. I definitely do not have the finance experience you do. Just basing everything on my situation and using some logic. Thanks.

MS. NIPP Jordan, the point I was trying to make in the article is just to be aware of the costs that come along with owning a home. It sounds like you have done your research and you know what the costs will be and can afford them. Good for you!

MS. KOBLINER First, congratulations. That’s amazing that you’ve been able to do this (then again, you’re a nuclear engineer so as my mother would say, if not you Jordan, then who?) Anyway, I think you make a good point.

But here’s my question to you: did you buy a home that you think you’ll live in for at least five years or more? If so, I completely agree with your assessment. Home prices are down in many areas, mortgage interest rates are at 4.8 percent, close to an all-time low, and thanks to the Obama stimulus package, you will get up to $8,000 back on your home purchase this year through a special tax break (as long as you earn less than $95 ,000 as a single person and less than $170,000 if you’re married.)

So yes Jordan, buying can be really, really smart right now. I do know of a few recent college graduates who are considering purchasing a studio apartment in New York, for example. While they may seem like bargains now, if they will outgrow these homes in two years (get married, have kids) then the closing costs, moving costs and home improvement costs they incur will probably make this a bad deal for them if they have to move in just a few years. But it sounds like you’re buying a home that you can live in for a while. And if that’s the case, I think it’s wise.

One point of information: The FHA now requires borrowers put down 3.5%, not 3% as you said above.

MR. SETHI As Yale economist Robert Shiller notes, "...from 1890 through 1990, the return on residential real estate was just about zero." How can that be?

Let’s talk about homeownership in two ways: as an investment and as a lifestyle choice. You may not like my first answer: Real estate is one of the most overrated investments available. Although homeownership is a core part of the American dream, many people don’t understand the invisible costs associated with buying a house, such as insurance, taxes, and maintenance fees. Now, as a lifestyle choice, owning real estate can be great for stability, raising a family, etc -- but I want to challenge you on both of these factors. Let’s look closer at how real estate really works.

Renting is a perfectly reasonable alternative to buying, especially in our 20s, but we perpetuate a mistaken culture of homeownership. Our parents tell us to buy a house. Our friends are impressed if we own a house soon after graduating. The government literally encourages us to own a house by offering tax deductions. Homeownership is the American Dream!

In fact, we’ve all heard our friends and parents say these things:

You can use leverage to grow your money quickly!

These are all addressed by Patrick Killelea on the excellent real-estate site patrick.net.

The problem is, we systematically forget to factor in the important expenses of owning a house like closing costs, maintenance, insurance, and taxes. I call these "Phantom Costs" because they’re invisible to us.

For example, you might be tempted to think, "I’m paying $1,000/month for my apartment, so I can definitely afford $1,000 for a house and build equity!" But once you factor in your phantom costs, your monthly mortgage will be closer to $1,500/month.

The New York Times itself wrote about this: In describing a Minneapolis retiree, they wrote:

"...He views the four-bedroom home he bought for $32,500 in 1965 - or about $200,000 in today’s dollars - as a money tree. He and his wife recently listed it for $413,000. That would translate into an annual return of 1.2 percent, taking into account inflation and the cost of two new decks and an extra room. They plan to move to Texas after it has sold. "I wish I’d bought more real estate," [he] said."

Although the sale sounds like a $380,000 profit on the surface, by digging in to the 1.2% return rate, you realize that the market would have returned over six times that amount if he’d put the money in other simple low-cost investments, with built-in diversification.

Buying a house means you’ll need a six month emergency fund in case you lose your job and can’t pay your mortgage. It means you’ll have to commit to staying in the same house for at least 10 years (better: 30). unless you want to lose tens of thousands of dollars in transaction costs. like closing and moving costs, if you sell any earlier. How many 20-somethings can commit to that? I know I can’t.

There are some good reasons to own, including stability and the freedom to change your house as you want. But it’s critically important to understand where your money could be doing more for you -- and depending on where you live, it often makes more sense to rent while you save and invest aggressively in your twenties. You can find out more at The New York Times buy vs. rent calculator. As Consumer Reports recently noted, if you had an extra $100 to either pay off your 15-year mortgage or invest in the market, you’d be better served investing it 100% of the time. I cover all of this in more detail on my buying a house page.

Q. What about those of us who are still in school, or, as in my case, have gone back to school? How can we minimize the debt that we’re going to come out with, beyond just minimizing our expenses?

If we have savings, should we use those towards tuition to minimize the amount of loans we take out, or should we rather take advantage of low(er) interest government loans and put our savings into mutual funds or an IRA? Once we’ve maximized the federal direct loans, should we look to commercial banks’ student loan programs to cover the rest, or stick with government-backed PLUS loans?

Finally, I understand that Congress passed a bill in 2007 that would forgive student debt after 10 years for those of us who work in the public interest. What are the limitations on this? How is "public interest" defined? Does it have to be government? Can you work abroad?

MS. KOBLINER You are just bursting with questions aren’t you ? Okay, here I go.

The best way to look at these questions is to look at the numbers:

1. Go with federal student loans. Federal student loans--whether Staffords (which charge 5.8% and may not accrue interest while you’re in school) or the PLUS (which will accrue interest while you are in school and charge closer to 8%). These are almost always better than bank commercial loans.

2. Stick what you can into a Roth IRA this year. Okay, here’s where we get into fuzzy math a bit. Your question was: should I pay tuition rather than put money into an IRA? The answer isn’t crystal clear, but I think it makes sense to put the money in the IRA and here’s why. If you put the money toward tuition, you are essentially not taking more of a student loan at 6.8%. So it’s like you’re paying off a loan that charges you 6.8%.

Today, there are few places you can put your money, save for a 401(k) plan with an employer match, that guarantees you a 6.8% return after taxes. So that would suggest putting the money toward tuition. However, the interest you pay on loans for tuition may be deductible so it’s more like earning half that, say 3%. Now I would say that although there is no guarantee that a Roth IRA will pay you more than 3% this year or next, I think the tax advantages you get for saving in a plan like a Roth IRA offer a good enough bet that you will do better than 3%. So my advice is put $5,000 into a Roth IRA if you can. If not, even just a couple of thousand is good. Then forget you put it there and ignore it for 30 years. You will thank me when you’re 60!

And your last question: people working full-time in public service careers (such as law enforcement, public health, social work, many teaching jobs, etc.) may be able to get their remaining debt canceled after ten years of employment. You have to be in the federal Direct Loan Program or have consolidated your loans into it in order to take advantage of this perk. Although the rules don’t say that work has to be done on U.S. soil, check out finaid.org for help.

Bottom line: take out federal student loans (first Staffords than PLUS), skip commercial bank loans, put some money in a Roth IRA and read the student loan section of my book or go to finaid.org for details on repayment plans. In addition to loan forgiveness for public service, you get breaks for joining the Peace Corps, working in economically depressed areas and in health care fields among others.

Q. My main question about Roth I.R.A.’s is which is the most effective way to invest money in a Roth? Right now I have some Schwab funds in mine that are geared toward my target retirement date (eons away), but I wonder if that is the most effective decision?

MR. SETHI: Target-date retirement funds (they’re also called lifecycle funds) are the simplest and best investing option for the vast majority of people. Most people think that investing is about picking sexy stocks, bragging about them at parties and somehow enjoying the subsequent results of being fed grapes and being fanned with palm fronds within a few years. Not true.

I love these low-cost funds because they solve our No. 1 problem with investing: discipline. Individual investors should not pick stocks. You’re not good at it, you’ll fail to beat the market and you’re subject to all kinds of cognitive errors that will dramatically reduce your return rate over the long term.

Target-date retirement funds solve this problem by automatically rebalancing for you, which sounds as prosaic as my asking you to pass the salt but is extremely important: Your asset allocation (i.e., mix of stocks and bonds) makes up 90 percent or more of your portfolio’s variability and is the single most important investing factor you can control.

Your friends will try to convince you that target-date retirement funds aren’t as high-returning and exciting as their fancy stocks (which they probably picked using a dartboard, three beers and a sponge cake). Ignore them. You’re focused on growth, not impressing your friends, and these funds help with your growth goal without requiring you to become a portfolio manager.

For example, when you’re young, your target-date fund will have an aggressive asset allocation (nearly all stocks for most recent graduates). But as you get older, the fund will automatically rebalance to be more conservative. To put it bluntly, if many of the 50- and 60-year-olds in America had been using these funds, they never would have lost 50 percent of their money in the recent market turmoil, since their funds would have been more heavily weighted in bonds. Unfortunately, it doesn’t pay for Wall Street to tell us this, since the fat fees are in other bloated mutual funds.

Here’s an example of how asset allocation looks for various ages.

Target-date funds are low-cost, automatic and exemplify what I call the 85 percent Solution: They get you 85 percent of the way there, so you can automate your investments and get on with your life. You pick the fund that corresponds to the year you’ll retire (so if you’re 22, that fund will probably be something like a 2050 fund). Once you select the fund (which you’ve already done), just focus on automatically funneling as much money as possible into it — and enjoy doing more of the things you love, not worrying about your investments.

MS. KOBLINER: I’m not a huge fan of these target funds. The gimmick is that they are supposed to switch the mix as you get closer to retirement. Sounds nice, but the fact is, many people in their 60s who had these accounts still lost more than 25 percent last year! What’s more, the annual expenses on the Schwab target funds for young people are 0.76 percent, which isn’t awful but is higher than the expenses on some of the Vanguard funds that you might want to consider.

So if you get the Total Stock Market Index fund (0.18 percent in expenses) plus the Total Bond Market Index fund (0.22 percent in expenses) plus some money market funds (expenses of 0.28 percent), all from Vanguard, you’ll pay much lower fees. In fact, you’d pay about 55 basis points (or 55 hundredths of a percentage point) less a year in fees with Vanguard.

That may not sound like a lot, but over 40 years that gap can translate into a lot of money. If you put in $5,000 this year, assuming the same rate of return, the Schwab fund would pay you $105,000 and the Vanguard fund would pay $135,000. Of course no one can say for sure what the stock market will return — or what a specific mutual fund will pay out — but the one thing you can do to maximize your investment is to pay lower fees.

MS. NIPP: In general, when you are young you can afford to be more risky with your investments. This means that you can invest more in stocks than in bonds. Also, when you don’t have a lot to invest or don’t know much about investing, it is a good idea to put your money into mutual funds. Mutual funds are good way for investors to diversify their money, and they have managers who take care of the research for you. Another thought is that because a Roth I.R.A. grows tax free, you would want to invest your most highly taxed funds into this account.

Q. Recent graduates get lots of advice about how to prepare for the long run financially. But what about those of us who need to save in the short term?

I’m thinking about (and speaking as) a recent college graduate who is working for a few years before heading back to professional school. For those of us who will need to draw upon most of our savings to pay for loans, books, etc. within another few years, what are the best means of putting away money safely to earn some interest but still retaining access to it a short while later?

Certificates of deposit, money-market savings accounts and bonds all come to mind. But are there any of these in particular that would be especially valuable or useful for an investor from this standpoint? I worry about Treasury securities as ratings companies begin to consider downgrading U.S. debt given the recession, deficit, enormous bailout programs, health care reform and looming Social Security insolvency.

MS. KOBLINER: I hope you’re thinking of going to business school. We could use some clear-thinking minds like yours! You ask a great question and here’s your answer.

I think you should put $5,000 a year (or as much as you have) into a Roth I.R.A. every year. There are a few reasons for this. First, when you apply for financial aid for professional school, the federal form (FAFSA) does not consider money you have in retirement accounts when calculating how much you can contribute to your grad school bills. (Some schools ask you to raid your retirement accounts, but some do not.)

Your school will expect you to use up a large part of the money you have outside of retirement plans for educational expenses. That’s why Roth I.R.A.’s can be a very good choice in your situation. What’s more, if you know you’re going to need this money very soon, you can invest your Roth I.R.A. into really safe investments for now, like a money fund or a federally insured bank C.D. (Despite the sorry state of our nation’s financial affairs, these are still the safest places to stash money that you’re not willing to lose.)

The Roth I.R.A. rules say you can withdraw money you contribute to these plans for any reason without paying taxes or penalties. Ideally, you will leave your money in these plans to grow for your retirement, but if you’re looking to put away money for goals that are two to four years away, a Roth makes sense.

MR. SETHI: I love the way you’re thinking. For any major expenses or goals you have within five years, set up savings goals within your savings account — you can even create sub-accounts. Here’s how I do it:

First, get a high-interest savings account. I like ING Direct because it lets me create sub-accounts easily, but HSBC and Emigrant Direct also come highly recommended from my blog readers.

Second, sit down and pick any savings goals. These might be major goals, like a trip abroad next year, or regular expenses like Christmas gifts. Let’s dig into that one: In 2008, Americans spent an average of $431 on Christmas gifts. That’s a hefty amount come December, but if you automatically save each month, that’s only $36 each month.

Examples: I like to include a “stupid mistakes” account, which lets me make up for any parking tickets or late fees that unexpectedly come up. Now that gas prices are relatively low, I’m actively hedging against gas prices going up. You’ll also be astonished how much it costs to save for a wedding. Remember to include invisible payments that you don’t normally think about, like health insurance and registration fees for your car.

Here’s an example of how I’ve set up sub-savings accounts.Third, set up automation by using the Next $100 Principle: When you earn your next $100, where will it go? Think of your checking account as your e-mail in-box, and set up automatic transfers to move money to the appropriate places — without your manual involvement. For example, you might take $5 of each $100 and put $1 toward a vacation, $3 toward a down payment on a house, and $1 toward buying a new iPhone. Each $100 that comes into your checking account will be automatically filtered to the right account. Here’s a highly detailed overview of automating your accounts.

Note: Stop worrying about the Treasury and macro-economic policy questions. You can’t control them. Let your friends debate minutiae while you focus on earning and saving as much as possible. Also, don’t rate-chase (change accounts to get an extra 0.05 percent interest). Your time is better focused on setting up a few savings goals, saving relentlessly toward them and enjoying your hard work when you realize you can pay for your goals in full.

Q. I have several questions for you. I recently graduated from college and want to consolidate my student loans. Are lenders consolidating student loans right now? If so, which ones?

Also, I’m interested in a retirement plan, but I don’t want to become like one of the Madoff victims. What should we know to help us prevent that situation?

MS. NIPP: Given the recent media coverage surrounding fraud and Ponzi schemes, it is scary to trust finance companies. Unfortunately, I don’t have a magic eight ball to tell you which companies will end up like that. What I can tell you is that if your employer offers a 401(k), you are probably safe investing in it and that if an investment offers you returns that seem unreal, they probably are.

It is important that you do your homework on the people you invest your money with. Many retirement accounts are with large, well-known firms that give you information about the funds and the holdings within those funds. If the company is not divulging information, consider it a bad sign.

MS. KOBLINER: Congratulations! Instead of kicking back in sunny Miami you’re thinking about student loan consolidation and individual retirement accounts. Brava!

Yes, you can consolidate. But there may not be a compelling reason to do so anymore. Here are the details. When you consolidate, you’re basically combining all your different loans into one loan. This is surely convenient. But to do this, the consolidator takes the average interest and rounds up the rate to the nearest one-eighth of a percentage point. One advantage of consolidating is that it can make it easier for you to opt for a repayment plan — such as extended repayment that means you can pay back your loans over 20 years rather than 10. To read more about consolidation see Finaid.org.

But there’s more to this story. For years, the key advantage of consolidation was that it allowed you to not only combine all your loans but also refinance them at a lower rate. Thanks to a rule that kicked in during the Bush administration, you can no longer refinance the federal loans you got after July 1, 2006. That stinks because prevailing interest rates have dropped a lot.

If you do have federal loans that you got before July 1, 2006, you may be able to refinance these, so make sure to check the Education department’s Web site. As for loans you got after that date, you’re stuck with them. Stafford federal loans, for example, are at 5.8 percent, which isn’t horrible at all, and you’ll have to live with that.

As for your Madoff nightmares, here’s the deal: If you have a 401(k) at work, make sure to contribute as much as your employer will match. This is free money; no debates here. Beyond that, you might want to consider a Roth I.R.A. at a company like Vanguard, my favorite mutual fund company, which charges much lower fees than most others. Stick with the Total Stock Market Index fund, which charges 0.18 percent. That’s about one-eighth of the average stock mutual fund.

Consider putting a chunk of it in that index fund, perhaps half or so, and then some in a medium-term index bond fund and the rest in money-market funds. Remember, Roth I.R.A.’s are called retirement accounts, but they allow you to withdraw money you contribute, for any reason, without having to pay penalties or taxes.

The goal is to not touch it until your 60s, but if you do need to get at those funds to buy a house or pay for grad school, for example, a mix like this would ensure that at least some of it will always be there. If you need more specifics, feel free to send me questions at my Web site.
842 2009-05-25 He called the elbow — the second in the series that he had received from Johnson — a cheap shot.

“I got bigger fish to fry,” Williams said afterward, looking more like a boxer than a basketball player. “I got to go and figure out how I can make some shots and get open looks. I can care less about Johnson. He plays 12 minutes a game.”

Williams had 15 points on 16 shots and said the Cavaliers had deferred too much to the Magic.

“We’re giving these guys too much respect,” he said. “They’re a good basketball team and so are we.”

But the Cavaliers are trailing in the series, thanks in part to Howard. He did not dominate, but his presence was felt after three fouls limited him to just under 10 minutes of action in the first half.

Hedo Turkoglu made his lone field goal with 3 minutes and 39 seconds remaining in the game. And soon after, Anderson Varejao fouled out, sending Howard to the line. Howard made 1 of 2 foul shots, finishing a semi-respectable 14 of 19 from the line.

“I know I didn’t play a lot of minutes, especially in the first half,” Howard said. “I just kept telling myself, Stay in the game and get ready for the second half and come out and try to dominate.”

He was part of a Magic contingent that shot 51 free throws. The Cavaliers, by contrast, attempted 35 — 24 from James — a discrepancy that Cleveland Coach Mike Brown bemoaned.

“That’s a whole heck of a lot of free throws to get there 51 times in a 48-minute game,” Brown said.

Brown departed the postgame news conference and Orlando Coach Stan Van Gundy picked up where Brown left off.

“LeBron James isn’t in foul trouble — which he never is — and Mo Williams isn’t in foul trouble,” Van Gundy said, adding that the Cavaliers were looking to send Howard to the line as part of their game plan. “Those 19 free throws, they wanted them to happen. We didn’t want any of his 24 free throws to happen, none.”

He meant James, who found himself at the line a lot, but missed two crucial free throws and committed a costly turnover down the stretch on an errant pass to Ilgauskas, before Mickael Pietrus secured the victory, leaping for an offensive rebound after Turkoglu missed a 3-point attempt with a little more than a minute left. He was fouled on the play and made 1 of 2 free throws to give the Magic a 94-86 lead.

James found a lid over the basket from the outside and the long limbs of the Magic’s interior defenders as he drove. He had 18 of his points at the comfort of the free-throw line, but spent much of it draped by Pietrus, who scored 16 points off the bench.

“I missed a few shots tonight that I’m capable of making,” James said. “He’s a very good defender, but I don’t think there’s one individual that can guard me.”

For the Magic, the victory was neither poetic nor pretty. But its outcome was overly satisfying and was another scratch in Cleveland’s previously pristine playoff mettle.

The Magic’s elasticity may prove to be their most redeeming and rewarding asset.

With James’s last second 3-point shot in Game 2 on a seemingly endless loop through the mind and still on the tips of tongues, the Magic offered new food for thought.

“We were able to overcome the dagger from the other night,” Van Gundy said, with a tone of sarcasm and the lasting effect of James’s shot nearly evaporated.
843 2009-05-25 Working with a faded print of a film he shot in 1975, Jeff Scher recut the video into a vibrant celebration of the city.
844 2009-05-25 Another company, CBS Outdoor, sells ads in the subway system, and it fulfilled its contractual requirement of making a $55 million lump-sum payment to the authority in January for all of 2009.

A CBS spokeswoman, Jodi Senese, said that subway sales in New York remained strong, in spite of the overall industry slump, partly because of new types of ads in the system, like those on the exterior of subway cars.

Companies like Titan and CBS make money by contracting with transit agencies and agreeing to sell ads that appear in their buses, trains and stations. The ad company agrees up front to make guaranteed payments to the transit agency or pay it a percentage of the receipts, whichever is greater. The company keeps the rest for expenses and profits.

At the end of the year, both Titan and CBS may be required to increase their payments to the authority, if a designated percentage of total sales exceeds what has already been paid.

Titan still owes the authority an additional amount for last year’s ad sales. The company would not say how much it owed but said it intended to make the payment this year.

The authority is negotiating with Titan over its inability to make its required monthly payments, and neither side would give details of the talks.

“We’re trying to work with them to find a way to keep this contract in place,” Mr. Donovan said. “Our goal is to work it out and minimize the impact on the M.T.A.’s bottom line.”

Titan’s chairman, William Apfelbaum, said that ad rates and sales have plummeted with the distressed economy, pushing the company’s sales revenue this year down about 25 percent.

“In my 30-plus years in the business there’s never been a year that was down versus the prior year,” he said. “This is a first.”

Mr. Apfelbaum said that he hoped to renegotiate his agreements with transit agencies “to keep us from suffering catastrophic losses.”

Titan’s problems are much the same nationwide.

In Boston, Titan fell $321,000 short in its payment for March and April to the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, and it has told the authority, according to a spokesman, Joe Pesatauro.

“This news from Titan certainly is not helping the situation,” said Mr. Pesatauro, explaining that the authority is grappling with a projected budget deficit of $160 million for the fiscal year that starts on July 1.

In Minneapolis and St. Paul, Titan paid Metro Transit, which provides bus and light rail service, about $100,000 less than the required $1 million payment for the first three months of this year, according to Bruce Howard, the transit agency’s director of marketing. He said that ad sales during the period were about 20 percent below what they were the previous year.

Transit officials in Chicago, Philadelphia and with San Francisco’s Bay Area Rapid Transit system said that they had also been approached by Titan to renegotiate contract terms.

The slump comes at an inopportune time for transit agencies, which have been hit hard by shrinking tax revenues and, in some cases, decreasing ridership.

Ad revenues make up only a small portion of total revenues at the agencies, but transit officials have been seeking to maximize income from such sources to help relieve the pressure for fare increases.

According to the Federal Transit Administration’s National Transit Database, transit agencies nationwide reported $334 million in ad revenue in 2007. That was about one percent of total operating funds.

In New York, bus ad rates vary depending on what part of the city the buses travel, with rates in Manhattan being the highest, though the rates have been lowered in response to the slumping ad market. In Manhattan, an ad that covers one side of a bus typically sells for about $1,500 a month. At this time last year, the same ad sold for about $1,800, Mr. Apfelbaum said.

“Warner Brothers came to us and said, ‘We want the same exact schedule as last year but we’re going to pay 20 percent less or you’re not going to get it,’ ” Mr. Apfelbaum said, referring to the number of ads placed by the entertainment company.

Mr. Apfelbaum said that while there are also fewer ads being sold, his company makes sure it keeps the ad spaces on buses and trains and in stations filled, because empty space would look bad.

Sometimes, he said, Titan will put up more ads than a customer has paid for, to fill what would be empty space.

Titan was created in 2001 and it has worked aggressively to win transit contracts.

The company received the New York bus and commuter rail contract in December 2006. It agreed to make a minimum guaranteed payment of $823 million over the course of the 10-year contract, $103 million more than the next-highest offer. The minimum payments this year come to $5.4 million a month.

As part of the contract, the company also agreed to pay the authority 72.5 percent of sales each year, if that amount was greater than the minimum payment. Mr. Apfelbaum said that is the highest percentage in the industry.

But Mr. Apfelbaum said he had not overbid to win the contract.

“This contract, in any kind of normal time, any year in my 35 years in the business except for 2009, is a profitable contract,” he said.
845 2009-05-25 For example, Moblin fires up and reaches the Internet in about seven seconds, then displays a novel type of start-up screen. People will find their appointments listed on one side of the screen, along with their favorite programs. But the bulk of the screen is taken up by cartoonish icons that show things like social networking updates from friends, photos and recently used documents.

With animated icons and other quirky bits and pieces, Moblin looks like a fresh take on the operating system. Some companies hope it will give Microsoft a strong challenge in the market for the small, cheap laptops commonly known as netbooks. A polished second version of the software, which is in trials, should start appearing on a variety of netbooks this summer.

“We really view this as an opportunity and a game changer,” said Ronald W. Hovsepian, the chief executive of Novell, which plans to offer a customized version on Moblin to computer makers. Novell views Moblin as a way to extend its business selling software and services related to Linux.

While Moblin fits netbooks well today, it was built with smartphones in mind. Those smartphones explain why Intel was willing to needle Microsoft.

Intel has previously tried and failed to carve out a prominent stake in the market for chips used in smaller computing devices like phones. But the company says one of its newer chips, called Atom, will solve this riddle and help it compete against the likes of Texas Instruments and Qualcomm.

The low-power, low-cost Atom chip sits inside most of the netbooks sold today, and smartphones using the chip could start arriving in the next couple of years.

To make Atom a success, Intel plans to use software for leverage. Its needs Moblin because most of the cellphone software available today runs on chips whose architecture is different from Atom’s. To make Atom a worthwhile choice for phone makers, there must be a supply of good software that runs on it.

“The smartphone is certainly the end goal,” said Doug Fisher, a vice president in Intel’s software group. “It’s absolutely critical for the success of this product.”

Though large, Intel’s software group has remained out of the spotlight for years. Intel considers its software work a silent helping hand for computer makers.

Mostly, the group sells tools that help other software developers take advantage of features in Intel’s chips. It also offers free consulting services to help large companies wring the most performance out of their code, in a bid to sell more chips.

Renee J. James, Intel’s vice president in charge of software, explained, “You can’t just throw hardware out there into the world.”

Intel declines to disclose its revenue from these tools, but it is a tiny fraction of the close to $40 billion in sales Intel racks up every year.

Still, the software group is one of the largest at Intel and one of the largest such organizations at any company.

In the last few years, Intel’s investment in Linux, the main rival to Windows, has increased. Intel has hired some of the top Linux developers, including Alan Cox from Red Hat, the leading Linux seller, last year. Intel pays these developers to improve Linux as a whole and to further the company’s own projects like Moblin.

“Intel definitely ranks pretty highly when it comes to meaningful contributions,” Linus Torvalds, who created the core of Linux and maintains the software, wrote in an e-mail message. “They went from apparently not having much of a strategy at all to having a rather wide team.”

Intel has also bought software companies. Last year, it acquired OpenedHand, a company whose work has turned into the base of the new Moblin user interface.

It has also bought a handful of software companies with expertise in gaming and graphics technology. Such software is meant to create a foundation to support Intel’s release of new high-powered graphics chips next year. Intel hopes the graphics products will let it compete better against Nvidia and Advanced Micro Devices and open up another new business.

Intel tries to play down its competition with Microsoft. Since Moblin is open source, anyone can pick it up and use it. Companies like Novell will be the ones actually offering the software to PC makers, while Intel will stay in the background. Still, Ms. James says that Intel’s relationship with Microsoft has turned more prickly.

“It is not without its tense days,” she said.

Microsoft says Intel faces serious hurdles as it tries to stake a claim in the operating system market.

“I think it will introduce some challenges for them just based on our experience of having built operating systems for 25 years or so,” said James DeBragga, the general manager of Microsoft’s Windows consumer team.

While Linux started out as a popular choice on netbooks, Microsoft now dominates the market. Microsoft doubts whether something like Moblin’s glossy interface will be enough to woo consumers who are used to Windows.

Intel says people are ready for something new on mobile devices, which are geared more to the Internet than to running desktop-style programs.

“I am a risk taker,” Ms. James of Intel said. “I have that outlook that if there’s a possibility of doing something different, we should explore trying it.”
846 2009-05-25 PARIS — Bankruptcy for Opel, the European unit of General Motors, remains a distinct possibility despite three offers for the unit, the German economy minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, said in an interview published on Sunday.

Though Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is to meet on Monday to consider the bids, there is no guarantee that any will be accepted, Mr. Guttenberg was quoted as saying by Bild am Sonntag.

“We must first have a high degree of certainty that the significant tax money we will have to provide is not lost,” he was quoted as saying. Mr. Guttenberg, a member of Mrs. Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union, said that if the bids did not improve, “an orderly insolvency” would be best for Opel.

Speaking to journalists in Berlin on Sunday, Mr. Guttenberg later said that although avoiding bankruptcy was desirable, it must still be option, said a spokesman, Steffen Moritz. Mr. Guttenberg also emphasized that an “orderly insolvency” would be a tool for restructuring, “not the end of the company,” Mr. Moritz said.

Three companies have bid for Opel: Fiat, which has also bid for Vauxhall, G.M.’s British unit; RHJ International, a buyout company listed in Brussels; and Magna International, a Canadian auto parts maker that is being backed by Sberbank Rossii, a Russian bank.
847 2009-05-25 In some states, the definition of “renewable” or “alternative” has already expanded. In Pennsylvania, waste coal and methane from coal mines receive the same treatment as solar panels and wind turbines. In Nevada, old tires can count as a renewable fuel, provided microwaves are used to break down their chemical structure.

About half of the 28 states with renewable mandates include electricity generated by burning garbage (the District of Columbia also has a quota for renewable energy). In Florida, the nuclear power industry is lobbying to be included but has not yet succeeded.

Government incentives for renewable energy were intended to give an economic boost to technologies like wind and solar power that were not yet economically competitive with coal and natural gas, which together provide more than two-thirds of the country’s electricity.

The benefits that go with the designation include renewable energy credits, which promise to be a valuable commodity if a national renewable energy standard becomes law and utilities with high levels of renewable sources can sell credits to those with less.

If a source of electricity already widely used by some utilities — hydropower or nuclear power, for example — is deemed renewable, it allows utilities to meet the new renewable-energy requirements while doing little to add wind or solar power to the electrical grid. House Republicans tried unsuccessfully last week to have nuclear energy included under the climate bill passed by the House committee.

Environmental groups like the Union of Concerned Scientists, Environment America and the Natural Resources Defense Council say they are frustrated by the increasing elasticity of the word “renewable” in legislators’ hands.

“Usually this is a very political process, and not driven in any way, shape or form by any strict scientific or ecological definition of renewables,” said Nathanael Greene of the N.R.D.C.

But some of the industries that have claimed the renewable mantle argue that they deserve it.

“A banana is renewable — you can grow them forever,” said Bob Eisenbud, a vice president for government affairs at Waste Management, which receives about 10 percent of its annual revenues of $13.3 billion from waste and landfill energy generation. “A banana that goes into garbage and gets burned,” he added, is “a renewable resource and producing renewable energy.”

But environmentalists argue that one of the goals of renewable energy is to cut back on the heat-trapping gases emitted from burning most things, whether fossil fuels or bananas. When there is no fire, there are no emissions. The waste-to-energy technology described by Mr. Eisenbud was not included in the original draft of the climate legislation that received House committee approval, but it was contained in the version that moved out of the committee, thanks to language inserted by Representative Baron P. Hill, Democrat of Indiana. A new $227 million waste-to-energy plant was already planned in northern Indiana, outside his district.

On the Senate side, an effort to get the benefits of the renewable designation for advanced coal-burning technologies failed, however.

Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico and chairman of the Senate energy committee, said that if too many new technologies beyond core renewable sources like wind and solar were to be included, “the whole purpose of the renewable electricity standard is defeated.”

The goal, he said, is “to encourage the development of some of these newer technologies and bring the price down.”

He added, “If you throw in everything else” and call it renewable, “then your numbers get way out of whack.”

Leon Lowery, a Democratic staff member for the committee, said that both environmentalists and industry had tinkered with the common-sense understanding of renewable sources to make definitions fit policy goals.

“If you try to assign a sort of conceptual definition, you find yourself in strange places,” Mr. Lowery said. “Anyone would acknowledge that hydropower is renewable, but do we want to give credits to the Grand Coulee Dam?”

To do so, he added, would give hydropower — which already benefits from rich federal subsidies that make it some of the cheapest energy available — the same status as solar or wind technologies.

Among states that have already adopted quotas for renewable energy, the standards vary from Wisconsin’s, which requires that 10 percent of all power come from renewable sources by 2015, to those of Oregon and Minnesota, which call for 25 percent from renewable sources by 2025. California is raising its mandate to 33 percent by 2020, though its utilities have already indicated that the existing quota — 20 percent by 2010 — will be difficult to meet.

In some states, quotas for renewable energy are paired with mandates for advanced technologies that are not necessarily renewable. For example, Ohio, which currently receives nearly two-thirds of its electricity from burning coal, requires that 25 percent of the state’s electricity must come from renewable or advanced technologies by 2025, but of that, half must come from core renewable sources, and some of the remainder can come from burning chemically treated coal.

Graham Mathews, a lobbyist representing Covanta Energy, another waste-to-energy company, said the political horse-trading on renewable energy legislation was typical of all energy measures. “Energy policy is balkanized by region, and that dictates the debate. The politics become incredibly complicated,” he said.

“Stepping back and looking at it,” Mr. Mathews added, “it sometimes doesn’t make a lot of sense.”
848 2009-05-25 The authorities are hampered by some of the cruelties of war and the poverty it brings: some bodies are mutilated and hard to identify, and there is little money for new forensic workers to handle the huge caseload.

But families also question the Iraqi government’s resolve in investigating cases, and groups like the Red Cross have become involved on the issue. “The problem of the missing is enormous,” said Dibeh Fakhr, a spokeswoman for the Iraq office of the International Committee of the Red Cross. “Families have the right to know, and governments have an obligation to help find out what happened to their loved ones.”

In some cases, the missing have been kidnapped and are released after ransoms are paid. Other times, their bodies are found years after they disappeared, after being fished out of a river or dug up from one of the mass graves that continue to be discovered around the country every few weeks.

Relatives say the lack of information from the government has left them in limbo: not wanting to admit that a loved one has probably been killed, but not believing that he or she is still alive either.

The toll of not knowing is not just emotional; in Iraq’s male-dominated society, there is also a practical consequence.

In most cases, until a missing male head of a household is declared dead by the government, the wife is unable to collect benefits, hold a funeral, remarry or gain access to the family’s bank account, usually in the husband’s name, for four years.

Some families have resorted to claiming a body they know is not their loved one’s, so the women can get access to the money they need to live, a Baghdad morgue official said.

Kamil Amin, a director at Iraq’s Ministry of Human Rights, the agency charged with helping people track the missing, said recently that he believed that more should be done to aid the families of those who disappeared, especially those whose primary wage earners are missing.

His ministry, Mr. Amin said, is doing its best to cope with a heavy caseload. “The government is morally responsible to these families,” he said. “We think almost all of the missing have been killed by terrorists, but the legal system needs evidence.”

There are a variety of factors contributing to the delays in solving cases, according to aid organizations and the government. Iraq has only one DNA lab and a limited ability to freeze samples; almost half of the country’s provinces have no forensic pathologists; and a lack of coordination among government agencies means that the Iraqi Army and the police frequently remove bodies from graves without first informing the Human Rights Ministry, often losing valuable identifying evidence in the process.

Further, Iraq has no central database to try to link the more than 15,000 unidentified bodies that have been buried anonymously in the past few years with a list of names of the missing. There is also no record of victims of sectarian violence who have been buried informally in unmarked plots.

Even if family members think they have found a missing relative, they often need the help of government labs to be sure. Many victims of sectarian violence were beheaded, had limbs amputated or had holes drilled into their skulls, making them less recognizable.

The bodies of others have decomposed, leaving only bits of bone, tattered clothing and plastic sandals as clues.

Identification sometimes comes down to a guess, a dim memory of a shirt worn the day a husband disappeared or of which tooth a son had lost years before in an accident.

Ghaniah Ayed Mudhi, who lives in the industrial city of Baiji, in northern Iraq, has had a brother, two cousins and two brothers-in-law disappear since 2006.

Her brother, Muhammad Ayed Mudhi, left behind 4 children and 11 other dependents. He disappeared after being pulled out of his truck at a checkpoint. Later, a stranger came to the family’s house demanding the equivalent of $7,000 for his return. The family paid the ransom, but Mr. Ayed Mudhi, who would be 29 if alive, remains missing.

In the Shuala neighborhood of Baghdad, Fadhilah Harfish has kept the room that belonged to her 25-year-old son, Muhammad, as he left it — just a little tidier. The bed is made. The curtains are drawn. His shirts hang neatly in a closet. Relatives removed photos of Muhammad from the house because Ms. Harfish sometimes spent hours crying over them. The family has visited morgues, prisons and graveyards, and has even communicated with members of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and the Mahdi Army militia, to no avail.

Muhammad, who trained as a teacher, had been working as a taxi driver, a common job for Iraqis who cannot find career-oriented work. Driving cabs was also among the most dangerous jobs during the height of the sectarian killings. He disappeared one morning in December 2007, early in his workday.

“I can’t sleep at night,” said Ms. Harfish, sobbing. “I can’t forget him. He’s like my breath.”

The family of Ms. Diham, whose 13-year-old son disappeared while buying vegetables, has been squatting at a former army base in Baghdad’s Amiriya neighborhood.

They survive by recycling aluminum cans scavenged from a large garbage dump a few dozen yards away.

The glass on their windows has been knocked out by explosions from car bombs, and there is no proper front door, only a strip of white cloth.

One of the rooms is filled with piles of empty cans waiting to be bagged. Among the family’s few possessions are two white mules and a television set.

Ms. Diham said she had decided to give up looking for her son, Meethaq, out of frustration and fatigue. But her husband, Basim, who cries at the mention of the child’s name, vowed to keep searching.

“This case has exhausted our money,” he said, sitting on a worn carpet. “But I won’t stop until I find something.”
849 2009-05-25 In the introduction to her biography of the writer Jean Rhys, Lilian Pizzichini explains why she called this book “The Blue Hour”: because L’Heure Bleue by Guerlain was Rhys’s favorite perfume and because “the blue hour was also the hour when the lap dog she saw herself as being during the day turned into a wolf.” Then there is the blueness of the title and the gloom it implies.

Sure enough, this is a biography that accentuates the negative. Handily achieving the level of caricature, it turns Rhys (1890-1979) into a weeping, helpless, passive, shivering, fragile creature who, through some miracle of duality, managed to produce mesmerizingly potent work. But the figure on Ms. Pizzichini’s page is made of quivering blue Jell-O. And as a biographical study “The Blue Hour” has major weaknesses of its own. Vaguely researched, unannotated, barely illustrated, stingy with Rhys’s own words and full of heavy-handed paraphrases, it tries to make up in tear-stained empathy what it lacks in depth.

Rhys is the Caribbean-born writer who spent much of her life in Europe, personified the louche life in ways that have guaranteed her an everlasting cult following and stunningly amplified Charlotte Brontë’s “Jane Eyre” by writing one of the few great books hitched to an existing classic. That is “Wide Sargasso Sea,” a novel that envisions the story of the first Mrs. Rochester, the one locked in Mr. Rochester’s attic.

To see that among Ms. Rhys’s many alternate title choices for this classic were “Story of the First Mrs. Rochester,” “Le Rouge et le Noir” and “Wild Sea of Wrecks” is to understand how much of her renown may have been built on backhanded good fortune. “The Blue Hour” only furthers that impression.

As catnip to scholars because of her talent and her air of helplessness, Rhys has attracted much academic attention and has been the subject of at least one major biography, “Jean Rhys: Life and Work,” by Carole Angier. Ms. Pizzichini politely but patronizingly summons that work when she says, “I have touched on Angier’s as a departure point for my own researches.” She means to repudiate Ms. Angier’s characterization of Rhys “as a ‘borderline personality.’ ” Ms. Pizzichini prefers to identify shrilly, histrionically, even defensively, with Rhys’s endless struggles and peculiarities. “The Blue Hour” frames those struggles as grandiosely as possible.

“Jean created her own world as protection from this one, with its infuriating chatterboxes, selfish drama queens and arrogant upstarts,” Ms. Pizzichini writes. “When she argued with her neighbors, as she would for the rest of her life, it was not merely a matter of winning or losing an argument, it was a struggle to prove that she existed.”
850 2009-05-25 FORECLOSURE AT THE HIGH END As job losses rise, growing numbers of American homeowners with once solid credit are falling behind on their mortgages, amplifying a wave of foreclosures.      A FOX NEWS WHIRLWIND Even by the standards of cable news, ...
851 2009-05-26 It has become increasingly clear that the most important element of microfinance isn't lending, but savings. That lesson was taught to me by SEWA in India, Kashf in Pakistan and Grameen in Bangladesh. Only some poor people will benefit from the ch...
852 2009-05-26 Ranking countries by how hard or difficult it is for companies to conduct business, based on the quality, onerousness and simplicity of regulation....
853 2009-05-26 Lawyers for Fiat argued Tuesday that in taking over a bankrupt Chrysler, it would be an unfair burden if Fiat had to be responsible for product-liability lawsuits filed over vehicles built by the old Chrysler....
854 2009-05-26 An affiliate of Harbinger Capital Partners won court permission on Tuesday to try to reorganize the bankrupt copper miner Asarco, making the hedge fund manager the third party trying to take control of the company....
855 2009-05-26 The largest flow of money into technology from the federal economic-stimulus package may eventually come from a vast array of state and local government projects....
856 2009-05-26 Two proxy advisory firms have sided with the hedge fund P. Schoenfeld Asset Management in its quest to change the corporate governance practices of the luxury retailer Saks....
857 2009-05-26 JPMorgan Chase stands to gain $29 billion windfall as a result of an accounting rule that allows it to transform the bad loans that it purchased from Washington Mutual into income, Bloomberg News reports....
858 2009-05-26 A PlayStation 3 and some software called PlayOn turns the game console into a device to watch Web content on your TV....
859 2009-05-26 Lawyers for Fiat said on Tuesday that in taking over a bankrupt Chrysler, it would be an unfair burden if Fiat had to be responsible for product-liability lawsuits filed over vehicles built by the old Chrysler. Fiat was responding to concerns rais...
860 2009-05-26 If confirmed by the U.S. Senate, Sonia Sotomayor would be the 10th Princetonian to serve on the nation's highest court....
861 2009-05-26 A new appreciation for Valpolicella....
862 2009-05-26 Intel is happy to stay in the background, letting folks like Novell and Canonical do with Moblin what they will. It's a stance that ruffles Microsoft's feathers a bit less....
863 2009-05-26 Dubai posted the largest declines in the latest Knight Frank Global Housing Index report....
864 2009-05-26 As the Latino bloc of voters grows in size and shifts farther away from the G.O.P., some Republican leaders consider whether an-allout fight over Judge Sotomayor would alienate a critical group....
865 2009-05-26 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
866 2009-05-26 Blogtalk: A block worthy of detailed scrutiny, signs in the mayor's office and a medical admonition: if you have the flu, wait outside....
867 2009-05-26 In July 2007, in North Little Rock, Ark., Tino Sanchez, of the Class AA Tulsa Drillers, hit a foul ball that struck and killed his first base coach, Mike Coolbaugh. S.L. Price, a senior writer for Sports Illustrated, traces the lives and baseball ...
868 2009-05-26 Highlights from The New York Times' television coverage on the Memorial Day weekend....
869 2009-05-26 President Obama has settled on his nominee for the Supreme Court, officials said on Tuesday, and has scheduled an announcement for 10:15 a.m. at the White House....
870 2009-05-26 Last month, the free ad server unveiled an ad exchange. This month, it raised $10 million....
871 2009-05-26 Many people may still have folders of .fpx photos from old Kodak cameras and software. Here's how to open them....
872 2009-05-26 William A. Ackman, the activist hedge fund manager, pledged to hold his personal stake in Target, worth $55 million, for at least five years if he is elected to the retail giant's board of directors....
873 2009-05-26 A study on companies with hybrid boards -- those where activist investors gain seats -- is especially interesting in light of the debate over proxy access, The New York Times's Gretchen Morgenson writes in her latest column....
874 2009-05-26 Bankruptcy for Opel, the European unit of General Motors, remains a distinct possibility despite three offers for the unit, the German economy minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, said in an interview published on Sunday....
875 2009-05-26 After months of grim tidings, net outflows from hedge funds are finally dwindling. The rally in equities could soon bring net inflows again, Breakingviews says. It may be a fragile upturn, but for now, the improvement in hedge funds' fortunes coul...
876 2009-05-26 The defining characteristic of Mumbai is not crime or Bollywood, but entrepreneurship, even in the city's slums....
877 2009-05-26 Amgen is exercising an option to acquire the rights to an experimental drug to treat heart failure from Cytokinetics, a smaller biotechnology company....
878 2009-05-26 Lehman Brothers U.S. estate administrators will ask a federal judge on Tuesday to approve a framework for coordinating bankruptcy proceedings for the bank's subsidiaries worldwide, putting them at odds with its administrators in Britain, The Wall ...
879 2009-05-26 The decline of General Motors may be putting thousands of auto workers and managers out of work, but it will be putting a lot of lawyers to work....
880 2009-05-26 OpenTable, Silicon Valley's new favorite company, proved last week that there is indeed demand on Wall Street for tech companies. Were investors just eager to remember a happier time?...
881 2009-05-26 CONCORD, N.C. (AP) — David Reutimann stared at the gray sky and silently prayed for one more heavy rain.

A gamble had put Reutimann in position for his first Sprint Cup Series victory, and as long as the clouds lingered over Lowe’s Motor Speedway, that victory could come in the crown jewel Coca-Cola 600.

Reutimann, a 39-year-old journeyman driver, didn’t like his chances. “These things don’t ever go our way,” he said. “I don’t know why it should now.”

Reutimann’s lucky break finally came Monday after 75 races, three rain delays, a spat with Tony Stewart and a two-hour wait.

Nascar declared Reutimann the winner when an ominous weather forecast indicated that it would be impossible to run the race, the longest of the Nascar season, to its conclusion. The drivers had reached that conclusion the day before, when the race was postponed until Memorial Day for the first time in its 50-year history.
882 2009-05-26 Amgen is exercising an option to acquire the rights to an experimental drug to treat heart failure from Cytokinetics, a smaller biotechnology company. The deal would move Amgen, the world's biggest biotechnology company, into the field of cardiovascular medicine. Amgen paid $75 million to Cytokinetics more than two years ago for the option to the drug, which is called CK-1827452. Having now seen more data from clinical trials, Amgen has decided to assume control of further testing and commercialization of the drug and related compounds. Cytokinetics, which is based in South San Francisco, Calif., will receive $50 million from Amgen and is eligible for up to $600 million in future payments if the drug succeeds. The drug, now in the middle stage of clinical trials, works by activating cardiac myosin, a protein that helps heart muscles contract to pump blood. About 5 million Americans have chronic heart failure, in which the heart cannot pump blood adequately. ANDREW POLLACK
883 2009-05-26 Fernando Tatis was going about his business in the sleepy Mets clubhouse Monday when the hitting coach Howard Johnson approached him with a question: “You’re playing first base today, right?”

Tatis stared back blankly for a moment and stopped fiddling with his gear.

“I think so,” he said.

Tatis hesitated because answers to questions like Johnson’s were far from obvious. Tatis has played left field, first base, second base, shortstop and third base for the Mets this year. And with the way injuries are plaguing the team, Tatis is an obvious candidate to fill in again at any of those positions.

That is why he keeps four gloves in his locker: two for the outfield, a small black one for third base and a long padded tan one to play first. He does not know which glove he will need until he reports for duty before a game.

“I know whenever I see the lineup here,” Tatis said.

Most recently, Tatis has been filling in at first base for Carlos Delgado, whose injury before the Mets left for a 10-game trip kicked off a rash of injuries that has decimated the roster. No fewer than nine players missed time during those 10 games, leaving Manager Jerry Manuel with precious few options.

When Manuel filled out his lineup card to face the Washington Nationals, he was still waiting to evaluate the health of Carlos Beltran, Jose Reyes, Ramon Martinez and Ryan Church. Only two of them made the cut. Beltran, despite some soreness below his right knee, started in center field, and Martinez filled in for Reyes at shortstop.
884 2009-05-26 The Canadian government will post a substantially larger deficit this year than was forecast in its January budget because the economy has fared worse than expected, Jim Flaherty, Canada's finance minister said Monday. "The economic slowdown is more severe than we anticipated," Mr. Flaherty said, and "that means lower tax revenues." He said he would provide more details in an economic update to be presented to Parliament in June. Mr. Flaherty's federal budget in January forecast the nation's first deficit in more than a decade, topping 33.7 billion Canadian dollars ($30 billion), because of the country's enormous stimulus package to fight the global recession. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
885 2009-05-26 A trial opened on Monday on charges of organized fraud brought against the French branch of the Church of Scientology, which could be fined up to $7 million and ordered to stop its activities here. The church, which is registered as a religion in the United States, has no similar legal protection here. The church’s Paris headquarters and its bookshop are being sued for fraud while some leading members are charged with illegally practicing pharmacy, after complaints that new adherents were pushed into paying thousands of dollars for books, courses, vitamins and an electronic measurement to gauge spiritual progress.
886 2009-05-26 In Hong Kong, the brand is in the hands of Jerry Cheung, who has a love for lager and an affinity for the laid-back pace in Laos.

Mr. Cheung first tried Beer Lao while living in Cambodia in 2006. “It was the most unique beer I’d ever tasted,” he recalled. He flew to Vientiane, where the beer is made, soon afterward.

Beer Lao is made with rice in addition to malt. This, Mr. Cheung says, gives the beer a flavor that is light and crisp.

Not everyone is sold on the beer. Randy Mosher, a beer marketing consultant and author of “Tasting Beer: An Insider’s Guide to the World’s Greatest Drink,” is skeptical about the beer’s “unique” taste.

“This is very much one of the international-style pilsners that happens to be brewed in exotic locations,” he said. “Fizzy yellow beers tend to be all the same.”

Mr. Cheung, however, was sold. Within a year he had quit his job, persuaded Lao Brewery to appoint him as a distributor and founded an import firm with two Canadian friends.

That firm, Aseurica, is now the exclusive distributor for Hong Kong and Macao. It sells cases of beer to local bars and sponsors yachting trips and beach parties aimed at expatriates.

The beer is priced competitively, Mr. Cheung said. In Hong Kong’s central district, it sells for 44 Hong Kong dollars, or about $6, a bottle — about the same price as Carlsberg, Stella Artois or Heineken.

Part of the challenge is selling grass-roots chic to the masses. Since Hong Kong is low on backpackers and high on bankers, Mr. Cheung and his partners use locally made promotional materials instead of merchandise from headquarters.

This allows them to offer, say, a yacht-appropriate custom-fitted bottle cooler instead of a branded beer glass.

Mr. Cheung said the strategy was a bit do-it-yourself, “but it gives us flexibility.”

Butsarakorn Srikhongrak, Lao Brewery’s marketing manager, said the ad hoc approach was working. Because of similar deals with a handful of distributors, Beer Lao is available across Southeast Asia and in cities in the United States, Japan, Britain, France, Germany, Australia and New Zealand. There are plans to expand to the Philippines, Israel and China next year, she said.

Lao Brewery said it sold 132 million liters, or almost 280 million pints, of beer last year and had revenue of $145 million. This year, the company is expecting revenue to grow 10 percent.

Beer Lao enjoys a 99 percent market share in Laos. In other countries, however, when it is lined up next to big brands like Heineken and Corona, it becomes more critical to stand out.

An added challenge, said Sivilay Lasachack, Lao Brewery’s Laos-born, Czech-trained brew master, is that few people know what — or where — Laos is.

“When I travel internationally, people say, ‘I like your beer, but what is Laos?’ ” she said. “I tell them it’s the country next to Vietnam, come visit.”

Mr. Cheung encounters similar questions. “Even here in Asia, people are like, ‘Laos, where is that?’ ” he said.

Relative obscurity, or the lure of the exotic, is certainly a big part of the appeal — as Coors learned in the days when its beer was available only in the Western United States. That may be why Carlsberg and Lao Brewery are moving slowly.

It is definitely why Fiona Read, a teacher from Britain, shopped for Beer Lao T-shirts while vacationing in Vang Vieng recently. A friend from Britain had asked for a Beer Lao shirt. Ms. Read obliged.

“Apparently it’s quite a cool beer to drink in London,” she said.

“I think it’s considered sort of a funky, travelers’ beer,” she added. “Anybody who has traveled would drink it.”

Lao Brewery hopes that proves true. Not everyone has traveled, but nothing makes you thirsty like a beer you cannot drink.
887 2009-05-26 “When the economy’s not doing well, you tend to have more comedies, more escapism,” said Steve Sternberg, executive vice president for audience analysis at Magna, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Several new sitcoms are particularly interesting, Mr. Sternberg said, because they are “family comedies scheduled before 9:30” — making them “programming you can watch with your kids.”

Viewers “are looking for that,” he added, so such shows are potentially desirable for advertisers. Mr. Sternberg praised an ABC family sitcom he watched in preview form, “Modern Family,” as “one of the best pilots I’ve seen in years.”

David Campanelli, vice president and director for national television at Horizon Media, echoed that assessment.

“It was the best one I’d seen in a while at the upfront,” Mr. Campanelli said, using the term derived from the practice of the networks’ presenting their schedules — and selling commercials — before the season starts.

Other forms of escapist entertainment for 2009-10 include new science fiction and fantasy series like “Day One,” on NBC; “Flash Forward” and “V,” on ABC; “Human Target” and “Past Life,” on Fox; and “The Vampire Diaries,” on CW, owned by CBS and Time Warner.

“You’ve got the dead, the undead and the almost dead,” said Shari Anne Brill, senior vice president and director for programming and strategic audience analysis at Carat, part of the Aegis group.

“I love shows based on mysterious phenomena,” Ms. Brill said, but in the end, “it’s about the characters” more than the startling plots.

“That’s what has given ‘Lost’ the broader appeal it has,” she added, referring to the long-running ABC fantasy series.

Ms. Brill praised the premise of “Flash Forward,” about the unsettling aftermath of a strange event shared by everyone on earth, adding, “I want to give that show a chance.”

But she expressed qualms about “Day One,” centered on the survivors of a global apocalypse. “It looked really creepy to me,” Ms. Brill said, “because it looked like 9/11.”

Another trend Ms. Brill identified was “everyday people as heroes,” which reflects a belief during hard times that “it’s the people in the trenches who keep the economy going, who keep the wheels turning.”

New series in that vein include “The Middle,” a sitcom on ABC about an Indiana family; “Mercy,” a drama on NBC about nurses; a reality series on CBS, “Undercover Boss,” in which executives work incognito alongside their own employees; and a reality series on ABC, “Shark Tank,” in which fledgling entrepreneurs audition for financial backing.

John Rash, senior vice president and director for media analysis at Campbell Mithun, another Interpublic agency, said networks seeking to appeal to consumers worried about the economy might do so with reality shows rather than scripted series.

“The Great Recession has yet to yield a Roseanne or a Ralph Kramden,” he added, referring to the working-class characters of the sitcoms “Roseanne” and “The Honeymooners.”

Still, whether the heroes on TV are everyday or extraordinary pales before what Mr. Rash described as “the biggest wild card in this season, or any season in years”: how Mr. Leno will fare when he leaves “The Tonight Show” after 17 years to become the host of “The Jay Leno Show” at 10 o’clock weeknights.

Initially, “NBC’s rivals may have the advantage,” Mr. Rash predicted, as Mr. Leno faces dramas on ABC and CBS like “CSI: Miami,” “The Mentalist” and “Private Practice.”

But Mr. Leno may eventually prevail, he added, when the scripted series go into reruns and Mr. Leno keeps producing fresh material. NBC has promised new Leno episodes 46 weeks a year.

“He’s not going to get President Obama every week,” Mr. Rash said of Mr. Leno, “but there will be no shortage of prominent politicians and pop-culture figures who will recognize the importance of this new platform.”

Another appealing aspect of the Leno show, Mr. Sternberg of Magna said, will be the “advertiser opportunities,” like being able to weave products into skits and have Mr. Leno deliver commercials.

“But they have to be careful not to do too many of them,” Mr. Sternberg warned, or the show could be perceived as “an hourlong live ad.”

Mr. Campanelli said that however Mr. Leno’s show performs, “it was a smart move by NBC to keep him from going to another network” and competing at 11:35 p.m. against Conan O’Brien, who takes over “Tonight” on Monday.

Ms. Brill said she wanted to learn more about Mr. Leno’s show before evaluating its chances.

“I have no idea what it’s going to be like,” she said, “and that’s going to drive me crazy.”
888 2009-05-26 That is unlikely, however, as bankruptcy cases are typically handled in New York or Delaware, where many business are incorporated and the bankruptcy courts have more experience handling complex filings.

For law firms, big bankruptcies can be very lucrative. Weil, Gotshal & Manges, the New York firm handling the Lehman case, recently sought approval for billings for $55 million for just three months’ work from the bankruptcy court in that case. Weil Gotshal is one of the firms that will represent G.M., almost certainly ensuring tens of millions more in fees to represent the automaker.

But it is not the only firm that will be working on the case. Already, hundreds of lawyers from almost every major firm that handles restructuring work have spent months preparing the reams of documents that would be required for a bankruptcy filing by G.M., which had nearly $150 billion in global revenue last year, making its case bigger than Enron.

G.M., the Treasury Department, the United Automobile Workers, suppliers, dealers and other vendors all will have legal representatives on hand, meaning a full house in the New York bankruptcy court where the case is likely to be heard. Although no judge will be assigned until the case is filed, court officials are creating plans for a separate computer server devoted to G.M.’s filing, which will be an even bigger megacase than Chrysler, which received that designation in April.

G.M. will require $40 billion to $70 billion in debtor-in-possession financing to create a new version of G.M. and dispose of its assets, according to people familiar with the case.

The near inevitability of the G.M. case is a sharp contrast to the resistance put up by company executives, including Rick Wagoner, the former chief. His steadfast refusal to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection while the company reorganized was a factor in his ouster in March at the behest of the Obama administration, which has been keeping G.M. alive with billions of dollars in loans.

Many people thought a G.M. bankruptcy restructuring was simply too complicated to do. “The case would last my lifetime, my son’s lifetime, my grandson’s lifetime and maybe my great-grandson’s lifetime,” Stephen P. Yokich, the late president of the U.A.W., said in a 1995 interview.

But G.M. did consider the idea seriously at least twice in the last two decades: once in 1992, when the company was close to insolvency, and again in late 2005, when rumors of a Chapter 11 filing swirled in Detroit.

Both times, G.M. officials rejected a bankruptcy filing, citing the disruption it would have meant to G.M.’s suppliers, workers and the communities where the company did business. Another reason was the expense: “It would make 10 million lawyers $10 million apiece,” Mr. Yokich said in 1995.

That is an overstatement, of course. But while there might not be that many lawyers involved, legal fees totaling hundreds of millions of dollars are likely during the course of the case given the high-powered and high-fee lawyers involved.

A reason that so many lawyers are needed is that the reorganization, as envisioned by the automaker with support from the federal government, is complex.

The plan is to split G.M.’s good assets from the bad assets, with the idea that the part owning the good assets would be a viable company because it would not be burdened with the other businesses. G.M. would sell desirable brands like Chevrolet and Cadillac to a new company, which would emerge from bankruptcy protection in a few months’ time. Less-attractive assets and liabilities would remain with the old G.M., and eventually be liquidated.

For the last several months, G.M. had retained the services of two of the biggest bankruptcy players to help guide it into Chapter 11: Harvey R. Miller of Weil, Gotshal & Manges and Martin Bienenstock of Dewey & LeBoeuf.

Mr. Miller and his team are the company’s principal legal counsel for its bankruptcy filing; but it will not represent the new version of G.M. once that is created, as there is a potential conflict between parties with an interest in the existing company and those with interests in the new company. Mr. Bienenstock, a former partner of Mr. Miller’s at Weil, was brought in last fall to help create the company’s restructuring plan. He may end up representing the new G.M., although the decision has not been made.

The law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore, meanwhile, is representing G.M.’s board.

The restructuring also will provide work for many professional groups other than lawyers. G.M., for example, has retained the services of Jay Alix, the co-founder of AlixPartners, the consulting firm. Mr. Alix, who came out of retirement to help G.M., worked with Mr. Bienenstock on the plan for a new G.M., according to people briefed on the matter.

For financial and restructuring advice, the carmaker has turned to investment bankers at Evercore Partners, led by a cofounder, Roger Altman, and the restructuring co-head, William Repko, and to Morgan Stanley.

The government’s auto task force has its own advisers, led by the former investment bankers Steven Rattner and Ron Bloom. The team also has brought in several restructuring veterans, notably Matthew Feldman, formerly a partner at the law firm Willkie, Farr & Gallagher, and Harry Wilson, formerly an executive at the distressed-debt-focused hedge fund Silver Point Capital.

In addition, the auto task force has retained the services of the investment bank Rothschild, led by Todd Snyder, and the law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, led by John J. Rapisardi, and the Boston Consulting Group, to provide forecasts for auto sales.

The U.A.W., meanwhile, is receiving counsel from longtime advisers at Lazard, the investment bank, and the law firm Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton.

As the lawyers prepare to take their seats, many other steps have already been taken to ease the company into court.

Last week, the U.A.W. reached a deal with G.M. that includes concessions by workers and modifications to a health care fund that will assume responsibility for retirees’ benefits.

G.M. workers will be briefed on the contract changes in meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday, and are expected to vote on them this week.

Communities where G.M. does business are eligible to share in $50 million in federal assistance, announced by the administration last week.

Suppliers also have been offered assistance, and the Treasury is infusing more money into GMAC, the company’s lending arm that also will provide loans for Chrysler.

Consumers who buy G.M. cars while the company is under bankruptcy protection will have their warranties backed by the federal government, as it is doing for Chrysler buyers.

“I’ve never seen a bankruptcy that has such a happy face on it as this one,” Gary N. Chaison, professor of industrial affairs at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., said of the work that has been done in advance.

As a result, the tone has completely changed since the dire warnings late last year that a Chapter 11 case would spell the end to the country’s biggest carmaker. Now, Professor Chaison said, the government’s attitude was, “You’re going to the hospital and that’s really good because you’ll be out soon and you’ll be much better.”
889 2009-05-26 You have probably had your fill by now of swine flu, bird flu, flu of all descriptions; you have turned off your television, tossed the front section of this newspaper into the trash, and called for not one more word about the flu or any of the other dire infections breaking news around the globe.

Sad news: you are out of luck. There will unquestionably be more words  many more  and you will probably wind up reading them. An insatiable fascination with contagious illness is hard-wired into all of us, as two new books make clear.

From Philip Alcabes, an epidemiologist and a professor at Hunter College in New York, comes “Dread,” a sober analysis of why exactly this should be so. What is it that distinguishes epidemic infection from all other diseases, the ones that fail to generate breathless headlines and have failed to inspire the gigantic body of literature and commentary that trail behind history’s epidemics?

The answer is logical enough: epidemics hit us right at the nexus of self-interest and altruism, that exquisitely uncomfortable spot where our brother’s misfortune nudges us just enough that we need to examine it and distance ourselves from it (and, in more highly evolved civilizations, take care of it before it takes care of us).

The history of epidemic infection is actually somewhat less about disease and treatment than the various ways humans have found to create a nice thick wall between the ill and the well, the “us” and the “them.” Only quite recently has the radical notion of reaching through the wall and protecting the well by treating the ill gained much support.

Dr. Alcabes takes a methodical tour of the terrain, from the leprosy of biblical times through the bubonic plague outbreaks of medieval and Renaissance Europe, cholera and tuberculosis in the 19th century, AIDS in the 20th. Politics, religion and economic concerns shaped the public response to each, with feeble medical intervention generally trailing far behind.

The language itself, Dr. Alcabes argues, can sometimes transform the facts: once you call a disease an “epidemic,” for instance, you immediately imply that it has a story line, with a beginning and an end, a certain moral tenor and a narrative flow that regular old illness lacks.

And so, he asks provocatively, is obesity is really the newest modern epidemic? Or is the word being used cannily by public health officials, with the intent of inspiring a specific public reaction  creating an “us” and a “them” (“they” have bad habits and have made poor choices) and implying that someday it will be “over”?

This is fascinating stuff, or at least it should be. Unfortunately, Dr. Alcabes writes with the trademark mumble of the social scientist, and he has successfully gutted most of the human interest from his story. The facts are there, but the color has bled far away.

For living color, turn to “The Lassa Ward,” which effortlessly transmits both the facts and the fascination of a bad infectious outbreak. Dr. Ross Donaldson spent two months in Sierra Leone as a medical student in 2003. Malaria, tuberculosis, yellow fever and AIDS were rampant, but Dr. Donaldson, for reasons clear perhaps only to the invulnerable post-adolescent he was at the time, decided to spend his time with Lassa fever patients.

This rat-borne illness is one of Africa’s dire viral hemorrhagic fevers; like Ebola, it can reduce a human body to a bruised, bloated corpse in days. It is terrifying  the secretions of infected patients easily spread the disease  but it is also treatable, and in the best cases patients get well and go home.

Dr. Donaldson had trailed the elderly Lassa specialist Dr. Conteh for only a few weeks when, to his horror, he was left alone in charge of the Lassa isolation ward. “No matter how low a cotton tree falls, it is still taller than grass,” the old doctor said as he left to teach in another town. In other words, the inexperienced Dr. Donaldson, with three years of medical school, had more formal education than anyone else around.

With patients who were sicker than sick, and little in the way of tests or treatments, Dr. Donaldson clung to the usual life preservers: the advice of a couple of experienced nurses and his own common sense. At the end of two weeks, he writes, “I hardly recognized the person I had become.” He was a Lassa expert, veteran of the old education-by-immersion process that terrifies medical students no matter where they are.

His take on epidemic infection is dead-on, down to the bizarre stubbornness that often permeates stricken communities and prevents the very changes that might save lives. (For Lassa, a key preventive measure was to stop eating rats, but rat meat tasted far too good for that advice to be taken seriously.)

Dr. Donaldson shows how life can be strangely orderly at the deep center of an epidemic: meals are eaten, drugs are dispensed, patients die but others recover, and a little girl lying bloated and moribund in the hospital makes it home to play in a rat-infested yard. She may be immune to Lassa now, but her playmates are not. This is the portrait of contagion at the highest possible magnification, and all the abstruse details of policy, prevention and financing are right there, if you look hard enough.
890 2009-05-26 Giving an inexpensive deworming drug to millions of girls in rural Africa could substantially reduce transmission of the virus that causes AIDS, researchers say.

The drug praziquantel, which costs only 32 cents per child, would prevent schistosomiasis, a worm disease that starts as a urinary tract infection but, untreated, can lead to female genital sores that make it easier for H.I.V. to enter. Once lesions appear, the drug can kill the worms but not cure the sores, so girls must be protected before they reach sexual maturity.

The study, by researchers from the Sabin Vaccine Institute, Imperial College London and Oslo University Hospital, appears in PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases.

There are 207 million cases of schistosomiasis in the world, 90 percent of them in Africa. In Africa, humans typically get it from wading into snail-infested water to swim or wash clothes. The worms leave the snails and burrow into the skin; the first symptom is bloody urine.

The success of a pilot program in Burkina Faso suggested that all the 70 million toddlers and school-age children who are infected in Africa could be treated for $22 million; repeating that every two years for a decade would cost $112 million.

“For this relatively small investment, the reproductive health of young women would be improved,” the authors wrote, “and there is a reasonable chance that H.I.V./AIDS transmission can be reduced.”
891 2009-05-26 “I was the most frustrated person in the world because at no time did a doctor give us a real diagnosis,” said Mr. Ferguson’s wife, Elva. The suspicions of Mr. Ferguson’s daughter eventually led to an accurate diagnosis through an M.R.I. and neurological tests. The Fergusons also found Dr. Jeffrey Chen, the director of neurotrauma for the Legacy Health System in Portland, Ore., who is skilled at treating this often-reversible condition.

Two days after surgery to install a programmable shunt that relieved the pressure on the frontal lobes of his brain, Mr. Ferguson walked across a room for the first time in a year. He was able to think and write clearly, and his incontinence improved.

The Fergusons are now looking forward to their 56th anniversary. Mr. Ferguson, who had contemplated suicide, considers himself to have a second chance at life. “At one point I saw no light at the end of the tunnel,” he said, “and now it is just so beautiful there.”

No one knows how often N.P.H. occurs because it is so often missed or misdiagnosed. Estimates range from 50,000 to 375,000 people in the United States, with the higher figure more likely to be correct, said Dr. Mark Luciano, a neurosurgeon at the Cleveland Clinic.

“There are a lot of people out there with a correctable problem that is attributed to old age,” Dr. Luciano said. “When the problem is fixed, it’s like rescuing them from oblivion. A small percentage of people with dementia — maybe 10 or 15 percent — really have N.P.H.”

The disorder was recognized and named in 1965. But most doctors who treat older people are unaware of it or fail to think of it when treating patients with classic, albeit confusing, symptoms.

In most cases, the cause of N.P.H. is unknown. Some patients had suffered a severe head injury, stroke, meningitis or a brain tumor, perhaps decades earlier, which may have caused scarring or inflammation that gradually interfered with drainage of spinal fluid.

Dr. Kaplitt explained that each day the brain normally produces “about two soda cans’ worth of spinal fluid.” This fluid protects the brain’s soft tissue, which floats in the skull. Made deep in the brain, spinal fluid flows through a series of channels to the brain’s four ventricles and finally exits to outside the brain and spinal cord.

Each day the same amount of spinal fluid that is produced must be reabsorbed into the bloodstream. But if something slows or blocks its path, it builds up in the ventricles, which expand and press on nerves in the brain.

Normal pressure hydrocephalus is best diagnosed by a team that includes a radiologist, neuropsychologist and neurologist or neurosurgeon experienced in distinguishing this condition.

The best clue often comes from a careful medical history, since N.P.H. typically starts with gait problems, Dr. Luciano and his colleague, Dr. Ronan Factora, a geriatrician at the Cleveland Clinic, reported last year in the journal Geriatrics.

Cognitive impairment typically does not precede gait problems, they said, but when it does, or when dementia has become severe, the response to treatment is lessened. Incontinence, which starts out as urinary urgency, can occur at any point in the disease, and is often worsened by problems with walking or dementia.

Although there is no one route to diagnosis, if N.P.H. is suspected, a CT scan or M.R.I. of the brain can reveal one or more enlarged ventricles, an essential feature of the condition. On an M.R.I., Dr. Kaplitt said, the spinal fluid often is cloudy or turbulent.

Treating N.P.H. involves inserting a shunt into the brain to drain off accumulating spinal fluid and divert it to the abdomen, where it can be reabsorbed into the bloodstream. The ideal shunt has a valve and can be reprogrammed to regulate the drainage. Repeat surgery is a possibility if the shunt drains off too much or too little spinal fluid. While the shunt is not a cure for N.P.H., in the 70 to 80 percent of patients who benefit from it, it may give them a decade or more of near-normal life, the experts said.

To locate support groups and centers that can diagnose and treat N.P.H., you might check the Web site established by Codman, the maker of a programmable shunt, www.lifenph.com.
892 2009-05-26 PREMIO REAL--Countess Dorothy (born D. J. Ryan). Born May 14, 1915, Chicago. Died May 21, 2009, peacefully at her home outside of Paris, France. She is survived by three children Pamela Prentice Campbell, Alta Rockefeller Prentice, and Michael Sar...
893 2009-05-26 WEISSMAN--Bel, born 1928 in Losice, Poland died May 18, 2009, in Manhattan. She met her husband in Italy and they came to the US in 1948. A long time resident of Turtle Bay and Westhampton Beach. She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Bernard...
894 2009-05-27 The lawyer representing dissident Chrysler lenders now wants to fight the government on a bigger stage: the expected filing of General Motors....
895 2009-05-27 At a meeting in Mumbai, the makers of the film “Slumdog Millionaire” said they were trying to find new homes for its young actors and their families, but the father of one actor said the filmmakers were not doing enough....
896 2009-05-27 What makes a work of art "great"? The first installment of Errol Morris's seven-part tale of the Nazi-era Vermeer forgeries of Han van Meegeren....
897 2009-05-27 Finding joy in bloodthirsty bluefish, smart-alecky loons and the spectacle of creatures in our own backyards....
898 2009-05-27 The F.D.I.C. said Wednesday that it had placed 305 banks on its list of "problem" institutions, the most since 1994, and up from 252 at the end of 2008....
899 2009-05-27 ABC is presenting a half-hour of animation in the middle of the workweek when it introduces "The Goode Family" Wednesday at 9....
900 2009-05-27 With Representative Anthony D. Weiner out of the race, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. vowed to press his mayoral candidacy....
901 2009-05-27 The Florida State Board of Administration, which oversees $115 billion in pension fund assets, has voted to support one of William A. Ackman's nominees for the board of the giant retailer Target....
902 2009-05-27 Yahoo's new chief executive, Carol Bartz, signaled Wednesday that the troubled internet giant would be willing to sell its search unit to Microsoft if the price was right -- reviving talk of what was thought to be a dead deal....
903 2009-05-27 In today's Guardian, Ian Sample describes a new trend in biology that rave-scene habitués will especially appreciate: glow-in-the-dark marmosets. The Central Institute for Experimental Animals in Kawasaki, Japan has engineered the bioluminescence...
904 2009-05-27 A rugged Swiss forward signs with the Rangers....
905 2009-05-27 Once Barcelona had worked out United's formation and began to relax into its own it started to smother United in midfield and establish its passing rhythm....
906 2009-05-27 Marco Rubio, the Republican challenging Gov. Charlie Crist, for the nomination in the Senate race, is picking up some new endorsements....
907 2009-05-27 Carl C. Icahn, the billionaire activist investor, and the hedge fund Eastbourne Capital Management asserted Wednesday afternoon that they had prevailed in their quest to place their handpicked nominees on the board of Amylin Pharmaceuticals....
908 2009-05-27 Since the end of the 2001 recession, house prices have failed to keep up with inflation....
909 2009-05-27 Until recently, "most people in our office didn't even know what channel TLC was on," said Janice Min, the editor of Us Weekly magazine, which has featured the stars of "Jon & Kate Plus 8" on five consecutive covers....
910 2009-05-27 Surprising no one, General Motors announced Wednesday morning that its offer to exchange $27.2 billion of its bonds for a stake in a reorganized iteration of itself had expired, and had failed to garner enough interest from investors....
911 2009-05-27 The U.S. Supreme Court said on Tuesday that it would hear an appeal by Merck of a ruling that reinstated a securities fraud lawsuit involving the company's disclosures to investors about its withdrawn Vioxx pain drug....
912 2009-05-27 After several days of declines on concerns about the government's borrowing needs and the soundness of the dollar, stock markets rebounded Tuesday on a surprising bounce in consumer confidence....
913 2009-05-27 World stock markets shot higher Wednesday after a report showing Americans more optimistic about their economy strengthened hopes that the global recession would soon abate....
914 2009-05-27 Global Leveraged Capital, a private investment firm, said on Wednesday it is launching a new restructuring advisory group that will bring a different approach to fundraising at a time when struggling companies have little access to the credit mark...
915 2009-05-27 In “Chemical Plant Safety” (editorial, May 17), you call for action, but it is action that is already well under way to safeguard chemical facilities.

We agree that securing chemical facilities against deliberate attack is crucial to protecting Americans. That is why we didn’t wait to act. Since 9/11, our members have invested more than $6.5 billion to enhance security at their facilities. We also called on Congress to raise the bar on security across the nation, and in 2006, it took that step.

The federal government has issued a comprehensive regulatory program establishing clear and stringent requirements for securing everything from chemical facilities to warehouses and university labs. The rules require facilities to address a wide range of threats, from preventing a bomb-laden car from reaching a target to preventing theft or diversion of materials from a site.

By not boxing facility operators into a singular approach for securing their facilities, the rules allow and encourage operators to consider a wide array of security measures from process changes to hardening their facilities.

It should come as no surprise that we do not support regulatory proposals, crafted under the guise of security, that are veiled attempts to ban critically essential products vital to our nation’s economy and well-being. Going forward, we will continue to build on the bipartisan efforts and work with Congress and the Obama administration to protect our facilities, employees and communities.
916 2009-05-27 South Africa has fallen into its first recession in 17 years. Official statistics released Tuesday showed the nation’s economy contracted by 6.4 percent in the first quarter of this year, following a 1.8 percent decline in the last quarter of 2008. Mining and manufacturing were particularly hard hit, as global demand fell.
917 2009-05-27 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France opened naval, air and army bases in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday, France’s first military facilities in the Persian Gulf and the first permanent military installations built outside France since it began decolonization. About 500 French military personnel will be stationed at the sites.
918 2009-05-27 “He served well at times, but I just wasn’t putting any pressure on his second serve,” Blake said. “Couldn’t get really anything on my forehand. Usually that’s a pretty effective shot. Today, I didn’t feel like it was hurting him.”

Williams, a 10-time Grand Slam singles champion who won the Australian Open this year, looked rather mystified at times. Until Tuesday, she was 0-3 on clay in 2009, and the first person to beat her was none other than Zakopalova, a quick-footed Czech baseliner who — at 5 feet 5 inches and 110 pounds — looks as if she should be playing in a different division from Williams.

Zakopalova’s victory over Williams came in three sets in Marbella, Spain, where Williams was clearly bothered by her recurring left knee problems. And Williams later lost the first round in Rome and Madrid, where she retired in the first round against Francesca Schiavone of Italy. She arrived in Paris short on practice and training, and she took the court with an elastic tendinitis strap above her left knee for support.

“My leg felt pretty good, actually,” she said. “Definitely felt more confident in moving it, and it definitely felt much better than the past few weeks.”

Nonetheless, her internal and external struggles, coupled with Zakopalova’s intermittently sparkling baseline play, conspired to produce a 2-hour-32-minute marathon. “I think Serena will be playing better and better each round, so it was the best chance to at least play with her or beat her,” Zakopalova said. “So I feel very disappointed.”

Williams has never lost in the first round of a Grand Slam tournament, and, despite her erratic and edgy play, she was still in position to advance in straight sets when she rallied from a 0-3 deficit in the second set to lead, 5-3.

But Zakopalova saved five match points on her unimposing serve and then won a tie breaker.

“It just happens,” Williams said. “It shouldn’t happen at my stage in my career, but it did.”

Zakopalova saved three more match points on her serve, with Williams leading by 5-2 in the third set. Williams’s practice partners had given her slow serves to return to prepare for Zakopalova, but Williams could rarely find her rhythm.

Williams then lost her serve at 5-3, making two backhand errors, but she kept it together in the final game. Zakopalova could not save Williams’s ninth match point, mistiming a forehand that sailed crosscourt and wide.

Williams leaped twice in the air with the same sort of gusto she sometimes reserves for winning a tournament. Next up is another unseeded veteran counter-puncher with good returns: Virginia Ruano Pascual of Spain.

Others who advanced Tuesday included the Danish teenager Caroline Wozniacki; Jelena Jankovic of Serbia; and Jankovic’s countryman, Novak Djokovic, whose Ecuadorean opponent, Nicolas Lapentti, withdrew in the second set after spraining his left ankle. The Frenchman Gaël Monfils, seeded 11th but battling chronic left knee pain, looked quick and dangerous as he beat the American Bobby Reynolds, 6-2, 6-3, 6-1. Despite a lengthy rain delay, all but three first-round singles matches are complete. But Williams and her sister Venus failed to finish their first-round doubles match against the Czech team of Andrea Hlavackova and Lucie Hradecka. The Williamses held a 6-1, 3-6, 4-3 lead when the match was stopped because of fading light. By then, Serena Williams had played more than four hours of tennis.

“If I feel like I can’t play, then obviously I won’t,” she said of the doubles. “Right now, I actually need the matches.”
919 2009-05-27 One set of statistics neatly summarizes the findings. After surveying Harvard College alumni 15 years after graduation, Ms. Goldin and Mr. Katz estimated the average financial penalty for someone who had taken a year and a half off and then returned to work. In medicine, that person earned 16 percent less than a similar doctor who had not taken time off. Among people with no graduate degree, the gap was 25 percent. For both lawyers and Ph.D.’s, it was about 29 percent.

For M.B.A.’s, a group dominated by finance workers and consultants, it was 41 percent. Given how much money many make, they can probably do just fine even after such a pay cut. Yet the size of it suggests that time off puts them on a completely different career track.

“The good news is that there are at least some professions where women have been able to carve out a set of policies that are compatible with family life,” Jane Waldfogel, a Columbia professor who studies families, told me. “The challenge for the next generation — and it isn’t just about women — is to extend this to other occupations.”

Ms. Goldin and Mr. Katz, who are two of the country’s leading labor economists and have published the crux of these findings in the American Economic Review, studied Harvard graduates from the last 40 years. That allowed them to compare a fairly similar group of students over a long period, but had the disadvantage of creating a decidedly atypical survey group.

So the two economists compared their results to two other surveys — the National Survey of College Graduates, run by the , and a study of business school graduates — and found broadly consistent patterns.

According to the most recent National Survey, for instance, 21 percent of doctors in their late 30s and early 40s work less than 35 hours a week. The share was roughly 14 percent for M.B.A. graduates, as it was for lawyers and people with Ph.D.’s.

The idea that medicine offers more choices than other elite professions may come as a surprise, given that medical training requires notoriously long hours of study. But once doctors reach their 30s, many of them seem to be rewarded with a wider set of options than their counterparts in other fields.

When I heard about the new findings, I immediately thought of two friends of mine, a pediatrician and ophthalmologist married to each other and living in Colorado. Their years of training were typically grueling. While they were in medical school and residency in in the 1990s, they were surrounded by people at dot-coms who were working shorter hours and making vastly more money.

But today, they have the best work-life balance of any parents I know. She works two and a half days a week and is on call eight weekends a year. He arrives at his office early every morning and takes short lunches so that he can work four days a week. He is also on call 10 weeks a year. They have jobs they love, and they spend a lot of time with each other and their children.

As , the comedian turned politician, has observed, “Kids don’t want quality time. They want quantity time — big, stinking, lazy, nonproductive quantity time.” And research on emotional and intellectual development suggests that kids are right to want what they do.

Obviously, certain medical specialties still don’t allow for much flexibility. But a significant number do. (The same seems to be true of public policy and a few other fields; among people with a master’s degree in something other than business, the average pay penalty for taking time off was 13 percent, slightly below what it was for doctors.)

A telling example of a flexible field, Ms. Goldin points out, is obstetrics. It seems to be the archetypal field that must operate on someone else’s clock — a baby’s. Yet as the ranks of female obstetricians have grown, they have figured out how to change that.

Group practices are now the norm, and the doctors take turns being on call. A family’s primary obstetrician isn’t guaranteed to be the one who delivers the baby. In many practices, every doctor will see a woman at least once during her , so she knows everyone who may deliver her baby.

Wall Street, consulting firms and law firms have resisted this group approach to work. The partners claim the work is too complicated to be handed from one employee to another. In some cases, that’s no doubt true. Often, though, I bet it isn’t. “Why are women’s bodies less complicated than someone’s account?” Ms. Goldin wryly asks.

The general resistance to group work — and to flexibility — instead seems to stem from old habits, much as obstetricians once would have scoffed at the notion of a group practice. The downsides of allowing people to share work would probably be outweighed by the benefits of being able to hire talented people who want satisfying careers and aren’t willing to work 70-hour weeks.

For now, that group remains largely female. But there is some reason to hope that fathers will be increasingly drawn to such jobs as well. Over the last four decades, according to the economists Mark Aguiar and Erik Hurst, men have increased the average amount of time they spend taking care of children. (Harvard men, however, have not, the Goldin-Katz data show.)

The question of how to balance work and family is almost inevitably a thorny one. Easy answers, free of compromise and sacrifice, are rare, especially for people who don’t earn nearly as much money as doctors.

But if you’re a teenager or college student trying to decide what to do with your life, you at least may want to start thinking about the question. I promise: Most of you will spend a lot of time thinking about it later.
920 2009-05-27 For its part, Russia imposed unwieldy regulations on the project, and it was reluctant to use its own money. In general, the Kremlin under Vladimir V. Putin has grown much more secretive about these weapons sites, making it more difficult for American officials to verify how money is being spent.

Still, American and Russian officials are hailing the opening of the new facility at Shchuchye (pronounced SHOO-che), 1,000 miles east of Moscow and just east of the Ural Mountains. They said these chemical weapons were in some respects a far more potent terrorist threat than nuclear ones because they are much easier to steal and deploy.

The opening of the facility underscores how the United States and Russia have been able to hew to certain arms agreements even as overall relations soured during the Bush administration.

“This is one of the most historic steps forward ever in nonproliferation,” said Paul F. Walker, who took part in the 1994 inspection as a Congressional aide and is now a senior official at Global Green USA, an affiliate of an environmental organization begun by Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader.

“One of the most dangerous chemical weapons arsenals in the world is finally getting demilitarized,” Mr. Walker said. “And it’s been a long, long time.”

As the early inspection of Shchuchye demonstrated, Russia’s economic and political disarray in the early 1990s had severe consequences for its military infrastructure. American officials became alarmed that unconventional weapons could fall into the hands of terrorists.

In 1991, two senators, Sam Nunn, Democrat of Georgia, and Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, proposed a program to help the countries of the former Soviet Union secure and destroy those weapons.

However rocky, the relative success of the Nunn-Lugar program has been cited by some Obama administration officials as offering hope for negotiations on future treaties. Russian and American officials are now engaged in talks on a new version of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, or Start, which expires in December.

The shells and warheads at Shchuchye contain about 5,950 tons of nerve agents, including sarin and VX. To dispose of them, a hole will be drilled into each, and the agents will be drained and mixed with other chemicals to neutralize them. The residue will be solidified in asphalt or a similar material.

While the facility’s formal opening is on Friday, it began preliminary operations in March. Russia ended up allocating roughly $600 million for the project, and other countries contributed as well.

It has taken years to develop the process to eliminate the nerve agents, with the Russians choosing not to incinerate them because of local opposition. It might be five years or more before all the weapons are neutralized.

“It turns out that it is a lot easier to produce chemical weapons than to destroy them,” said Igor V. Rybalchenko, a scientist who is a senior adviser to the Russian government.

Mr. Rybalchenko said the methods being used were safe. However, environmental groups expressed concern about the potential for accidents at the new facility. They contend that the Russian government has long violated environmental laws at such sites.

Lev A. Fyodorov, president of the Russian Union for Chemical Safety, said people in Shchuchye had seen fires and other accidents at the storage complex in recent years, yet the government had never publicized them or explained what safety measures it had undertaken.

“At American storage bases, many kinds of accidents have occurred, and we know about them,” Mr. Fyodorov said. “In Russia, do we know about such things at Russian bases? Of course not. I am a Russian citizen, and the Russian government does not tell me anything. Do we need to destroy chemical weapons? Of course. But do we need to violate the environmental rules of Russia to do this?”

Russia and the United States have the vast majority of the world’s chemical weapons, and they have pledged to dispose of them under the Chemical Weapons Convention. Both countries have encountered problems in financing and logistics, and they are not expected to meet the 2012 deadline.

Shchuchye, in fact, has only 14 percent of Russia’s chemical weapons, which are kept at seven sites.

But Shchuchye is considered perhaps the most critical location because many of the nerve agents are in shells. The city is close to Kazakhstan, which itself is near Afghanistan.

Senator Lugar recalled that he often had to fend off Congressional opposition to the Shchuchye project, especially from Republicans who said that American aid was allowing Russia to spend its own money on bolstering its military.

But Senator Lugar, who plans to attend the opening ceremony on Friday, said that on an earlier visit, a single gesture showed that the storage site endangered the whole world.

“I took one of those shells,” he said, “and put it in a briefcase.”
921 2009-05-27 Monthly figures from the 230-member International Air Transport Association do not distinguish between business-class and first-class travel, but show that all “premium” traffic plummeted 21 percent in February and 19 percent in March from levels a year earlier. The loss is critical because airlines make most of their profit from their first- and business-class seats.

Doubts about the future of elite travel were raised by British Airways and Qantas during the past week, with the B.A. chief executive, Willie Walsh, announcing that four new long-haul Boeing 777s would join his fleet this year without a first-class cabin, and that the airline would review the configuration of all its new planes.

Qantas, which offers its first-class passengers sheepskin mattresses, cordon bleu cooking, hand-made chocolate truffles and designer sleep wear, said Monday that it was scrapping first class altogether on a temporary basis on three of its long-distance routes.

But at Lufthansa Technik, a subsidiary of the German airline and the world’s biggest one-stop shop for aircraft maintenance and cabin refurbishment, contracts to rip out first-class accoutrements are not pouring in.

In fact, Bernhard Schöning, manager for cabin modification for commercial airlines, says that the trend is moving in the opposite direction.

“We are now modifying back from two to three classes again,” he said.

For airlines, at a time of immense financial pressure, the prospect of using bonus points to upgrade to first class may make the difference between a passenger taking your flight, or that of a competitor, he noted.

“It’s a reason to keep first class,” Mr. Schöning said. “Bonus programs, and upgrades into first, play a big part.”

It also makes sense for an airline to bump a high fare-paying passenger into first if it opens up a space to meet extra demand in coach, said Nick Cunningham, an aviation analyst at Evolution Securities in London.

“It’s a marketing tool in a recession, and in the best of times it’s a genuine yield tool,” said Mr. Cunningham.

Although some corporations are restricting executive travel to business class, Lufthansa said that some travellers were still managing to get seats in first.

“They are upgrading themselves on miles collected personally,” said Amélie Schwierholz, a spokeswoman for the German flag carrier.

British Airways, the world’s first airline to introduce fully flat beds in its premium cabins in 1996, insisted that it was not rowing back on luxury travel, despite Walsh’s comments published in the Guardian newspaper during the weekend.

Anthony Cane, a B.A. spokesman, said the new 777s being delivered this year were ordered in a two-class configuration long before the financial crisis struck.

Furthermore, the airline — which offers lobster Thermidor, aromatherapy “Sleep Enhancer” spray on pillows of Egyptian cotton, and “infinity bathrooms” to its best passengers in its lounges at Heathrow airport — will be investing this year in the long-awaited revamp of its first-class cabins.

“We stand by our premium product,” Mr. Cane said.

Like Qantas, Lufthansa and Emirates, which offers Beluga caviar and showers to first-class passengers on its A380 superjumbos, B.A. does not give away seats in its first-class cabin for free, according to Mr. Cane.

Travelers can gain access to the first-class cabin by converting their frequent flier miles into top-class seats, by taking advantage of B.A.’s special promotions on first-class travel, or purchasing fares that offer one leg of a journey in first.

But as some airlines remove first-class cabins on routes with slack demand, others are increasing investment with a view to future recovery.

Air France has just opened a first-class lounge at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport. Lufthansa, which has an entire terminal at Frankfurt accessible only to the first-class traveler, is in the second year of a five-year, €150 million, or $210 million, investment in its premium lounges, having already opened three which are dedicated exclusively to first-class passengers.

Another opened at Kennedy International Airport in New York in January.

The German airline, furthermore, expects to take delivery of its first A380 superjumbo early next year and will use the opportunity to promote a revitalized first-class offering for the entire airline, according to a spokesman, Jan Bärwalde.

Many U.S. airlines, in contrast, have largely done away with first-class travel, with intercontinental routes between major city pairs among the few that still offer three-class cabins, according to Peter Walsh, managing partner for the aviation consultants Oliver Wyman in Dallas.

“There is significant pressure on first-class cabins originating in the U.S. right now,” he said, adding that paid-for first class passengers typically filled less than 20 percent of the first class cabin.

Upgrades — usually “paid” for with frequent-flyer program miles — were more common.

Investment, he added, was limited, with carriers saving cash rather than modifying their jets to add or take away first class seats.

Still, Emirates, which has 8 first-class suites on its 777 jets and 14 on the A380, says that suppressing the first-class cabin is unthinkable, even with the crisis in demand for premium seats.

“It’s something that’s expected by the first-class traveler,” said a spokesman based in Paris for the Dubai-based carrier who requested anonymity according to company policy. “If we started changing the configuration of the airplane, its possible that the passenger would go elsewhere.”
922 2009-05-27 And it establishes 85 percent as the floor for negotiations between the trustee and other funds that took at least $10 billion in profits out of the Madoff scheme in its final days. Under the terms of this deal, the trustee cannot accept less from any of those funds without extending the same deal retroactively to Banco Santander.

“I am very pleased that we reached such a favorable settlement,” Mr. Picard said in a statement announcing the deal. “We hope that other entities against which we have claims will likewise come forward to settle those claims for the benefit of all of Madoff’s victims.”

Mr. Picard noted in court filings that his staff has investigated the activities of the funds and determined that they “were not complicit in the fraud” perpetrated by Mr. Madoff “and did not have any actual knowledge of the fraud.”

Mr. Picard is overseeing the Madoff liquidation on behalf of the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, the industry-financed agency authorized by Congress to oversee bankruptcy cases involving brokerage firms.

Stephen P. Harbeck, the SIPC president and chief executive, said his agency “supports the settlement wholeheartedly” and praised the “extensive factual research, diligent legal scholarship and practical craftsmanship” by the trustee and his staff.

Banco Santander was one of the largest conduits carrying global cash to Mr. Madoff. The bank invested about $24 million of its own money and $3 billion of its clients’ money in the Madoff scheme, largely through its Geneva-based hedge fund unit, Optimal Investment Services. In return, that hedge fund unit earned more than $100 million in fees from clients in 2006 and 2007 alone.

Santander is one of several banks that have offered to compensate its clients who lost money in the fraud, and it recently reported that most of its customers had accepted the reimbursement offer.

The settlement, if approved, would shield the Optimal funds from any future claims by Mr. Picard and allow them to go forward with their own claims against the Madoff estate, which total about $1.5 billion. The funds also will get an initial distribution of $500,000 for their claims — the maximum that SIPC allows.

As of Memorial Day, SIPC has committed more than $116 million in initial distributions to 237 of Mr. Madoff’s victims, most of whom have qualified for the maximum payment.

Mr. Madoff pleaded guilty to fraud charges in March and is in jail awaiting sentencing, scheduled for June 29. A hearing on the Banco Santander settlement is scheduled for June 16.
923 2009-05-27 Roberta’s fits right in. The restaurant looks like a cinderblock bunker, and the beer and wine are served in jelly jars, but the food is as confident and relaxed as the scruffy clientele. Here even something as basic as arugula salad with bresaola ($10) has unexpected character when the salumi is house-cured.

Soon the arugula will be Bushwick-grown. Chris Parachini and Brandon Hoy, Mr. Mirarchi’s partners, are planting three gardens in the neighborhood that will eventually supply Roberta’s with much of its produce. And with help from a donation by Alice Waters, tomatoes, peppers and herbs will grow on top of a shipping container next to the restaurant. Who needs stone barns when you have a perfectly good steel box?

If this all sounds too earnest by half, just order the pork chop ($17), which arrives on a pile of farro and ramps in stinging-nettle broth. It’s an enormous hunk of meat, a double chop of Berkshire pork brined for 24 hours and flash-roasted in the wood oven until crisp and succulent. The pork chop is becoming the bar steak of this generation, and the one at Roberta’s ranks among the city’s best.

Mr. Mirarchi is a restless chef. Self-trained and only 28 years old, he changes his small and eclectic menu weekly, even daily, and it’s telling that all the dishes are called “Dinner Specials.”

Though it’s not always clear what is appetizer size, and what is a main course.

The roast chicken ($15) is as hearty and expertly roasted in the wood-burning oven as the pork chop. But the braised lamb’s breast ($10) is downright dainty. It was also incredibly rich, and a touch too sweet. It needed balance and heft, and it got both from a side dish of grilled fingerling potatoes ($8) topped with pickled ramps and a dusting of smoky pimentón.

This isn’t the only Brooklyn restaurant where you might assemble a meal with off-cuts of meat and simple but tasty side dishes. What makes Roberta’s so exciting is that it’s still evolving; the food on the menu today is going to be different in six months, Mr. Mirarchi said.

Roberta’s is also more than a restaurant: the grass-fed set has turned it into something of a clubhouse.

The Heritage Radio Network, www.heritageradionetwork.com, which programs shows about urban foragers and first-time farmers, presents Webcasts out of a studio to the side of the dining room.

Most of the recording happens during the day, when the menu is only pizzas and salads. If you show up then, you could order the guanciale and egg pizza ($13), a Roberta’s favorite.

But whatever you do, come back for dinner.

BEST DISHES Arugula with bresaola; pickled pig’s tongue; mackerel with lemon jelly; wood-roasted chicken; wood-roasted Berkshire pork chop.

PRICES Starters and side dishes, $6 to $15; main courses, $10 to $18.

RESERVATIONS Accepted for parties of eight or more.

HOURS Monday to Friday, noon to midnight; Saturday and Sunday, 11 a.m. to midnight.

WHEELCHAIR ACCESS All on one level; bathrooms are cramped.
924 2009-05-27 Levi Strauss & Company has a tradition of supporting equal rights for gays. Last fall, the San Francisco-based company filed an amicus brief with the California Supreme Court outlining the economic advantages of allowing same-sex couples to wed. The company has also signed on to sponsor a programming block on Logo, the gay cable channel owned by MTV Networks, and developed a marketing partnership with “Milk,” the Focus Features movie about Harvey Milk, the gay civil rights leader.

“We always try to connect to the energy and events of our time,” said Erica Archambault, Levi’s director of brand marketing and public relations. “What’s the pioneering spirit of today? A lot of people are rallying around marriage equality and fighting for that and so many individuals within our company feel so strongly about it.”

The Levi’s stores have no signs or conspicuous messages about the White Knot for Equality organization. Instead, the intent is to encourage customers to talk with employees, who have been briefed on the campaign. “We have weekly calls with our store managers and we sent out detailed information about the White Knot organization and also ways in which we’re supporting marriage equality over all as a company,” Ms. Archambault said.

The point, she said, is for sales staff “to be educated and able to have an informed conversation that’s more interactive than reading off a card or something.”

Mr. Voci said that he decided to create a symbol after seeing a number of rallies opposing the passage of Proposition 8. Inspired by the red ribbon for H.I.V./AIDS and the pink ribbon for breast cancer, he headed to a fabric store and began playing with white ribbon. “I was trying to figure out something different to do with it,” he recalled. “I tied it in a knot and thought, ‘Oh, tie the knot, like getting married.’ ”

“Everyone should have the right to tie the knot,” he said.

His eureka moment also led to the creation of a Web site, WhiteKnot.org. The owner of Voci Media Works, Mr. Voci advises companies like Living Proof, which makes hair- and skin-care products, on Internet strategies. He said he applied his knowledge to develop the WhiteKnot.org site. Volunteers have made thousands of White Knots, and the site features stories about their efforts.

Mr. Voci said he was not interested in turning the White Knot campaign into a major fund-raising operation. Instead, he said, he plans to support the efforts of established organizations like the Human Rights Campaign and Freedom to Marry.

Mr. Voci said he hoped that the White Knot could represent other initiatives promoting gay civil rights. “There’s a larger push for overall equal rights, the repeal of DOMA” — the Defense of Marriage Act — “the repeal of ‘don’t ask, don’t tell,’ the passage of a hate crimes bill and the end of workplace discrimination,” he said. “Marriage equality seems to be the headliner right now, but what we really want is comprehensive civil rights.”

Ricki Lake, the actress, has worn the White Knot to events. “It’s so simple and it says a lot,” she said. “It’s the same thing as the Lance Armstrong LiveStrong bracelet — that simple gesture that gets the word out.”
925 2009-05-27 The practice may succeed as a deterrent, spreading fear among those who have not yet experienced the chill of a jail cell, the debasement of a strip search, the pain of electric shock.

But for those who have already faced the worst, the threats often have the reverse effect. In Iran, the state once jailed Emad Baghi for his work against the death penalty and in support of prisoners’ rights. In , Michel Kilo was locked up after calling on President Bashar al-Assad to build citizenship and rule of law. In , Saad Eddin Ibrahim was imprisoned because of his work in support of democracy.

As Mr. Jahmi did, they each chose to continue to speak up when they were released.

“If I abandon my cause, then I will let them accomplish their goal,” Mr. Kilo said in a telephone interview after being released this month after three years in prison.

“No, I have not been broken,” he said, his voice still frail and weak.

, a former presidential candidate and sharp critic of President , served four years in Egypt’s Tora Prison after being convicted of charges widely regarded as politically inspired. But the night of his release in February, he appeared on Egypt’s most popular television talk show and resumed his attacks on the government.

Are these dissidents extraordinary? Are they crazy, perhaps, or egomaniacal, as some critics have said? Or are they all too human, fighting to maintain a sense of personal worth that the state has tried to strip away?

There are, of course, many reasons different people in different cultures choose the path of most resistance. But the most compelling, the activists themselves say, particularly in a Middle Eastern culture that honors martyrdom, is that prison becomes a defining and hardening experience, cementing their convictions and removing any temptation to compromise their beliefs.

Curiously, Middle Eastern leaders make the same mistake that they often warn the West about: humiliating their people, many of whom then find personal meaning and dignity in fighting back. “What’s interesting is the role the regimes play in keeping the likes of Kilo or Fathi permanently committed to their conflict with the government,” said Sarah Leah Whitson, director of ’s and North Africa division.

Very often, freedom comes with so many limitations, Ms. Whitson said, that the dissidents feel more productive behind bars. Mr. Nour, for example, recently told a visiting class of journalism students from that he wanted to go back to prison, because he had greater impact there than on the outside. He told the students he had not been allowed to practice law, to work in politics, or even to open a bank account.

Speaking from his home in Damascus, Mr. Kilo said: “There is no doubt that when it comes to political power we are weak, but from our intellectual point of view we are not wrong, we are not defeated. I have not been defeated. But can any policeman come and take me and put me in prison right now? Sure he can.”

It is certainly not just the way of dissidents in the Middle East. The Nobel laureate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has had her freedom restricted for more than a decade for her opposition to Myanmar’s military junta.

In , Fatos Lubonja was 24 when the police knocked on his door. At the time, Albania was a Stalinist police state. The police found his hidden writings, antigovernment ideas he had not yet even published. Mr. Lubonja was sentenced to five years in prison.

By the time the Communist government fell, Mr. Lubonja had spent a total of 17 years as a prisoner. When the new government set him free in 1991, he had options: to cash in on his life as a dissident of the old government, or to speak up against a new one that he said was itself authoritarian.

He said he had no choice.

“It is a matter not only of dignity, it is the sense of your life,” he said in a telephone interview from . “It’s your choice of life, and if you give up you will lose your sense of your life.”

“Tarnishing Egypt’s image” was the reason Mr. Ibrahim was sentenced to six years in prison in 2002. He was freed by an appeals court after 10 months. He suffered from nerve damage and had trouble walking. Mr. Ibrahim went right back at it, criticizing Mr. Mubarak. While he was out of Egypt attending a conference two years ago, he was charged again — and warned not to return, or else face prison. He has lived in self-imposed exile since. On Monday a court overturned a two-year sentence he had been given, and there is talk he may now return.

“It is almost like, shall we say, like a slide, you get into this feeling of mission and you become obsessed with it,” Mr. Ibrahim said in a telephone interview from the , just before the verdict was issued.

He recalled a difficult moment a year into his exile, when his two grandsons visited him in Istanbul. “One of them said, ‘Grandpa, why don’t you stop, apologize to President Mubarak and come back to Egypt?’ ”

“I had never discussed politics with these children,” Mr. Ibrahim said the other day. “I said, ‘Apologize to Mubarak?’ I said, ‘Why apologize?’

“They said, ‘We want you back.’

“I said, ‘When he apologizes to the Egyptian people, I will apologize back,’ ” Mr. Ibrahim recalled.

He said he had no choice.
926 2009-05-27 Judge Sotomayor’s current court, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, is a collegial one. But Judge Jose A. Cabranes, writing for himself and five other judges, used unusually tough language in dissenting from the full court’s later refusal to rehear the firefighters’ case.

Judge Cabranes said the panel’s opinion “contains no reference whatsoever to the constitutional claims at the core of this case” and added that “this perfunctory disposition rests uneasily with the weighty issues presented by this appeal.”

That assessment, which was directed at the work of all three judges on the panel, may have carried extra weight with Judge Sotomayor. Judge Cabranes was a mentor to her, and he administered the judicial oath to her twice — in 1992, when she joined the Federal District Court in , and again in 1998, when she was elevated to the Second Circuit.

The case, Ricci v. DeStefano, is now before the Supreme Court. In the next month or so, that court will render an unusually high-profile judgment on the work of a judge who hopes to join it. Based on the questioning at the argument in the case last month, the majority’s assessment is likely to be unflattering.

In an interview shortly before she joined the district court in 1992, Ms. Sotomayor spoke about what awaited her, saying that “95 percent of the cases before most judges are fairly mundane.”

“I’m not going to be able to spend much time on lofty ideals,” she said. “The cases that shake the world don’t come along every day. But the world of the litigants is shaken by the existence of their case, and I don’t lose sight of that, either.”

Judge Sotomayor’s six years on the trial court and more than a decade on the Second Circuit probably confirmed those intuitions, in part because of the idiosyncratic dockets of the federal courts in New York. They hear many important cases involving business, securities, employment, white-collar crime and . But they do not regularly confront the great issues of the day.

One exception is on the horizon. The full Second Circuit, including Judge Sotomayor, recently reheard the case of , a Canadian who contends that American officials sent him to in 2002 to be tortured. A divided panel of the court had dismissed Mr. Arar’s case. The decision from the full court should provide clues about Judge Sotomayor’s views concerning how far the government may go in its efforts to combat terrorism.

Thomas C. Goldstein, a lawyer who argues frequently before the Supreme Court and founded Scotusblog, a Web site that covers the court, said there could be no doubt about Judge Sotomayor’s intellectual capacity.

“She’s got the horses, for sure,” Mr. Goldstein said.

Nor, he added, was there any question of her fundamental orientation, based on a review of her decisions. “From the outcomes,” Mr. Goldstein said, “she’s certainly on the left.”

Judge Sotomayor’s rulings have sometimes anticipated decisions of the Supreme Court. In 1999, for instance, she refused to suppress crack cocaine found by police officers who were executing a warrant that had been vacated 17 months before but never deleted from a police database.

That kind of error, Judge Sotomayor said, did not require suppression. The Supreme Court came to the same conclusion in January, a decade after Judge Sotomayor’s decision.

On other occasions, Judge Sotomayor has been content to wait for definitive guidance from the Supreme Court. In January, she joined an unsigned decision rejecting a Second Amendment challenge to a New York law prohibiting the possession of chukka sticks, a weapon used in martial arts made up of two sticks joined by a rope or chain.

The decision reasoned that the Supreme Court’s ruling last year establishing an individual right to bear arms, District of Columbia v. Heller, had not yet been applied to the states. The Second Circuit’s decision may well reach the Supreme Court.

In a 2004 dissent, Judge Sotomayor seemed to be in agreement with Justice ’s observation in a recent interview with that female judges can be more sensitive to claims that strip searches of young girls are unduly intrusive.

The majority opinion in the 2004 case, by two male judges, upheld the legality of some strip searches of girls held at juvenile detention centers in .

In her dissent, Judge Sotomayor wrote that the majority had not been attentive enough to “the privacy interests of emotionally troubled children” who “have been victims of abuse or neglect, and may be more vulnerable mentally and emotionally than other youths their age.”

That was in line with Justice Ginsburg’s questioning from the bench last month in Safford Unified School District v. Redding, which concerned what she called a “humiliating” strip search of a 13-year-old middle school student by school officials in .

In her dissent, Judge Sotomayor also emphasized how “embarrassing and humiliating” the searches of the girls in Connecticut had been. “The officials inspected the girls’ naked bodies front and back, and had them lift their breasts and spread out folds of fat,” Judge Sotomayor wrote.

In a 2002 dissent, Judge Sotomayor said she would have ruled that the First Amendment has a role to play in protecting anonymous racist communications made by a police officer. Saying she found the communications “patently offensive, hateful and insulting,” Judge Sotomayor nonetheless would have allowed the officer’s case against the police department that fired him to proceed to trial.

She said the majority should not “gloss over three decades of jurisprudence and the centrality of First Amendment freedoms in our lives because it is confronted with speech it does not like.”
927 2009-05-27 The organizations say the repayment programs have been hurt by a broader effort by Congress to tackle the high cost of the federal student loan program by reducing subsidies to lenders.

Curbing the programs will make it harder to lure college graduates into high-value but often low-paying fields like teaching and nursing.

While few schools may be hiring now in this economic climate, there may be shortages later, educators say.

“You’re going to diminish the quality of the candidates who are thinking, ‘Do I take my skills in math and science into industry or do I take them into the classroom?’ ” said Tracey L. Bailey, who had loans forgiven in and now is director of education policy for the Association of American Educators.

The Kentucky Higher Education is at the extreme in cutting payments to people in midstream who have already finished their educations and are repaying loans, but organizations in many other states have curtailed their new offers to prospective teachers, nurses and others.

The Higher Education Loan Corporation has suspended its program for teachers, and the Higher Education Assistance Authority has done so for nurses and people called to active duty in the military.

Iowa Student Loan has reduced the maximum amounts offered to people in two of its three program categories, one for teachers and one for certain types of nurses, in an effort to ensure the programs will last. Student Loan, which is based in , ended a program for nurses last year.

The changes leave students without a critical escape hatch from their federal college and graduate school loans, and they throw up a roadblock for those who dream of teaching but fear an oppressive combination of low wages and high debt.

“I remember sitting in the financial aid office and them saying, ‘Pay for every penny of it, pay for your books through loans, because they’re going to be forgiven,’ ” Mr. Gay said. And he dutifully did, using federal loans to cover some of the costs of his undergraduate degree in communications and all the costs of his master’s program in special education, which he finished in 2006.

If he had known the forgiveness program was vulnerable, Mr. Gay said, he would have chosen a different career, perhaps public relations. “Which I am actually contemplating doing right now,” he added.

Teachers in Kentucky are hoping to get financing restored for the program. But it is not clear where the money could come from.

“We’d obviously love to see something like that happen,” said Ted Franzeim, vice president for customer relations of the organization. He added that the group had never told participants that financing for forgiveness was guaranteed — a point that schoolteachers dispute.

About 7,500 teachers, nurses and public interest lawyers have benefited from the state’s loan forgiveness program since 2003, at a cost of $77 million, Mr. Franzeim said.

The federal government and some states continue to support their programs to lure promising young graduates to less lucrative jobs. The federal still offers up to $17,500 in loan forgiveness to math, science or education teachers who have worked for at least five years at an elementary or secondary school in a low-income area.

, and New York pay for their programs directly instead of relying on nonprofit organizations, and they have not been cut by lawmakers. In the Legislature is debating whether to suspend funding of a program for nurses.

Another problem for some of the nonprofit groups that rely on selling their loans in a secondary market is that financing has dried up.

The Higher Education Loan Authority, for example, has stopped offering to reduce interest rates for borrowers working in public service fields like teaching and firefighting, said Will Shaffner, director of business development and governmental relations. The only investor willing to buy its loans now is the federal Education Department, which purchases loans with standard terms only.

There is no clear accounting of how many people were swayed by loan forgiveness to pursue teaching, or how many might be deterred by the absence of such programs. But the anecdotal evidence suggests the programs matter.

Mark Henderson said he weighed a job as an auditor at , where he worked as temporary help in 2005, against the chance to teach math, a subject he loved. Kentucky’s loan forgiveness program persuaded him to try teaching.

“I thought, at least if I have somebody repay it, I can last five years and get rid of this debt,” said Mr. Henderson, 26, a math teacher in . He enrolled at Spalding University and graduated in 2006 with a master’s in teaching; he is not yet in repayment on his loans because he is taking classes to improve his earning potential.

He has ended up teaching at the very high school he attended, Mr. Henderson said, and teaches geometry in the same classroom where he learned it.

“As it turned out, I really liked it,” he said, “and I’ll stick around for a long time.”
928 2009-05-27 The title of Leslie Lee’s play “Sundown Names and Night-Gone Things” comes from a reference an insurance salesman makes about women who trade sex for premium payments, and that about sums up the whole of Mr. Lee’s play.

As a separate coda to a season dedicated to the storied Negro Ensemble Company by the Signature Theater Company, the Castillo Theater is presenting a revival of “Sundown Names” by the Negro Ensemble that features some fine acting under the direction of the estimable Woodie King Jr. The play, set in Chicago in 1938, is probably intended as an exposé of the exploitation, sexual and otherwise, of unsuspecting women by predatory males.

Running at nearly three hours, it is also a long-winded one, and despite a couple of improbable curtain conversions, little more than a stereotypical portrayal of the attitude of black men toward their women.

The play opens with a torrid love scene between Ruby, a good-time girl with a string of lovers, and Cairo, a young man newly arrived from Natchez, Miss., who wants a more permanent relationship. The action, such as it is, then moves to the insurance office where an agent is selling a woman a policy for 10 cents a week.

Three salesmen in the office spend most of the first act cracking jokes about religion (one does a funny impersonation of a revivalist preacher); debating the qualities of dark-skinned versus light-skinned women; and swapping clients, with whom they are having sex, as if they were baseball cards. Cairo is appalled, although he is paying Ruby’s premiums.

Some of this banter is amusing, much like a comedy-club skit, but it soon becomes stale and repetitive, and the characters remain mostly two-dimensional. There are moments when the play makes passing reference to something deeper — as when Cairo explains why he is always reading “The Grapes of Wrath,” or Ruby admits that she has been using cocaine and has maltreated her daughter — but Mr. Lee never pursues them. At the end, almost as if Mr. Lee suddenly realized the play needed a plot, there are a couple of surprise twists, one involving gunplay, but they are not believable.
929 2009-05-27 But Martin and other graduates are finding that the industry’s growth is slowing, if not reversing. Students are receiving fewer job offers this spring or are accepting internships instead of salaried positions. Many of those internships are unpaid. The worry, their professors say, is that austerity may become the norm, forcing students to scale down or abandon their ESPN-fueled dreams.

“I used to teach that sport was recession-proof, but this recession proved me wrong,” said Gary Sailes, who runs the undergraduate program in sports marketing and management at Indiana. “I tell students that this is a good time to stay in school.”

The number of jobs related to spectator sports has risen steadily during the last few decades. According to figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 138,700 people work in the spectator sports industry, 9.8 percent more than in 2002.

There is no accurate tally of how many jobs have been lost in the last year or so, but the anecdotal evidence is grim. The N.F.L. has cut nearly 200 jobs. The N.B.A. has eliminated 10 percent of its staff, and the United States Olympic Committee laid off more than 50 workers.

The L.P.G.A. dropped several tournaments, and Honda ended its Formula One sponsorship. The Jets will furlough some employees for two weeks, and the Cleveland Browns, the Denver Broncos and the Washington Redskins have cut jobs.

Many other teams and tournaments, stung by declines in attendance and sponsorship dollars, have stopped hiring. ESPN will not fill 200 vacant jobs. The Arena Football League canceled its season.

This is bad news for the 300 or so universities that offer sport management degrees. Every year, they churn out thousands of graduates who, even in good times, are willing to work for low pay in return for the chance to work around athletes and arenas. The teams, leagues and others in the sports industry have taken advantage of their willingness to make financial sacrifices, and may continue to do so.

“Sport management is one of the sexy industries, and it’s very hard to discourage students from joining the industry,” said Mark McDonald, the director of internships at the University of Massachusetts’s sport management program. “I feel for the students who haven’t done the preparation.”

Going to college to prepare for a job in sports is relatively new. Years ago, many jobs were filled through word of mouth or serendipitously. Marty Appel, the Yankees’ assistant public-relations director in the early 1970s, wrote to the team in 1967 asking for a summer job. He was lucky; someone was needed to answer Mickey Mantle’s mail.

“It was very much like a fly-by-the-seat-of-your-pants operation,” said Appel, who estimated there were only 40 people working in the team’s front office then.

By the late 1970s, Appel interviewed graduates of some of the first sport management programs who, he said, were better prepared to handle the growing list of demands on ball clubs.

Walter O’Malley, who owned the Dodgers in Brooklyn and Los Angeles and who foresaw the need for better-trained employees, helped persuade Ohio University to start the first degree-granting sport management program in 1966.

The number of programs jumped fourfold in the 1980s as the industry grew along with ESPN and Title IX, according to Jacquelyn Cuneen, who teaches sport management at Bowling Green. Dozens of universities, looking to increase enrollment, rebranded their physical education departments.

Sport management programs have also been broadened to teach fitness, tourism, recreation and hospitality, prompting critics to claim that many programs do not provide students with the skills to succeed at anything other than the lowest-level jobs.

More worrisome is the realization that even at rigorous programs, students are getting about half as many job offers this year compared with other years, according to Dallas Branch, who teaches sport management at West Virginia. Yeoman’s work is demanded of graduates even from the most prestigious universities like Columbia, which started a master’s level program for midcareer students in 2006.

While attending classes there, Sean Mysel is working this summer as a stadium manager for the Sussex Skyhawks, a minor league baseball team in New Jersey. But he has spent about $25,000 on tuition and $75,000 on living expenses to attend Columbia, which he hopes will help him reach his goal of running a major league ballpark.

“I know the job market is difficult for a while, but I don’t feel I have to hit the panic button,” said Mysel, 31. “At a minimum, it will take 10 or 15 years.”

Graduate students, though, are in a better position than undergraduates because they often have several years of work experience. Kati Karottki, who graduated last weekend from Massachusetts with a bachelor’s degree in sport management, did well in college and worked as a research analyst at a company that measures sponsorships.

But as her senior year began, she planned to single out several companies as potential employers. Then Lehman Brothers collapsed in September.

“I really had to redo everything,” she said.

She reached out to alumni and had half a dozen interviews. But over and over, she heard the same thing: there are other candidates with master’s degrees with more experience who are willing to work for little. This week, she is traveling to Bristol, Conn., to interview at ESPN for an analyst’s job focused on audience research. She is not getting ahead of herself.

“They have so many applicants and people to choose from, just getting to an in-person interview, that’s a big achievement,” she said. “My classmates have resigned themselves to doing another internship or taking time off to travel.”
930 2009-05-27 Like “South Park,” “King of the Hill” arrived in 1997 as one of the indelible culture-war comedies of the Wal-Mart versus Williams-Sonoma era. Created by Mike Judge and Greg Daniels, “King of the Hill” forged a brilliant neutrality, affectionately portraying the common-sense, ranch-house life of a Christian family in Texas while mocking provincial mediocrity enough to appease the yen for regional condescension on the coasts. You could love it in Cambridge; you could love it in Little Rock.

Everybody won until everybody didn’t: just a few days before the November presidential election, Fox canceled the animated series after 13 seasons, its ratings in decline, testament perhaps to a national exhaustion with values-bashing, even when the weaponry produced few scars and little bloodshed.

Mr. Judge, though, apparently still feels the gentle combatant’s calling. His new animated comedy, “The Goode Family,” created with John Altschuler and Dave Krinsky (beginning on Wednesday on ABC), shoots from a different tactical angle, similarly striving to alienate no one. As if he had been required by the Federal Communications Commission to devote equal time to jeering at liberal pieties (which, by the way, he did plenty of on “King of the Hill”), he has produced the Goodes, a family of zealot, vegan, recycling nut cases who don’t fight over paper versus plastic because they believe in neither.

“I know a lot of people are comfortable shopping with reusable bags,” Helen Goode (the voice of Nancy Carell) explains as she piles her groceries into her arms in the checkout line of a pseudo Whole Foods. “But I’m not. They’re made in sweatshops.” The Goodes have a dog named Che who leers at rodents because he isn’t allowed to eat meat, and an adopted teenage son named Ubuntu (David Herman) who they thought was black but who turned out, once they got him from South Africa, to be the blond child of Afrikaners.

To compensate for Ubuntu’s racist lineage, the Goodes dress him each day as if he were being sent off to a parade in honor of Nelson Mandela. His brand-new driver’s license identifies him as African-American.
931 2009-05-27 The low end, however, is sizzling, as investors armed with cash and first-time buyers equipped with tax breaks compete for foreclosed properties.

As a result, some argue, the Case-Shiller numbers make the market appear worse than it is. Minneapolis is a case in point. Prices there plunged 6.1 percent from February to March — the largest single-month drop for a city in the history of the index.

The area was not prone to the bubble excesses of California or Florida, but it has its share of foreclosures. Until recently, banks tried to hold on to these houses to get the best price, said Steve Havig, president of the Minneapolis Area Association of Realtors.

Overwhelmed, the banks are now taking a different approach: dumping the properties to clear their books, making them “extremely motivated sellers,” as Mr. Havig calls them.

These bargain homes make up nearly half the sales in Minneapolis, and are a big reason the agents’ own numbers show a one-year median price decline of 22.9 percent. That closely matches the corresponding Case-Shiller drop of 23.3 percent. But when foreclosures and short sales are stripped out, the decline for so-called traditional homes is much smaller: 2.3 percent.

“Clearly, there are two different markets operating here,” Mr. Havig said. That can lead to frustration among buyers of traditional houses, who expect better deals.

Another national flood of foreclosures, which many are predicting for this summer, would continue to push down the indexes. But even if that does not happen, many analysts predict more pain for homeowners who want to sell or refinance. Buyers who do not get a foreclosure, meanwhile, might feel they can afford to wait.

“It is highly unlikely that the overall price adjustment seen to date is sufficient to balance supply (which is enormous) with demand,” Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR, wrote Tuesday in a note to clients. He estimated the index was only two-thirds of the way to its ultimate bottom.

Some experts had predicted slightly better March numbers, by which they meant that the relentless rate of decline would noticeably slow. They were disappointed.

“Were this pace to continue, the loss of housing wealth this year would be roughly equal to the entire G.D.P. of China,” Ian Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics wrote in a research note. With household wealth evaporating, he added, “consumption will be very weak for the foreseeable future.”

New York and Detroit, which both showed large monthly declines in March, show the different legacies of the boom. Prices in New York are still up 73.4 percent from January 2000, while those in Detroit are 29 percent lower. A Detroit house costs about the same today as it did 14 years ago.

Las Vegas joined Phoenix in showing a decline from the area’s peak of more than 50 percent. Dallas, which never had much of a housing boom, is the best-performing city in the index, down 11.1 percent from its peak.

The national Case-Shiller index for the first quarter, also released Tuesday, showed a 19.1 percent decline compared with the first quarter of 2008, the biggest drop in the index’s 21-year history.
932 2009-05-27 Consumers in the United States are feeling more optimistic, and on Tuesday, so were investors.

After several days of declines on concerns about the government’s borrowing needs and the soundness of the dollar, stock markets rebounded Tuesday on a surprising bounce in consumer confidence. The private Conference Board reported that consumer sentiment rose again in May, hitting its highest levels in eight months.

As traders returned to Wall Street after the holiday weekend, the glints of good news in those numbers were enough to outweigh other figures showing that housing prices continued to tumble as fast as ever. Every sector of the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was higher, led by financial stocks and consumer-geared companies like McDonald’s, the Home Depot and Lowe’s home improvement chains, and the Walt Disney Company.

The Dow Jones industrial average was up 196.17 points, or 2.37 percent, to 8,473.49, while the S.& P. 500 was 2.6 percent, or 23.33 points, higher at 910.33.

The technology-focused Nasdaq outpaced other indexes, rising 3.5 percent, or 58.42 points, to 1,750.43, on gains among computer makers, search engines and Internet firms as analysts upgraded Apple. Apple, the maker of iPhones and iPods, rose 6.8 percent to $130.78 a share.

Big banks like Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase closed higher, bolstered by optimism that improving consumer sentiment could translate into stability for the financial system. Investors also edged back toward the dollar, a week after they pushed it to its lowest point in five months on concerns about inflation, the expanding supplies of new currency and big federal deficits. The dollar index, which measures the dollar’s performance against six major currencies, was up 0.1 percent.
933 2009-05-27 “I think if she is convicted — this is my opinion — she can live in this new house,” he said.

Mr. Nyan Win said he was present when the order lifting her house arrest was read to Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi in the morning by a police brigadier general, U Myint Thein, at the prison house.

“I don’t think she is happy because she knows she is not really released,” he said. “She is not free.”

Later, in the courtroom, she testified that the American intruder, John Yettaw, had arrived at her home during the night of May 3 but that she did not learn of his presence until 5 a.m. on May 4, according to wire service reports.

She conceded that she had not informed the authorities and said that she had given him “temporary shelter” until he left on May 5 just before midnight. He was arrested as he was swimming away.

Her lawyers have said she did not report the intrusion or make Mr. Yettaw leave immediately because he complained of cramps and because she did not want him or the security officers who guard her house to get in trouble.

Mr. Yettaw is on trial as well, for immigration violations and for violating municipal sanitation codes by swimming in the lake. He faces up to six years in prison.

Also on trial are two women who keep house for Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and have been her only companions throughout her most recent six-year term of detention.

“Thank you for your concern and support,” Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi told reporters and diplomats before being escorted from the court, according to The A.P. “It is always good to see people from the outside world.”

It was the second time the reporters and diplomats had been allowed into the trial, which began on May 18.

Most foreign journalists are denied visas to enter Myanmar.

As criticism of the junta has grown, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, has said he will visit Myanmar to call for her release.

In Washington, President Obama said she should be released “immediately and unconditionally.”

“Aung San Suu Kyi’s continued detention, isolation, and show trial based on spurious charges cast serious doubt on the Burmese regime’s willingness to be a responsible member of the international community,” he said in a statement.

At the meeting of foreign ministers in Hanoi, Jan Kohout, the foreign minister of the Czech Republic, which holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, called Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi “an indispensable partner in the dialogue leading to national reconciliation” in the former Burma.
934 2009-05-27 There was no official comment on the missile firings by either the North Korean authorities or the South Korean Defense Ministry.

After its nuclear test on Monday, its second in less than three years, the North test-fired three short-range missiles, also off its east coast. An intelligence official in Seoul said that move indicated that North Korea was “getting its back up” about the possibility that United States military aircraft would fly near North Korea in an effort to collect radiation data from the nuclear blast.

At the Pentagon, officials said the military on Tuesday sent a specially designed surveillance plane into international airspace around North Korea to collect particles from the test. The airplane has high-technology “sniffers” on board to collect radioactive materials that might have seeped up from the underground test.

The particles from the first surveillance flight were to be sent to laboratories in the United States, and a second flight was planned over the next day or two, officials said.

South Korea’s long-delayed participation in the Proliferation Security Initiative, a program to curb trafficking in unconventional weapons, followed a statement on Monday by the Security Council that unanimously condemned the nuclear test and called it a “clear violation” of a previous resolution.

At the United Nations, the five permanent Security Council members and Japan and South Korea met for 90 minutes Tuesday to discuss possible new sanctions as well as ways to strengthen provisions in a 2006 resolution that have never been put into effect, like halting and inspecting North Korean vessels at sea.

Ambassadors were tight-lipped about potential new sanctions, and diplomats said no written proposals had begun to circulate. All seven nations were said to have agreed on the need to send a strong message to North Korea. “We are in agreement on the goals,” said Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador. But the Chinese ambassador, Zhang Yesui, deflected questions about how strong a resolution his country would support.

In Japan, the lower house of Parliament unanimously adopted a resolution on Tuesday condemning the North’s nuclear test, and it threatened to step up sanctions against the North.

“Japan, as the world’s only nation to ever suffer a nuclear attack, cannot condone” North Korea’s repeated nuclear tests, the resolution said. North Korea’s recent belligerence has also prompted Japan’s governing party to debate whether Tokyo should consider pre-emptive strikes against states considered hostile — actions that would probably require changes to Japan’s pacifist Constitution.

North Korea appeared unfazed by the world’s condemnation, which included strong rebukes from allies like China and Russia. On Tuesday in Rodong Sinmun, the North’s main Communist Party newspaper, North Korea declared that it was “fully ready for battle” against the United States, accusing President Obama of “following in the footsteps of the previous Bush administration’s reckless policy of militarily stifling North Korea.”

North Korean officials have said that South Korea’s full membership in the initiative would be seen as a “declaration of undisguised confrontation and a declaration of a war.” The international effort was begun in 2003 by the Bush administration in order to interdict shipments — especially at sea — that were suspected of containing unconventional weapons, their related materials and delivery systems.

Russia, Britain, France and Israel are among the 95 signers of the initiative, which India, Pakistan and China did not sign.

South Korea had wavered on joining the initiative for fear of provoking the North. But on Tuesday, President Lee Myung-bak, who came to power with a promise to take a tougher approach toward the North, spoke with Mr. Obama about the North Korean threat and the South’s decision to join the effort.

On the phone, Mr. Lee emphasized to Mr. Obama that the United States and its allies “should not repeat the pattern” of “rewarding” North Korea’s provocations with dialogue and economic aid, as they did after the North’s first nuclear test in October 2006.
935 2009-05-27 U.S. SEEN HOLDING 70% OF G.M. The government will hold about 70 percent of General Motors after it emerges from bankruptcy protection, and will provide some $50 billion in financing, according to people with direct knowledge of discussions.      A...
936 2009-05-27 WEISSMAN--Bel, born 1928 in Losice, Poland died May 18, 2009, in Manhattan. She met her husband in Italy and they came to the US in 1948. A long time resident of Turtle Bay and Westhampton Beach. She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Bernard...
937 2009-05-28 This week: Jon Pareles reviews “Relapse” by Eminem; Ben Ratliff listens to “Fondo” by Vieux Farka Touré; and Ben Sisario offers his take on surprising sales numbers from some of pop music’s biggest acts....
938 2009-05-28 What makes a work of art "great"? The second installment of a seven-part tale of the Nazi-era Vermeer forgeries of Han van Meegeren....
939 2009-05-28 Tripadvisor's Business Travel Center provides interactive maps of popular meeting locations and then finds nearby restaurants, transportation and business services....
940 2009-05-28 The final scene of "Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest," Yang Fudong's 2007 film, now on view at Asia Society.
941 2009-05-28 Brian McNoldy is an atmospheric science researcher at Colorado State University and has his own hurricane blog, Brian McNoldy's Hurricane Update. Much like last season, this season is getting a slight jump start. In 2008, Arthur formed on May 31, ...
942 2009-05-28 Christie’s will auction seven fragments of the Chicago Stock Exchange’s elevators and staircases on Tuesday....
943 2009-05-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
944 2009-05-28 A longtime lawyer for Brooke Astor testified that her son, Anthony D. Marshall, never mentioned that he would keep a $2 million commission on the sale of a Childe Hassam painting....
945 2009-05-28 California has no intention of abandoning its right to regulate climate-related car and truck emissions. In fact, if it's granted a long-awaited E.P.A. waiver, it might start overseeing those emissions fairly soon....
946 2009-05-28 Add muse to the list of occupations that are not recession proof. If anyone stands to profit from the latest '80s revival in fashion, it does not appear that it will be Christian Lacroix...
947 2009-05-28 The Taxi and Limousine Commission approved two experiments that will make riding in some yellow cabs a bit more like car pooling....
948 2009-05-28 Blogtalk: Lineblogging from the H&M opening; a Whole Foods rumor debunked; getting around Queens by bike; and more New York links....
949 2009-05-28 This classic braised escarole dish, which uses a series of techniques that can be applied to almost any green vegetable, relies on a hefty amount of garlic and olive oil....
950 2009-05-28 Christian Lacroix, the French couturier whose artistic and exuberant pouf dresses propelled him to fame in the 1980s, became the latest victim of the global financial crisis Thursday as the U.S.-owned fashion house bearing his name filed for court...
951 2009-05-28 Dredging companies could be in a position to benefit from rising sea levels, and at least two have proposed projects off the Flemish coast....
952 2009-05-28 If you've solved Monday's DeCAPitated Puzzle in memory of the great chemist Lavoisier, here's a follow-up challenge for you....
953 2009-05-28 Visteon, the auto-parts maker spun off from Ford in 2000, said Thursday that it and several affiliates have filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, as the company struggles with reduced demand from automakers....
954 2009-05-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
955 2009-05-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
956 2009-05-28 Asian markets were mixed Thursday as the looming bankruptcy of auto giant General Motors and sliding retail sales in Japan undercut optimism about a global recovery. European shares opened lower....
957 2009-05-28 Twelve people, eight from Uzbekistan, are accused in a federal indictment of luring illegal immigrants to the United States to work as “modern-day slaves” in 14 states. Prosecutors announced that a federal grand jury in Kansas City issued a 45-count indictment on May 6 that included charges of labor racketeering, forced labor trafficking and immigration violations. Matt Whitworth, acting United States attorney for the Western District of Missouri, said the defendants used false information to obtain fake work visas for the foreign workers, who were then threatened with deportation while living in substandard apartments and working for inadequate pay. Eight of the 12 defendants were arrested Tuesday, when the indictment was unsealed. The scheme ensnared hundreds of illegal immigrants who worked at hotels and construction sites, and in other businesses, many in the Kansas City area and in the resort town of Branson, Mr. Whitworth said.
958 2009-05-28 Re “Why Dissidents, Freed From Prison, Often Choose the Path of Most Resistance” (Memo From Cairo, May 27):

For any dissident, the greatest temptation to stop is the safety of loved ones. That is why oppressors threaten not only the dissident, but also his friends and relatives. And the threat to loved ones, because of one’s action, is far more painful than any cat o’ nine tails.

In the 1950s, the Communists in Hungary sent the writer to a prison and later a labor camp.
959 2009-05-28 President Obama’s choice of a former astronaut and retired Marine general, Charles F. Bolden Jr., to head the National Aeronautics and Space Administration was warmly received by many space enthusiasts and lawmakers.

Unfortunately, General Bolden lacks deep expertise in space science and engineering and his past ties with the aerospace industry will raise conflict of interest problems. Before the Senate confirms him, it should probe how well fitted he is to guide the agency through a difficult transition from the space shuttle to follow-on vehicles designed to reach the Moon and beyond.

The president’s choice for deputy administrator, Lori B. Garver, is a policy specialist who has served at NASA, in private space organizations, and as a consultant. She advised John Kerry in 2004 and Hillary Clinton in 2008 before switching to the winning Obama team and helping to lead its transition review for the space program. She has no technical background or major managerial experience but knows the agency and its issues.

General Bolden has some impressive credentials. As a Marine aviator, he flew more than 100 combat missions in the Vietnam War, and as an astronaut, he flew into orbit four times, twice as a shuttle commander. After the Challenger disaster in 1986, he was appointed to a critical safety job at Johnson Space Center to oversee efforts to resume safe shuttle flights.

He has worked in a mid-level job at NASA headquarters and would be the first African-American to serve as administrator on a permanent basis.

Although he has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering and a master’s in systems management, his skills are primarily operational. He lacks the deep technical expertise that enabled the previous administrator, Michael Griffin, to second-guess NASA’s own experts and those from industry.
960 2009-05-28 Argentina’s Supreme Court ordered the reopening of the investigation into a deadly 1994 bombing of a Jewish community center in Buenos Aires, saying a man previously acquitted in the attack should be retried. The court ruled 4 to 2 that the man, Carlos Telledín, a former car mechanic, should be tried again for his supposed role in providing the van that was loaded with explosives that were detonated in front of the community center, the government news service Telam reported.
961 2009-05-28 “The hedge fund industry definitely has a bull’s-eye on its back right now,” said Steven B. Nadel of the law firm Seward & Kissel.

The S.E.C. and the Justice Department recently resurrected the investigation, which focuses on Pequot’s trades in Microsoft securities in 2001. That move followed revelations that Mr. Samberg had paid $2.1 million to a former Microsoft employee, David Zilkha, in 2007. Mr. Zilkha had worked briefly for Pequot six years earlier. The payment came to light recently during Mr. Zilkha’s divorce proceedings.

“Public disclosures about the continuing investigation have cast a cloud over the firm and have become a source of personal distraction,” Mr. Samberg said in a letter to investors on Wednesday. “With the situation increasingly untenable for the firm and for me, I have concluded that Pequot can no longer stay in business.”

According to people familiar with the investigation, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak of the matter, Mr. Samberg has not received a so-called Wells notice from the S.E.C., a notification that the agency intends to recommend enforcement proceedings.

A spokesman for the S.E.C. declined to comment on the investigation, as did Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Pequot.

Mr. Samberg said in his letter that he planned to liquidate his Core Funds, which have about $2 billion of assets under management. The firm’s other funds, which manage about $1 billion in assets, will be spun out of Pequot into independent entities.

Mr. Samberg is something of a rarity among hedge fund managers. Unlike most of his peers, he is fairly well known outside financial circles and is a regular in the Barron’s Roundtable, in which money managers talk about their investment picks.

“He is a grandfather of the modern hedge fund industry and had one of the most impressive pedigrees I had ever seen,” said Brad Alford, head of the investment firm Alpha Capital Management and an early investor with Mr. Samberg. “I think this S.E.C. thing has just worn him down.”

Mr. Samberg, who both buys stocks and bets against them, has made a fortune for himself and his investors.

Pequot’s funds have performed well over their 22 years of existence, netting about 16.8 percent, after fees, every year. At its height in 2001, the firm managed almost $15 billion. From the beginning of the year through April, the firm’s main fund returned 1.8 percent, compared with a decline of 2.5 percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Pequot had a wave of client withdrawals last year, after having losses of about 16 percent in its main funds.

The investigation into possible insider trading at Pequot is being conducted by the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The original Pequot investigations caused a stir after a former S.E.C. lawyer asserted that he was prevented from pursuing leads in the inquiry and was blocked from taking testimony from John J. Mack, then the chairman of Pequot and now the head of Morgan Stanley. The agency did not find that Mr. Mack had done anything wrong.

A yearlong inquiry in Congress followed, led by Senators Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, that looked at the S.E.C.’s handling of the Pequot investigation. An internal investigation by the S.E.C. turned up evidence that raised “serious questions about the impartiality and fairness” of the agency’s inquiry into Pequot.
962 2009-05-28 From the beginning, Mr. Obama had been focused on Judge Sotomayor, a federal appeals court judge from New York, officials said Wednesday. She had a compelling life story, Ivy League credentials and a track record on the bench. She was a Latina. She was a woman. She checked “each of the grids,” as Mr. Obama’s team later put it. And by the time the opportunity arrived, it became her nomination to lose.

Over the course of the last four weeks, Mr. Obama nursed doubts about Judge Sotomayor and entertained alternatives, aides said. He called around, asking allies about her reputation for brusqueness. At times, he grew increasingly enamored of other candidates, particularly Judge Diane P. Wood, whom he knew from Chicago. But by the time Judge Sotomayor left the White House last Thursday after what Mr. Obama told aides was a “dense discussion” of constitutional law, he was pretty much sold.

“You had to knock her off the pedestal,” Mr. Emanuel said, “and nobody did.”

The selection process got its start in the weeks after Mr. Obama’s election last fall when he gathered advisers in a conference room in downtown Chicago one day. The court was on his mind.

“Just because we don’t have a vacancy right now doesn’t mean we shouldn’t work on it,” he told the group, according to participants. “The day we get a vacancy, we want to have a short list of people ready.”

Mr. Obama already had one in mind and threw out several names, including Judge Sotomayor, aides said. His new White House counsel, Gregory B. Craig, got to work assembling more names. In mid-April, the White House privately got word from Justice Souter that he was preparing to retire at the end of the term in June, and preparations accelerated.

By the time Justice Souter’s decision leaked on April 30, officials said, the White House had full dossiers on nearly all of the major candidates and within days Mr. Obama was given 10-page memorandums on each of them to study over the weekend. By the next week, Mr. Craig’s office gave him 60- to 70-page memorandums on each prospect.

Mr. Obama, who was president of the law review at Harvard and married a Harvard Law School graduate, recently said he became so engrossed in the memorandums that he missed a basketball game one night.

“He didn’t need a Constitutional Law 101 primer to prepare for this,” said Charles J. Ogletree, a Harvard law professor who spoke with Mr. Obama about the process in early May.

“There were five things that were on his mind: age, experience, independence, confidence and diversity,” Mr. Ogletree recalled. “And when I say diversity, it’s not just background and race; I mean diversity of experience, of character, of judgment and of points of view.”

With Mr. Craig also dealing with national security issues, Mr. Emanuel recruited Mr. Klain and Ms. Hogan from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s office to run the day-to-day process. Mr. Klain, the vice president’s chief of staff, had been involved in nomination fights in the Clinton White House and on Mr. Biden’s Senate staff, while Ms. Hogan, the vice president’s counsel, worked for the Judiciary Committee during three confirmations.

“We wanted people who had been through this before,” said David Axelrod, the president’s senior adviser. “This was not an accident.”

Recalling nominations that had foundered on poor research, the White House team assigned two inside lawyers to vet each candidate’s public speeches and rulings and recruited outside law firms to examine each candidate’s personal finances, taxes, medical history and ethics.

In the end, the White House considered nine candidates. In addition to Judges Sotomayor and Wood, officials said they were Solicitor General Elena Kagan; Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano; Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan; Chief Justice Leah Ward Sears of the Georgia Supreme Court; Justice Carlos R. Moreno of the California Supreme Court; Judge Merrick B. Garland of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit; and Judge Ruben Castillo of Federal District Court in Illinois.

Mr. Obama quickly found himself being lobbied by fellow Democrats. In an interview, Representative Jose E. Serrano of New York described a campaign he and his colleague Representative Nydia M. Velázquez conducted on behalf of Judge Sotomayor that included a personal plea at the Cinco de Mayo celebration at the White House.

Hoping to shut off as much outside pressure as possible, the White House summoned leaders of liberal groups for a series of meetings, at the White House and elsewhere. The deputy White House chief of staff, Jim Messina, issued the edict about not floating names through the news media or engaging in daily battles about the pros and cons of various candidates, warning that it would be “counterproductive,” participants said.

As he narrowed his choices, aides said, Mr. Obama kept asking for more original writings by the candidates, and he called every member of the Judiciary Committee, something few if any presidents have done.

In his conversations with senators, Mr. Obama did not let on whom he was thinking about, but described what kind of nominee he was looking for and asked for names. “I don’t think he saw the process as him saying, ‘Which of these five people would you oppose or support,’ ” said Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the Judiciary Committee chairman.

“He asked if I had any suggestions for nominees,” said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, a member of the committee for 29 years. “This is the first time I’ve ever been called by a president on a Supreme Court nomination, be it a Republican or a Democrat.”

As the president deliberated, Mr. Klain, Ms. Hogan and Dan Pfeiffer, the deputy communications director, began meeting with prospective finalists. To preserve secrecy, they held several sessions around the table of Ms. Hogan’s home in Bethesda, Md. Judge Sotomayor was first interviewed by telephone so she would not be seen coming to Washington.

Four candidates were invited to the White House to interview with Mr. Obama: Judges Sotomayor and Wood, Ms. Kagan and Ms. Napolitano. It was not lost on those under consideration that none who made it to the final stage were men.

“I think they ended up making a bad evidentiary record for themselves by not interviewing one male,” said a judge whose name came up early in the process.

Impressed by Judge Sotomayor, Mr. Obama gathered his team around noon Monday in the dining room off the Oval Office. “I’m almost there,” he said as he ate a salad, one participant recalled. “I think it’s going to be her.”

By 9 p.m., he had called to offer her the job.

“He ended up where we started out,” Mr. Craig said. “After all the work, he was thinking about Sonia Sotomayor at the beginning and he was thinking about her at the end. She withstood four months, five months of intense scrutiny by the White House counsel’s office and third parties.”
963 2009-05-28 But Chrysler is even more vulnerable than G.M. because its products are heavily tilted to pickups, minivans, and sport utility vehicles that have fallen out of favor with fuel-conscious consumers. Fiat has promised to add small and sporty cars to Chrysler’s lineup, but they won’t be available for nearly two years.

Chrysler, which has been subsisting on federal loans since the beginning of the year, will also need to stretch the $7 billion it is getting from the Treasury Department to cover its losses until the Fiat alliance starts paying off.

To save money, Chrysler has idled most of its plants so it can sell off a big backlog of new cars and it drastically scaled back spending to develop new products.

“We have to see the consumer supporting this company by buying their product, which hasn’t been happening,” said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Global Insight. “Just because they emerge from bankruptcy doesn’t mean that all of their problems will be solved, by any stretch of the imagination.”

With its court hearings moving quickly — even two months would be considered lightning-quick — a newly reorganized Chrysler could come out of bankruptcy as early as next week.

When it emerges, the company will have a new ownership structure, with a union retiree trust owning 55 percent, Fiat holding a 20 percent share that could eventually grow to 35 percent, and the United States and Canadian governments owning minority stakes.

It will also have a new board, and a new chairman — C. Robert Kidder, the former chairman of Borden Chemical and of Duracell.

Fiat’s chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, may also run Chrysler. He is already delving into Chrysler’s future product plans and suggesting changes, according to people in the company.

Although Fiat will provide small cars, new engines and advanced technology to Chrysler, the Italian automaker will not put any money into its new partner.

For all the challenges it faces, Chrysler at least will have a chance to succeed, analysts said, because the company has shed its debt, cut workers and factories, and funded half of its health care obligations to retirees with stock.

“Only time will tell, but certainly all these changes put the company in a position where it can be competitive,” said Mark DeGennaro, a bankruptcy expert at the firm Gruppo, Levey & Company.

While it represents a new beginning for the 84-year-old company, Chrysler has stumbled in two previous attempts to reinvent itself.

In 1998, the German automaker Daimler-Benz stunned the auto world by absorbing Chrysler in a $36 billion merger.

However, the marriage of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars and Chrysler trucks and S.U.V.’s failed, and Daimler put the American division up for sale in 2007.

Its next owner, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, tried to streamline Chrysler and then find alliances with other automakers that would broaden its product lineup. That strategy also stumbled, which, along with a weak economy, led to Chrysler’s bankruptcy filing on April 30.

The process has been pushed along quickly and methodically by Judge Arthur J. Gonzalez. The hearings have shed new light on Chrysler’s troubles.

One of the first witnesses during Wednesday’s hearing, on the sale of many of the automaker’s best assets to a newly reconstituted Chrysler, was Thomas W. LaSorda, who retired last month as Chrysler’s vice chairman.

In his testimony, Mr. LaSorda recounted how he had scoured the world last year for partners or buyers for Chrysler. He discussed deals that fell through with Nissan and G.M., and failed efforts to get Korean and Indian auto companies interested in creating alliances with Chrysler.

An attorney for a group of Indiana state pension funds, which is opposing the sale, pressed Mr. LaSorda as to whether Chrysler could have sold the company rather than strike a noncash deal with Fiat.

“Nobody was willing to give us a nickel,” Mr. LaSorda said.

Fiat’s offer to provide small, fuel-efficient cars, he said, was “just as good as cash or better.”

After 32 years in the auto business with G.M. and Chrysler, Mr. LaSorda said it was clear to him that the company would continue to spiral downward unless it could update its vehicle lineup.

The Indiana pension funds’ attorney, Glenn Kurtz, spent much of Wednesday’s hearing arguing that Chrysler’s secured lenders, including the funds, could have gotten more money from a liquidation than the $2 billion from the Treasury to eliminate nearly $7 billion in debt.

Mr. Kurtz produced several e-mail messages between Chrysler executives and consultants, and members of the presidential auto task force that, he said, showed the bankruptcy case was being “hurried.”
964 2009-05-28 And while conservative activists and some Republican leaders outside the Senate are calling for a strong effort against the nomination, the reaction from some senators — who will actually vote for the nomination — has been notably measured, suggesting that they are not necessarily looking for a fight, barring some revelation in the weeks ahead.

Senator Mel Martinez, a Florida Republican who is Hispanic, said Republicans should meticulously review Judge Sotomayor’s record, but added: “I don’t think we can begin a process by determining how to defeat someone. I’m not going to do that to this woman. I don’t think ideology should play a part here, as long as she doesn’t proclaim views that are outside the mainstream.”

“It depends on how it’s handled,” Mr. Martinez said. “I think the key to the process is that it be fair.”

Still, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and member of the Judiciary Committee, noted that Democrats had used a filibuster to block the confirmation of Miguel Estrada, a Washington lawyer nominated by Mr. Bush to be the first Hispanic on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Senate Democrats who considered Mr. Estrada too conservative blocked his nomination after he refused to answer questions about his judicial philosophy at his confirmation hearing.

Mr. Grassley said that since Democrats had not paid a price among Hispanic groups for opposing Mr. Estrada, Republicans should not be held to a different standard if they opposed Judge Sotomayor.

“I get back to this: if it makes a difference for Republicans to vote against Sotomayor because it might cause us some problems with the Hispanic community, then the Hispanic community has a double standard,” Mr. Grassley said. “How can any politician deal with double standards? You can never win. All I am asking people is to be intellectually honest.”

The conflicting pressures became clear as conservative groups came out against Judge Sotomayor even before she appeared with Mr. Obama at the White House on Tuesday morning. From the start, conservative leaders have made clear that they view the prospect of an ideologically charged nomination fight as a way to revive a movement that is lagging in spirits and money.

The countervailing pressures are no less intense. Matthew Dowd, a former adviser to Mr. Bush, said that in 2000, he calculated that Republicans needed to win 35 percent of Hispanic voters to beat Democrats. Mr. Dowd said that given the steady increase in the number of Hispanic voters, he now believed Republicans needed to win at least 40 percent.

Given that, Mr. Dowd said, Republicans could relegate themselves to long-term minority status if they were perceived as having prevented Judge Sotomayor from joining the Supreme Court, absent damaging revelations about her background or views.

“Because you’ll have a bunch of white males who lead the Judiciary Committee leading the charge, taking on an Hispanic women, and everybody from this day forward is going to know she’s totally qualified,” Mr. Dowd said. “It’s a bad visual. It’s bad symbolism for the Republicans.”

Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and a member of the Judiciary Committee, acknowledged the political consequences of opposing the nomination. But, Mr. Hatch added: “That doesn’t meant that because the person is a minority and there could be political ramifications we should not do our duty. I think it’s incumbent upon us not to be worried about those considerations. Just worry about being fair.”

From the moment Mr. Bush began running for president while still governor of Texas in 2000, he pushed hard to appeal to Hispanic voters, and with considerable success. His aides argued that given Hispanics’ increasing electoral strength, attracting their support was a crucial part of trying to achieve dominance over Democrats. But the effort suffered a sharp setback when Republicans, over the objections of Mr. Bush, pressed to restrict immigration severely.

The party’s 2008 presidential nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, had long been a proponent of easing immigration restrictions, and almost lost the nomination because of it. In the end, he received 31 percent of the Hispanic vote on Election Day, according to a survey of voters leaving the polls. By contrast, four years earlier, Mr. Bush won 43 percent of the Hispanic vote.

Mr. Martinez, who said he “took great pride as an Hispanic” in the selection of Judge Sotomayor, said Republicans needed to note the increasing influence of Hispanic voters if the party wanted to regain its competitive stance.

“It’s a changing world, and we need to change,” he said.

Mr. Dowd said that the party’s first risk would be in national elections, but that it could trickle down to the states as well — particularly in places like Texas, which has a big Hispanic vote. If Hispanics begin turning toward Democrats, he said, Texas — now reliably Republican — could quickly turn into a swing state.

“If they don’t get back to a place where they are getting roughly 40 percent net of the Hispanic vote, there is no way they can ever win,” Mr. Dowd said.
965 2009-05-28 A measure of how rapidly the ritual is spreading is that some students complain of peer pressure to hug to fit in. And schools from Hillsdale, N.J., to Bend, Ore., wary in a litigious era about sexual harassment or improper touching — or citing hallway clogging and late arrivals to class — have banned hugging or imposed a three-second rule.

Parents, who grew up in a generation more likely to use the handshake, the low-five or the high-five, are often baffled by the close physical contact. “It’s a wordless custom, from what I’ve observed,” wrote Beth J. Harpaz, the mother of two boys, 11 and 16, and a parenting columnist for The Associated Press, in a new book, “13 Is the New 18.”

“And there doesn’t seem to be any other overt way in which they acknowledge knowing each other,” she continued, describing the scene at her older son’s school in Manhattan. “No hi, no smile, no wave, no high-five — just the hug. Witnessing this interaction always makes me feel like I am a tourist in a country where I do not know the customs and cannot speak the language.”

For teenagers, though, hugging is hip. And not hugging?

“If somebody were to not hug someone, to never hug anybody, people might be just a little wary of them and think they are weird or peculiar,” said Gabrielle Brown, a freshman at Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School in Manhattan.

Comforting as the hug may be, principals across the country have clamped down. “Touching and physical contact is very dangerous territory,” said Noreen Hajinlian, the principal of George G. White School, a junior high school in Hillsdale, N.J., who banned hugging two years ago. “It was needless hugging — they are in the hallways before they go to class. It wasn’t a greeting. It was happening all day.”

Schools that have limited hugging invoked longstanding rules against public displays of affection, meant to maintain an atmosphere of academic seriousness and prevent unwanted touching, or even groping.

But pro-hugging students say it is not a romantic or sexual gesture, simply the “hello” of their generation. “We like to get cozy,” said Katie Dea, an eighth grader at Claire Lilienthal Alternative School in San Francisco. “The high-five is, like, boring.”

Some sociologists said that teenagers who grew up in an era of organized play dates and close parental supervision are more cooperative with one another than previous generations — less cynical and individualistic and more loyal to the group.

But Amy L. Best, a sociologist at George Mason University, said the teenage embrace is more a reflection of the overall evolution of the American greeting, which has become less formal since the 1970s. “Without question, the boundaries of touch have changed in American culture,” she said. “We display bodies more readily, there are fewer rules governing body touch and a lot more permissible access to other people’s bodies.”

Hugging appears to be a grass-roots phenomenon and not an imitation of a character or custom on TV or in movies. The prevalence of boys’ nonromantic hugging (especially of other boys) is most striking to adults. Experts say that over the last generation, boys have become more comfortable expressing emotion, as embodied by the MTV show “Bromance,” which is now a widely used term for affection between straight male friends.

But some sociologists pointed out that African-American boys and men have been hugging as part of their greeting for decades, using the word “dap” to describe a ritual involving handshakes, slaps on the shoulders and, more recently, a hug, also sometimes called the gangsta hug among urban youth.

“It’s something you grow up doing,” said Mazi Chiles, a junior at South Gwinnett High School in Snellville, Ga., who is black. “But you don’t come up to a dude and hug, you start out with a handshake.”

Some parents find it paradoxical that a generation so steeped in hands-off virtual communication would be so eager to hug.

“Maybe it’s because all these kids do is text and go on Facebook so they don’t even have human contact anymore,” said Dona Eichner, the mother of freshman and junior girls at the high school in Montvale.

She added: “I hug people I’m close to. But now you’re hugging people you don’t even know. Hugging used to mean something.”

There are, too, some young critics of hugging.

Amy Heaton, a freshman at Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School in Bethesda, Md., said casual social hugging seemed disingenuous to her. “Hugging is more common in my opinion in people who act like friends,” she said. “It’s like air-kissing. It’s really superficial.”

But Carrie Osbourne, a sixth-grade teacher at Claire Lilienthal Alternative School, said hugging was a powerful and positive sign that children are inclined to nurture one another, breaking down barriers. “And it gets to that core that every person wants to feel cared for, regardless of your age or how cool you are or how cool you think you are,” she said.

As much as hugging is a physical gesture, it has migrated online as well. Facebook applications allowing friends to send hugs have tens of thousands of fans. Katie Dea, the San Francisco eighth grader, as well as Olivia Brown, 11, who lives in Manhattan and is the younger sister of Gabrielle, the LaGuardia High freshman, have a new sign-off for their text and e-mail messages: *hug.*
966 2009-05-28 But in his briefing to reporters on Tuesday, the White House spokesman, , was asked whether Mr. Obama had asked Judge Sotomayor about abortion or privacy rights. Mr. Gibbs replied that Mr. Obama “did not ask that specifically.”

Presidents have miscalculated in their assumptions about the abortion views of Supreme Court nominees before. When the first President Bush nominated in 1990 to fill the seat that Judge Sotomayor would assume if confirmed, Mr. Souter was known as a “stealth nominee” with no paper trail on abortion.

But conservative and liberal advocates alike believed that Justice Souter would vote to overturn Roe v. Wade, so much so that abortion rights advocates protested outside his confirmation hearing with signs reading “Stop Souter, or Women Will Die.” Then, two years later, Justice Souter shocked the political world by voting to uphold abortion rights.

As president, Mr. Obama has sought to avoid being drawn into the culture wars of the last several decades and has encouraged each side in the abortion debate to be respectful of the other’s opinions. But there are clear political advantages to his choice for the court not being perceived as having a strong position on abortion rights.

Judge Sotomayor’s views on abortion rights could still become clear if a past writing comes to light. During Justice ’s confirmation process in late 2005, for example, the released an old Justice Department job application in which he said the Constitution does not protect a right to an abortion.

But at this point, Judge Sotomayor’s views are as unknown as Justice Souter’s were in 1990, said Steven Waldman, the editor in chief of , a religious Web site, where he has blogged about her lack of an abortion rights record.

“Everyone is just assuming that because Obama appointed her, she must be a die-hard pro-choice activist,” Mr. Waldman said, “but it’s really quite amazing how little we know about her views on abortion.”

None of the cases in Judge Sotomayor’s record dealt directly with the legal theory underlying Roe v. Wade — that the Constitution contains an unwritten right to privacy in reproductive decisions as a matter of so-called substantive due process. Several of her opinions invoke substantive due process in other areas, however, like the rights of parents and prisoners.

She has also had several cases involving abortion-related disputes that turned on other legal issues. While those cases cannot be taken as a proxy for her views on the constitutionality of abortion, she often reached results favorable to abortion opponents.

In a 2002 case, she wrote an opinion upholding the Bush administration policy of withholding aid from international groups that provide or promote abortion services overseas.

“The Supreme Court has made clear that the government is free to favor the anti-abortion position over the pro-choice position,” she wrote, “and can do so with public funds.”

In a 2004 case, she largely sided with some anti-abortion protesters who wanted to sue some police officers for allegedly violating their constitutional rights by using excessive force to break up demonstrations at an abortion clinic. Judge Sotomayor said the protesters deserved a day in court.

Judge Sotomayor has also ruled on several cases involving people fighting deportation orders to on the grounds that its population-control policy of forcible abortions and constituted persecution.

In a 2007 case, she strongly criticized colleagues on the court who said that only women, and not their husbands, could seek asylum based on China’s abortion policy. “The termination of a wanted under a coercive population control program can only be devastating to any couple, akin, no doubt, to the killing of a child,” she wrote, also taking note of “the unique biological nature of pregnancy and special reverence every civilization has accorded to child-rearing and parenthood in marriage.”

And in a 2008 case, she wrote an opinion vacating a deportation order for a woman who had worked in an abortion clinic in China. Although Judge Sotomayor’s decision turned on a technicality, her opinion described in detail the woman’s account of how she would be persecuted in China because she had once permitted the escape of a woman who was seven months pregnant and scheduled for a forced abortion. In China, to allow such an escape was a crime, the woman said.

Phillip Jauregui, president of the conservative Judicial Action Group, said he was not convinced by any anti-abortion overtones to such rulings because, he said, even “the most radical feminist” would object to forcing women to abort wanted pregnancies.

Mr. Waldman of BeliefNet.com also noted that Judge Sotomayor was raised Roman Catholic, although there are many judges who do not follow the church’s dogma — like opposing abortion and the death penalty — in their jurisprudence.

Moreover, he said, it is significant that as a group, Hispanics include a higher percentage of abortion opponents than many other parts of the ’s coalition. Judge Sotomayor’s parents moved from .

“At the very least, she grew up in a culture that didn’t hold the pro-life position in contempt,” Mr. Waldman said.

Mr. Jauregui said he agreed with Ms. Keenan that Judge Sotomayor ought to say what she believed about Roe v. Wade before any confirmation vote.

“I don’t think, when we’re talking about a job as important as a justice who could serve for decades, that it’s acceptable for someone to be stealth,” he said.
967 2009-05-28 Eminem, above, has been absent from the pop scene for almost five years, but the strong sales last week for his comeback album, “Relapse” (Interscope), prove that he is still a star. “Relapse” is Eminem’s fifth consecutive release to open at No. 1 on the Billboard chart, with 608,000 copies sold. That is also the best opening-week sales of any album this year, beating the 484,000 that U2 racked up for “No Line on the Horizon” in March. Last week’s top seller, Green Day’s “21st Century Breakdown” (Reprise), dropped to No. 2 in its second week out, with 166,000 in sales. New releases take up the next three spots on the Top 10: Kenny Chesney’s “Greatest Hits II” (BNA) reached No. 3 with 89,000 in sales; Dane Cook’s comedy album “Isolated Incident” (Comedy Central) was No. 4 with 61,000; and Busta Rhymes’s new “Back on My B.S.” (Universal Motown) was No. 5 with 59,000.
968 2009-05-28 At a meeting in Mumbai, the makers of the film “Slumdog Millionaire” said they were trying to find new homes for its young actors, but the father of one actor said the filmmakers were not doing enough, The Associated Press reported. On Wednesday the director Danny Boyle and Christian Colson, a producer of the Academy Award-winning film, met with the parents of the actors Rubina Ali Qureshi, 9, and Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, 10. Their families’ shanty homes were demolished by authorities ahead of the monsoon season. Reuters reported that Mr. Boyle said the filmmakers had purchased a new home for Azharuddin and would soon buy one for Rubina. But Rafiq Qureshi, Rubina’s father, said their efforts fell short. “Everything is available in Mumbai if you have the money,” Mr. Qureshi said, according to The A.P. “If you really want to get us a house, you can get us a house in two days.”
969 2009-05-28 IN March, the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics reported finding formaldehyde and 1,4-dioxane, a trace contaminant of some chemicals used in cosmetics, detergents and shampoos, in 55 children’s personal-care products. The chemicals are listed as probable human carcinogens by the Environmental Protection Agency. Seventeen of them — including Johnson & Johnson’s Baby Shampoo — contained both chemicals.

Last month, Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand announced legislation called the “Safe Baby Products Act,” asking for the Food and Drug Administration to investigate the chemicals in children’s toiletries. “As a mother, and as a parent, when I read the list of these products, I was highly concerned because many of the products on this list were literally in my bathroom,” she said in a conference call.

Trevor Butterworth, the editor of Stats.org, had reservations about the report. “When you look at the extremely low levels the report found, it turns out that we are exposed to these chemicals every day in food, air and even in shower water, all without apparent ill effect,” he said in an e-mail message. “The research linking these chemicals to cancer is based on ingesting or inhaling (but not absorbing) huge quantities in industrial or laboratory settings — and even then, the links are weak.”

In a statement, Johnson & Johnson, which manufactures many of the items tested, said, “All our products meet or exceed the regulatory requirements in every country where they are sold.”
970 2009-05-28 Indeed, a May survey of 1,500 small businesses by Barlow Research Associates found that companies that applied to small banks for loans in the past year were three times as likely to get credit as those who applied to large banks.

Nick Sarillo, owner of two Chicago-area pizza restaurants called Nick’s Pizza & Pub, says he recently found himself on the wrong side of that divide when he sought to borrow $2.3 million to open a third location.

In late 2007, he was engaged in the loan review process with LaSalle Bank — historically a popular regional lender for Chicago-area small businesses — when LaSalle was acquired by Bank of America, the financial giant.

Bank of America told Mr. Sarillo it wanted 20 percent down, twice what LaSalle had been requesting. Then, he said, after two months of slow sales last year at his restaurant in Elgin, Bank of America doubled the required down-payment again, forcing him to postpone the deal.

Now, he said, he is shifting his business to the First Community Bank in Elgin. A spokeswoman for Bank of America said the bank does not comment on individual customers. But she said, “We continue to develop small business relationships and are committed to the small business customer and space.”

Bankers say that some of the confusion in the marketplace has been caused by ill-founded complaints by small-business owners. Consider that most small companies are not looking for loans: the Barlow survey found that 70 percent of small businesses had not applied for any credit in the past year. That, said Bob Seiwert, head of the American Banker Association’s Center for Commercial Lending and Business Banking, is because fewer businesses see opportunities to grow in a down economy — and the businesses that do come looking for loans tend to be financially vulnerable and thus most likely to be turned down for sound banking reasons.

“The fact is, a lot of borrowers just aren’t creditworthy,” said Sherrill Stockton, senior vice president of Sonoma Bank, which is part of Sterling Savings Bank in Spokane, Wash. “But it’s human nature, if you get turned down, to go around saying that there are no loans available.”

Bankers say that small-business owners looking for a loan should start by knowing which business measures — debt-to-equity ratio, for example, or net margins — lenders focus on when evaluating loan applications in their industry. Bankers say would-be borrowers should demonstrate exactly how they plan to use the money and why the plan makes sense.

This month, for instance, Chandan Patel borrowed $3.7 million from Sonoma Bank to buy her second hotel property, a Comfort Suites hotel in Castro Valley, Calif. She said she had demonstrated to her banker that she would be able to increase the property’s average daily rate, a critical yardstick in the hotel industry, by raising room prices while improving customer service and adding amenities. It helped that she was able to point to a track record of maintaining an unusually high daily rate at her other property.

Both bankers and borrowers say the human side of lending requires as much attention as the technical aspects. Small-business owners should cultivate a relationship with a local banker — ideally, long before they need a loan — and treat that relationship as a long-term partnership.

Bob Davis, chief executive of Virtual Driver Interactive, which makes driving simulators, benefited from a personal banking relationship when he was looking to buy his California business from his former employer late last year in the early days of the financial crisis. For tax reasons, the deal had to happen in just 90 days, or it would not happen at all. And because the business had been part of a larger operation, its financial performance was difficult to demonstrate. “It wasn’t an easy sell,” Mr. Davis said.

He happened to meet Greg Patton, the chief executive of Sierra Vista Bank in Folsom, Calif., at a local golf course, and Mr. Patton invited him to spend a couple of hours talking about the business. “No numbers, no spreadsheets, let’s just talk,” Mr. Patton told him.

After the talk, Mr. Patton became an advocate for the deal, Mr. Davis said. He asked for a set of financials and a two-year projection for the business. More important, though, he coached Mr. Davis through the loan review process. More than once during the process, issues came up that could have scuttled the deal. Each time, Mr. Davis says, huddled with his bankers and found a solution. The $900,000 loan went through in February, just ahead of the deadline.

Still, business loan applicants should expect to be closely scrutinized, especially by smaller community banks that have generally eschewed the formula-based lending practices many national banks adopted in recent years.

But Ranjit Kushwaha, who recently borrowed in the high six figures to buy the building in Monterey, Calif., that houses his Indian Summer Restaurant, was glad to see his bank being careful. “They made me jump through all kinds of hoops,” he said. “They’re very cautious — but that’s good. Otherwise, we’d all end up with the same problems again.”
971 2009-05-28 On Wednesday, Bank of America, deemed among the weakest of the big banks, said it had raised $26 billion in capital, or 76 percent of the $33.9 billion in common equity the government told it to raise as a result of its stress test. PNC Financial, a large regional lender based in Pittsburgh, said Wednesday that it had raised more than $600 million by issuing common stock to meet the regulators’ demands.

Combined with a two and a half month rise in financial shares, the ability of large banks to raise money is a sign that confidence has returned, at least for now, in the giants of the financial industry. Only a few months ago, their existence as independent institutions seemed to be in question.

Now, the ease of raising money calls into question how urgently another move planned by the government to improve the health of the banking industry — a program to purge toxic assets from bank books — is needed, Ms. Bair said Wednesday. If banks can raise capital without taxpayer backing, that could allow them to keep such assets until the value rebounded with an improving economy.

Gerard Cassidy, a banking analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said investors were treating the 19 biggest banks differently from smaller institutions because the large ones are considered too big to fail.

“There has been a ring fence drawn around the 19 banks,” Mr. Cassidy said. By contrast, BankUnited of Florida, a big regional bank that was not part of the stress tests, was allowed to go under last week.

Banks may still be tested, however. Economists worry that rising unemployment and difficult business conditions will mean a worsening of the loans on banks’ books, especially among medium and small banks, which are particularly exposed to commercial real estate loans made in their regions.

Also, more American homeowners who once had solid credit are falling behind on their mortgage payments, raising the prospect of an additional wave of foreclosures that could exacerbate bank losses and add pressure to the financial system and the broader economy.

Banks are bracing for worse losses on credit cards. On Wednesday, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said this business could lose 9 percent in the second quarter and bleed money for the rest of the year. Card losses from Washington Mutual, the Seattle-based savings and loan that JPMorgan bought last year, were expected to rise especially sharply.

Banks charged off $37.8 billion in bad loans in the first quarter, the F.D.I.C. said, almost twice the $19.6 billion in the same quarter a year earlier, a sign of further deterioration in the quality of assets on their books. The amount of loans and leases that were not fully paid off rose by $59.2 billion in the quarter, and were $154.3 billion higher than last year, the agency said.

And while better trading revenues at big banks helped the industry turn a first-quarter profit of $7.6 billion, compared with a loss of $36.9 billion in the fourth quarter, banks and savings and loans set aside $60.9 billion in the first quarter to cover potential losses, an increase from $36.2 billion a year earlier.

A rising number of bank failures could shrink the amount of insurance for deposits in the F.D.I.C. fund. One widely watched measure of this ratio fell to 0.27 percent in the first three months of the year from 0.36 in the fourth quarter. Last week, the F.D.I.C. sought to replenish the fund by levying an emergency fee on banks proportionate to the size of their assets, a move that big banks complained would favor smaller banks.

Stuart Plesser, a banking analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York, said smaller banks were more vulnerable to a souring economy than larger institutions because they were more specialized or focused on a particular region.

But the repercussions of the failures among the smaller institutions were not as severe for the overall economy as they would be if a larger bank stumbled, he said. “The big banks are more important to the economy,” Mr. Plesser said. “It’s not as big a hit if the small fail.”
972 2009-05-28 BEIJING — Chinese legal authorities have threatened to delay or deny the renewal of legal licenses for 18 top civil rights lawyers, escalating the use of a tactic they have used to put pressure lawyers they consider troublesome, two human rights advocacy groups have charged.

Many of the lawyers have taken on cases, involving issues like Tibetan political activism and police brutality, that gained national and even international attention. The advocacy groups, Human Rights Watch and Chinese Human Rights Defenders, called the actions by the legal authorities part of an effort to intimidate the lawyers and their law firms into avoiding sensitive cases.

“It is unprecedented to have so many prominent lawyers facing difficulties with their license renewal,” Nicholas Bequelin, a Hong Kong-based researcher with Human Rights Watch, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. “This is a sort of backhand retaliation by judicial authorities in Beijing to warn the firms that employ these lawyers that there might be consequences to their business if they don’t keep their distance.”

The authorities in China have frequently sought to silence or intimidate activist lawyers by holding up the annual renewal of their licenses to practice law. But the widespread use of the bureaucratic technique against top lawyers in the capital is rare.

With China entering the four-day Dragon Boat Festival national holiday weekend, Beijing judicial officials were unavailable for comment on the charges on Wednesday. The Associated Press reported that its request for comment, faxed to the city’s Justice Bureau, had not been answered by evening. Mr. Bequelin said that in four cases, Beijing judicial authorities had told the heads of law firms that a civil rights lawyer in their practice faced difficulties in renewing a license.
973 2009-05-28 A red pizza, but without tomato sauce....
974 2009-05-28 To the Editor:     Re ''Generation B: People Magazine Still Has a Bikini Body'' (Sunday Styles, May 24):...
975 2009-05-28 WODKA--Hermine (Cissy). The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Hermine Wodka, beloved mother of Jayne Lipman and mother-in-law of Robert Goodman. With their family, Jayne and Bob express an u...
976 2009-05-28 When Amazon.com  introduced its Kindle e-book device over a year ago, it waived its fee of 10 cents a megabyte for letting customers e-mail their own text and PDF documents to Amazon, which would, in turn, relay them wirelessly to the Kindle. But ...
977 2009-05-28 CHRYSLER'S NEXT STEPS  Chrysler is moving quickly through the bankruptcy process and may emerge from it just one month after its Chapter 11 filing. But that will not mean that the hard part is over.       Steven Rattner, below, a leading president...
978 2009-05-29 The chief minister of Maharashtra State in India said that two child stars of “Slumdog Millionaire” would be been given new apartments after their shanty homes were torn down....
979 2009-05-29 Government estimates released today show that corporate profits (and corporate tax revenues) rose from the last quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2009. But compared to what they were a year ago, things still look dismal....
980 2009-05-29 H & H on the Upper West Side reopens....
981 2009-05-29 The Deal Professor looks at how PepsiCo has an incentive to avoid taking action in its bid for Pepsi Bottling that puts the offer into entire fairness review under Delaware law....
982 2009-05-29 A new book -- whose publication caused its author to resign from a prominent investment banking position -- forecasts that gasoline prices will rise to $7 per gallon, and will thereby help North America return as a manufacturing powerhouse....
983 2009-05-29 So I'm giving the Robbins lectures in a couple of weeks, which means that I have to actually think a bit. And one thing I've been thinking about is the changing nature of recessions. Here's one bit of that: looking at interest rates. First, let's ...
984 2009-05-29 Building green can open the door to liability claims, a new study warns....
985 2009-05-29 Jones Day, the law firm advising Chrysler in its Chapter 11 case, has hired seven bankruptcy attorneys, four of them partners, away from rival Kirkland & Ellis....
986 2009-05-29 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
987 2009-05-29 Delphi, the auto parts maker that has been in bankruptcy proceedings for the last four years, may sell some of its assets to a third-party buyer, possibly another parts supplier or an investment firm....
988 2009-05-29 There is widespread talk of a "nuclear renaissance" but some of the problems that plagued the industry in the past still loom large....
989 2009-05-29 Terra Firma has been forced to inject more capital into music label EMI, which is struggling under a $5 billion debt load, The New York Post reported....
990 2009-05-29 A group of banks and money managers plan to release a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and other regulators to help fend off some derivative-trading rules proposed by the Obama administration, The Wall Street Journal reported....
991 2009-05-29 The ups and downs of the credit markets steered Wall Street for another day on Thursday. But this time, the direction for stocks was up. A day after fears about inflation hammered financial markets, investors took a deep breath, tamped down their ...
992 2009-05-29 Morgan Stanley has hired Wayne Chrebet, the former New York Jets wide receiver who caught more passes than any player in Jets history except Don Maynard, as a financial adviser in a New Jersey branch....
993 2009-05-29 Four months after the revelation of a major fraud at Satyam Computer Services shocked corporate India, two PricewaterhouseCoopers accountants, who say they are innocent, remain in prison....
994 2009-05-29 With so much gloom in the air, it was refreshing to see the work of so many bright young things at the recent Milan fair....
995 2009-05-29 The Delphi Corporation, the auto parts maker that has been in bankruptcy proceedings for the last four years, may finally emerge from Chapter 11 and avert liquidation.

As Delphi’s one-time parent, General Motors, lays the final groundwork for its own bankruptcy filing, the Obama administration’s auto task force is pushing for a sale of at least some Delphi assets to a third-party buyer, possibly another parts supplier or an investment firm, according to people briefed on the matter who spoke only on the condition of not being named.

G.M., still a major Delphi customer, might reacquire some assets as well, these people said. As part of its reorganization, G.M. has agreed to take back five Delphi plants, although the terms of that transaction have not been settled.

These people cautioned that talks were continuing and that a deal might not be reached. But one of these people said that an agreement might be struck during the weekend.

By selling some or most of its assets, Delphi would avoid a wholesale liquidation, a dismal end that would leave its creditors with little or nothing to recover. The government had prepared for that possibility, with G.M. acquiring the plants and equipment it would need for its operations through a fire sale of Delphi assets.
996 2009-05-29 IN times of economic crisis, Americans turn to their families for support. If the Great Depression is any guide, we may see a drop in our sky-high divorce rate. But this won’t necessarily represent an increase in happy marriages, nor is the trend likely to last. In the long run, the Depression weakened American families, and the current crisis will probably do the same.

We tend to think of the Depression as a time when families pulled together to survive huge job losses. The divorce rate, which had been rising slowly since the Civil War, suddenly dropped in 1930, the year after the Depression began. By 1932, when nearly one-quarter of the work force was unemployed, it had declined by around 25 percent from 1929. But this does not mean that people were suddenly happier with their marriages. Rather, with incomes plummeting and insecure jobs, unhappy couples often couldn’t afford to divorce. They feared that neither spouse would be able to manage alone.

Today, given the job losses of the past year, fewer unhappy couples will risk starting separate households. Furthermore, the housing market meltdown will make it more difficult for them to finance their separations by selling their homes.

After financial disasters (and natural ones as well) family members also tend to do whatever they can to help each other and their communities. In a 1940 book, “The Unemployed Man and His Family,” the sociologist Mirra Komarovsky described a family in which the husband initially reacted to losing his job “with tireless search for work.” He was always active, looking for odd jobs or washing windows for neighbors. Another unemployed man initially enjoyed spending more time with his young children. These men’s spirits were up, and their wives were supportive.

The problem is that such an impulse is hard to sustain. The men Komarovsky studied eventually grew discouraged, their efforts faltered, and their relationships with their wives and teenage children often deteriorated. Across the country, many similar families were unable to maintain the initial boost in morale. For some, the hardships of life without steady work eventually overwhelmed their attempts to keep their families together. The divorce rate began to rise again in 1934 when employment picked up, providing some unhappy couples with the income they needed to separate. The rate rose during the rest of the decade as the recovery took hold.

Millions of American families may now be in the initial stage of their responses to the current crisis, working together and supporting one another through the early months of unemployment. During the Depression this stage seemed to last a year at most. Today, it might last longer. Wives now share with their husbands the burden of earning money, and the government provides more assistance.

But history suggests that this response will be temporary. By 1940 the divorce rate was higher than before the Depression, as if a pent-up demand was finally being satisfied. The Depression destroyed the inner life of many married couples, but it was years before they could afford to file for divorce.
997 2009-05-29 The American legal system is based on a useful falsehood. It’s based on the falsehood that this is a nation of laws, not men; that in rendering decisions, disembodied, objective judges are able to put aside emotion and unruly passion and issue opinions on the basis of pure reason.

Most people know this is untrue. In reality, decisions are made by imperfect minds in ambiguous circumstances. It is incoherent to say that a judge should base an opinion on reason and not emotion because emotions are an inherent part of decision-making. Emotions are the processes we use to assign value to different possibilities. Emotions move us toward things and ideas that produce pleasure and away from things and ideas that produce pain.

People without emotions cannot make sensible decisions because they don’t know how much anything is worth. People without social emotions like empathy are not objective decision-makers. They are sociopaths who sometimes end up on death row.

justices, like all of us, are emotional intuitionists. They begin their decision-making processes with certain models in their heads. These are models of how the world works and should work, which have been idiosyncratically ingrained by genes, culture, education, parents and events. These models shape the way judges perceive the world.

As Dan Kahan of Yale Law School has pointed out, many disputes come about because two judges look at the same situation and they have different perceptions about what the most consequential facts are. One judge, with one set of internal models, may look at a case and perceive that the humiliation suffered by a -year-old girl during a strip search in a school or airport is the most consequential fact of the case. Another judge, with another set of internal models, may perceive that the security of the school or airport is the most consequential fact. People elevate and savor facts that conform to their pre-existing sensitivities.
998 2009-05-29 Re “And the Angels Rejoice,” by David Brooks (column, May 26):

This is a nicely written, tongue-in-cheek column satirizing President Obama’s fantastic, in the literal sense, relationship with corporate America.

Mr. Brooks makes it seem as if Big Business had been coerced into submission.

I prefer to think of it in another way: the kids want the keys to the car after wrecking it, and Daddy’s making them clean the garage, wash the car and mow the lawn.

That’s how most of us were raised before kids ascended to the head of the household sometime in the 1980s.
999 2009-05-29 “Since the acquisition of Christian Lacroix SNC, we have been committed to the brand and to its high-end development,” Mr. Topiol said in a statement. “We will continue to do so, but the sharp downturn of the luxury market has significantly hurt our revenues.”

The owners had been in discussion with potential financial partners and investors for the last year, Mr. Topiol said, adding “this process which was in its final phase, was directly hit by the conditions of the financial markets and could not be finalized prior to the filing.”

According to people close to the matter, Lacroix was badly hit in the United States, where it had opened two stores in New York and Las Vegas and where buyers had recently reduced or canceled orders. Ready-to-wear sales for the coming autumn season were down 35 percent and losses for 2008 were 10 million euros ($14 million) on overall revenues of about 30 million euros.

Mr. Topiol’s statement said only that the “long-term strategy for repositioning of the brand was dramatically hindered” by the financial crisis.

That has been evident for some time across the luxury sector, where even the biggest players are being hurt by recession and financial turmoil. LVMH, the world’s biggest luxury goods company, recently scrapped a plan to open a Louis Vuitton flagship store in Tokyo. This year, Chanel announced the layoffs of 200 temporary employees.

Versace, an independent Italian house, is in a state of turmoil, announcing that revenue fell 13 percent in the first quarter. The board this week approved a three-year plan to steer the company through the economic crisis while continuing to deny rumors that its chief executive of four years, Giancarlo Di Risio, will soon exit the company.

The lessons seem to be that it is now difficult to survive in high fashion without being part of a corporate group that can invest in product development and flagship stores and that the pyramid model is no longer viable.

The modern strategy, as exemplified by the growth of the Giorgio Armani brand, is a sunburst, with the designer at the epicenter and all product categories (except sunglasses, which are technically demanding) under the brand control.

Yet, significantly, an Armani Privé couture line was created to add prestige and a direct link with celebrity clients.

The loss of Christian Lacroix to Paris haute couture is immeasurable. Although the designer hopes to hold a small presentation during the July couture season, this was the last house established under the formal couture rules. Even a restructuring would most likely have severe implications for the 125-member staff.

The grandeur of the couturier’s work was displayed this month in the sumptuous gown created for Philomena de Tornos, the bride of Jean de France, Duc de Vendôme, a descendant of the French royal dynasty.

But just as royalty now has less attention than celebrity, so couture has lost its unique prestige, with the word bandied about by any high-end designer. And whereas fragrances produced from the mystique of haute couture once kept the houses afloat, now it is just as likely that a hip jeans brand like Diesel or a celebrity like Jennifer Lopez will have the perfume hit that has stubbornly eluded Lacroix.

Mr. Lacroix, who received the Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur in 2002, for services to fashion, has other strings to his bow, apart from his colorful and sophisticated collections. He was the creative director for Emilio Pucci, the Italian fashion house, from 2002 to 2005, while he was still within the LVMH group.

He also has his own XCLX company, for which he has created décor for the French TGV high-speed train, as well as hotel interiors and uniforms for Air France. He has also designed for theater, opera and dance and acted as curator for fashion exhibits, including one currently at the National Museum of Singapore.
1000 2009-05-29 “Our goal is not to criticize or embarrass anyone, but ensure Target maintains its status as one of the great companies of America,” he said.

Target maintains that its stock has performed well over the long term and no board changes are needed.

The meeting, held at an unfinished store in Waukesha, Wis., was the end of one of the most notable and expensive boardroom contests in recent memory. It has added fuel to the continuing debate over how much influence big shareholders like Pershing should have over a company’s business strategy.

The two sides have spent at least $25 million for high-priced lawyers, bankers, public relations advisers and proxy solicitors, not to mention valuable time trying to persuade shareholders of their respective positions. Mr. Ackman’s critics argue the proxy fight has been a distraction to Target’s management, which should be focused on running its business and improving its stores.

“There’s a great deal of instability that a company goes through in a proxy contest,” said Damien J. Park of Hedge Fund Solutions, a consulting firm that advises companies on shareholder activism.

“I guarantee you that every single Target board discussion over the last six months has been about this proxy fight and not about setting the business strategy of the company.”

Mr. Ackman says he has shed light on important issues at Target that will benefit shareholders in the long run. Before starting the proxy fight, Mr. Ackman pushed Target to spin off the land underneath its stores into a separate real estate investment trust and to sell its entire portfolio of credit card receivables.

Last year, Target took his advice and sold about half of its credit card portfolio to JPMorgan Chase, but rejected the real estate plan, saying it was too risky and would put the company in tough financial position.

This year, Mr. Ackman approached the company with three director nominees, but they were rejected by the board’s nominating committee.

Mr. Ackman still has to deal with his own investors, which have suffered losses on Pershing’s stake in Target. In 2007, Pershing Square introduced a $2 billion fund specifically for betting on Target. In February, Mr. Ackman apologized to his investors and let some of them withdraw their cash after the fund lost 90 percent of its value. Target’s stock has risen 21 percent since then.

After the meeting, Mr. Ackman said he expected to hold onto his Target shares for the foreseeable future, but reserved the right to change his mind. “It’s a disappointment not to get a majority vote, but we were the underdogs on the way in,” he told reporters after the meeting.
1001 2009-05-29 “I’ve been 31 years in this profession, and I have never seen auditors being booked,” said Subramani Gopalakrishnan, one of the jailed auditors and the founder of the PricewaterhouseCoopers office in Hyderabad.

He yelled through three fences in the room. Prisoners pushed against one fence. Visitors — lawyers and wives with babies — pressed against another, and a third occupied a garbage-strewn no man’s land between the first two.

PricewaterhouseCoopers audited Satyam’s books worldwide from 2001 until the company’s founder, B. Ramalinga Raju, confessed in January that he had been manipulating the accounts for years and that more than $1 billion cash on the company’s balance sheet did not exist.

Subsequent investigations revealed falsified bank balances, depository receipts, invoices and even bank letterhead used to bolster the fake accounts. Mr. Raju and some of the other top managers, who have confessed to crimes and are awaiting trial, are also in Hyderabad’s prison, but in separate quarters from other prisoners.

PricewaterhouseCoopers, facing numerous shareholder class-action suits and investigations, is under intense pressure to prove that its partners were not complicit. But a preliminary report from India’s Central Bureau of Investigation accuses the auditors of “consciously” overlooking accounting irregularities and “knowingly” certifying inflated and falsified data.

In a petition for bail for the partners, PricewaterhouseCoopers said that the government had “no material or iota of evidence to even remotely suggest” that the partners “had any knowledge” that Satyam documents were falsified.

Mr. Raju’s “carefully crafted image” and political connections fooled the company’s board, India’s regulators and everyone else, Mr. Gopalakrishnan said from prison. In retrospect, the only thing he might have done differently, he said, would be to be more aware of the pressure on Indian outsourcing companies like Satyam to grow, and rely less on their employees to provide copies of the company’s bank balances. The other PricewaterhouseCoopers partner, Srinivas Talluri, a youthful 48-year-old with wire-rim glasses, is trying to maintain his professional mien behind bars. In the interview, his hair was neatly brushed, he carried a notepad and a plastic water bottle and his T-shirt was so smooth it seemed ironed.

He said his two children had not visited him during his four-month prison stint because he did not want them to see him behind bars. He recently offered to check the accounts at the prison’s canteen, just to keep his mind sharp.

“The whole world believes that preventing and detecting fraud is my responsibility,” he yelled through the wire fence. “No concerns were ever brought to us by anyone.” He said he “could not imagine” the company would forge depository receipts, or balances on fake bank letterhead. Banks in India are not required to give balances directly to auditors, he added.

Accounting experts say that while authorities may be treating the PricewaterhouseCoopers partners particularly harshly, making an example of them may prevent more serious repercussions for the country’s economy and even the audit firm itself.

“You can say it is a little unfair they are awaiting trial in prison, but at the same time it is part of a system of action that seeks to preserve investor confidence and limit collateral damage,” said Sudhakar Balachandran, an associate professor of accounting at Columbia Business School in New York.

Mr. Talluri and Mr. Gopalakrishnan provided more than 50,000 pages of documents from their office to investigators and sat for numerous interrogations, according to their bail petitions. PricewaterhouseCoopers maintains that the two partners are not a flight risk and keeping them in prison “constitutes a pretrial punishment,” the bail plea said.

The auditors’ wives say they have been doing their best to keep a brave face for their husbands, and spend a lot of time praying.

Right now, “even God is not with us,” said Mr. Gopalakrishnan’s wife, Jaya Lakshmi.
1002 2009-05-29 President Obama’s choice for the United States Supreme Court did not vote in the last two statewide elections in New York, according to voting records.

The selection, Sonia Sotomayor, currently a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and a resident of Manhattan, did not cast a ballot in the 2002 election, when the Democratic ticket in New York was led by H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller and a candidate for governor. Nor did she vote in the 2006 elections, which gave Democrats control of the United States Senate, where the fate of her nomination to the nation’s highest court will be decided.

But Judge Sotomayor, 54, did vote in 2008, when Mr. Obama led the Democratic ticket, according to records kept by the New York City Board of Elections. Between 1992 and 2006 Judge Sotomayor voted in most other major general elections, including ones that encompassed four mayoral races and three presidential elections. She voted in 2005, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was re-elected, and she voted in the 1994 and 1998 off-year elections, when congressional seats were at stake.

Judge Sotomayor did not cast ballots in 1999 and 2007, low-turnout elections that were dominated by races for seats on the State Supreme Court, which in New York is the trial-level court.

Judge Sotomayor is not enrolled in a political party, meaning she cannot vote in primaries. Details of Judge Sotomayor’s voting records were reported on Thursday night by the news channel NY1.
1003 2009-05-29 Of course, it is not as if a lawyer and judge with a history of involvement in racial issues has not made it onto the Supreme Court. Thurgood Marshall, a fierce advocate for racial justice as a lawyer for the N.A.A.C.P., sailed onto the highest bench in the 1960s.

The White House, in a statement, emphasized Judge Sotomayor’s experience issuing more than 3,000 decisions from the bench and played down her influence on the board, saying that staff attorneys handled the cases. The White House also said that the case involving minority police officers had its origins in litigation that predated her arrival on the board.

Founded in 1972, the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, which recently changed its name to LatinoJustice PRLDEF, is a public-interest law group with its own long record of civil rights battles. Ms. Sotomayor joined its board in 1980 when she was a young prosecutor in Manhattan and fresh out of Yale Law School. It was full of young, idealistic Latino lawyers like her who were eager to make a mark.

“She just believed in the mission,” Luis Alvarez, a former chairman of its board, said of Ms. Sotomayor. “This was a highly refined group of individuals who came from the premier academic institutions. It was almost like Camelot. It was a wonderful growth period.”

But Ms. Sotomayor stood out, frequently meeting with the legal staff to review the status of cases, several former members said. And so across her 12 years on the board — she left when she was appointed a federal judge in 1992 — she played an active role as the defense fund staked out aggressive stances on issues like police brutality, the death penalty and voting rights.

The board monitored all litigation undertaken by the fund’s lawyers, and a number of those lawyers said Ms. Sotomayor was an involved and ardent supporter of their various legal efforts during her time with the group.

Its efforts helped bring bilingual education to public schools around the country. In 1981, the fund filed a lawsuit that prompted a federal court, on the eve of the city’s primary elections, to block voting in New York City. The suit, supported by Ms. Sotomayor and the rest of the board, alleged that the new City Council district boundaries diminished the influence of minority voters.

“It was a stunning victory,” recalled Cesar A. Perales, the defense fund’s president and general counsel, noting that the entire board embraced the effort. “Imagine you wake up and are going to vote and the headlines tell you, ‘No Election Today.’ ”

Ms. Sotomayor was part of a three-person committee of the board that recommended in 1981 that the fund oppose the reinstitution of the death penalty in New York State, according to board minutes from that time.

“Capital punishment is associated with evident racism in our society,” the panel wrote. “It creates inhuman psychological burdens for the offender and his/her family.”

Not every effort was a success. The lawsuit against the Reagan administration official, for example, was dismissed, and some former fund officials concede that publicity may have been a motivating factor in filing the suit.

One of the legal defense fund’s most important suits charged that a Police Department promotional exam discriminated against minority candidates. It was filed on behalf of the Hispanic Society of the New York police. The exams, the group charged, did not really measure the ability to perform in a more senior position, and were yielding unfair results: Too many whites were doing well, and too many Hispanics and African-Americans were not.

“We saw the lawsuit as a vehicle to level the playing field,” said Mr. Perales. “It’s important to understand that she and the rest of the board, in that context, shared the philosophy that we had to remove the barriers to the advancement of Latinos.”

The suit resulted in a settlement with the city that produced greater numbers of promotions to sergeant for Latino and African-American officers.

Some white officers, however, felt that the settlement was unfair. They said that many white officers had outscored their Hispanic and African-American counterparts, yet were not allowed to fill the spots because of quotas. They sued, and their case, Marino v. Ortiz, reached the Supreme Court, where it failed by a 4-to-4 vote in 1988.

Two decades later, as a federal appellate judge, Ms. Sotomayor was again forced by a volatile case to confront the issue of promotion tests and race. She and her colleagues on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit were asked to review a ruling on a claim by white firefighters in New Haven, Conn., that they had lost promotions because of their race — even though they had performed well on the Fire Department’s tests.

Judge Sotomayor voted to affirm the lower court’s dismissal of the case, and her ruling is behind some of the most intense debate about her selection. Mr. Levey said that the employment discrimination case filed by the defense fund on behalf of Hispanic police officers raised questions about Judge Sotomayor’s credibility in the New Haven case. “It adds to the conviction that this was not accidental, and that she had a very specific agenda here.”
1004 2009-05-29 He left for the United States in 1971 after refusing to sign an oath of loyalty to the government of Jean-Claude Duvalier. While living and working at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross in Boston, he earned a bachelor’s degree in engineering technology from Northeastern University in 1974 and a second bachelor’s in civil engineering from Northeastern in 1977.

In the 1970s, facing political turmoil and grinding poverty, thousands of desperate Haitians sought asylum and economic opportunity in the United States, where they were put into detention centers and, in all but a small number of cases, sent back to Haiti. Father Jean-Juste helped found the Haitian Refugee Center to help refugees, protest government immigration laws and fight local discrimination. He was often seen, bullhorn in hand, at the head of street demonstrations.

“Haitian people had no rights in Haiti, and they have no rights here,” he told The Miami Herald in 1980. “They are starving, they are being separated from their families, they cannot work.”

Marleine Bastien, executive director of the nonprofit organization Haitian Women of Miami, told The Associated Press: “We were out in the streets, demonstrating nearly every day on behalf of other Haitian immigrants. I can still in my mind’s eye see him lying on the ground when buses were taking refugees without process — lying there in the path of the buses.”

Father Jean-Juste also incurred the wrath of the archdiocese of Miami by conducting funeral services for non-Catholic Haitians who drowned at sea and by picketing Archbishop Edward McCarthy of Miami, who he said was a racist failing to defend the rights of Haitian refugees.

“When he first came to the Haitian Refugee Center, most of the church agencies wanted to treat the Haitian refugee issue as one of charity,” Jack Lieberman, a founder of the refugee center, told New Times, a Miami newspaper, in 2005. “Jean-Juste pointed out that there was an injustice.”

In 1980 the center won an important victory when a district court, ruling that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had committed “wholesale violations of due process” and shown racial bias in ordering mass deportations of refugees, ordered that new hearings be held for the more than 4,000 Haitian refugees represented in the class-action suit brought by the center and other organizations.

Father Jean-Juste’s return to Haiti in 1991 plunged him into the country’s turbulent politics. When Mr. Aristide was ousted by a military coup after seven months in office, Father Jean-Juste went into hiding for three years, resurfacing when Mr. Aristide returned to the presidency in 1994. He resumed his work as a rector at the Church of Ste. Claire, in the Delmas district of Port-au-Prince, where he operated a soup kitchen to feed the poor.

After Mr. Aristide was deposed a second time, in 2004, by a rebellion, Father Jean-Juste became a target of the interim government, which arrested and imprisoned him twice. After his second arrest, in July 2005, he faced charges of involvement in the death of Jacques Roche, a journalist.

By then, he was being put forward as a candidate himself, and the murder charges, universally regarded as politically motivated, caused an international outcry from human rights organizations. After several months, the main charges were dropped, but he was indicted on lesser charges of weapons possession and criminal conspiracy. While he was imprisoned, his supporters tried to register him as a candidate for the 2006 presidential elections, a move that was blocked by the government.

In December 2005 Father Saint-Juste discovered that he had leukemia, and in early 2006 he was released from prison to seek treatment in a Miami hospital. In November 2007 he appeared before an appeals court in Haiti to answer remaining charges against him. Questioned about weapons, he told the judge, “My rosary is my only weapon.” Eventually all charges against him were dropped.
1005 2009-05-29 The name is meant to conjure “the sound of found” as Bing helps people with complex tasks like shopping for a camera, said Yusuf Mehdi, senior vice president of Microsoft’s online audience business group.

And if Bing turns into a verb like, say, Xerox, TiVo or, well, Google, that would be nice too. Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, said Thursday that he liked Bing’s potential to “verb up.” Plus, he said, “it works globally, and doesn’t have negative, unusual connotations.”

Some branding experts said choosing the name Bing was a good start, but also the easiest part of the challenge facing the company, since most people turn to Google without even thinking about it.

Michael Cronan, whose consulting firm helped come up with brands like TiVo and Amazon’s Kindle, said Bing’s sound, brevity and “ing” ending were all positives.

“It has a promise that you are going to find what you are looking for, and that’s great,” Mr. Cronan said. “But its success is entirely wrapped up in the quality of the experience that Microsoft can deliver.”

Peter Sealey, a former chief marketing officer at the Coca-Cola Company, said Microsoft should have picked a name that more directly connotes search.

“Bing has no equity; it signals nothing,” Mr. Sealey said. “It is going to be an enormous expense to create an image for this thing called Bing.”

Google’s name is a play on the word googol, which is a 1 followed by 100 zeroes. The company has said the name speaks to its ambitious mission to organize all the world’s information.

Asked about Microsoft’s choice of name at a press conference on Wednesday, Sergey Brin, a Google co-founder, said he did not know enough about the new service to comment on it. Then he deadpanned: “We’ve been pretty happy with the name Google.”

Meanwhile, some tech people were already noting that Bing is also an unfortunate acronym: “But It’s Not Google.”
1006 2009-05-29 In the end, he says, that standardization will lead to significant savings.

But early experience suggests these new reactors will be no easier or cheaper to build than the ones of a generation ago, when cost overruns — and then accidents at Three Mile Island and Chernobyl — ended the last nuclear construction boom.

In Flamanville, France, a clone of the Finnish reactor now under construction is also behind schedule and overbudget.

In the United States, Florida and Georgia have changed state laws to raise electricity rates so that consumers will foot some of the bill for new nuclear plants in advance, before construction even begins.

“A number of U.S. companies have looked with trepidation on the situation in Finland and at the magnitude of the investment there,” said Paul L. Joskow, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a co-author of an influential report on the future of nuclear power in 2003. “The rollout of new nuclear reactors will be a good deal slower than a lot of people were assuming.”

For nuclear power to have a high impact on reducing greenhouse gases, an average of 12 reactors would have to be built worldwide each year until 2030, according to the Nuclear Energy Agency at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Right now, there are not even enough reactors under construction to replace those that are reaching the end of their lives.

And of the 45 reactors being built around the world, 22 have encountered construction delays, according to an analysis prepared this year for the German government by Mycle Schneider, an energy analyst and a critic of the nuclear industry. He added that nine do not have official start-up dates.

Most of the new construction is underway in countries like China and Russia, where strong central governments have made nuclear energy a national priority. India also has long seen nuclear as part of a national drive for self-sufficiency and now is seeking new nuclear technologies to reduce its reliance on imported uranium.

By comparison, “the state has been all over the place in the United States and Europe on nuclear power,” Mr. Joskow said.

The United States generates about one-fifth of its electricity from a fleet of 104 reactors, most built in the 1960s and 1970s. Coal still provides about half the country’s power.

To streamline construction, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Washington has worked with the industry to approve a handful of designs. Even so, the schedule to certify the most advanced model from Westinghouse, a unit of Toshiba, has slipped during an ongoing review of its ability to withstand the impact of an airliner.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has also not yet approved the so-called EPR design under construction in Finland for the American market.

This month, the United States Energy Department produced a short list of four reactor projects eligible for some loan guarantees. In the 2005 energy bill, Congress provided $18.5 billion, but the industry’s hope of winning an additional $50 billion worth of loan guarantees evaporated when that money was stripped from President Obama’s economic stimulus bill.

The industry has had more success in getting states to help raise money. This year, authorities permitted Florida Power & Light to start charging millions of customers several dollars a month to finance four new reactors. Customers of Georgia Power, a subsidiary of the Southern Co., will pay on average $1.30 a month more in 2011, rising to $9.10 by 2017, to help pay for two reactors expected to go online in 2016 or later.

But resistance is mounting. In April, Missouri legislators balked at a preconstruction rate increase, prompting the state’s largest electric utility, Ameren UE, to suspend plans for a $6 billion copy of Areva’s Finnish reactor.

Areva, a conglomerate largely owned by the French state, is heir to that nation’s experience in building nuclear plants. France gets about 80 percent of its power from 58 reactors. But even France has not completed a new reactor since 1999.

After designing an updated plant originally called the European Pressurized Reactor with German participation during the 1990s, the French had trouble selling it at home because of a saturated energy market as well as opposition from Green Party members in the then-coalition government.

So Areva turned to Finland, where utilities and energy-hungry industries like pulp and paper had been lobbying for 15 years for more nuclear power. The project was initially budgeted at $4 billion and Teollisuuden Voima, the Finnish utility, pledged it would be ready in time to help the Finnish government meet its greenhouse gas targets under the Kyoto climate treaty, which runs through 2012.

Areva promised electricity from the reactor could be generated more cheaply than from natural gas plants. Areva also said its model would deliver 1,600 megawatts, or about 10 percent of Finnish power needs.

In 2001, the Finnish parliament narrowly approved construction of a reactor at Olkiluoto, an island on the Baltic Sea. Construction began four years later.

Serious problems first arose over the vast concrete base slab for the foundation of the reactor building, which the country’s Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority found too porous and prone to corrosion. Since then, the authority has blamed Areva for allowing inexperienced subcontractors to drill holes in the wrong places on a vast steel container that seals the reactor.

In December, the authority warned Anne Lauvergeon, the chief executive of Areva, that “the attitude or lack of professional knowledge of some persons” at Areva was holding up work on safety systems.

Today, the site still teems with 4,000 workmen on round-the-clock shifts. Banners from dozens of subcontractors around Europe flutter in the breeze above temporary offices and makeshift canteens. Some 10,000 people speaking at least eight different languages have worked at the site. About 30 percent of the workforce is Polish, and communication has posed significant challenges.

Areva has acknowledged that the cost of a new reactor today would be as much as 6 billion euros, or $8 billion, double the price offered to the Finns. But Areva said it was not cutting any corners in Finland. The two sides have agreed to arbitration, where they are both claiming more than 1 billion euros in compensation. (Areva blames the Finnish authorities for impeding construction and increasing costs for work it agreed to complete at a fixed price.)

Areva announced a steep drop in earnings last year, which it blamed mostly on mounting losses from the project.

In addition, nuclear safety inspectors in France have found cracks in the concrete base and steel reinforcements in the wrong places at the site in Flamanville. They also have warned Électricité de France, the utility building the reactor, that welders working on the steel container were not properly qualified.

On top of such problems come the recession, weaker energy demand, tight credit and uncertainty over future policies, said Caren Byrd, an executive director of the global utility and power group at Morgan Stanley in New York.

“The warning lights now are flashing more brightly than just a year ago about the cost of new nuclear,” she said.

And Jouni Silvennoinen, the project manager at Olkiluoto, said, “We have had it easy here.” Olkiluoto is at least a geologically stable site. Earthquake risks in places like China and the United States or even the threat of storm surges mean building these reactors will be even trickier elsewhere.
1007 2009-05-29 Both Kurds and the central government have long claimed Kirkuk as their own — and many residents and Western observers fear that the awarding of the contract, along with the bonanza of jobs and cash expected to follow, may decisively stoke hostility among the Kurds, Arabs and Turkmens who live here. Many worry this may tear at Iraqi unity and embroil the disputed territory in greater violence. At worst, it could bring the open ethnic warfare that many have predicted since security for the province was handed over to Kurdish forces after the 2003 invasion.

Any dispute over Kirkuk is of concern to Turkey, Syria and Iran, each with a minority Kurdish population, and could ignite simmering Arab-Kurdish tensions throughout northern Iraq, the country’s most restive region.

Still, even though the status of Kirkuk remains unresolved and it is unclear how much oil actually lies beneath it, many of the world’s largest oil corporations are competing for the contract here. It is one of eight large but underperforming oil and gas fields throughout Iraq for which the government is scheduled to award production rights at the end of June.

“By opening bids on fields in Kirkuk, Prime Minister Maliki is clearly poking the Kurds in the eye by asserting Iraqi sovereignty over oil in territories whose status is constitutionally in dispute,” said Joost Hiltermann, an Iraq expert at the International Crisis Group.

In recent weeks, even after a summit meeting in Berlin among Kirkuk’s Arabs, Kurds, Turkmens and Assyrians, violence in the province has increased. This spring, Kirkuk city has been rocked by car bombings, shootings and suicide attacks that have killed at least a dozen police officers, three Assyrian Christians, a high-ranking Arab police official and workers going to the oil fields.

Kirkuk’s predominately Kurdish security forces say they need help controlling the violence, but not from the largely Arab Iraqi Army troops stationed on the city’s outskirts. The American military held a series of meetings with Arab and Kurdish political leaders and security forces this month without reaching an accord to allow an Iraqi Army unit to operate in the city.

“We hope it is not going back again to very serious violence, but all signs are that it will,” said Maj. Gen. Turhan Abdul Rahman Yasif, deputy chief of the province’s police force.

A United Nations report last month offered several recommendations to reduce tensions, including making Kirkuk a region jointly administered by Iraq and Kurdistan. Residents would ultimately hold a referendum to decide their future.

Kirkuk’s population of Kurds, Arabs, Turkmens and Assyrian Christians generally live apart from one another in mutual suspicion. The other groups accuse the Kurds of seeking to annex Kirkuk and its oil wealth into the semiautonomous Kurdistan Regional Government, which could give Kurdistan the economic underpinning to become an independent state.

But there has been almost no oil exploration in Iraq for decades. The Oil Ministry says Kirkuk contains about 15 billion barrels of oil, or 16 percent of Iraq’s total, and 2 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves.

But most oil industry estimates put Kirkuk’s reserves at between 5.5 billion barrels and 10 billion barrels.

Revenue Watch Institute, a New York-based nonprofit natural resources policy group, estimated in a 2006 report that 62 percent of Kirkuk’s petroleum had already been extracted.

“That means this super giant field is at the final stages of its life,” the report said.

But Mena’a Abdullah Alubaid, director general of Iraq’s North Oil Company, a branch of the Oil Ministry that oversees Kirkuk’s fields, insists that the fields will last until 2074.

Wayne Kelley, managing director of RSK Ltd., an independent oil engineering firm, said the petroleum company that ultimately wins the Kirkuk field would face issues including the potential for violence and the likely contamination of part of the field with waste oil.

“Nowhere in the world has a field of anywhere near this size been so grossly mismanaged,” he said.

Another significant impediment could be the growing population of Kurdish settlers, many of whom have built homes on land that the Oil Ministry says is not theirs.

The families say they were forced out of Kirkuk by Saddam Hussein’s government, which bulldozed their villages. They call the contested city their “Jerusalem,” and some said they would take up arms to stay.

Sheik Hamakan, 60, said that after years of exile in Iran and elsewhere he had finally satisfied his longing to be home. He will not, he vowed, stand aside for government bulldozers to raze his family’s house a second time.

“I won’t leave,” he said. “It would be up to them to demolish the village on my head.”
1008 2009-05-29 UNITED NATIONS  With their boundless vistas of turquoise water framed by swaying coconut palms, the Carteret Islands northeast of the Papua New Guinea mainland might seem the idyllic spot to be a castaway.

But sea levels have risen so much that during the annual king tide season, November to March, the roiling ocean blocks the view from one island to the next, and residents stash their possessions in fishing nets strung between the palm trees.

“It gives you the scary feeling that you don’t know what is going to happen to you, that any minute you will be floating,” Ursula Rakova, the head of a program to relocate residents, said by telephone. The chain could well be uninhabitable by 2015, locals believe, but two previous attempts to abandon it ended badly, when residents were chased back after clashing with their new neighbors on larger islands.

This dark situation underlies the thorny debate over the world’s responsibilities to the millions of people likely to be displaced by climate change.

There could be 200 million of these climate refugees by 2050, according to a new policy paper by the International Organization for Migration, depending on the degree of climate disturbances. Aside from the South Pacific, low-lying areas likely to be battered first include Bangladesh and nations in the Indian Ocean, where the leader of the Maldives has begun seeking a safe haven for his 300,000 people. Landlocked areas may also be affected; some experts call the Darfur region of Sudan, where nomads battle villagers in a war over shrinking natural resources, the first significant conflict linked to climate change.

In the coming days, the United Nations General Assembly is expected to adopt the first resolution linking climate change to international peace and security. The hard-fought resolution, brought by 12 Pacific island states, says that climate change warrants greater attention from the United Nations as a possible source of upheaval worldwide and calls for more intense efforts to combat it. While all Pacific island states are expected to lose land, some made up entirely of atolls, like Tuvalu and Kiribati, face possible extinction.

“For the first time in history, you could actually lose countries off the face of the globe,” said Stuart Beck, the permanent representative for Palau at the United Nations. “It is a security threat to them and their populations, which will have to be relocated, which is the security threat to the places where they go, among other consequences.”

The issue has inspired intense wrangling, with some nations accusing the islanders of both exaggerating the still murky consequences of climate change and trying to expand the mandate of the Security Council by asking it to take action.

“We don’t consider climate change is an issue of security that properly belongs in the Security Council; rather, it is a development issue that has some security aspects,” said Maged A. Abdelaziz, the Egyptian ambassador. “It is an issue of how to prevent certain lands, or certain countries, from being flooded.”

The island states are seeking a response akin to the effort against terrorism after the Sept. 11 attacks. “The whole system bent itself to the task, and that is what we want,” Mr. Beck said, adding that the Council should even impose sanctions on countries that fail to act. “If you really buy into the notion that the Suburban you are driving is causing these islands to go under, there ought to be a cop.”

As it is, the compromise resolution does not mention such specific steps, one of the reasons it is expected to pass. Britain, which introduced climate change as a Security Council discussion topic two years ago, supports it along with most of Europe, while other permanent Council members  namely, the United States, China and Russia  generally backed the measure once it no longer explicitly demanded Council action.

Scientific studies distributed by the United Nations or affiliated agencies generally paint rising seas as a threat. A 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, detailing shifts expected in the South Pacific, said rising seas would worsen flooding and erosion and threaten towns as well as infrastructure. Some fresh water will turn salty, and fishing and agriculture will wither, it said.

The small island states are not alone in considering the looming threat already on the doorstep. A policy paper released this month by Australia’s Defense Ministry suggests possible violent outcomes in the Pacific. While Australia should try to mitigate the humanitarian suffering caused by global warming, if that failed and conflict erupted, the country should use its military “as an instrument to deal with any threats,” said the paper.

Australia’s previous prime minister, John Howard, was generally dismissive of the problem, saying his country was plagued with “doomsayers.” But a policy paper called “Our Drowning Neighbors,” by the now governing Labor Party, said Australia should help meld an international coalition to address it. Political debates have erupted there and in New Zealand over the idea of immigration quotas for climate refugees. New Zealand established a “Pacific Access Category” with guidelines that mirror the rules for any émigré, opening its borders to a limited annual quota of some 400 able-bodied adults between the ages of 18 and 45 who have no criminal records.

But its position has attracted criticism for leaving out the young and the old, who have the least ability to relocate. Australia’s policy, by contrast, is to try to mitigate the circumstances for the victims where they are, rather than serving as their lifeboat.

The sentiment among Pacific Islanders suggests that they do not want to abandon their homelands or be absorbed into cultures where indigenous people already struggle for acceptance.

“It is about much more than just finding food and shelter,” said Tarita Holm, an analyst with the Palauan Ministry of Resources and Development. “It is about your identity.”

Ms. Rakova, on the Carteret Islands, echoes that sentiment. A year ago, her proposed relocation effort attracted just three families out of a population of around 2,000 people. But after last season’s king tides  the highest of the year  she is scrounging for about $1.5 million to help some 750 people relocate before the tides come again.

Jennifer Redfearn, a documentary maker, has been filming the gradual disappearance of the Carterets for a work called “Sun Come Up.” One clan chief told her he would rather sink with the islands than leave. It now takes only about 15 minutes to walk the length of the largest island, with food and water supplies shrinking all the time.

“It destroys our food gardens, it uproots coconut trees, it even washes over the sea walls that we have built,” Ms. Rakova says on the film. “Most of our culture will have to live in memory.”
1009 2009-05-29 The celebrated filmmaker Yang Fudong, who was born in 1971 and lives in Shanghai, is having a New York moment. His best-known work, a beautiful but tryingly long, slow and portentous series of movies called “Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest” (2003-7), is on view in its five-hour entirety for the first time in a United States museum (at the Asia Society).

Meanwhile, Marian Goodman Gallery is presenting Mr. Yang’s “East of Que Village” (2007), a kind of gritty, anthropological study shown as six simultaneously running videos. Seen together, these exhibitions afford a supremely stylish and at times frustratingly narrow glimpse into the collective soul of modern China.

The two projects are similar in some ways. Both are in black and white and proceed with no regard for linear narrative. In terms of subject matter, however, they are worlds apart.

In its snail’s pace, emotional muteness and velvety grain, “Seven Intellectuals,” which was featured at the 2007 Venice Biennale, calls to mind early films by Jim Jarmusch, whom Mr. Yang has credited as an inspiration. Mr. Yang is often a striking image maker, but he has none of Mr. Jarmusch’s zany humor and storytelling imagination. He has also been influenced by the French New Wave.

But his movies, which tend to be wordless, are more pictorial than cinematic. Trained as a painter and photographer, he creates sequences of images that are like perfectly composed Modernist photographs. Often the imagery plays on classical Chinese paintings as well.

Inspired by a story about some third-century Taoists who retreat from the corruption of urban life and government service to a bamboo grove for conversation, singing and drinking, “Seven Intellectuals” tracks the dreamlike meanderings of a group of morose, well-dressed, fashion-model-pretty young people (five men and two women). We first encounter them reclining in the nude on a rocky outcrop on Yellow Mountain in Anhui Province. Then we follow them to a claustrophobic city apartment, where romantic and sexual complications ensue, and then to a beach where they process dried fish and wander over oceanside rocks carrying suitcases.
1010 2009-05-29 “It’s an eminently manageable way to have an important architect’s work in your home,” she added.

Louis Sullivan and Dankmar Adler, the original architects of the 13-story exchange, an early skyscraper, had provided tempting fodder for the 1970s salvagers, with repeating patterns like pointed ovals and clusters of spheres. Sullivan’s goal was to create motifs that seem “interwoven, intermeshed, interconnected, interblended,” he wrote in an essay in 1901.

“The ornament was filled with an energy and a cohesion,” said Tim Samuelson, the cultural historian for Chicago’s Department of Cultural Affairs. “It was meant to give you an emotional reaction, like something you’d see in nature.”

The Stock Exchange components, he added, survived partly because they appealed to 1970s tastes for lush textures and dramatic, odd-shaped antiques. “Architectural artifacts had just emerged as a salable commodity in the early ’70s,” he said. “If the building had come down just five years earlier, it would all have ended up in landfills, like Penn Station.”

Prices for the exchange’s more intricate fragments have been rising for decades, and spiked in the past year. In October an eight-foot-long canvas frieze stenciled with overlapping diamond patterns brought $40,625 at a Doyle New York auction. (The presale estimate was $40,000 to $60,000.) In December Sotheby’s sold a 14-foot length of filigree from the exchange’s elevators to the Seattle Art Museum for $602,500. (The estimate was $250,000 to $350,000.)

The coming Christie’s auction prices may also benefit from recent museum installations and restorations of Stock Exchange pieces. In the newly expanded American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum, two staircases from the exchange, which the museum bought during the 1972 demolition, have been adapted into zigzagging circulation routes for balconies full of vitrines for ceramics, silver, glass and jewelry.

The new Modern Wing of the Art Institute of Chicago was carefully constructed around the arched entryway of the exchange. This terra-cotta slab, which was hauled to the museum grounds in the 1970s, has been restored and cleaned. (The American Institute of Architects Guide to Chicago describes the freestanding arch as “the Wailing Wall of Chicago’s preservation movement.”) The museum also owns a reconstruction of the exchange’s trading room.

The Seattle Art Museum unveiled its elevator enclosure from the exchange in late March, alongside an 1898 bronze angel by the sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens. The Sullivan and Adler panel, studded with spheres and semicircles, “represents the most complete elevator assemblage from the Stock Exchange to ever appear at auction,” Julie Emerson, the museum’s head curator of decorative arts, wrote in an e-mail message.

Previous owners had pieced together the metalwork, she added: the span is “composed of elements from identical elevators that were originally located on the 3rd to 13th floors.” When she learned last year that the salvaged iron was headed for auction, she wrote, “I jumped, and thankfully the museum jumped with me.”

For Mr. Samuelson, however, the lively trade in Stock Exchange parts has a mournful edge. “There’s an inherent tragedy in seeing these beautiful things out of context,” he said. “They don’t have a home anymore, so they kind of wander.”

Owners of horses that win Kentucky Derby races have taken home identical gold trophies since the 1920s. On each spun-gold cup, nearly two feet tall, the handles are ovals, and the finial is a skinny thoroughbred straining at a jockey’s reins.

Most of the 14-karat awards still belong to the owners’ descendants, while perhaps two dozen are in museums, including the Kentucky Derby Museum in Louisville. “It’s insanely rare” for the trophies to come up for sale, said Katherine Veitschegger, the curator at the Derby Museum. “Most families want to keep these within the families, generation after generation.”

A great-nephew of Elizabeth Arden, the cosmetics tycoon, however, wants to sell the one that Arden’s horse, Jet Pilot, won in 1947. Skinner Inc., in Boston, is auctioning the trophy on June 7, with an estimate of $60,000 to $80,000, at an American furniture and decorative arts sale, where it’s rather improbably grouped with hooked rugs, whale teeth, hickory chairs and ventriloquist dummies’ heads.

There is something of a track record for the price range in this niche market. In 2005 the Derby’s 1969 cup brought $60,000 at a Doyle New York sale. (The estimate was $15,000 to $20,000.) And in 2006 the 1961 model cost $28,750 at James D. Julia Auctioneers in Maine. (The estimate was $18,000 to $25,000.)

Chris Barber, an Americana specialist at Skinner, predicted that bidders would include “thoroughbred owners, museums and collectors interested in horse racing, American history or silver.”

Fans of Elizabeth Arden may also vie: “Most people don’t realize that she was very serious about horses, and very well respected in the racing field,” Ms. Veitschegger said. “She actually put some of her skin creams on her horses. The idea sounds hilarious, but apparently it was helpful on their sore spots.”
1011 2009-05-29 WASHINGTON  Judge Sonia Sotomayor, President Obama’s Supreme Court choice, has a blunt and even testy side, and it was on display in December during an argument before the federal appeals court in New York. The case concerned a Canadian man who said American officials had sent him to Syria to be tortured, and Judge Sotomayor peppered a government lawyer with skeptical questions.

“So the minute the executive raises the specter of foreign policy, national security,” Judge Sotomayor asked the lawyer, Jonathan F. Cohn, “it is the government’s position that that is a license to torture anyone?”

Mr. Cohn managed to get out two and a half words: “No, your hon .”

Judge Sotomayor cut him off, then hit him with two more questions and a flat declaration of what she said was his position. The lawyer managed to say she was wrong, but could not clarify the point until the chief judge, Dennis G. Jacobs, stepped in, asking, “Why don’t we just get the position?”

To supporters, Judge Sotomayor’s vigorous questioning of the Bush administration’s position in the case of the Canadian, Maher Arar, showcases some of her strengths. She is known as a formidably intelligent judge with a prodigious memory who meticulously prepares for oral arguments and is not shy about grilling the lawyers who appear before her to ensure that she fully understands their arguments.

But to detractors, Judge Sotomayor’s sharp-tongued and occasionally combative manner  some lawyers have described her as “difficult” and “nasty”  raises questions about her judicial temperament and willingness to listen. Her demeanor on the bench is an issue that conservatives opposed to her nomination see as a potential vulnerability  and one that Mr. Obama carefully considered before selecting her.

Judge Sotomayor’s colleagues on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit say her tough and direct questioning reflects engagement and, sometimes, an effort to persuade her colleagues. Those qualities, coupled with a gregarious personality, they said, make her a powerful force behind the scenes, where she has used her mastery of the cases to change minds, improve opinions and forge consensus.

Those skills, some observers say, could make her an able politician on the Supreme Court and allow her to serve as an intellectual counterweight to Justice Antonin Scalia, a conservative who is known for his acerbic questioning.

“In some ways she could match, well, the other New Yorker on the court, Justice Scalia,” said Douglas Kmiec, a law professor at Pepperdine University. “He expects people to give back as good as he gives, and I expect that when Justice Sotomayor is on the court, his wish will be fulfilled.”

Both colleagues and lawyers who have argued before her agree that her style is assertive.

“They call it a hot bench when a judge asks a lawyer a lot of questions  well, she isn’t afraid of running a hot bench,” said H. Raymond Fasano, a Republican immigration lawyer who has appeared before her 24 times, mostly in asylum cases, and is a fan. “When a judge asks a lot of questions, that means she’s read the record, she knows the issues and she has concerns that she wants resolved. And that’s the judge’s job.”

Other lawyers, though, are not so enamored. In the Almanac of the Federal Judiciary, which conducts anonymous interviews with lawyers to assess judges, she has gone from generally rave reviews to more tepid endorsements. Among the comments from lawyers was that she is a “terror on the bench” who “behaves in an out-of-control manner” and attacks lawyers “for making an argument she doesn’t like.”

“I felt she could be very judgmental in the sense that she doesn’t let you finish your argument before she jumps in and starts asking questions,” said Sheema Chaudhry, who appeared before Judge Sotomayor in an asylum case last year. “She’s brilliant and she’s qualified, but I just feel that she can be very, how do you say, temperamental.”

Gerald Lefcourt, a New York defense lawyer, has dealt with Ms. Sotomayor since she was an assistant district attorney and later a federal district judge. Mr. Lefcourt said she was “more strident and much more vocal” than some of her colleagues in his most recent appearance before her, involving an appeal of a securities fraud conviction. “She used her questioning to make a point,” he said, “as opposed to really looking for an answer to a question she did not understand.”
1012 2009-05-29 But Treasury prices rebounded from some of their lowest levels since November. The benchmark 10-year note rose 1 percentage point, to 95 30/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.61 percent from 3.73 percent late Wednesday.

In a sign that business investment may be stabilizing, orders for goods like metals, machinery and electronic equipment picked up in April, the government reported Thursday.

The Commerce Department said orders for durable goods rose by $3 billion, or 1.9 percent, last month, to $161.5 billion. That was a larger increase than expected, but it followed a decline of 2.1 percent in March.

Shipments of durable goods fell 0.2 percent in April, and total inventories fell 0.8 percent. But businesses ordered more fabricated metal products, machinery and motor vehicles.

Excluding military orders, the number of new durable goods orders increased 1 percent.

By some measures, economists have said, a sharp decline in industrial output and business activity is beginning to level off. Manufacturers say their outlook is improving slightly, and sharp declines in industrial production have decreased this spring. Construction spending rose modestly in March, and some home builders are beginning to be more optimistic.

But economists said that the figures released Thursday hardly indicated a swift turnaround.

“The absolute worst is over, but what we have now is still quite bad,” Ian C. Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote in a research note. “Just about the only thing we can say with real confidence is that the headlong plunge in orders after the Lehman bankruptcy is over.”

Also on Thursday, the Labor Department reported that initial claims for unemployment insurance fell 13,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 623,000.

But the number of continuing jobless claims rose to 6.8 million — more than double the level of 3.1 million a year ago. With employers still cutting jobs as they try to save money, people are finding it harder to get new work. The Labor Department said that 27 percent of the unemployed have been out of work for six months or more.

Following are the results of Thursday’s Treasury auction of seven-year notes:
1013 2009-05-29 Q. Is there any type of search where you think that the new service really hits it out of the park?

A. There are some verticals where you can see it very vividly. You go search for anything that has to do with travel, particularly air travel. But I’m not trying to just point to one area. Because the real issue is, is there a way to do things remarkably different and remarkably better, for us, for Google, for anybody? Or are we just going to grind the relevance-o-meter up slightly? That’s why we still have so many queries that take well over 30 minutes to be satisfied.

I’m optimistic that we’re taking a big first step, and yet I want to be realistic, we’ve got to take a lot more steps, because this is not something where all the science and all the work happens overnight.

Q. If you put it in the context of a history of Microsoft releases that were very important to the company’s future, where would you rank it? Is it like the Windows 95 launch?

A. No. No, Windows 95 was a basically mostly interesting and successful concept that came to full fruition, right? This is not Windows 95. It’s more, I don’t know —

A. 3.0 maybe even, right? It’s more, hey, we’ve had some early tries, kind of like you might call Windows 1, and I think there was something called Windows 2 in there, and Windows 386 in the late ’80s, but it’s far more like Windows 3. People say, aha, I see the vision. It pays off but it won’t fully pay off the vision in its first incarnation.

But it’s like Windows — the most important thing I just said in all of that is it’s important like Windows is important. It’s important like something that we really care about, we really think about, we’re going to stay persistent with, we’re going to invest in.

If you stop and think about it, Windows 95 came 12 years after we started working on Windows. We’ve been working on search five years. I’m not saying it should necessarily take 12 years, but in a sense what we’re trying to do is accelerate the pace, and see if we can’t get there.

Q. You’ve had a few releases before, and every time I’m sure your team was confident that they had a good product. Yet market share has slipped. What’s different this time?

A. Every release is better and more differentiated and more interesting. If you’re coming from behind, it’s not one release that seals the deal.

So, I know our guys are right, this is significantly more interesting, differentiated, and in some ways better, and, look, there’s still — Google has a bunch of smart guys. It’s not like their product goes away and stops being interesting.

But it’s a big step forward. We’ve taken other big steps. This is one that I’m convinced enough about that it A) got a new name that’s interesting. If it’s not interesting enough to give something old a new name, that’s probably not a real smart thing. B) It will get a bigger budget to market it, a much bigger budget to market it than we’ve ever given the search service before. And C) we’re doing more interesting by way of partnerships through Live Cashback, distribution, through OEM, and other partners than we ever have before.

So, you have a number of expressions of my confidence in progress, and I’m optimistic. But like I said before, it’s a huge step with more steps to come.

Q. How quickly do you think you can start seeing results in market share?

A. I hope over the next year we’ll see small results. Big as a percentage of our share, and small as a percentage maybe of Google’s share.

Q. Do you think Microsoft underestimated how hard it would be to get into this business?

A. No, I think that — no, I wouldn’t say that. I knew this was going to be hard. I knew this was going to be hard. Yeah. I don’t know, maybe. Let me say a little harder. I’ll go with a little harder. I’m not going to go with a lot harder. It’s maybe a little harder than I anticipated. You know, yeah, that’s probably a fair thing for me to say.

Q. And this is something that Microsoft is going to continue regardless of the results?

A. I think I was quite clear about last year at our investor conference. I made clear that we’re prepared to invest over — a lot — a fairly significant amount of money over a fairly significant time frame.

Q. Have you ever competed with somebody who dominates the market as much as Google has?

A. Sure. Novell dominated the market. They don’t anymore. There was a time when [Lotus] 1-2-3 meant spreadsheets. So, yeah, we’ve competed with guys who had 80 percent, 90 percent market share. Those were not easy. This may be tougher. So, we have our work cut out for us. But I like — hey, the opportunity to innovate is there. And frankly if we’re not in the game, the pace of innovation in this business is going to crawl, will slow down, absolutely will slow down, and there will be no innovation in the business model.

Q. You’ve competed with Google for quite a while now. Do you see weaknesses in them?

A. They do a decent job on their product. But they only have one.

Q. They do other things like maps and —

A. No, no. They have one. No, maps is part of search; it’s not a separate thing.

They have one product called search advertising, one revenue stream. Let me not call it a product. They have one — I mean, mail is nice but it’s not a revenue stream; apps is not a revenue stream. You know, one revenue stream that’s called search advertising. And they’ll throw maps into it or anything else you want to try to make the search advertising more valuable, but they do have one revenue stream. It’s very strong, they do very well, they understand it very well. But if it comes under some pressure, there’s potential vulnerability.

Q. And do you see vulnerability in how they run their business or have you learned anything from —

A. It’s not like I’m under the covers there. Any journalist who does an interview has probably spent more time on the Google campus certainly than I have.

So, you know, we study and try to understand our competition, but I know more about the rhetoric of how they run than the reality.

Q. They think of their business as organizing the world’s information, and they do search, all search of all sorts of things, and the ones you’ve retreated from like books. Do you see those things as essential?

A. Look, if you’re the market leader and you can afford to do everything, you do everything. If you say, hey, look, how often do people actually do book searches, the answer is not very much.

Q. Let me ask you maybe a last question. Yahoo: Are you still interested? Do you still think it makes sense to do some kind of a deal for search?

A. I’m very boring in my answer on this: No interest in acquisition, a search partnership can still make sense. When it’s appropriate, I’m sure we’ll have a discussion.

Q. And you can’t talk about whether you’re actually having conversations.

A. I would never talk about it whether we were or we weren’t. Just like in acquisitions, it makes no sense to talk about it. We’ve decided we’re not going to do an acquisition, so I’m trying to be incredibly clear about that, because I think it’s the right and fair thing to do for our investors and theirs.

Q. Anything else you want to add?

A. No, I’m bullish, but I’m realistic, but I’m very bullish.
1014 2009-05-29 The stakes for Microsoft are high. Search has become the central tool for navigating the Web, and ads tied to search results are becoming a more important piece of the advertising market.

Microsoft is so eager to catch up that it bid nearly $50 billion last year to buy , the No. 2 search company behind Google. Mr. Ballmer said he was no longer interested in buying Yahoo, but still hoped the companies would team up to take on Google in search, and talks on a partnership are continuing.

For now, Microsoft is proceeding on its own. Bing represents more than a year of research showing that while users say they are generally satisfied with Web search services, their behavior suggests that they often stumble as they rely on searches to complete certain tasks.

Those include things like deciding what camera to buy, where to go on a trip or how to better understand a medical diagnosis. Bing offers an array of new features that are aimed at simplifying those tasks and it is meant to eventually expand to cover more of them.

“We are pushing beyond the way search works today,” said Yusuf Mehdi, senior vice president for Microsoft’s online audience business group.

The most noticeable new feature in Bing is what Microsoft executives call a table of contents, a navigation rail that allows users to refine their searches and that changes with each query.

A search for the singer Taylor Swift, for instance, gives users the option to zero in on things like images, videos, lyrics and tickets. A search for will offer slightly different options — no tickets, but a fan club.

In a search for , the top suggested refinement is the word “used,” but in one for it is “problems,” because search data suggests that those are the most frequent follow-up queries associated with those cars.

In many cases, Bing also extracts information from Web pages and presents it an easy-to-digest format. A search for will deliver a search box to track parcels, as well as a phone number for customer service. A search for will display movie times at nearby theaters.

Bing also presents more detailed results in four search categories — travel, health, shopping and local. In browsing the shopping area for a camera, for instance, Bing extracts and displays information from reviews.

Bing, which is to be available to the public by next Wednesday at , is not alone in its evolution away from the traditional 10 blue links that search engines have displayed for years.

Google has long blended images, news articles and videos in search results, and recently began offering ways to refine searches. Yahoo also presents movie times and is working to extract information like reviews from Web pages. But with Bing, Microsoft appears to have pushed the changes into more subject areas than its rivals.

Whether that translates into success depends on many unknowns, including whether Microsoft’s search results are generally as helpful as Google’s, as the company’s executives say.

“There are things where they are going to be superior to Google,” said Danny Sullivan, a search specialist and the editor of the SearchEngineLand blog. “But it is not a game changer. The features are not going to instantly compel people to switch.”

Mr. Sullivan cautioned that Google might be able to quickly match anything that Microsoft has done that proves compelling with users.

Others say Microsoft’s biggest challenge may be persuading enough users to try Bing.

“There is not a perceived market problem with search that needs fixing,” said Bryan Wiener, chief executive of 360i, a digital marketing agency. “They have a marketing challenge in convincing consumers that there is reason to look beyond Google.”

That is where Bing’s marketing campaign comes in. The company is planning to spend more than $100 million, making this one of its biggest campaigns.

When deals with partners are included, like agreements that have already been announced with , and to give the search engine prime placement on PCs and phones, the marketing effort reaches several hundred million dollars, according to people familiar with Bing’s marketing plan, who asked not to be named because details are confidential.

In April, Microsoft accounted for 8.2 percent of searches in the , a small fraction of Google’s 64.2 percent, according to . Yahoo’s share was 20.4 percent.

Mr. Ballmer expressed confidence in Bing. “I hope over the next year we’ll see small results,” Mr. Ballmer said. Mixing confidence with a dose of realism, he added: “Big as a percentage of our share and small as a percentage, maybe, of Google’s share.”
1015 2009-05-29 Of course, it is not as if a lawyer and judge with a history of involvement in racial issues has not made it onto the Supreme Court. Thurgood Marshall, a fierce advocate for racial justice as a lawyer for the N.A.A.C.P., sailed onto the highest bench in the 1960s.

The White House, in a statement, emphasized Judge Sotomayor’s experience issuing more than 3,000 decisions from the bench and played down her influence on the board, saying that staff attorneys handled the cases. The White House also said that the case involving minority police officers had its origins in litigation that predated her arrival on the board.

Founded in 1972, the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, which recently changed its name to LatinoJustice PRLDEF, is a public-interest law group with its own long record of civil rights battles. Ms. Sotomayor joined its board in 1980 when she was a young prosecutor in Manhattan and fresh out of Yale Law School. It was full of young, idealistic Latino lawyers like her who were eager to make a mark.

“She just believed in the mission,” Luis Alvarez, a former chairman of its board, said of Ms. Sotomayor. “This was a highly refined group of individuals who came from the premier academic institutions. It was almost like Camelot. It was a wonderful growth period.”

But Ms. Sotomayor stood out, frequently meeting with the legal staff to review the status of cases, several former members said. And so across her 12 years on the board — she left when she was appointed a federal judge in 1992 — she played an active role as the defense fund staked out aggressive stances on issues like police brutality, the death penalty and voting rights.

The board monitored all litigation undertaken by the fund’s lawyers, and a number of those lawyers said Ms. Sotomayor was an involved and ardent supporter of their various legal efforts during her time with the group.

Its efforts helped bring bilingual education to public schools around the country. In 1981, the fund filed a lawsuit that prompted a federal court, on the eve of the city’s primary elections, to block voting in New York City. The suit, supported by Ms. Sotomayor and the rest of the board, alleged that the new City Council district boundaries diminished the influence of minority voters.

“It was a stunning victory,” recalled Cesar A. Perales, the defense fund’s president and general counsel, noting that the entire board embraced the effort. “Imagine you wake up and are going to vote and the headlines tell you, ‘No Election Today.’ ”

Ms. Sotomayor was part of a three-person committee of the board that recommended in 1981 that the fund oppose the reinstitution of the death penalty in New York State, according to board minutes from that time.

“Capital punishment is associated with evident racism in our society,” the panel wrote. “It creates inhuman psychological burdens for the offender and his/her family.”

Not every effort was a success. The lawsuit against the Reagan administration official, for example, was dismissed, and some former fund officials concede that publicity may have been a motivating factor in filing the suit.

One of the legal defense fund’s most important suits charged that a Police Department promotional exam discriminated against minority candidates. It was filed on behalf of the Hispanic Society of the New York police. The exams, the group charged, did not really measure the ability to perform in a more senior position, and were yielding unfair results: Too many whites were doing well, and too many Hispanics and African-Americans were not.

“We saw the lawsuit as a vehicle to level the playing field,” said Mr. Perales. “It’s important to understand that she and the rest of the board, in that context, shared the philosophy that we had to remove the barriers to the advancement of Latinos.”

The suit resulted in a settlement with the city that produced greater numbers of promotions to sergeant for Latino and African-American officers.

Some white officers, however, felt that the settlement was unfair. They said that many white officers had outscored their Hispanic and African-American counterparts, yet were not allowed to fill the spots because of quotas. They sued, and their case, Marino v. Ortiz, reached the Supreme Court, where it failed by a 4-to-4 vote in 1988.

Two decades later, as a federal appellate judge, Ms. Sotomayor was again forced by a volatile case to confront the issue of promotion tests and race. She and her colleagues on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit were asked to review a ruling on a claim by white firefighters in New Haven, Conn., that they had lost promotions because of their race — even though they had performed well on the Fire Department’s tests.

Judge Sotomayor voted to affirm the lower court’s dismissal of the case, and her ruling is behind some of the most intense debate about her selection. Mr. Levey said that the employment discrimination case filed by the defense fund on behalf of Hispanic police officers raised questions about Judge Sotomayor’s credibility in the New Haven case. “It adds to the conviction that this was not accidental, and that she had a very specific agenda here.”
1016 2009-05-29 Speaker Nancy Pelosi may be in China, but House Republicans are intent on reminding voters in select districts back home that House Democrats blocked a call for an inquiry into her claim of having been misled by the Central Intelligence Agency.   ...
1017 2009-05-29 The Delphi Corporation, the auto parts maker that has been in bankruptcy proceedings for the last four years, may finally emerge from Chapter 11 and avert liquidation.

As Delphi’s one-time parent, General Motors, lays the final groundwork for its own bankruptcy filing, the Obama administration’s auto task force is pushing for a sale of at least some Delphi assets to a third-party buyer, possibly another parts supplier or an investment firm, according to people briefed on the matter who spoke only on the condition of not being named.

G.M., still a major Delphi customer, might reacquire some assets as well, these people said. As part of its reorganization, G.M. has agreed to take back five Delphi plants, although the terms of that transaction have not been settled.

These people cautioned that talks were continuing and that a deal might not be reached. But one of these people said that an agreement might be struck during the weekend.

By selling some or most of its assets, Delphi would avoid a wholesale liquidation, a dismal end that would leave its creditors with little or nothing to recover. The government had prepared for that possibility, with G.M. acquiring the plants and equipment it would need for its operations through a fire sale of Delphi assets.
1018 2009-05-29 CHANCHALGUDA, INDIA -- Behind the hulking, metal-studded front door of Hyderabad's Central Prison live more than 900 men being held in connection with crimes ranging from pick- pocketing to murder. And then there are the two accountants.      Four...
1019 2009-05-29 President Obama’s choice for the United States Supreme Court did not vote in the last two statewide elections in New York, according to voting records.

The selection, Sonia Sotomayor, currently a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and a resident of Manhattan, did not cast a ballot in the 2002 election, when the Democratic ticket in New York was led by H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller and a candidate for governor. Nor did she vote in the 2006 elections, which gave Democrats control of the United States Senate, where the fate of her nomination to the nation’s highest court will be decided.

But Judge Sotomayor, 54, did vote in 2008, when Mr. Obama led the Democratic ticket, according to records kept by the New York City Board of Elections. Between 1992 and 2006 Judge Sotomayor voted in most other major general elections, including ones that encompassed four mayoral races and three presidential elections. She voted in 2005, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was re-elected, and she voted in the 1994 and 1998 off-year elections, when congressional seats were at stake.

Judge Sotomayor did not cast ballots in 1999 and 2007, low-turnout elections that were dominated by races for seats on the State Supreme Court, which in New York is the trial-level court.

Judge Sotomayor is not enrolled in a political party, meaning she cannot vote in primaries. Details of Judge Sotomayor’s voting records were reported on Thursday night by the news channel NY1.
1020 2009-05-29 MADOFF TRUSTEE'S PLAN  Irving H. Picard, the trustee appointed to represent the interests of Bernard L. Madoff's victims, describes his claims-paying process. His system, which so far has been criticized by victims like Helen Davis Chaitman, above...
1021 2009-05-30 The Toronto Blue Jays' early-season smoke-and-mirrors act has been exposed as just that. The Rays have been crippled by injuries, especially up the middle. So the A.L. East has that old familiar look to it - the Yankees and the Red Sox ruling the ...
1022 2009-05-30 “It was purgatory,” Mrs. Mansfield-Devine said of her previous life working in the media.

They started commuting back and forth and moved to France permanently in 1999, upgrading the four-bedroom property with its two barns, former pigpen, a bread oven and two and a half acres of land, all shared with six cats, a dog and occasional visitors like snakes, deer, voles and barn owls.

The strength of , up about 30 percent since late 2007 against the , has affected them like countless others.

“Don’t get me started on the exchange rate,” said Mrs. Mansfield-Devine, 46, who earns a living writing books and articles and running Web sites. (Her husband is a writer and photographer.)

From the 1990s until the recent bust, a property boom propelled British housing to new heights, allowing Britons to leverage their increasing worth to buy property in places like France and Spain, either as vacation or primary homes. Now that the financial crisis has burst the real estate bubble in Britain and sunk the formerly high-flying pound, the legions who crossed the channel are finding it trickier to achieve their idyll.

“We’ve never known it so bad,” Mrs. Mansfield-Devine said. She supplements their pound-based income by making jewelry, growing fruit and bargaining with local farmers. Luxuries like vacations are being delayed.

According to data from the based on national censuses, there were 133,000 British living permanently in France in 2005, making France second only to , with 205,000 Britons. By 2008, the number in Spain had risen to 354,000. France does not have more recent data, but some estimates put the number now at closer to 200,000 — with as many second-home owners.

Most of the Britons in France are concentrated near the channel ports of and in northwestern France; in the Dordogne — known to some as “Dordogneshire” — of south-central France, and farther south in .

There is no shortage of anecdotal evidence that the number of Britons in France is dwindling, albeit falling short of an exodus.

Grainne Cavanagh, director of the Road Ahead, a moving company near specializing in transfers between Britain and the Continent, started noting a change about a year ago.

“Absolutely, without a doubt,” the number of British heading to France has fallen, and some are heading back to Britain, she said. As a result, business has fallen by about 50 percent so far this year from two years ago. The company has cut prices 15 percent and relies more on city-to-city moves by professionals than on transfers by families or retirees to the countryside.

In Mayenne, a town of about 15,000 in the Pays de la Loire in northwestern France, Nicole Devel-Laigle, 52, is president of the Euro-Mayenne Association, which fosters integration between foreigners — primarily the British — and locals. She said the number in her association surged fourfold between 2000 and 2004, to 500; it now stood at 363.

“The Brits aren’t coming anymore, and there are no people to replace them,” said Paul Climance, , vice president of the association. He sold his house in to buy in Lassay-les-Châteaux, a pretty town of 2,500, and he is happy with the move even though the buying power of his pound-denominated pension has dwindled.

Despite its immaculate lawns, rose and fine castle, the town is suffering from economic decline. A number of its stores recently closed.

Nearby, in the tiny village of Couesmes-Vaucé, Chris Worthington, 48, ekes out a living at Le Local, a grocery store and small bar, which offers curry nights, quizzes and a British roast meal on Sundays. A fish-and-chip van stops by every two weeks.

Mr. Worthington moved over to escape “the traffic, the vandalism and the drugs” in Milton Keynes, north of London, and to seek a better life for his wife and daughter. “We’re just scraping a living,” he said, leaning over the bar. “Last year was dreadful,” hit by the currency change, the decline in tourists and the ban. “A lot of the people who came over retired young because they could afford to,” he said. “Some have gone back to Britain. Most are tightening their belts and waiting.”

“Lifestyles have changed,” said Rob Kent, founder of Kentington’s, a with a mainly British clientele in the Provençal town of Cotignac. “Some of them came here expecting the life of Riley,” he said. “For many, that’s finished.”

The profile of the British who are still here is varied, including retirees, divorced people, odd-jobbers working outside the French system, artists, ex-convicts, teachers, tractor drivers and those in services that allow them to work from home. Few are salaried employees at French companies.

Others, like Andrew McNamara, 40, are hedging by keeping jobs in Britain.

Having sold property there at the top of the market a few years ago, he bought in France and relocated with his wife and four daughters.

Currently on a career break, he is retaining his post in the fire service. Before the break, he had been commuting 190 miles by car and ferry to work.

For the French, the invasion is double-edged. Some were able to sell property to the newcomers at inflated prices; others complain that rising property prices added to an exodus of locals, who found themselves priced out of the market.

“I like the English a lot,” said Valérie Longrais, 46, who runs a clothing and knitting store in Lassay-les-Châteaux. “But many have come and bought houses, used their own materials and employed British people. So the local population hasn’t always benefited.”

The British, for their part, say they find the French cordial, if ambivalent, hosts. And many are determined to stick it out.

The Euro-Mayenne Association recently held its first “Evening at the Hall,” where enthusiastic amateurs in period clothing belted out old British favorite songs like “Burlington Bertie from Bow,” joined for the choruses by nostalgic retirees.

“This area is very much like when we were 8, 9 or 10, living in Lancashire,” Peter Batty, 72, said over tea with scones, cream and jam before the show. “Here, there’s still an enormous sense of respect for property and old world values.”
1023 2009-05-30 WASHINGTON  In 1996, Judge Sonia Sotomayor delivered a speech comparing campaign contributions to “bribes” and asking whether elected officials could credibly say they were “representing only the general public good, when private money plays such a large role” in helping them win office.

“If they cannot, the public must demand a change in the role of private money or find other ways, such as through strict, well-enforced regulation, to ensure that politicians are not inappropriately influenced in their legislative or executive decision-making by the interests that give them contributions,” she said.

The 1996 speech, a version of which was later published in a law journal, is not the only public marker in the record of Judge Sotomayor, who is now President Obama’s Supreme Court choice, on campaign finance regulations.

Judge Sotomayor has ruled in several cases for outcomes favorable to proponents of campaign restrictions. And before she became a judge, she spent four years on the New York City Campaign Finance Board, which enforces election spending laws, and where, board minutes and other records obtained by The New York Times show, she took an active role.

“People who are First Amendment absolutists are not going to be thrilled with her positions in these cases,” said Richard L. Hasen, a Loyola Law School Los Angeles professor who specializes in election law. “But people who support reasonable regulation of the political system are going to be more in favor of the kind of positions she has taken.”

Several important cases about campaign finance regulations could eventually reach the Supreme Court, including a case challenging contribution limits on independent groups that run political advertisements and another in which the Republican National Committee has brought a fresh challenge to the ban on unregulated “soft money” in elections.

The constitutionality of campaign finance laws has been one of the hardest-fought issues at the Supreme Court in recent years, generating some of its highest-profile rulings.

In 2003, the court voted 5 to 4 to uphold the 2002 McCain-Feingold law, which banned soft money  contributions not subject to donor limits  to political parties for use in campaigns. But the retirement of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor in 2006 and her replacement by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. created a new majority bloc that has struck down campaign regulations in several more recent cases.

Justice David H. Souter, whom Judge Sotomayor would succeed if confirmed, has been among the faction willing to uphold such laws. “Sotomayor’s replacement of Souter won’t change the balance on the court in this area  so it means they won’t become more hostile to regulation as a result of this change,” said Richard Briffault, an election law specialist at Columbia Law School who has worked on issues related to the Campaign Finance Board. “This may be a good example of where this will be pretty close to a one-for-one substitution.”

Judge Sotomayor’s engagement with campaign finance regulations dates back to 1988, when Peter L. Zimroth, New York’s corporation counsel, said he recommended that Mayor Edward I. Koch appoint her to the city’s new Campaign Finance Board.

The board members, including Ms. Sotomayor, became pioneers in developing a voluntary program in which local candidates receive public matching money in exchange for accepting disclosure requirements and limits on contributions and spending.

Board minutes provide a glimpse: Ms. Sotomayor, then in private practice, grilled one politician over why his campaign reported receiving some cash contributions as checks, requested a study “on the ethnicity and sex” of program participants, and reviewed the Spanish translation of voter guides.

At other times, Ms. Sotomayor noted approvingly that the program appeared to be encouraging more challengers, and also warned that a certain proposed action “might be construed as a partisan move.” On rare occasions, she dissented from board votes, including a decision to penalize the 1989 mayoral campaign of David N. Dinkins over paperwork problems. The minutes do not say what her specific objections were.

Ms. Sotomayor resigned from the board when she became a federal judge in 1992. But the experience seems to have helped shape her views. In addition to her 1996 speech warning about the influence of money in politics which she wrote with Nicole Gordon, a former executive director of the Campaign Finance Board  she went on to issue rulings in several cases that endorsed election regulations.

For example, as Mr. Hasen noted in a recent blog post, she upheld a law that forbids paying signature-gatherers by the number of people they get to sign petitions. She also upheld a law that prevented minor political parties from gaining official status on ballots.

That record is not without exception. In 2005, she voted to strike down the State of New York’s method of choosing judges, a ruling the Supreme Court overturned.

Still, after a panel of her colleagues upheld a Vermont campaign finance law that imposed strict contribution and spending limits on campaigns, she voted not to rehear the case. The Supreme Court later struck down the Vermont law.

Judge Sotomayor’s record on campaign finance regulations has not gone unnoticed. The Center for Competitive Politics, which opposes such limits, has noted her views with concern, declaring she is “not the Supreme Court nominee we wanted.”

But Democracy 21, which supports such regulations, argued that her “views are within the mainstream of the Court’s well-established First Amendment jurisprudence and consistent with the exercise of robust free speech rights.”
1024 2009-05-30 Even if the courts were to reject the plans for G.M. and Chrysler, the administration’s actions in trying to force the deals may damage the credit markets for years to come. The treatment of the bondholders is a warning to investors that the federal government won’t hesitate to push them aside in a crisis.

Perhaps it’s no coincidence that in the wake of the Chrysler deal we have seen a decline in prices for long-term Treasury bonds and a sinking dollar. The Chinese, for example, could view things this way: If the United States is willing to skirt the law to help some of the president’s closest political supporters gain large pieces of two of the world’s biggest companies, will Washington necessarily stand behind any Treasury securities we own when it becomes politically inexpedient?

The hardball tactics, furthermore, are unlikely to save G.M. In a normal bankruptcy, the company’s assets pass from weak hands to strong. In 2008, a terrible year for the auto industry, G.M. sold 8.4 million vehicles worldwide, collecting revenues of $148 billion that placed it third among non-energy companies on the Fortune 500.

G.M. is a global business, with two-thirds of its revenues coming from outside the United States. While sales last year dropped 21 percent in North America, they rose 30 percent in Russia, 10 percent in Brazil and 9 percent in India. In 2008, G.M. sold more than one million vehicles in China, up 6 percent over 2007.

Of course, the company’s problem is that its expenses exceed its revenues. But in strong hands, G.M. could be a going concern. Unfortunately, the new owners, with about nine-tenths of the shares, will be the government and the U.A.W. These are the same hands that shaped much of G.M.’s trouble in the first place. With substantial union co-ownership, labor costs won’t be contained; and with the government as the boss, politics may trump markets in decisions on such matters as where to put plants and whether to build big cars or small ones.

The deal would also put G.M.’s competitors at a serious disadvantage in the short run. Ford, which has been building better cars lately, prudently raised cash against a decline in demand, playing the ant to G.M.’s grasshopper. Now, Ford will face a G.M. buoyed by taxpayer dollars both for manufacturing and for cheap consumer and dealer financing.

The same holds true for the manufacturers that hold the key to future auto-making jobs: well-managed, foreign-based companies like Toyota and Honda, which, according to the automotive analysts at CSM Worldwide, will build more cars in the United States next year than G.M., Chrysler and Ford combined.

What lesson does federal favoritism toward Chrysler and G.M. teach other businesses that play by the rules? How will our trade negotiators keep a straight face when complaining about subsidies to Airbus or Chinese steel makers? The government should have stepped aside earlier and allowed a normal bankruptcy that would have treated the union and the debt-holders fairly. Fortunately, if the bondholders stand firm, we’re likely to see that process begin on Monday.
1025 2009-05-30 “We will see ‘racial quotas’ become a much bigger issue than they might have been had another nominee been brought forward,” Mr. Marx said.

But civil rights advocates, including Ms. Guinier, say times have changed in their favor, also citing Mr. Obama’s election. In an interview, Ms. Guinier said she saw the debate over Judge Sotomayor’s nomination in part as an opportunity for civil rights advocates to push back against the kind of criticism that had thwarted her own nomination.

“It is easy to understand the idea of viewing an individual on the content of their character rather than the color of their skin,” Ms. Guinier said, but race also is a social phenomenon of politics, history and economics that demand deliberate policy responses.

Americans often see the issue in an either-or way — “ you are race-conscious or race-neutral,” she said. “But the election of Barack Obama has served as an emancipatory moment, and people are ready to discuss and listen to more nuanced arguments.”

Having Mr. Obama as a spokesman is different as well, said Hilary O. Shelton, director of the Washington bureau of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. “The American people chose change — symbolically, but in policy as well,” Mr. Shelton said. “The American people see things differently now.”

What is more, many civil rights groups say, Judge Sotomayor’s confirmation could provide an anchor against the current direction of the Supreme Court under Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who has led the more conservative bench toward a sweeping re-examination of government reliance on racial classifications, whether in school desegregation plans or landmark voting rights laws.

“The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race,” Chief Justice Roberts wrote in 2007, summing up his approach in one of the most memorable lines of his opinions.

Samuel Issacharoff, a professor at New York University Law School, said, “There is a tendency to say ‘The time has run, things are different, change has happened,’ ” adding, “It is an emerging theme of the Roberts court.”

Judge Sotomayor is not known to have identified herself as a beneficiary of affirmative action, but she has described her academic struggles as a new student at Princeton from a Roman Catholic school in the Bronx — one of about 20 Hispanics on a campus with more than 2,000 students.

She spent summers reading children’s classics she had missed in a Spanish-speaking home and “re-teaching” herself to write “proper English” by reading elementary grammar books. Only with the outside help of a professor who served as her mentor did she catch up academically, ultimately graduating at the top of her class.

She became the outspoken leader of a Puerto Rican student group, leading other Hispanics to file a complaint against Princeton with the federal government to force the hiring of Hispanic faculty members and administrators. “She was very passionate about affirmative action for women and minorities,” said Charles Hey, another Puerto Rican student.

At Yale Law School, she was co-chairman of a group for Latin, Asian and Native American students — a catchall group for nonblack minorities. There she led fellow students in meetings with the dean to push for the hiring of more Hispanic faculty members at the law school. And, friends say, she shared the alarm of others in the group when the Supreme Court prohibited the use of quotas in university admissions in its 1978 decision Regents of the University of California v. Bakke.

As a lawyer, she joined the National Council of La Raza and the board of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense Fund, two Hispanic civil rights groups that advocate for vigorous affirmative action. As a judge, she has repeatedly argued for diversity on the bench by alluding to the insights she gleaned from her Latina background.

In one of the few cases dealing with the subject that she helped decide on the federal appeals court, Ricci v. DeStefano, she ruled in favor of New Haven’s decision to discard the results of an exam to select firefighters for promotion because too few minority firefighters scored high enough to advance. White firefighters who had scored well on the discarded test sued, and the Supreme Court heard arguments on the case in April.

“Her nomination and the Ricci case have brought racial quotas back as a national issue," said Mr. Marx of the Judicial Confirmation Network.

The public response, however, is hard to foresee. Few groups conducted public polls on the issue as it faded in recent years, and the results from those that did reveal a consistent ambivalence, said Michael Dimock, a pollster with the nonpartisan Pew Research Center.

When asked a question about “affirmative action or preferential treatment for minorities,” the public has consistently opposed the idea by a margin of two to one. But when asked about “affirmative action programs designed to help women and minorities,” an even bigger majority has supported them.

And, Mr. Dimock said, the election of Mr. Obama does not appear to have changed either result.
1026 2009-05-30 The chief minister of Maharashtra State in India said two child stars of “Slumdog Millionaire” would be given new apartments after their shanty homes were torn down, Reuters reported. In recent days municipal workers in Mumbai have demolished the homes of Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail, 10, and Rubina Ali Qureshi, 9, who played the young incarnations of the film’s characters Salim and Latika. Illegal shanties are routinely destroyed in advance of India’s monsoon season. On Wednesday the “Slumdog Millionaire” director, Danny Boyle, and Christian Colson, a producer of the film, met with the children’s families and said that they would find new homes for them. On Friday Ashok Chavan, the chief minister, said the Congress party had purchased new apartments, at a cost of about $8,500 each, for both families in suburban Mumbai, and that they could move in soon.
1027 2009-05-30 Tennis certainly should have heard this coming. The sport — particularly the women’s game — has a recent history of controversy over grunting, beginning in earnest with Monica Seles’s two-toned yelps in the 1990s, which became a particular issue at Wimbledon, and then reaching another peak with Maria Sharapova this decade. Larcher de Brito, like Seles and Sharapova, left Europe at an early age to train at the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Bradenton, Fla.

Grunting is an inadequate term to describe the extended high-pitched wails that Larcher de Brito produces during and after most strokes. But they have been a feature of her game since she was a junior and a frequent talking point among players and spectators.

“I’ve been doing it ever since I started playing tennis,” a red-eyed Larcher de Brito said at her postmatch news conference. “I’m not trying to copy anybody.”

Rezai, a Frenchwoman of Iranian descent who is hardly short on baseline power or intensity herself, complained early in the first set to the chair umpire Mohamed el-Jennati about being distracted by the shrieks. “Please, there is a limit, enough,” she said to Jennati. When Jennati did not address the issue, Rezai requested that a referee come on court.

The Grand Slam supervisor Donna Kelso appeared and consulted with Jennati, who later informed Larcher de Brito that she was distracting her opponent.

“I said to the umpire, you know, he doesn’t tell Maria to keep quiet,” Larcher de Brito said, referring to Sharapova.

Of Rezai, Larcher de Brito said: “You know, when she was winning, she never complained. Only when I started to get my game going, I started winning games, then all of a sudden, you know, my noise is a nuisance.”

Larcher de Brito’s cacophonous exit was part of an attention-demanding day of third-round matches at Roland Garros, one in which Williams became the most prominent upset victim and in which Sharapova continued her so-far-so-good comeback from shoulder surgery by defeating Yaroslava Shvedova, a qualifier from Kazakhstan, 1-6, 6-3, 6-4.

Sharapova, whose ranking has dropped to 102, has now won her three matches in three sets and will face Li Na of China in the Round of 16.

The surprise for Williams was not that she lost. She is a five-time Wimbledon singles champion who is at her best on quicker surfaces and who has now lost in the third round on Paris clay in four of the last five years. In her second-round match, she had to save a match point before fighting off Lucie Safarova in three sets. No, the surprises were the lopsided scoreline and that the 29th-seeded Szavay, a powerful and versatile player, did not show signs of the suspect nerves that have restrained her.

“It was a little difficult to recover from that first set,” Williams said. “I’m used to beating people, 6-0, not used to my shots not going in and losing, 6-0.”

Williams did get a consolation prize later by teaming with her sister Serena to beat Szavay and Gisela Dulko in doubles.

Dinara Safina has been a more consistent achiever so far. In three matches, the top-seeded Safina has dropped only four games. On Friday, she disposed of the 27th-seeded Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia, a talented 17-year-old, by 6-2, 6-0, reeling off the last 10 games of the match and, at one stage, 14 straight points. Rafael Nadal also rolled, beating Lleyton Hewitt of Australia, 6-1, 6-3, 6-1. Nadal, the four-time defending champion, is 31-0 at Roland Garros and will face the powerful but erratic Robin Soderling of Sweden in the fourth round.

In other Round of 16 matches in Nadal’s half of the draw, Fernando Gonzalez of Chile will face Victor Hanescu of Romania, Nikolay Davydenko of Russia will face Fernando Verdasco of Spain and No. 3 seed Andy Murray of Britain will face the Croat Marin Cilic, who is in top form.

Safina will face the 57th-ranked Rezai, who managed to slide into a seat next to her father in time to see Safina close out the final game against Pavlyuchenkova.

In their previous match, in the second round in Miami this year, Rezai had also complained to the chair umpire about Larcher de Brito’s grunting on her way to a 6-1, 6-2 victory.

Larcher de Brito said no other player in her junior or nascent professional career had formally complained during a match against her. But according to tennis officials, Larcher de Brito was advised by a chair umpire during a match at this year’s tournament in Indian Wells, Calif., that she needed to tone down her grunting. Members of her camp were also advised that it was becoming a problem.

Rezai said other players expressed their support for her. “Perhaps in the next matches she’ll play, other players will do the same,” Rezai said. “I perhaps started something.”

The rule permits a chair umpire to award a point to a player if that player is “hindered in playing the point by a deliberate act of the opponent.”

Though grunting qualifies as a deliberate act, the Grand Slam tournament referee Stefan Fransson said he was not aware of a player being docked a point for it during a major tournament. He said that in Larcher de Brito’s case, the issue was not necessarily the volume of the shriek but its length, which could affect an opponent’s ability to focus on hitting the next shot.

He said Grand Slam officials planned to speak with her in more detail before Wimbledon.

“The only thing you can do is tell them they are running the risk,” he said. “We will explain the rule to her.”

Larcher de Brito said the quiet life — or at least the quieter life — would not come easily.

“I mean, I could, but, you know, it won’t feel natural, because it feels like something is missing in my game if I just stop,” she said.
1028 2009-05-30 R.H. Donnelley Corporation, the publisher of 600 directories including telephone yellow pages, sought bankruptcy protection from creditors to reduce debt by about $6.4 billion amid mounting losses. The company, based in Cary, N.C., had assets of $...
1029 2009-05-31 A quiet spring evening had descended upon the midtown Manhattan environs of the General Motors Building. But 25 floors up, as the carmaker and its advisers prepared its bankruptcy filing, the mood could be anything but calm....
1030 2009-05-31 Holders of about 54 percent of General Motors’s $27.2 billion in bond debt agreed to support the plan by the deadline of 5 p.m. Saturday, a spokesman for a committee representing some of G.M.’s largest bondholders, which negotiated the deal wi...
1031 2009-05-31 What makes a work of art "great"? The third installment of a seven-part tale of the Nazi-era Vermeer forgeries of Han van Meegeren....
1032 2009-05-31 A loss by Serena and Venus Williams in their doubles match Sunday ended the major tournament for Venus, who was eliminated from the singles competition earlier....
1033 2009-05-31 Pixar's "Up" exceeds expectations, earning with $68.2 million in its opening weekend....
1034 2009-05-31 Here is the official transcript N.H.L. of Commissioner Gary Bettman's press conference conducted prior to the start of the Stanley Cup final yesterday in Detroit. The N.H.L. commissioner traditionally presents a State of the League address at the ...
1035 2009-05-31 “I guess the good thing is I’ve still got a chance going into tomorrow,” said Stricker, whose lone birdie was a contrast to his 63s in the first two rounds — eight birdies and one bogey each. “It was a kind of a blah round today, but like I say, I’ve got a chance tomorrow and I’m two behind, so maybe that’s a good spot where I can be a little bit more aggressive and try to put some pressure on Tim and the leaders and hopefully pull out a win.”

Stricker will need to hit his irons closer than he did Saturday — after two-putting the first hole for birdie, he had just one birdie putt inside 10 feet — and he will need to rediscover the putting touch that put him atop the leader board for the first two rounds.

For the brash and talented Day, this is a big opportunity. He finished second in March at the Puerto Rico Championship, a sort of Off-Broadway event played opposite the World Golf Championships-CA Championship at Doral, and had two top 10s in his rookie season last year.

Born and raised in Queensland, Day now lives 15 minutes from Colonial and has been rolling the ball as if he owns the place — or plans to. He also does not seem to mind firing at flagsticks — he had two birdie putts inside two feet during his back-nine 31.

“I’ve been putting the ball really, really well,” Day said. “Just the roll and the speed and my lines have been great. As long as I can just do the job and get it to the green, I think I can be somewhere around the lead come the end of tomorrow.”

Also lurking are Vijay Singh at 13 under, Justin Leonard and Woody Austin at 12 under, and Paul Casey and Sean O’Hair at 11 under. For anyone to come from further behind would require a round not often shot on a Sunday at Colonial.

For Clark to end his frustration, he will have to shoot a solid round, perhaps around 66. He is among the best golfers on the tour without a tour win and is in his best position yet to shed the unwanted label.

“It’s about staying calm and not getting too far ahead of yourself,” he said. “This is a good course for doing that, too. You still have to come out and play good golf. If someone is going to catch me tomorrow, they have to play really good, so that’s good to know.”
1036 2009-05-31 A senior American official on Saturday confirmed South Korean news reports that the North seemed to be preparing to ship an intercontinental ballistic missile toward a testing site on the waters between Korea and Japan, a sign that North Korea might be planning another long-range missile test.

It would probably take several weeks for the missile to reach the site and be put in place, and there was still no evidence that the North Koreans had the technology to create a nuclear device small enough to fit atop a missile.

The North Koreans have conducted two such tests before, including one over Japanese territory, and American officials are particularly concerned about Japan’s reaction to another test. Such missiles could theoretically reach Alaska and Hawaii.

The news comes as North Korea has been test-firing short-range missiles since Monday, when it conducted an underground nuclear test.

North Korea last test-fired a long-range missile on April 5. That test did not achieve its goal of putting a satellite into orbit.
1037 2009-05-31 The law given final approval by the Senate on Saturday caps the number of students let in under the rule at three-quarters of the class, giving university officials discretion over the makeup of the last quarter. Sponsors of the bill had wanted a lower cap — 50 percent — but their colleagues in the House would go no lower.

Supporters said it was not a moment too soon. The state has only three top-rated universities — the University of Texas at Austin, Texas A&M University and Rice University — and it had been projected that the entire incoming class at the Austin campus would be made up of top-10-percent students by 2013.

“Texas doesn’t have that many national Tier 1 universities, and we were about to overwhelm our major Tier 1 university with automatic admissions,” said Representative Dan Branch, a Dallas Republican who leads the Higher Education Committee. “This was a critical moment.”

The law was adopted a decade ago after a federal appeals court ruled that affirmative action was illegal in Texas college admissions. The formula took advantage of the fact that the state’s schools were so divided by race that a top 10 percent threshold would assure admission to many graduates of predominantly Hispanic and black high schools who once might have been overlooked, as well as rural schools.

Even though in 2003 a United States Supreme Court ruling allowed colleges to take race into account as one of several factors in making admission decisions, the Texas law remained on the books. It had become regarded as something of an entitlement among some lawmakers from rural and urban areas.

Representative Jim McReynolds, a Democrat from Lufkin, who leads the rural House contingent, said that at least 20 teenagers from his district got into the University of Texas, Austin, last year as a result of the rule, and that any change would reduce the number.

“It’s just worked so damned well in Texas,” Mr. McReynolds said. “I’m reluctant to change it.”

Senator Rodney Ellis, a Houston Democrat, also fought the change, saying a better solution would be to create more top-flight universities. New York, for instance, has seven Tier 1 universities. The bill, Mr. Ellis said, was a victory for suburban students.

“The very people who make the most noise about this are the parents of kids who have had all the advantages in life,” he said. “They are the same people who don’t give a tinker’s damn about the people in the quote other schools unquote.”

But Senator Florence Shapiro, a Republican from Plano who sponsored the legislation in the Senate, said students from good suburban high schools had a legitimate complaint. Only class rank is taken into account, not extracurricular activities or other talents. Many students have been attending colleges out of state.

“The pressure for this bill,” Ms. Shapiro said, “really comes from the suburban counties where the youngsters do really well and many times are in the top 13 percent and cannot go to the university. They really go all over the country when they don’t have opportunity here.”

Since 1999, the number of white students in the undergraduate class at the Austin campus has dropped by 3,500, while the number of minorities has risen by 3,800, according to statistics provided by the university. The undergraduate population has remained about 37,000.

Many students who in the past might have attended the university are now seeking education outside of the state, lawmakers contended. Texas exports about 10,000 students a year, even as more people are moving to the state, and some Texans have raised alarms about a brain drain.

Bill Powers, the president of the University of Texas, Austin, said that, left untouched, the previous law would have forced the university, in the long run, to accept more students than it had the capacity to teach. What is more, the automatically admitted students tended to opt for popular majors, and it had become a struggle to find talented students for programs like architecture, engineering, music, art and geosciences, he said.

While still restrictive, Mr. Powers said, the new law would give admissions officers more flexibility to reach down into high school classes for students who may be brilliant in some regards, like in music, but not in the top 10 percent.

“Judging people on one criterion is not the way to do admissions policy,” he said. “No one else in the country does it.”
1038 2009-05-31 YANGON, Myanmar (Reuters) — The Burmese opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi is feeling better, her lawyers said on Saturday, a day after members of her party expressed concerns about her health and demanded that she be given urgent care.

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, 63, who has been reported recently to be in fragile health, is on trial on charges of violating her house arrest. She had complained last week of leg cramps and a lack of sleep.

One of her lawyers, U Nyan Win, said prison doctors had recommended that she stop taking two medicines. He said that she could now sleep well.

The defense team was allowed to meet her for two hours on Saturday. “She didn’t say what she expects the verdict to be,” Mr. Nyan Win said. “She is ready to face whatever happens.”

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi may be jailed for three to five years if found guilty of breaking the terms of her house arrest by allowing an American intruder to stay at her home after he swam there on May 4.
1039 2009-05-31 DETROIT — General Motors’ bondholders finished voting Saturday on the company’s plan to exchange their debt for an ownership stake as high as 25 percent in G.M., the final obstacle to an orderly bankruptcy for the ailing carmaker.

Bondholders with slightly more than 50 percent of G.M.’s $27.2 billion in bond debt agreed to support the plan by the deadline of 5 p.m., according to people briefed on the matter. Among the backers was a committee of large investors holding about 20 percent of G.M.’s outstanding bonds.

G.M. offered the bondholders the opportunity to take a larger stake in the company after they had overwhelmingly rejected a previous exchange offer.

Having at least half of them agree to support the swap would allow G.M. to file for bankruptcy protection on Monday and expect an easier restructuring.

Under the restructuring plan, the United Automobile Workers union, through its retiree health care fund, would receive a 17.5 percent stake in the new G.M. and warrants to buy an additional 2.5 percent.

Bondholders would initially get a 10 percent stake, along with warrants for 15 percent.

The Treasury Department, which has lent G.M. about $20 billion since December, required the company to make deals with the union and bondholders to cut debt and expenses by June 1. But the deals are not seen as enough to prevent a bankruptcy. After the restructuring, the federal government could own as much as 70 percent of the company.
1040 2009-05-31 They are intended to reduce the environmental impact of consumption. Traveling by plane, for example, causes carbon dioxide to be emitted into the atmosphere, so travelers can pay a specialist to offset those emissions some other way — perhaps by planting vegetation or installing renewable-energy technologies. It all sounds reasonable.

Yet carbon offsets have drawn sharp criticism, even ridicule. A British Web site called Cheat Neutral (www.cheatneutral.com) parodies the concept — by offering a service under which someone who wants to cheat on his partner can pay someone else who will refrain from committing an act of infidelity. The site’s founders say they wanted to use humor to demonstrate why the market for carbon offsets is a moral travesty.

But the criticism is misguided. If our goal is to reduce carbon emissions as efficiently as possible, offsets make perfect economic sense.

Consider the decision of whether to buy a hybrid car. Because of the expensive batteries and other complex equipment in such cars, they can cost much more than similar vehicles powered by standard combustion engines. Many people drive so little that they wouldn’t save enough on gasoline to recoup the higher cost. Yet many such people buy hybrids anyway, because they think they are helping the environment. Well and good, but they could help even more by buying a standard car and using the savings to buy carbon offsets.

The same goes for someone who wonders whether it’s O.K. to eat foods grown far from home. A New Yorker may worry, for example, that the diesel fuel burned to ship California-grown tomatoes to him in winter will accelerate global warming. But suppose he would be happy to pay $10 more than the cost of shipping those tomatoes rather than eat locally grown root vegetables nine months a year. That would buy more than enough carbon offsets to neutralize the greenhouse gases emitted by shipping the tomatoes. So it would be much better, for him and the planet, if he bought offsets and ate winter tomatoes.
1041 2009-05-31 Mr. Baghdadi’s legendary reputation does raise the question as to whether he actually exists. The Americans said in 2007 that he did not, that an actor had been playing the role, and many Iraqis agree. Oddly, that did not change when the government announced that they had nabbed him in late April. At the same time, his usefulness as a symbol only grew, as different political factions projected onto the arrest their preconceived notions about their rivals.

The truth of the matter, meanwhile, remained as obscure as ever.

Iraqi officials gleefully described the arrest as more significant than the capture of Saddam Hussein. They identified the arrested man as Ahmed Abd Ahmed Khamis al-Majmaie, and said he was the one known as Abu Omar al-Baghdadi.

At least some officials did. The minister of national security, in a newspaper interview, gave a different name and biographical account of the man in custody. And puzzled Iraqi police officials in a neighboring province said his picture did not match the Abu Omar al-Baghdadi they had been tracking.

Then, in mid-May, the government released a videotape in which an unimposing man with a closely shaved beard confessed to being Mr. Baghdadi and expressed regret for hurting the Iraqi people. Even to those convinced that this was him, the statements seemed off key, coming from a man who claimed to be the destined defender of the Islamic faith.

In describing how the insurgency worked, the man also implicated targets that the Shiite-led government already considered adversaries or at least competitors; they included former regime loyalists, several Sunni countries in the region and the main Sunni political party. For skeptics, it was all a little too convenient.

Sunni politicians even said they know who the man is: a bad guy involved the insurgency, but not somebody who has ever been looked upon as Abu Omar. They called the episode a face-saving distraction by a government dealing with a spate of new attacks and failures in combating widespread corruption, as well as another step in a campaign to discredit and dismantle the Sunni political establishment.

The Americans here, for the most part, have played it safe.

“It’s not really what he calls himself,” Maj. Gen. David Perkins, the chief military spokesman here, told reporters. “It is really, at the end of the day, what role did he play.” That is still being determined, he added, and he was careful not to dismiss the government’s claims out of hand. “We have nothing that would contradict the intelligence they have so far,” he said.

The Islamic State itself, meanwhile, has released two recordings of a man who claims to be the real Mr. Baghdadi and mocks the government reports that he is under arrest. The voice is very similar to the one on earlier recordings.

Nibras Kazimi, a visiting scholar at the Hudson Institute who has been following the case on his blog, Talisman Gate, says the Iraqi government has only bolstered the jihadists’ morale by trumpeting the capture and mishandling the public relations.

The jihadists, he wrote in an e-mail message, “have a new sense of their importance and, in their eyes, the government’s fumbling of this news reeks of weakness. “

Furthermore, Mr. Kazimi wrote, the Americans are dangerously misreading the situation if they discount Mr. Baghdadi’s importance by thinking of him as a mere media stunt or a tactical feint by the jihadists. Mr. Baghdadi’s significance, he wrote, is that “the jihadists have been pledging allegiance to a state and a man they can’t see, and they have willingly given up their lives for that.”

The case of Mr. Baghdadi is not the only example of how easy it is, here in Iraq, to become disoriented by various versions of reality: the thicket of accusations, the wild rumors, the often wildly divergent casualty figures reported after attacks. All of those can divert attention from other evidence, tragic and irrefutable and available daily, that in the streets of Baghdad, as Donald Rumsfeld once noted, real stuff does happen.

Meanwhile, there is a man in jail, whoever he is or claims to be. A few days ago, his wife showed up, begging a prominent lawyer to free her husband. According to the lawyer, she said she knows her husband well enough to know he is not the leader of the jihadist insurgency. The lawyer has not yet agreed to take the case, since the facts are still too unclear.
1042 2009-05-31 The North Koreans have conducted two such tests before, including one over Japanese territory, and American officials are particularly concerned about Japanese reaction to another test. Such missiles are theoretically capable of reaching Alaska and Hawaii.

A C.I.A. assessment has concluded that North Korea has built one or two nuclear weapons and harvested the fuel for six or more weapons.

Throughout the day at the annual conference in Singapore, called the Shangri-La Dialogue, Mr. Gates met with defense officials from China, South Korea, Japan and other Asian nations to try to begin pulling together an international consensus on how to proceed. James B. Steinberg, the deputy Secretary of State, attended a number of the meetings, as did Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence.

There was talk of toughening economic sanctions on North Korea and a widespread view that long-running six-nation talks aimed at getting North Korea to give up its nuclear program had failed. Beyond that, nothing specific emerged.

“There’s no prescription yet on what to do,” said a senior American defense official who asked for anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. The official said that one “prudent option” was “what should we be thinking about in the event that we need to start enhancing our posture, our defenses?” But the official said that it was premature to talk of building up American forces in the region — an echo of comments from Mr. Gates on Friday that the United States had no plans to reinforce some 28,000 American troops based in South Korea.

Late in the day, Mr. Gates had a three-way meeting focused on North Korea with the defense ministers of South Korea and Japan, a precursor to more detailed discussions to occur next week in Tokyo, Seoul and Beijing about North Korea’s nuclear test. Mr. Steinberg is to lead the American team at those meetings; the group will include Stuart Levey, the Treasury Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, an indication that tough economic measures against North Korea will be a significant part of the discussions.

Military officials traveling with Mr. Gates said the tough talk was aimed in large part at increasing worldwide pressure on North Korea as well as reassuring allies in the region, particularly Japan and South Korea, that the United States was committed to their defense should North Korea make good on its talk of war this week. On Wednesday, North Korea threatened military strikes against the South.

Mr. Gates met early on Saturday with the highest-ranking official sent to the conference by China, Lt. Gen. Ma Xiaotian, the deputy chief of the general staff of the People’s Liberation Army. American Defense officials said after the meeting that China, the country that has the most influence over North Korea, clearly viewed the nuclear test seriously, a reflection of General Ma’s public remarks at the conference.

“We are resolutely opposed to nuclear proliferation,” General Ma said, adding that “we hope that all parties concerned will remain cool-headed and take measured measures to address the problem.”

The United States has been pressing the Chinese government for a tough response, but it remains unclear if China is willing to engage in a heightened showdown with North Korea. In the past, China has feared the collapse of North Korea’s government could lead to refugees pouring across its border.

In Moscow, the Kremlin issued a statement saying President Dmitri A. Medvedev and Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan had agreed on the need for a serious response to the nuclear test, Reuters reported.

In Mr. Gates’ formal remarks at the conference, his first as an emissary of President Obama, he made clear that the new administration had limited patience with North Korea’s bellicose words and behavior.

“President Obama has offered an open hand to tyrannies that unclench their fists,” Mr. Gates said. “He is hopeful, but he is not naïve. Likewise, the United States and our allies are open to dialogue, but we will not bend to pressure or provocation.”

Military officials acknowledged that the United States had only limited information about what was really happening inside North Korea and suspected that its leader, Kim Jong-il, was in the midst of political maneuvers to make his youngest son, Kim Jong-un, his successor. The officials described the country’s leadership as unpredictable and bizarre.

Although North Korea was the “hot topic” at the conference, as Mr. Gates put it, the defense secretary also used the forum to appeal to Asian allies for help, both financial and military, with the war in Afghanistan.

“I know some in Asia have concluded that Afghanistan does not represent a strategic threat for their countries, owing in part to Afghanistan’s geographic location,” Mr. Gates said. “But the threat from failed or failing states is international in scope.”

The defense secretary said that extremists in Asia who have engaged in terrorism in Bali and guerrilla warfare in the Philippines “are inspired by, and at times have received support directly from, groups operating along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border — the ungoverned space from which this threat ultimately emanates.”

Failure in Afghanistan, Mr. Gates said, “would have international reverberations — and, undoubtedly, many of them would be felt in this part of the world.”

In representing Mr. Obama, Mr. Gates sought to draw a distinction between the new president and his predecessor. Mr. Gates noted that Mr. Obama had spent part of his childhood in Indonesia and that it was the first time “that we have had a president with such a personal connection to the region.”

Mr. Gates concluded that the United States, “in our efforts to protect our own freedom, and that of others” had “from time to time made mistakes, including at times being arrogant in dealing with others.” Mr. Gates did not name names, but then said, “We always correct our course.”
1043 2009-05-31 The Supreme Court seems to promote this sort of discussion more than any other forum in public life, perhaps because it has so few seats and they come open so rarely. Of the 110 people who have served on the court, only four were not white males. Every president over the last generation has at least flirted with the temptation to name a “first” — or at least a second or third.

Aides said that despite Mr. Obama’s own low-key approach to ethnicity, naming the first Hispanic to the Supreme Court held great appeal for the president, though they said it was only one of many factors. Mr. Obama has written a best-selling book about his roots as the son of a white mother and black father and well understood the political power of his being the first African-American president just as he understands the power of the first Hispanic justice.

He has used symbols to celebrate the history of his ascension, like inviting civil rights figures to his inauguration, including the Tuskegee Airmen, the elite, segregated World War II corps. He has also brought a more diverse team and set of visitors to the White House.

But since his major speech on race during the primaries when he disavowed the inflammatory rhetoric of his minister, he has avoided overt discussion of the issue. The rare times he refers to his background are usually subtle and framed as a message about America as a place of opportunity. Since becoming president, he has not talked much about discrimination or disparities. Judge Sotomayor, by contrast, has more openly addressed her differences with other judges.

“Obama has sought to transcend ethnic differences and has emphasized his own post-racial identity to appeal to as many Americans as possible,” said William Burck, a deputy White House counsel under President George W. Bush. “It seems that Judge Sotomayor considers her ethnicity to be a central part of who she is, not just as a private citizen but also as a lawyer and a judge.”

Much of that assessment stems not just from Judge Sotomayor’s membership in groups that brought discrimination claims or her ruling against white firefighters in a New Haven affirmative action case, but from a single speech she gave at the law school at the University of California, Berkeley, in 2001. The speech addressed the role personal backgrounds play in rendering decisions and concluded that “our gender and national origins may and will make a difference in our judging.”

“I would hope that a wise Latina woman with the richness of her experiences would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male who hasn’t lived that life,” she said.

Mr. Obama and his advisers knew of her remarks when he made the selection, but they concluded that any of the finalists would have some quotation or action that would attract criticism. They reject the notion that they fostered identity politics through a selection process focused on adding diversity to the court, noting that Judge Sotomayor has more experience on the bench than any current justice did when nominated.

“Yes, I think he thinks there’s value in having a Supreme Court that has a diversity of experience and diversity of points of view,” Mr. Axelrod said of the president, “but that was not the principal criteria that he applied. The principal criteria he applied was, is the person an excellent judge?”

The White House has been somewhat surprised by the intensity of the focus on identity, much of it fanned by round-the-clock cable coverage. The talk show host Rush Limbaugh declared Judge Sotomayor a “reverse racist” and described Mr. Obama as “an angry man with a chip on his shoulder.”

Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, wrote that a white man saying the reverse would have to withdraw so a “Latina woman racist should also withdraw.”

Mr. Obama and his aides responded by denouncing her critics while saying she had used a poor choice of words. “I’m sure she would have restated it,” Mr. Obama said on Friday. “But if you look in the entire sweep of the essay that she wrote, what’s clear is that she was simply saying that her life experiences will give her information about the struggles and hardships that people are going through — that will make her a good judge.”

The White House and its liberal supporters also dug up quotes from Republican-appointed justices, including Samuel A. Alito Jr., who said at his confirmation hearing that his immigrant roots played into his consideration of cases.

“When a case comes before me involving, let’s say, someone who is an immigrant — and we get an awful lot of immigration cases and naturalization cases,” he said at the hearing, “I can’t help but think of my own ancestors because it wasn’t that long ago when they were in that position.”

Representative Nydia M. Velázquez of New York, a Democrat and chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said, “So help me God, I just don’t know what is different between what he said and what she said.” Ms. Velázquez added, “I think some people want to create a commotion here that scores political points.”

The White House is counting on the notion that when the points are counted, it will have scored more. Mr. Obama won 67 percent of Hispanic votes last year, according to exit polls, and his political advisers would like to lock down a large constituency that remains in play between the two parties. The calculation in the president’s circle is that Republicans will shoot themselves by attacking the first Hispanic Supreme Court nominee.

“If there are critics out there who try to engage in some kind of playing the politics of race, they’re going to do so at their own peril because I think the country is past that,” said Joel Benenson, the president’s pollster.

Ms. Thernstrom, a Republican appointee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights, said the real question was what the episode revealed about Mr. Obama. Is he the apostle of a post-racial society or a more subtle player in the country’s age-old identity politics or something in between? “I think he’s a complicated person,” she said.
1044 2009-05-31 When Ruth Padel resigned last week as Oxford’s professor of poetry after only nine days on the job, it put an end — for now, at least — to a tale that began with past charges of sexual harassment against Ms. Padel’s primary competition for the position, the Nobel laureate Derek Walcott, and grew to include discreet tip-offs, fervid editorials, and Ms. Padel’s eventual admission that she had helped publicize the allegations against her rival.

Ugly stuff, in other words, and mightily entertaining. But behind much of the frothy speculation and accusation was an older, subtler and more intractable conflict between the myths of poetry and the realities of the modern university. What we may be willing to put up with from a poet — in Mr. Walcott’s case, and perhaps Ms. Padel’s as well — is different from what we’re willing to put up with from a professor, which can be quite a problem when the poet is expected to profess.

The tension between these expectations, and the close relationship between poetry and academia that gives rise to that tension, are relatively recent phenomena in both the United States and Britain. As a biographer of Robert Frost, Jay Parini, notes, “In a time when most colleges have a poet on campus, if not several, it seems difficult to imagine how odd it was for Amherst College to have hired Robert Frost in the winter of 1917.”

Frost was one of the first poets-in-residence, but he was rapidly followed by legions of younger writers, like Robert Lowell, Elizabeth Bishop, John Berryman, Randall Jarrell, and almost every American poet alive today. British poets kept their distance a little longer. As late as 1970, Philip Larkin (who never taught English or creative writing) complained while on an Oxford fellowship that “fat hangs on me like a Roman toga.” Oxford, he said, “seems to consist of eating, drinking and toadying.” Yet today the two most recent British poets laureate, Andrew Motion and Carol Ann Duffy, are professors of creative writing at, respectively, the University of London and Manchester Metropolitan University.

The association with universities has been good for poets in many ways, but the relationship has never been a perfectly smooth one. Frost himself left Amherst in a huff (“I believe in teaching, but I don’t believe in going to school”), only to be lured back with a sweetened deal. Berryman was dismissed by the University of Iowa after being arrested for intoxication, profanity and disturbing the peace, and Walcott was reprimanded by Harvard in 1981 for behaving inappropriately toward a female student.

Nor have poets become completely reconciled to the dominance of university mores in their art. That dominance is, as the poet and critic Peter Davison observed, “a big change. Picture Keats or Rilke or Whitman at a faculty meeting,” and it explains the existence of poems like August Kleinzahler’s scathing take on academic poets, “An Autumnal Sketch”:

What to make of them, the professors

in their little cars,

the sensitive men paunchy with drink

parked at the fence

where the field begins and the suburb ends?
1045 2009-05-31 At a Raytheon facility here south of the Kennedy Space Center, a hub of innovation in an earlier era, rock blares and empty cans of Mountain Dew pile up as engineers create tools to protect the Pentagon’s computers and crack into the networks of countries that could become adversaries. Prizes like cappuccino machines and stacks of cash spur them on, and a gong heralds each major breakthrough.

The young engineers represent the new face of a war that described Friday as “one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face as a nation.” The president said he would appoint a senior White House official to oversee the nation’s cybersecurity strategies.

Computer experts say the government is behind the curve in sealing off its networks from threats that are growing more persistent and sophisticated, with thousands of intrusions each day from organized criminals and legions of hackers for nations including and .

“Everybody’s attacking everybody,” said Scott Chase, a 30-year-old computer engineer who helps run the Raytheon unit here.

Mr. Chase, who wears his hair in a ponytail, and Terry Gillette, a 53-year-old former rocket engineer, ran SI Government Solutions before selling the company to Raytheon last year as the boom in the military’s cyberoperations accelerated.

The operation — tucked into several unmarked buildings behind an office and a dentist’s office — is doing some of the most cutting-edge work, both in identifying weaknesses in Pentagon networks and in creating weapons for potential attacks.

Daniel D. Allen, who oversees work on intelligence systems for Northrop Grumman, estimated that federal spending on computer security now totals $10 billion each year, including classified programs. That is just a fraction of the government’s spending on weapons systems. But industry officials expect it to rise rapidly.

The military contractors are now in the enviable position of turning what they learned out of necessity — protecting the sensitive Pentagon data that sits on their own computers — into a lucrative business that could replace some of the revenue lost from cancellations of conventional weapons systems.

Executives at Lockheed Martin, which has long been the government’s largest information-technology contractor, also see the demand for greater computer security spreading to energy and health care agencies and the rest of the nation’s critical infrastructure. But for now, most companies remain focused on the national-security arena, where the hottest efforts involve anticipating how an enemy might attack and developing the resources to strike back.

Though even the existence of research on cyberweapons was once highly classified, the Air Force plans this year to award the first publicly announced contract for developing tools to break into enemy computers. The companies are also teaming up to build a National Cyber Range, a model of the Internet for testing advanced techniques.

Military experts said Northrop Grumman and General Dynamics, which have long been major players in the Pentagon’s security efforts, are leading the push into offensive cyberwarfare, along with the Raytheon unit. This involves finding vulnerabilities in other countries’ computer systems and developing software tools to exploit them, either to steal sensitive information or disable the networks.

Mr. Chase and Mr. Gillette said the Raytheon unit, which has about 100 employees, grew out of a company they started with friends at Florida Institute of Technology that concentrated on helping software makers find flaws in their own products. Over the last several years, their focus shifted to the military and intelligence agencies, which wanted to use their analytic tools to detect vulnerabilities and intrusions previously unnoticed.

Like other contractors, the Raytheon teams set up “honey pots,” the equivalent of sting operations, to lure hackers into digital cul-de-sacs that mimic Pentagon Web sites. They then capture the attackers’ codes and create defenses for them.

And since most of the world’s computers run on the Windows or the Linux systems, their work has also provided a growing window into how to attack foreign networks in any cyberwar.

“It takes a nonconformist to excel at what we do,” said Mr. Gillette, a tanned surfing aficionado who looks like a 1950s hipster in his T-shirts with rolled-up sleeves.

The company, which would allow interviews with other employees only on the condition that their last names not be used because of security concerns, hired one of its top young workers, Dustin, after he won two major hacking contests and dropped out of college. “I always approach it like a game, and it’s been fun,” said Dustin, now 22.

Another engineer, known as Jolly, joined Raytheon in April after earning a master’s degree in computer security at in . “You think defense contractors, and you think bureaucracy, and not necessarily a lot of interesting and challenging projects,” he said.

The Pentagon’s interest in cyberwarfare has reached “religious intensity,” said Daniel T. Kuehl, a military historian at the National Defense University. And the changes carry through to soldiers being trained to defend and attack computer and wireless networks out on the battlefield.

That shift can be seen in the remaking of organizations like the Association of Old Crows, a professional group that includes contractors and military personnel.

The Old Crows have deep roots in what has long been known as electronic warfare — the use of radar and radio technologies for jamming and deception.

But the financing for electronic warfare had slowed recently, prompting the Old Crows to set up a broader information-operations branch last year and establish a new trade journal to focus on cyberwarfare.

The career of Joel Harding, the director of the group’s Information Operations Institute, exemplifies the increasing role that computing and the Internet are playing in the military.

A 20-year veteran of military intelligence, Mr. Harding shifted in 1996 into one of the earliest commands that studied government-sponsored computer hacker programs. After leaving the military, he took a job as an analyst at SAIC, a large contractor developing computer applications for military and intelligence agencies.

Mr. Harding estimates that there are now 3,000 to 5,000 information operations specialists in the military and 50,000 to 70,000 soldiers involved in general computer operations. Adding specialists in electronic warfare, deception and other areas could bring the total number of information operations personnel to as many as 88,700, he said.
1046 2009-05-31 Dr. S. Elissa Altin and Ryan David Fahey were married Saturday at the Greek Orthodox Archdiocesan Cathedral of the Holy Trinity in New York. The Rev. Vasilios Bassakyros performed the ceremony.

The bride and bridegroom, both 29, met at Harvard, from which they both graduated, he magna cum laude, and from which the bride received a medical degree.

Dr. Altin is completing an internal medicine residency at Yale-New Haven Hospital and in July will begin a fellowship in cardiology at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital. She is a daughter of Georgia K. Altin of Atlanta and the late Charles A. Altin.

Mr. Fahey is an associate in the litigation department of the New York law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf. He received a law degree from Columbia. He is a son of Vicky and David Fahey of Belleville, Wis.
1047 2009-05-31 Ms. Poetsch described it as an attempt to lure buyers who tend to search for homes on the Internet “in chunks of $50,000” from lower price points.

According to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island, 180 homes among the 10,000 available properties in Nassau County are currently listed by range — the average within the range being $775,293. In Suffolk, which has more than 13,000 available properties, 360 are listed by range; the average is $591,285.

“It opens the window for more buyers to preview the property,” Ms. Poetsch said. People looking in the range of $950,000 to $1 million may peek at a property that otherwise they might not have considered. Once they come through the door, she said, the hope is that the home’s features will wow them. “When the value is there, a buyer will spend more than they anticipate.”

Despite the given range, she added, there is no guarantee for the buyer that the owner will sell at the low end. Buyers need to anticipate that “the homeowner will give them a counteroffer.” And of course, she pointed out, there is always the optimistic possibility that multiple bidders could drive the price to the high end of the range, or above it.

Ms. Poetsch says that of her 23 current listings, she is using value ranges on 12 from East Meadow to Valley Stream — including a range of $299,000 to $349,876 on a three-bedroom colonial in Elmont. Since January she has sold five homes using the method.

She said she liked the “unique arrangement” of value range and thought it worked. “Instead of popping it up high and continually reducing it,” she said, “this is where the homeowner will entertain offers.” But she acknowledged that as an approach, “it is fairly new here in New York and not everyone has bought into it yet.”

Ms. Herman says that homes listed with a range tend to sell more quickly, and that ranges impel buyers to think more strategically. “Most people are not going to put the lowest offer in if they really want the property,” she said, likening the process to an auction in which the owner doesn’t have to sell. “They don’t want another buyer to come in and buy the property.”

In January Bill Groel, a police officer, paid $330,000 for a Massapequa Park two-bedroom ranch listed with a price range of $309,000 to $359,000.

Earlier, it had been listed at $375,000; he ignored it that time around, as “it was above what I was looking for.” But when he saw the price drop into a range, he took a look.

He started with an offer of $309,000.

“ ‘It couldn’t hurt to go from the lower price,’ ” he recalled thinking. “I liked the house and I wasn’t willing to pay $359,000 for it.” A counteroffer was made and a deal quickly sealed.

Describing what the price range had indicated to him about the sellers’ attitude, Mr. Groel said, “They are not set on one price, and they are able to bend more.”

Scott Donnellan, a sales agent with Re/Max Innovations in Wantagh, who sold Mr. Groel his home, said he sometimes used a range of prices to increase traffic to listings that had gotten “a little stale.”

“It is more exposure,” Mr. Donnellan said. “This tells people we are negotiable and opens up the house” to buyers just under or above a certain price threshold.

Matthew Arnold, an associate broker with Netter Real Estate in West Islip, explained that he had sometimes set a range — normally not as broad as in the Prudential strategy — because he and a client have differed on the best price to choose. He now has just such a listing: a two-bedroom colonial in Lindenhurst, priced at $299,000 to $310,000.

He says his preference is to set homes at a single number “that makes it attractive,” then entice buyers with offers to pay closing costs, or entice brokers with offers of a higher commission to generate traffic.

Since Nancy and Bryan Rogers’s East Meadow expanded Cape came on the market on April 1 with a price range of $399,000 to $458,876, they have received several offers. Ms. Rogers, a teacher, said she had previously listed the house at a static $459,000, adding that the range listing attracted people searching for homes from $350,000 to $400,000 who might fall in love with their deep backyard. Knowing there’s flexibility in the price, they “might stretch for it or see that they can negotiate a little more within their range.”

Ms. Poetsch, who has the listing, said the bids start at $399,000 and are being countered. “It never starts at the top, but that is understandable,” she said. “The buyer is looking for a bargain.”
1048 2009-05-31 “The Cube is Japanese, but also global,” he said. The design came from an international group of designers including John Sahs, a Vietnamese-American based in Japan; Alfonso Albaisa, a Cuban-American working in Europe; and Hirotada Kuwahara and Tadamasa Hayakawa, who are both Japanese. All worked under the supervision of Mr. Nakamura, who is also Japanese.

The first Cube, of 1998, was sold only in Japan, predating other box cars like the Honda Element and the Toyota bB, which came to America as the Scion xB.

The second took inspiration from the Chappo concept car of 2001, which was the first car developed after Mr. Nakamura became head of Nissan design. At the time, he described the Chappo as a room on wheels, inspired by the idea of “a house overlooking a Zen garden.”

The geometry of this third-generation Cube, the first to come to the United States, is compromised by the addition of larger bumpers needed to meet American crash standards. Mr. Sahs likened its face to “a bulldog wearing sunglasses.”

The car appears less boxy than its name.

Beveled edges around the windows imply thickness and solidity. Softened from the tin-box aesthetic of the last generation, the new Cube is a kind of Murakami cartoon of a car.

Last year, in a project sponsored by Nissan, students at the Pratt Institute customized the previous Cube. Studying and living in Brooklyn, the students were reconciled to the fact that they wouldn’t drive fast.

Most seemed to love the last generation of the rather poky car, but several recently expressed disappointment in the new design. “They’ve rounded off all the edges,” said one, begging for anonymity out of concern about offending a corporate sponsor.

Nor were the Pratt students impressed by Nissan’s effort to customize the car with the too-cute Krom package, intended to appeal to American youth. The fully equipped Krom model has a multibar grille that is a dead ringer for the ones now found on Fords.

That bold grille is a jarring contrast to the subtlty of the interior, which has an almost relentless, albeit high-concept, motif: a pattern of concentric circles repeated in the headliner fabric, on the faces of the audio speakers, on the cup holder liners and even on the surfaces of knobs. It also plays out in the shape of the exterior rear window panels.

That pattern, whose significance may be missed by many potential customers, began with the Chappo. It suggests a pool into which a pebble has been dropped, Mr. Nakamura said, or a Japanese garden in which a boulder is surrounded by raked gravel.

The instrument panel offers an identically sized tachometer and speedometer highlighted in white and blue. This suggests the moon and the earth, the designers say.

Another contrarian theme of the design is its asymmetry. (Links to the car’s Web site, nissanusa.com/cube, call up cute slogans like this one: “Symmetry is so last year.”)

“The driver sits on one side, not in the middle,” Mr. Nakamura noted. “So why should the car be symmetrical?”

In the Cube, as in the Chappo, the windows at the right rear provide a more expansive view than those on the left. The window design creates a C shape. “See there,” Mr. Nakamura said, pointing at the back end. “It says its name.”
1049 2009-05-31 Re “Comedy Ahead of Its Time (If That Time Ever Comes)” by Dave Itzkoff [May 10]:

In mentioning that Steve Carell and Stephen Colbert are alumni Second City in Chicago, you referred to it as an “improv club.”

While we are rooted in improvisation, we are proud to be a member theater of the Actor’s Equity Association and one of the leading institutions in Chicago’s vibrant theater community. We have collaborated with many other regional theaters, and this summer and fall will stage co-productions with the Alliance Theater in Atlanta, the Philadelphia Theatre Company and the Woolly Mammoth Theater Company in Washington.

In addition to the wonderfully talented Mr. Carell and Mr. Colbert, we count generations of great actors and actresses as alumni of our theater, including: Alan Arkin, Jane Alexander, Peter Boyle, David Rasche, Catherine O’Hara and Andrea Martin.

Improvisation is core to our creative process, and we like clubs as much as anyone, but it is as a theater that we will proudly celebrate our 50th anniversary in December of this year.

The writer is the proprietor and executive producer of Second City.
1050 2009-05-31 A map on May 17 with the Surfacing column, about Christianshavn, an island in Copenhagen emerging as a bohemian center, misspelled part of the name of a church there. It is Vor Frelsers Kirke, not Von Fresler’s Kirke.
1051 2009-05-31 McCOY--Gloria, on May 29, 2009 of Garden City. Beloved wife of the late Harold Sr.; loving mother of Scott (Kerry) and the late Harold Jr.; adored grandmother of John, Kyle Ann and William Harold. Visiting at the Fairchild Sons Funeral Chapel, Fra...
1052 2009-05-31 To the Sports Editor:     ''Degrees of Disappointment'' (May 27) cited various challenges facing the sports industry. Perhaps the biggest obstacle is that the industry is so wrapped up in being a sport, as opposed to a business, which is really wh...
1053 2009-05-31 THREE years ago, when someone knocked on the door of Adriana Karekinian's waterfront home here and offered her $1.4 million for it, she turned the person down. She had just redone the stucco exterior, installed an in-ground pool and replaced the w...