1 2007-11-01 Arizona Senator John McCain is getting less financial support from hedge funds, private equity firms, pharmaceutical and oil companies, and other controversial business sectors on his presidential bid than former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani an...
2 2007-11-01 The ASPCA honored a Golden retriever who saved his owner from choking and a cat who alerted a family to carbon monoxide at a ceremony featuring Chuck Scarborough’s singing dog....
3 2007-11-01 Breaking News: MySpace joins Google’s OpenSocial team....
4 2007-11-01 How a major problem with the space station's power system was spotted....
5 2007-11-01 It is quickly turning into a white-knuckle day for Charles O. Prince III. In a matter of minutes Thursday morning, Citigroup, the global banking giant that Mr. Prince leads, lost more than $15 billion in market capitalization, as its stock tumbled...
6 2007-11-01 Credit Suisse said third-quarter profit at its investment bank was all but wiped out by writedowns, leading to a 31 percent decline in group net earnings to 1.3 billion Swiss francs ($1.12 billion). Investment banking income was hit by writedowns ...
7 2007-11-01 A longtime banking analyst said late Wednesday night that Citigroup might be forced to cut its dividend or sell assets to stave off what she said was a $30 billion capital shortfall, moves that could pull down its shareholder returns for several y...
8 2007-11-01 Citigroup's alternative investments unit has agreed to buy Carlton Hill Global Capital, a hedge fund specializing in credit derivatives. Carlton Hill was founded last year by two Morgan Stanley alumni, James O'Brien and Jonathan Dorfman. The duo w...
9 2007-11-01 In an effort to develop a stock futures market that will give investors more options and help them hedge risk, China is planning to introduce stock index futures soon and is ready to approve new quotas for foreign investors in the country's red ho...
10 2007-11-01 Google’s new OpenSocial initiative is nifty technology, but it’s not a product that in itself will cause any trouble for Facebook or MySpace....
11 2007-11-01 In its Nasdaq trading start Wednesday, CNinsure, a Chinese insurance agency and brokerage, was up as much as 79.6 percent to a high of $28.74 early in the session but hovered around or just above the $25 mark for most of the day. It closed 58 perc...
12 2007-11-01 “People are getting nervous looking to the holiday season,” said Anthony Conroy, head equity trader at BNY ConvergEx Group. “Discretionary income is going to be a little bit less. People are going to be spending less because they’re paying more for oil and mortgage payments there.”

Of the 30 Dow components, only Microsoft gained ground. Financial stocks, including JPMorgan Chase and American Express as well as Citigroup, were particularly pummeled. Manufacturers including Alcoa and General Motors were also hit hard.

There were also signs that business activity is faltering. Manufacturers faced their worst month since August, with companies hurt by a production declines and rising costs. Exxon Mobil, one of the world’s largest corporations, announced a 10 percent decline in third-quarter earnings, short of Wall Street expectations. Shares of the company, the world’s largest oil conglomerate, dropped 3.7 percent to $88.50.

The sell-off began after Citigroup, the world’s biggest bank, was hit with a downgraded rating from an influential analyst group, which recommended the bank cut its stock dividends to raise funds.

Citigroup wrote down $5.9 billion in assets in the third quarter after losses stemming from mortgage-backed securities and bad bets on asset backed commercial paper.

The bank is considered a bellwether of the financial sector, which has faced a battery of poor earnings reports and credit troubles. Citigroup shares fell nearly 7 percent to $38.51, its lowest price in 4 years.

“Dividends are a cash flow,” said William Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics. “That’s really cash the company is paying out. It’s a hard signal.”

Mr. Rhodes said a report that suggested a dividend cut was akin to “someone hitting you over the head with a hammer.”

The markets certainly interpreted it that way, with stocks falling at the opening bell and never looking back. The New York Stock Exchange was forced to curb trading in the morning, and the sell-off accelerated in the afternoon, with the major indexes closing near their intraday lows.

Adding to investors’ worries was a weak earnings report from Credit Suisse Group, which announced $1.9 billion in write-downs and a 31 percent drop in net profit.

Investors may also be unnerved by a disappointing batch of economic data released today. Consumer spending began to slow in September, growing 0.3 percent after a 0.5 percent gain in August. Analysts are predicting a weak fourth quarter, and the Commerce Department report may have confirmed fears of a sharp slowdown in spending as energy costs rise and the housing recession continues to worsen.

Meanwhile, manufacturing activity in October recorded its worst month since March, with American companies hurt by a decline in production coupled with a rise in costs. A closely watched manufacturing index dropped to 50.9 from 52 in September, the Institute for Supply Management said today. Inventories jumped and new orders dipped slightly.
13 2007-11-01 A longtime banking analyst said late last night that Citigroup may be forced to cut its dividend or sell assets to stave off what she said was a $30 billion capital shortfall, moves that could pull down its shareholder returns for several years.

The analyst, Meredith A. Whitney of CIBC World Markets, downgraded Citigroup’s stock to sector underperform, from sector perform, and called for the bank to bring precariously low capital levels more in line with its peers.

“We believe the stock will be under significant pressure and could trade in the low $30s,” she wrote. That would be as much as a 28 percent decline from yesterday’s $41.90 closing price for Citigroup shares.

If correct, the findings could be yet another blow to Citigroup’s chairman and chief executive, Charles O. Prince III, who has endured a barrage of criticism in the last few years for his failure to control costs and improve results. A 57 percent earnings drop in the third quarter, when both its big investment banking and consumer operations suffered heavy losses, raised doubts about his attention to risk management and his ability to lead the company.

Now, the pressure is intensifying yet again. In the wake of E. Stanley O’Neal’s abrupt departure from Merrill Lynch on Tuesday, there has been another round of calls for the ouster of Mr. Prince and James E. Cayne of Bear Stearns, whose companies also took big earnings hits.
14 2007-11-01 A long-time banking analyst said last night that Citigroup would need to cut its dividend or sell assets to stave off what she said was a $30 billion capital shortfall, moves that could pull down its earnings for several years.

The analyst, Meredith A. Whitney of CIBC World Markets, downgraded Citigroup’s stock to sector underperform, from sector perform, and called for the bank to bring precariously low capital levels more in line with its peers.

“We believe the stock will be under significant pressure and could trade in the low $30s,” she wrote. That would be as much as a 28 percent decline from yesterday’s closing price of $41.90.

If correct, the findings could be yet another blow to Citigroup’s chairman and chief executive, Charles O. Prince III. A 57 percent earnings drop in the third quarter, when both its big investment banking and consumer operations suffered heavy losses, raised doubts about his ability to lead the company.

A Citigroup spokeswoman said that the company does not comment on research reports. But in recent weeks, several of Citigroup’s directors have outspokenly supported Mr. Prince.
15 2007-11-01 Ms. Stein parlayed her show business connections — including a decades-long friendship with Elton John — into a high-profile real estate career. Her transactions included big-ticket properties in New York, but also ranged to the West Coast and even France and Italy.

The buyers and sellers in her deals read like a boldface-names column: Sting bought from Billy Joel, Harrison Ford bought from Debra Winger, and Jann Wenner bought Perry Ellis’s town house. Other clients included LaToya Jackson, Sylvester Stallone, Mary Beth Hurt, and Andrew Lloyd Webber, who bought at Trump Tower.

“My clients are my friends,” Ms. Stein was fond of saying. One of them, Mr. John — whom she met when he was still named Reg Dwight — said in a statement: “I’m absolutely shocked and upset. She’s been a friend for over 37 years and will be greatly missed, She did so much for breast cancer and was a huge supporter of my AIDS foundation.” Ms. Stein was a breast cancer survivor.

A fixture at charity galas, gallery openings and luxury stores, Ms. Stein developed her own celebrity in real estate — a profession in which agents often shun the limelight. She was the model for the brash broker portrayed by Sylvia Miles in the film “Wall Street.” In the film, the broker tries to sell an apartment to the yuppie character played by Charlie Sheen.

The daughter of a kosher caterer, Ms. Stein was born in Manhattan, grew up in Riverdale and worked first as a fifth-grade teacher. A blind date with Seymour Stein, the founder of Sire Records, put her life on a new path into the popular music business. After their marriage, the couple worked together.

Sire’s performers included Madonna, the Talking Heads, the B-52’s and the Ramones. He was unavailable for comment last night.

Ms. Stein was a co-manager of the Ramones as they helped spawn punk music and is credited with arranging their breakthrough performances in England. Her co-manager at the time, and a longtime friend, Danny Fields, attested to her forceful style. “She had powerful emotions,” he said, “and she didn’t appreciate being dissed or not having a phone call returned.”

A fan as much as a manager and promoter, Ms. Stein sporadically joined the Ramones on their road tours. She also joined Mr. John on shopping trips for furs and jewelry.

The Steins eventually grew apart, and divorced in the late 1970s. A Vanity Fair profile of Ms. Stein later quoted her ex-husband as saying: “Our marriage for me was like eight years on a roller coaster, and not always strapped in.”

By then Ms. Stein was reinventing herself in real estate. She started by claiming a finder’s fee from the society brokerage firm Edward Lee Cave when she helped sell the triplex penthouse at the San Remo on Central Park West that she and her husband had shared. Starting as a novice, she quickly established herself at the Cave firm and later switched to Prudential Douglas Elliman.

Prudential’s president and chief executive, Dottie Herman, called the murder “a terrible tragedy” and added, “Linda Stein was the broker to the stars and very loyal to our company, a good friend to all and to me personally.” Pam Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group, said, “She was the first broker to make a name for herself in dealing with the celebrity elite.”

Despite the divorce, the Steins stayed in touch. “They fight and then they make up,” Mr. Fields said. “It’s like they’re married, but they’re living separate lives.”

Besides Mandy, Ms. Steins is survived by another daughter, Samantha. In addition, there is one grandchild, Mr. Fields said, Samantha’s 3-year-old daughter.

The two sisters left Ms. Stein’s building about a half-hour apart last night, without comment. One broke into tears when reporters and photographers rushed around her.

A building resident, Seymour Holtzman, said, “I felt 1,000 percent safe here before,” but added that he now planned to get a security system for his apartment.
16 2007-11-01 “The facts are that an expression of an opinion by Judge Mukasey prior to becoming attorney general would put a lot of people at risk for what has happened,” Mr. Specter said.

Mr. Specter, who said he was briefed on the interrogation issue this week by the C.I.A. director, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, noted that human rights groups had filed a criminal complaint on torture against Donald H. Rumsfeld, the former defense secretary, while he was visiting France this month. Such cases, based on the legal concept of “universal jurisdiction” for torture and certain other crimes, have proliferated in recent years, though they have often posed more of an aggravation than a serious threat.

Jack L. Goldsmith, who served in the Justice Department in 2003 and 2004, wrote in his recent memoir, “The Terror Presidency,” that the possibility of future prosecution for aggressive actions against terrorism was a constant worry inside the Bush administration.

“I witnessed top officials and bureaucrats in the White House and throughout the administration openly worrying that investigators, acting with the benefit of hindsight in a different political environment, would impose criminal penalties on heat-of-battle judgment calls,” Mr. Goldsmith wrote.

Scott L. Silliman, an expert on national security law at Duke University School of Law, said any statement by Mr. Mukasey that waterboarding was illegal torture “would open up Pandora’s box,” even in the United States. Such a statement from an attorney general would override existing Justice Department legal opinions and create intense pressure from human rights groups to open a criminal investigation of interrogation practices, Mr. Silliman said.

“You would ask not just who carried it out, but who specifically approved it,” said Mr. Silliman, director of the Center on Law, Ethics and National Security at Duke. “Theoretically, it could go all the way up to the president of the United States; that’s why he’ll never say it’s torture,” Mr. Silliman said of Mr. Mukasey.

Robert M. Chesney, of Wake Forest University School of Law, said Mr. Mukasey’s statements could influence the climate in which prosecution decisions are made.

“There is a culture of concern about where Monday-morning quarterbacking could lead to,” Mr. Chesney said. If Mr. Mukasey declared waterboarding illegal, “it would make it politically more possible to go after interrogators in the future,” he said. “Whether it would change the legal equities is far less clear.”

Mr. Chesney and other specialists emphasized that prosecution in the United States, even under a future administration, would face huge hurdles because Congress since 2005 has adopted laws offering legal protections to interrogators for actions taken with government authorization. Justice Department legal opinions are believed to have approved waterboarding, among other harsh methods.

Jennifer Daskal, senior counterterrorism counsel at Human Rights Watch, said Mr. Mukasey “is hedging in the interest of protecting current and former administration officials from possible prosecution,” either in other countries or by a future American administration. “What he should be doing is providing a straightforward interpretation of the law,” she said.

Mr. Mukasey, 66, a retired federal judge from New York, referred to the criminal liability issue several times in nearly 180 pages of written answers delivered to the Senate on Tuesday. He said that while he personally found waterboarding and similar interrogation methods “repugnant,” he could not call them illegal. One reason, he said, was to avoid any implication that intelligence officers and their bosses had broken the law.

“I would not want any uninformed statement of mine made during a confirmation process to present our own professional interrogators in the field, who must perform their duty under the most stressful conditions, or those charged with reviewing their conduct,” Mr. Mukasey wrote, “with a perceived threat that any conduct of theirs, past or present, that was based on authorizations supported by the Department of Justice could place them in personal legal jeopardy.”

If the judiciary committee were to split along party lines, the deciding vote could go to Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who first suggested Mr. Mukasey to succeed Alberto R. Gonzales.

That would leave Mr. Schumer, ordinarily an enthusiastic partisan combatant, with a difficult decision: whether to break with his fellow Democrats and save Mr. Mukasey’s nomination or to vote to kill the nomination of a man he has highly praised.

On Wednesday, Mr. Schumer was uncharacteristically reluctant to discuss his views. He avoided television crews waiting outside an unrelated press conference and refused to answer questions about the judge’s letter on waterboarding.

“I’m not going to comment on Judge Mukasey here,” he said. “I’m reading the letter, I’m going over it.”

Dana M. Perino, the White House press secretary, said Democrats were “playing politics” with the waterboarding issue, noting that Mr. Mukasey had not been briefed on classified interrogation methods. “I can’t imagine the Democrats would want to hold back his nomination just because he is a thoughtful, careful thinker who looks at all the facts before he makes a judgment,” Ms. Perino said.

Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, offered a fierce defense of Mr. Mukasey, who he said had spent “40 days in the partisan wilderness,” on the Senate floor. “What kind of crazy, topsy-turvy confirmation process is this?” Mr. Hatch asked.

But Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, declared on the floor that he would vote against confirming Mr. Mukasey, whom he called a good man and a brilliant lawyer, because of the torture question. “I don’t think anyone intended this nomination to turn on this issue,” Mr. Whitehouse said.

Three Republicans who have denounced waterboarding wrote to Mr. Mukasey on Wednesday, suggesting that they would support him but urging him to declare waterboarding illegal after he is confirmed.

The senators, John McCain of Arizona, John W. Warner of Virginia and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, said anyone who engaged in waterboarding “puts himself at risk of prosecution, including under the War Crimes Act, and opens himself to civil liability as well.”
17 2007-11-01 A lawyer for Mr. DeVecchio, Douglas E. Grover, said yesterday that he was “satisfied.”

“There were so many red flags that should have hit the D.A.,” Mr. Grover said.

It was a major reversal for the Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes. Last year, when Mr. Hynes filed state murder charges despite a federal investigation that had cleared Mr. DeVecchio, he described the case as “the most stunning example of official corruption that I have ever seen.”

To stand down now would end a sensational case rife with intrigue, plagued with obstacles and built squarely on the word of Linda Schiro, once a Mafia assassin’s mistress, whose shifting accounts have been increasingly evident since the new investigation nearly two years ago. Justice Reichbach warned Ms. Schiro in court yesterday that she could face perjury charges and appointed a lawyer, Gary A. Farrell, to represent her.

Mr. Robbins, the reporter, said he had struggled with his decision to come forward.

“I did not know what else to do,” Mr. Robbins said, adding that he had chosen to disclose the tapes after hearing the testimony this week and its role in the case. He said: “No journalist ever wants to go against a source. It’s against our creed.”

The trial centers on Mr. DeVecchio’s relationship with his informer, Gregory Scarpa, a notorious capo in the Colombo crime family. Mr. Scarpa, known as the Grim Reaper, died in prison in 1994. In the case on trial, state prosecutors accused Mr. DeVecchio of giving Mr. Scarpa orders to kill rival informers and tips on pending arrests.

But signs of the case’s weakness were evident from the start.

Within months of Mr. Scarpa’s death, investigators for the Office of Professional Responsibility, the internal affairs arm of the federal Department of Justice, interviewed Ms. Schiro. Their inquiry failed to produce sufficient evidence to charge or discipline Mr. DeVecchio.

In 1995, federal prosecutors admitted during a trial that Mr. DeVecchio had given some confidential information to Mr. Scarpa. Their disclosure led to acquittals for several members of the crime family, but Mr. DeVecchio denied any wrongdoing.

In 1997, a federal judge, Jack B. Weinstein, wrote: “DeVecchio and Scarpa’s relationship reflects, to a degree, the manner in which the F.B.I. and other investigatory agencies conduct business with top echelon informants and the hazards associated with doing so.”

As the accusations faded from the headlines, Ms. Schiro continued to give interviews to writers proposing books about her life with Mr. Scarpa. In 1998, she filed an affidavit in federal court in Brooklyn on behalf of Mr. Scarpa’s son, Gregory Scarpa Jr., who was facing racketeering charges. But when the time came to testify in that case, on Oct. 15, 1998, a judge warned Ms. Schiro that she could face perjury charges because of her prior statements to investigators, transcripts show. Ms. Schiro left court and elected not to testify.

Before the new state case came to trial, defense lawyers sought to subpoena several writers who had circulated book proposals based on interviews with Ms. Schiro. Basing his decision on the state shield law protecting journalists, Justice Reichbach quashed a subpoena for testimony by Jerry Capeci, who writes the column ganglandnews.com.

When Ms. Schiro took the witness stand this week, defense lawyers underscored inconsistencies in her various accounts. In the interviews with federal investigators a decade ago, Ms. Schiro testified, she had left out Mr. DeVecchio’s involvement in the hope that he could protect her family.

But Mr. Grover, the defense lawyer, suggested that her story had changed with her prospects of making money, first by collecting on Mr. Scarpa’s outstanding loans and later by selling a book about Mr. DeVecchio.

As the first day of cross-examination ended on Tuesday, Mr. Robbins posted an article about his tape recordings on the Web site of The Village Voice. The interviews, he wrote, were conducted in 1997 for a book proposal written with Mr. Capeci.

In the interviews, Mr. Robbins wrote, Ms. Schiro was asked directly whether Mr. DeVecchio had been involved in the murders, and she insistently, unequivocally said he had not. Mr. Robbins promised to use the information only for a book, avoid attributing it to her and refuse to cooperate with any criminal prosecution arising from publication.

Prosecutors and defense lawyers both subpoenaed the interviews late Tuesday, and Mr. Robbins brought his cassette tapes to court yesterday morning. Justice Reichbach sent him to meet with the lawyers.

On the way out of court, Mr. Robbins said he had not followed developments in the case closely and had been surprised to see Ms. Schiro as the central witness.

“I didn’t realize this case came down to her testimony,” he said, adding, “I don’t know if she’s lying now, or lying then.”

Five minutes later, the hallway outside the courtroom was empty. Across from a pen where TV cameramen have stood for two weeks documenting the arrival of witnesses, an abandoned sketch leaned against the wall, depicting Ms. Schiro on the witness stand, telling her story.
18 2007-11-01 Advocates of Linux, the free open-source operating system, like to say that buying a standard-issue computer involves a Microsoft Tax, because you have no choice but to pay for Windows. New versions of Linux and inexpensive hardware like the new Everex gPC TC2502 make that tax avoidable.

This computer has a 1.5-gigahertz Via processor, 512 megabytes of memory and an 80-gigabyte hard drive. What makes it stand out, however, is GOS, a version of Linux specially made to run Google applications like GMail and Google Documents. It also runs OpenOffice, an open-source office suite that can handle Microsoft Word documents, and some multimedia applications.

The interface features an intuitive desktop interface with a set of icons. Clicking on the Map icon, for example, brings up Google Maps. The ostensible goal is to move much of the processing from the PC to the Internet.

The gPC is available now at Wal-Mart for $200, including a keyboard and mouse. A monitor costs extra, and the Microsoft Tax is missing entirely. JOHN BIGGS
19 2007-11-01 Merck has licensed the exclusive worldwide rights to sell a new, potentially more powerful vaccine against hepatitis B from Dynavax Technologies Corporation, a biotechnology company that is exploiting new findings about how the immune system works.

Under the terms of the agreement, which is expected to be announced today, Dynavax will receive $31.5 million initially and up to $105 million later, as well as royalties based on sales of the vaccine. Merck will also pay the remaining costs to develop the vaccine.

The vaccine, called Heplisav, is in the final stage of clinical trials and could reach the market by 2010, according to Dynavax, which is based in Berkeley, Calif.

While children are now routinely vaccinated for hepatitis B, many adults have not been. Heplisav is aimed at them.

It requires two injections instead of the three required for the existing vaccines. That means more people are likely to complete their course of vaccination, Dino Dina, the chief executive of Dynavax, said in an interview. Heplisav also appears to provide better protection to older people, who tend to have weaker immune systems.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends vaccination for those who might be at risk for the disease, such as people with many sex partners or workers who are exposed to blood, like those in hospitals and clinical laboratories. Hepatitis B can cause liver cancer and cirrhosis.
20 2007-11-01 Another print ad, decorated with a ribbon-bedecked ornament labeled “For every wish,” shows gold jewelry; the prices are displayed near each earring, bracelet and necklace. “We make it affordable to have a heart of gold,” the headline declares.

The goal is to persuade budget-minded consumers that “the more you save, the more Christmas you can give,” said Stephen Quinn, chief marketing officer at Wal-Mart Stores in Bentonville, Ark.

“The core statement of our holiday program is that you can save money if you shop at Wal-Mart,” he added, but to “find more positive and more emotionally connective ways” to express it beyond prosaic appeals to buy stuff cheap.

This is the first holiday campaign for Martin, an agency best known for its humorous Geico insurance campaigns, featuring offbeat characters like geckos and cavemen. The work for Wal-Mart is more mainstream in its approach, reflecting the retailer’s heartland roots.

Martin took over in January as the creative agency for Wal-Mart’s general advertising account, with spending each year estimated at close to $600 million. There are also holiday ads aimed at Hispanic consumers, created by López Negrete Communications; black consumers, from GlobalHue; and Asian-Americans, from the IW Group, another Interpublic agency.

The results of the campaign will be closely watched, because how Wal-Mart fares at Christmas could foretell the health of the American retail economy as shoppers struggle with rising energy prices and falling home values.

“Tough times are actually a good time for Wal-Mart,” Tom Schoewe, chief financial officer, said during a meeting with Wall Street analysts last week, because “our customers care a lot about price and value.”

In September, Martin introduced a theme for Wal-Mart that is intended to reclaim the retailer’s reputation as middle America’s favorite discounter while adding uplifting sentiment to the sales pitch.

The result — “Save money. Live better” — appears in most of the holiday campaign, which will include television, magazines, newspaper circulars, ads on Web sites and signs in stores. It supplants the more bargain-focused slogans Wal-Mart has used in previous years, which included “Always low prices.”

The “save money” part of the theme “is in the DNA of Wal-Mart; it’s why it was created,” said Steve Bassett, creative director at Martin.

The “live better” part is intended to offer “a great promise,” he added, beyond “we’re having a big blowout sale.”

That is particularly important for Christmas, Mr. Bassett said, when consumers want to be “celebratory” rather than to dutifully count pennies.

“One of the pillars of the work is, ‘Let’s express joy,’” he added. “We want people to come away with, ‘Wow, it’s going to be a great Christmas this year, and Wal-Mart will be part of that for my family.’”

Wal-Mart’s holiday marketing tactics have varied widely from one year to the next. This is a reflection of its recent struggle to determine whether it ought to concentrate on its traditional blue-collar customers or woo more affluent shoppers.

In 2003, Wal-Mart cut toy prices so deeply it set off a price war with Toys “R” Us and KB Toys, which sent KB Toys into bankruptcy. The next year, Wal-Mart went lighter on the cutbacks, hurting sales.

In 2006, the theme of the holiday campaign was “Be bright,” as Wal-Mart sought to stimulate sales of more expensive merchandise like designer sheets.

But sales slumped, so price cuts, which Wal-Mart calls rollbacks, quickly returned, creating an uneven tone.

“We had been experimenting a lot,” Mr. Quinn said. “The experimentation process is over.”

“We’ve hit a groove on what our core positioning is,” he said, but because “people already know Wal-Mart is a place to save, we’re trying to make sure there is an emotional connection and not just an empty promise of ‘Save, save, save.’”

For Christmas, the campaign will express the thought this way, Mr. Quinn said: “It’s great to save money, but the feeling you get giving the bike the kid wants is the payoff.”

A commercial for Hispanic shoppers makes that point by showing how the low price on a doll lets a mother also buy clothes for the doll, he said, “rather than saying, ‘You’ll save two dollars here, a buck fifty there.’”

Whether shoppers speak Spanish, English or Esperanto, Wal-Mart needs a big Christmas.

Despite record sales and earnings, Wall Street is worried about the company. Sales at Wal-Mart stores open at least a year, a crucial yardstick in retailing, have risen but at a steadily falling rate — from an average of 3.6 percent a month in 2005 to 2.1 percent in 2006 to 1.5 percent so far this year.

A plan by Wal-Mart to use big-name brands and rock-bottom prices to lure customers has worked in the electronics and grocery departments, but it has so far failed in the home and apparel sections of the stores.

“Clearly, we’re on a longer-term path to ‘fix’ those businesses,” Mr. Quinn said, adding that for the holiday season there will be an emphasis on “a lot of basics: fleece, jackets, hats.”

For those who like decorating their homes for the holidays, Wal-Mart will for the first time operate themed Christmas shops, Mr. Quinn said. In many stores, they will be in the lawn and garden departments.

The special shops will also stock Christmas toys, video games and foods.

The shops are another example of how Wal-Mart is seeking to offer shoppers “higher-touch” experiences than before, Mr. Quinn said, and help them “get into the Christmas spirit” instead of coming to Wal-Mart to trudge the aisles for bargains.

The focus on well-known brands in electronics will continue for the coming Christmas, Mr. Quinn said, listing names like Sony and Toshiba. In the commercial about the Toshiba DVD player, the wife says the price was so low that “even for Wal-Mart, I was surprised.”

In a study released this week by BDO Seidman, 73 percent of the chief marketing officers at retailers said discounting and promotions would be more common this holiday season than last year. And 54 percent said sales would be flat compared with the 2006 holiday season.

To help jump-start the holiday shopping season, Wal-Mart announced yesterday that it would offer door-buster discounts three weeks before they traditionally appear. Five popular products, including a laptop for $350, will go on sale at 8 a.m. tomorrow rather than the day after Thanksgiving.

Wal-Mart said there would be additional door-busters on Nov. 23.

The holiday campaign will appear on TV networks like ABC, ABC Family, CBS, CMT, CW, Discovery, E!, ESPN, HGTV, Lifetime, NBC, Nick at Nite, TBS, TLC, TNT and USA. The publications to carry the print ads include Better Homes and Gardens, Family Circle, Parade, People and Redbook.
21 2007-11-01 Apple has tried to thwart the practice by updating the operating system software, which rendered any updated and unlocked phone useless. But rogue programmers were quickly back at it, and they say they have created software that makes it possible to break the newly updated software lock on the iPhone. As this knowledge spreads across the Internet, more and more Americans are becoming aware of the issues surrounding locked phones in general.

Though there are questions about the legality of the practice, more carriers are offering customers the option, even though it means a customer can use that phone with another carrier. T-Mobile says it unlocks its phones after an account has been active 90 days.

AT&T said it would unlock a handset once the customer had fulfilled the terms of a contract. It will sell customers an unlocked phone at full price — with the exception of the iPhone. Sprint agreed in a class-action lawsuit settlement proposal last week that it would provide the unlock codes to customers after their contracts expired so the phones could be used with other carriers. Verizon says it does not unlock its phones.

All this locking and unlocking is most relevant to the type of mobile phone that is widely used around the globe: those on a Global System for Mobile communication system, or GSM network. In the United States, only AT&T and T-Mobile are GSM providers. The other major carriers, Verizon and Sprint, use a different standard known as CDMA, for Code Division Multiple Access, which is more common in Japan and South Korea.

The advantage of having an unlocked GSM phone is that the phone can easily be used in other countries at a fraction of the usual charge by buying a local prepaid SIM card, the microchip that contains the telephone number and other data. Otherwise, consumers are left paying exorbitant international roaming fees.

In the United States, however, some carriers — and in the case of the iPhone, a phone maker — say that unlocking the phone may violate the company warranty and thus the company will not repair or replace it if something goes awry.

Some imply that it is not legal to unlock a phone, but the legal issues are murky at best.

A subsection of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 could be interpreted as saying that anyone who unlocks a phone for someone else or tells others how to do it might face legal action.

Some legal scholars, like Susan Crawford, a visiting professor at the University of Michigan Law School and an authority on digital copyright law, have argued that interpreting the act that way has little to do with protecting copyrights, and more to do with limiting competition. The Librarian of Congress, the office that determines what things are covered under the copyright act, exempts the unlocking of mobile phones from the law.

Several recent cases support Professor Crawford’s view. In one of those cases, Lexmark, a printer manufacturer, tried to use the act to sue a company that made compatible ink cartridges. In another, a garage door opener manufacturer tried to sue a rival company for making a universal door opener.

In both instances, federal courts ruled that these cases were not about preventing copyright infringement, but rather about stifling competition, Professor Crawford said.

“Courts have said you shouldn’t use the D.M.C.A. to leverage your copyright monopoly into other markets,” she said.

Like the exclusive AT&T deal in the United States, Apple is currently pursuing deals with carriers overseas, and has announced exclusive agreements with O2 in Britain, T-Mobile in Germany and Orange in France.

Some European lawyers, however, have noted that certain countries require mobile phones be sold in an unlocked state, which would eliminate Apple’s exclusivity. Antoine Gendreau, a French intellectual property lawyer, said in an e-mail message that a seller must offer the product without a service plan even if he can sell it with a service plan at a lower price.

“A purchase with a service plan that is locked on an operator’s network must be able to be unlocked so it can be used on any network at the request of the buyer, and must be done at no charge after six months,” Mr. Gendreau said. Orange has said it would sell an unlocked phone.

Short of booking a trip to France to get an unlocked cellphone, customers who want one will have to turn to the online gray market: Craigslist and eBay.

Today, there are plenty of vendors who will unlock phones or sell unlocked phones. Prices for an unlocked iPhone range from $400 to $700, depending on whether the phone has a four-gigabyte or eight-gigabyte storage capacity. Similar services are available online for unlocking nearly any GSM handset. Sometimes small and independent mobile phone retailers will even unlock certain models for a small fee, usually $50 or less. Some even openly advertise the phones or the service.

Unlocking an iPhone is something that anyone can do, says Kyle Matthews, the 25-year-old co-founder of ModMyiFone.com. He said that the whole process of installing various pieces of software takes a little less than an hour to complete.

“People that have no technological experience would be a little put off by it, because it’s a little bit of work, but for anyone who has basic computer knowledge it’s really easy to do,” he said. He has personally unlocked approximately 50 iPhones, he said.

For more popular handset models like BlackBerrys and Treos, various online guides exist at sites like unlockblackberry.net and 680unlock.com/. For other models, however guides may be more difficult to find on the Internet.

Professor Crawford thinks that the attention to unlocking the iPhone could help Americans realize that they may want to have more choice when it comes to mobile operators.

“There hasn’t been much consumer incentive in the past to challenge the wireless carriers controls,” she said. “This may lead consumers in the U.S. to rise up and demand that their phones be unlocked.”
22 2007-11-01 Gail Collins (column, Oct. 25) raises a great question: Why do so-called values voters find a genuine compassionate conservative like Mike Huckabee objectionable? Perhaps it’s because social conservatives have assigned their own meanings to phrases like “moral leadership” and “family values,” and concern for the well-being of those less fortunate simply isn’t part of the equation.

Of course, compassion should certainly be embedded in the definition of these phrases. But conservatism as practiced by the religious right has come to mean fighting against perceived threats to society: abortion rights, gay rights and so on. As a result, compassion is left at the churchhouse door, and the truly needy must look elsewhere for help.

To borrow a phrase from the social conservatives themselves, what could be more “morally objectionable” than that? Niels Aaboe
23 2007-11-01 Respondents in the United States and England, for instance, listed “inspiring others” as a most important leadership quality, and then rated women as less adept at this than men. In Nordic countries, women were seen as perfectly inspirational, but it was “delegating” that was of higher value there, and women were not seen as good delegators.

Other researchers have reached similar conclusions. Joan Williams runs the Center for WorkLife Law, part of the University of California Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco. She wrote the book “Unbending Gender” and she, too, has found that women are held to a different standard at work.

They are expected to be nurturing, but seen as ineffective if they are too feminine, she said in a speech last week at Cornell. They are expected to be strong, but tend to be labeled as strident or abrasive when acting as leaders. “Women have to choose between being liked but not respected, or respected but not liked,” she said.

While some researchers, like those at Catalyst and WorkLife Law, tend to paint the sweeping global picture — women don’t advance as much as men because they don’t act like men — other researchers narrow their focus.

Victoria Brescoll, a researcher at Yale, made headlines this August with her findings that while men gain stature and clout by expressing anger, women who express it are seen as being out of control, and lose stature. Study participants were shown videos of a job interview, after which they were asked to rate the applicant and choose their salary. The videos were identical but for two variables — in some the applicants were male and others female, and the applicant expressed either anger or sadness about having lost an account after a colleague arrived late to an important meeting.

The participants were most impressed with the angry man, followed by the sad woman, then the sad man, and finally, at the bottom of the list, the angry woman. The average salary assigned to the angry man was nearly $38,000 while the angry woman received an average of only $23,000.

When the scenario was tweaked and the applicant went on to expand upon his or her anger — explaining that the co-worker had lied and said he had directions to the meeting — participants were somewhat forgiving, giving women who explained their anger more money than those who had no excuse (but still less money than comparative men).

Also this summer, Linda C. Babcock, an economics professor at Carnegie Mellon University, looked at gender and salary in a novel way. She recruited volunteers to play Boggle and told them beforehand that they would receive $2 to $10 for their time. When it came time for payment, each participant was given $3 and asked if that was enough.

Men asked for more money at eight times the rate of women. In a second round of testing, where participants were told directly that the sum was negotiable, 50 percent of women asked for more money, but that still did not compare with 83 percent of men. It would follow, Professor Babcock concluded, that women are equally poor at negotiating their salaries and raises.

There are practical nuggets of advice in all this data. Don’t be shy about negotiating. If you blow your stack, explain (or try). “Some of what we are learning is directly helpful, and tells women that they are acting in ways they might not even be aware of, and that is harming them and they can change,” said Peter Glick, a psychology professor at Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis.

He is the author of one such study, in which he showed respondents a video of a woman wearing a sexy low-cut blouse with a tight skirt or a skirt and blouse that were conservatively cut. The woman recited the same lines in both, and the viewer was either told she was a secretary or an executive. Being more provocatively dressed had no effect on the perceived competence of the secretary, but it lowered the perceived competence of the executive dramatically. (Sexy men don’t have that disconnect, Professor Glick said. While they might lose respect for wearing tight pants and unbuttoned shirts to the office, the attributes considered most sexy in men — power, status, salary — are in keeping with an executive image at work.)

But Professor Glick also concedes that much of this data — like his 2000 study showing that women were penalized more than men when not perceived as being nice or having social skills — gives women absolutely no way to “fight back.” “Most of what we learn shows that the problem is with the perception, not with the woman,” he said, “and that it is not the problem of an individual, it’s a problem of a corporation.”

Ms. Lang, at Catalyst, agreed. This accumulation of data will be of value only when companies act on it, she said, noting that some are already making changes. At Goldman Sachs, she said, the policy on performance reviews now tries to eliminate bias. A red flag is expected to go up if a woman is described as “having sharp elbows or being brusque,” she said. “The statement should not just stand,” she said. “Examples should be asked for, the context should be considered, would the same actions be cause for comment if it was a man?”

In fact, Catalyst’s next large project is to advise companies on ways they can combat stereotypical bias. And Professor Glick has some upcoming projects, too. One looks at whether women do better in sales if they show more cleavage. A second will look at the flip side of gender stereotypes at work: hostility toward men.
24 2007-11-01 FED LOWERS SHORT-TERM RATES The Federal Reserve gave investors what they wanted, lowering short-term rates by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 4.5 percent. But it pointedly warned Wall Street not to assume that more reductions were ahead.    ...
25 2007-11-02 At a speech in Seattle before a mayors’ summit on climate prevention, the New York City mayor will call for a tax on the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases....
26 2007-11-02 Barack Obama spent the day giving formal speeches about the civil rights struggle and said that civil rights pioneers had overcome fears to achieve big dreams....
27 2007-11-02 Now I am not at all religious. But I've always thought that one of the great experiences that most visitors to Rome overlook is the chance to see the Pope - live and in action. Of course, they visit the Colosseum, the Trevi Fountain and the Vatica...
28 2007-11-02 Officials in Portland, Ore., are encouraging small businesses catering to cyclists.
29 2007-11-02 John Edwards now suggests he'll miss having Stephen Colbert on the ballot in South Carolina....
30 2007-11-02 Called "The Politics of Parsing," this video from the Democratic candidate's campaign pieces together answers from a rival, Senator Clinton, during Tuesday night's debate....
31 2007-11-02 In a bid to cut its exposure to mortgage-backed securities, Merrill Lynch engaged in deals with hedge funds possibly designed to delay its heavy losses, according to a media report. Citing sources close to the matter, The Wall Street Journal repor...
32 2007-11-02 The Internal Revenue Service is to examine the tax returns of private equity houses and hedge funds amid evidence that many partners in such firms do not file returns or may have failed to correctly account for their affairs. The Daily Telegraph w...
33 2007-11-02 Directors at Verizon Communications, under fire from shareholders over executive pay practices, said Thursday that they would put the company's compensation plans to an annual vote by investors beginning at its general meeting in 2009. The decisio...
34 2007-11-02 Astronauts will take part in an unusually risky spacewalk tomorrow in an effort to mend a torn solar array on the International Space Station.

During the unprecedented procedure, which is scheduled to start at 6:28 in the morning, Scott E. Parazynski will be far out on a limb — or, rather, out on the end of a 50-foot-long boom gripped by the space station’s robotic arm. He will either unsnag or cut a wire that appears to have hung up on a solar panel hinge, putting two tears in one of the station’s left-side solar arrays.

Dr. Parazynski will carry a tool kit that includes a craft project put together based on instructions radioed up from mission control: five straps with ends like a cufflink’s. They will be pushed through reinforced holes in the arrays that were manufactured to slide pins through for safe storage during ascent. The straps will bind the panels to their neighbors and take on the strain that the torn panels can no longer handle, allowing full deployment of the array.

Col. Douglas H. Wheelock will be positioned at the base of the array to provide visual cues to Dr. Parazynski. If the procedure does not work, the array might have to be jettisoned, and future construction on the station might be constrained by its reduced ability to produce power, especially since the solar arrays on the right-hand side of the station are currently parked because of mechanical problems with the rotary joint that helps point them toward the sun.

Derek Hassmann, the lead flight director for the station, said “we need to address one of these two problems before we proceed” with further construction missions.

The job will put Dr. Parazynski farther from the safety of the airlock than any astronaut has gone in the history of the space station program. If there are problems — for example, glove damage or a failure of the suit’s oxygen supply — returning to safety could take somewhat longer than the 30 minutes of backup oxygen.
35 2007-11-02 The Indianapolis Colts practiced again without the eight-time Pro Bowl receiver Marvin Harrison and may not have him against New England on Sunday. Harrison sat out for the second consecutive day with a bruised left knee that has forced him to miss two of the last three games. “If he doesn’t practice today, I’d say it’s doubtful he’ll play Sunday,” Coach Tony Dungy said before the workout.
36 2007-11-02 An outbreak of cholera in Congo’s eastern city of Goma is raising fears of an epidemic among tens of thousands of refugees in camps, aid workers said. Fighting between government soldiers, Tutsi insurgents, Rwandan Hutu rebels and local Mai Mai militia has forced more than 370,000 to flee villages in North Kivu Province this year. More than 45,000 displaced people now live in five overcrowded camps on the edge of Goma. The medical charity Doctors Without Borders said it had recorded 533 cases of cholera at health centers it supports, in both the camps and Goma, over the past six weeks. United Nations officials said some 189 cases were reported between Oct. 24 and 28 alone, mostly in the camps for the displaced.
37 2007-11-02 The father of Madeleine McCann, the 3-year-old English girl who vanished in southern Portugal six months ago, returned to work for the first time since she disappeared. Gerry McCann returned to Glenfield Hospital in Leicester, central England, as a consultant cardiologist. He said he initially would work half days three times a week. Dr. McCann and his wife, Kate, who is also a physician, have led a highly publicized campaign to find their daughter. They say she was abducted from a resort, but the Portuguese police have formally identified the couple as suspects. “Unless Madeleine is found, we are not expecting any significant developments in the near future,” he told reporters. “I’m very keen to get back in.”
38 2007-11-02 Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt’s battered administration received a fresh blow when a top aide resigned after it was disclosed that she had been out drinking while on duty. The aide, Under Secretary of State Ulrica Schenstrom, resigned after the Swedish media published pictures of her embracing a journalist in a bar. Her resignation was the fifth high-profile departure since Mr. Reinfeldt took office last year. He said Ms. Schenstrom had told him that she had not been drunk. But when he saw the bill for the evening, he lost confidence in her, he said. “I now feel that the alcohol consumption, proved by facts, probably passed the limit that I can defend,” he said at a news conference. “This is one of my most difficult moments in politics.” Ms. Schenstrom issued a statement saying she had acted inappropriately and had lost the support necessary to do her job.
39 2007-11-02 Barry Bonds said yesterday he would boycott the National Hall of Fame if it displays his record-breaking home run ball with an asterisk. That includes skipping his potential induction ceremony.

“I won’t be part of it,” Bonds said in an interview with MSNBC. “You can call me, but I won’t be there.”

The ball Bonds hit for home run No. 756 this season, breaking Hank Aaron’s career record, will be marked with an asterisk and sent to the Hall. The fashion designer Marc Ecko bought the ball in an online auction and set up a Web site for fans to vote on its fate. In late September, he said he would send the ball to Cooperstown with an asterisk.

The asterisk suggests Bonds’s record is tainted by alleged steroid use.

“I don’t think you can put an asterisk in the game of baseball, and I don’t think that the Hall of Fame can accept an asterisk,” Bonds said. “You cannot give people the freedom, the right to alter history. You can’t do it. There’s no such thing as an asterisk in baseball.”

A-ROD TO MINORS? Spurred by an offhand remark from George Steinbrenner’s oldest son, the Class AAA Toledo Mud Hens want in on the Alex Rodriguez sweepstakes.
40 2007-11-02 ZURICH, Nov. 1 (AP) — The Credit Suisse Group’s third-quarter profit fell 31 percent, hurt by write-downs caused by the housing market downturn in the United States and lower demand for buyout loans, the company said Thursday.

Credit Suisse said net profit for the July-to-September period fell to 1.3 billion francs ($1.12 billion) from 1.89 billion francs a year ago.

Credit Suisse reduced the value of its investments in mortgages and related loans by 1.1 billion francs ($948 million) during the quarter, partly as a result of the housing slowdown in the United States.

Credit Suisse also recorded a decline of 1.1 billion francs ($949 million) in the value of its buyout loans, which it was unable to sell to other institutions. The bank said it held 60 billion francs ($51.62 billion) worth of buyout loans in the third quarter, up from 48 billion francs in the previous quarter.

”The extreme market conditions that characterized the third quarter affected many of our businesses,” Credit Suisse’s chief executive, Brady W. Dougan, said.

Pretax profits from its private banking business rose 26 percent to 1.29 billion francs ($1.11 billion) during the third quarter.
41 2007-11-02 BEIJING, Nov. 1 (AP) — The network equipment maker Cisco Systems announced a multiyear $16 billion expansion in China on Thursday with planned investments in manufacturing, venture capital and education.

“We’re going to the next chapter for Cisco in China,” John T. Chambers, Cisco’s chief executive, said at a news conference.

The ventures include an agreement with the Alibaba Group, China’s biggest online commerce company, to explore developing business services for small and medium-size companies, Mr. Chambers said.

Other initiatives include doubling Cisco’s manufacturing in China over three to five years, a possible $100 million venture capital partnership with a government bank and more support for technology education. Cisco said its manufacturing and purchasing in China already support 50,000 jobs.

Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., is the world’s largest maker of network equipment, with more than 61,500 employees and $34.9 billion in revenue in the latest fiscal year.
42 2007-11-02 The match that ignited the conflagration was $150-a-barrel oil, brought on first by instability in Central Asia and then a military and political confrontation with Iran and Venezuela.

The president’s senior advisers — played by former White House aides, military leaders and cabinet officers, met urgently to try to fashion advice for the president to cope with the political, economic, social and military effects of the oil shock. The president, of unspecified party affiliation, remained offstage throughout but was consistently referred to as “he.”

The group was led by the national security adviser, played by Robert E. Rubin, secretary of the Treasury during much of the Clinton administration. At one point, weighing a variety of unpleasant options, Mr. Rubin said in near despair, “This wouldn’t be this big a problem if the political system a few years ago had dealt with these issues.”

Carol M. Browner, the Democratic former head of the Environmental Protection Agency, who played the secretary of energy, chimed in, “Year in and year out, it has been difficult to get a serious energy policy.” She and others noted that previous Congresses failed to act on auto mileage standards, efficiency measures and steps to replace foreign sources of oil. Michael D. McCurry, President Clinton’s former press secretary, who played a senior counselor to the fictional new president, said that energy issues were barely discussed in the 2008 campaign.

That is the moral of the story, according to its organizers. Congressional inaction and political inattention could lead to dire, yet completely foreseeable consequences.

“Once a crisis actually hits, policy tools are largely ineffectual,” said Jason S. Grumet, president of the Bipartisan Policy Center, one of the event’s sponsors. “The participants recognized that Congress has to get out in front on oil security before events overtake it.”

The other sponsor was Securing America’s Future Energy, or SAFE, an action-oriented group committed to reducing the nation’s dependence on oil. It is led by Frederick W. Smith, the chairman of FedEx, and retired Gen. P. X. Kelley, former commandant of the Marine Corps.

Both groups have issued numerous reports on American oil policy and have urged Congress to act quickly to reduce the demand for oil, increase supplies from reliable sources and reduce economic dependence on fossil fuels.

Thursday’s exercise, the organizers acknowledge, was a bit of a stunt to publicize the issues and nudge Congress and the presidential candidates.

All the former policy makers recruited for the cast got promotions, except Mr. Rubin. “Life can be cruel,” said he remarked.

Richard L. Armitage, deputy secretary of state in President Bush’s first term, moved up to secretary of state. Retired Gen. John P. Abizaid, former head of the Pentagon’s Central Command, played the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. John F. Lehman, secretary of the Navy in the Reagan administration, became secretary of defense. Gene Sperling, former national economic adviser to President Clinton, was the secretary of the Treasury. Philip D. Zelikow, executive director of the 9/11 commission, served as the fictional director of national intelligence.

The only leading participant not to have held a senior government post was Daniel Yergin, an expert on the oil industry and chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates.

The official surrogates sat in a mock-up of a White House situation room and considered the options for dealing with an uprising in Azerbaijan that had cut the flow of oil through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline. As oil prices rose past $110 a barrel, they discussed what the president should say and do. Ms. Browner, as the fictional energy secretary, suggested reimposing the national 55-mile-an-hour speed limit. The political advisers rejected that as an “eat your peas” proposal that would not go over well in Congress or with the public.

Surveying the financial markets, which were plunging as oil prices spiked, Mr. Rubin fell back on a favorite phrase as a top Wall Street executive and government official: “Markets go up and markets go down.”

Much of the discussion echoed the current debate over the run-up in real-world energy prices. “Is this a short-term spike or a long-term economic reality?” Mr. McCurry asked. No one had an answer.

When the group reassembled, it was a few months later, and the crisis had deepened. Iran had drastically cut its oil production in response to Western economic sanctions imposed because of its nuclear weapons program. The Venezuelan leadership of Hugo Chávez followed suit, driving prices beyond $150 a barrel. The Iranian nuclear program touched off talk of war. The military advisers urged redeployment of the bulk of America’s naval and air power to the Persian Gulf in anticipation of war, and urged reinstatement of the draft for young men and women.

Domestic policy advisers recommended limited releases from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and mandatory fuel-saving measures, like gasoline rationing and limits to Sunday driving.

Mr. McCurry said the president realized that he had no good choices. “He knows he’s a one-term president because of this,” he said.

Robbie Diamond, president of SAFE, said the exercise demonstrated the economic and national security costs of the American dependence on foreign oil.

“Now they have the opportunity on Capitol Hill to truly rise above ideology and enact a comprehensive energy bill that meaningfully reduces our oil dependence,” he said. “Without measures that address both supply and demand, they have failed the American people.”
43 2007-11-02 Confronted with higher fuel prices, consumers often curtail spending on manufactured goods or travel, which in turn can cool the broader economy. Among populations with high poverty, fuel price increases threaten to cause civil unrest.

Oil prices are up more than 50 percent this year, and light crude oil for December delivery leaped more than 1 percent in electronic trading Thursday, to a record $96.24, before sliding back to close at $93.49 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

China raised fuel prices to “ensure the supply of domestic oil products and the promotion of energy conservation,” the National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement Wednesday. Fuel has been in short supply in China, leading to rationing and long lines.

India, which has been trying to phase out fuel subsidies for several years, may be next.

Gasoline and diesel in India are subsidized but are also taxed up to 100 percent, while prices of kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas, or L.P.G., are kept very low to make them affordable to the lower and middle classes.

State-owned upstream oil companies like the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation absorb some of the cost. The remainder is passed along to refineries, and offset by “oil bonds” that the government issues to these refineries.

India’s current fuel subsidies “could be unsustainable in the long term,” said Abheek Barua, the chief economist for HDFC Bank in Mumbai.

In the short term, the Indian government has been able to absorb subsidies, in part because revenue from corporate taxes is strong and there is plenty of cash flowing into the country from foreign investment. “If oil touches $100 and moves up even further, by early next year some adjustment in retail prices is inevitable,” Mr. Barua said.

Global oil supplies are being strained by the rate of economic growth in Asia, and the problem is likely to increase, energy experts say. The Indian economy is growing about 9 percent a year, and China’s economy expanded at an annual rate of 11.5 percent in the third quarter.

The Indian government first said it would eliminate controls and subsidies of petroleum products in February 2002 and would phase out subsidies on cooking oil and kerosene out over several years. The jump in oil prices has made that impossible, however. In the annual budget guidelines issued in March, the finance minister, P. Chidambaram, said that subsidies on kerosene and cooking gas would be extended indefinitely.

Reliance Industries, an Indian energy conglomerate, recently found large quantities of natural gas near the east coast of the country, raising hopes that India might become less reliant on imports in the future.

“Someone has to give serious thought to whether there is the potential to reduce dependency on crude oil,” said Rahul Singh, an analyst with Citigroup in Mumbai.
44 2007-11-02 Directors at Verizon Communications, under fire from shareholders over executive pay practices, said yesterday that they would put the company’s compensation plans to an annual vote by investors beginning at its general meeting in 2009.

The decision by the directors came after a vote by Verizon shareholders last May in support of a “say on pay” proposal put forward by the Association of BellTel Retirees, a shareholder group. Some 50.18 percent of Verizon shares cast at the annual meeting favored giving investors the right to vote up or down on pay practices each year.

In a statement announcing the change yesterday, Sandra O. Moose, presiding director of the Verizon board, said: “We believe that it is important to engage in an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and others.”

C. William Jones, executive director of the BellTel Retirees, said he was delighted with the board’s decision. “I’m somewhat puzzled as to why they are delaying it till the 2009 meeting, but it certainly is a step in the right direction,” Mr. Jones said.

As executive compensation has rocketed in recent years, proposals that would give shareholders the right to vote on pay packages have gained in popularity. During 2007, according to RiskMetrics Group, a majority of shareholders at seven companies has voted in favor of such proposals. In September, for example, 69 percent of shares cast at the annual meeting of Activision, a video game maker in Santa Monica, Calif., supported a say on pay proposal.
45 2007-11-02 The toy industry has been rocked this year by a series of recalls involving millions of toys made in China, many of which were found to contain high levels of toxic lead paint.

The Chinese government crackdown on toy makers is not expected to significantly affect the coming holiday season because most of those toys, the vast majority of which are made in China, have already been produced and shipped to American ports and will soon be stocked on retailer shelves.

But the regulatory moves could hurt toy makers next year, and possibly upset their extensive supply chain, even though the suspensions directly affect only a small portion of the more than 5,000 toy makers believed to be operating in southern China.

Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois and one of the leaders behind legislation to strengthen consumer protections, said China’s move to suspend licenses was not enough. He called for the United States and China to come to an agreement that would put American product safety inspectors working in China, before faulty goods could be exported.

“Simply reacting to problems doesn’t solve a crisis,” Mr. Durbin said in a statement issued Thursday morning. “More needs to be done.”

Despite the announcement of the license suspensions, Chinese regulators said 99 percent of toy exports in southern Guangdong Province, near Hong Kong, met quality standards.

But those figures seemed contradictory; regulators in Guangdong said that they had visited over 1,700 facilities and that 764, more than a third, had their licenses revoked. Nearly as many were ordered to bring their factories up to quality standards.

For months, China’s top quality inspection agency — the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine — has insisted that the same percentage of the country’s exports met quality standards and were safe.

Chinese regulators also said recently that the country’s toy exports were continuing to boom this year, according to a report by Reuters.

Trade statistics through August showed that American imports of toys continued to grow steadily, despite the recalls, though those statistics may reflect a period long before news of the major recalls began to spread around the globe.

China has also been stung by criticism this year of other faulty products, including tainted pet food ingredients, toxic toothpaste and seafood laced with harmful chemicals.

The government in Beijing has promised to overhaul its food and drug regulations, weed out fraudulent companies and arrest corrupt officials and businessmen.

On Monday, China said it had arrested 774 people involved in producing substandard or harmful food. And on Wednesday, the government passed a new food safety law.

Now, Chinese regulators are vowing to crack down on unsavory producers of one of the nation’s most important exports: toys. Regulators in Beijing are promising to step up safety checks, a huge task considering China’s large and growing trade volumes, and its limited and often ineffectual corps of police officers and inspectors.
46 2007-11-02 Clearly, if confirmed, Judge Mukasey would act as a “team player” of the Bush administration, helping to cover up issues of torture, rather than as an independent enforcer of the nation’s laws.

Part of the legacy of such a confirmation would be, inevitably, condoning waterboarding and other methods of torture in the future — with continuing damage to our values, our international relations and the safety of our own soldiers if captured.

Can such a man ever be expected to rule fairly on issues involving torture?

So, Judge Michael B. Mukasey has refused so far to acknowledge that waterboarding is torture because of his concern that such a statement by him might put the C.I.A. and other American interrogators in legal jeopardy. But doesn’t a former federal judge know that there is a remedy for such situations? It’s called the judicial system.

Someone accused of breaking the law is investigated, perhaps charged, arrested, arraigned, witnesses are called and so on — in short, a trial. The attorney general is not charged with protecting possible violators of the law but of prosecuting them. This is a nation of laws, not men. Walter Friedenberg

I had the misfortune to come very close to drowning. I panicked while swimming in a river in England, and was pulled out of the water unconscious by a young woman, who saved my life.

Recalling that experience, which must have lasted a couple of minutes at the most, is still enough to make me tremble; it happened 30 years ago.

It turns my stomach to think that those who act on behalf of this civilized country may be using simulated drowning to question potentially innocent people. Is there no decency left in this ugly so-called war? Peter Cleary

Torture is indubitably illegal under customary international law and the laws and treaties of the United States.

It is also inherently unreliable as a method of extracting information, because there’s always the risk that the one being tortured will say or do anything to stop the pain.

Furthermore, broadcasting to the world that the United States engages in torture when expedient inevitably undermines our reputation as an exemplar of democracy and human rights. Why, then, does Judge Michael B. Mukasey, the man who might become the nation’s top law enforcement official, seem to waffle when it comes to this seemingly straightforward issue?

What part of illegal does he not understand? James P. Rudolph

“Bearing Witness to Torture,” by Clyde Haberman (NYC column, Oct. 30), suggests there may be a connection between the upsurge in torture victims seeking help at the N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture and the United States’ current policies on torture.

When the leaders of the United States government shirk their obligation under international law to prohibit torture against suspected terrorists held in American prisons, when presidential candidates make statements implying a defense of torture and when the president’s nominee for attorney general, Judge Michael B. Mukasey, refuses to say whether he believes that waterboarding is torture, we shouldn’t be surprised if governments around the world step up torture against their citizens.

As director of the N.Y.U. Center, Dr. Allen S. Keller deals with the awful consequences of torture and says N.Y.U. has been “swamped” by a record 581 patients from October 2006 to September 2007.

His experiences as director tell him correctly that waterboarding is torture. From his wise perspective, as he says, it may be a more brutal form of water torture. Larry Cox
47 2007-11-02 But even if the government succeeded with that strategy — a potentially unpopular one, given that the public is divided over the naval deployment — the refueling mission would not resume for several months.

The law’s expiration underscored the current political deadlock in Japan. The governing Liberal Democratic Party suffered a devastating loss over the summer because of former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s mishandling of bread-and-butter issues. His subsequent abrupt resignation on Sept. 12 created a political vacuum that made it impossible to renew the special law before the Nov. 1 deadline.

Ichiro Ozawa, the leader of the opposition Democratic Party, has vowed to use his grip on the upper house to force Mr. Fukuda to dissolve the lower house and call a general election. Mr. Fukuda does not have to call a general election for two more years, but the opposition can effectively shut down the government by blocking major bills.

While the refueling mission has become tied up in electoral politics, the objections also reflect a deeper disagreement over foreign policy. This time the debate has not been over whether Japan should participate in overseas missions, but how.

Mr. Ozawa, who has long advocated dispatching Japanese troops overseas, has argued that Japan should not unilaterally back the United States.

He believes that the Afghanistan mission violated Japan’s pacifist Constitution. But he has said that Japan should send ground peacekeeping troops to Sudan or even Afghanistan as long as they are deployed under the United Nations umbrella.

Support for the Afghanistan mission suffered from public opposition to the war in Iraq and public unease about the government’s unwavering backing of the Bush administration.

That unease was heightened over the government’s inability to refute claims that the fuel intended for the war in Afghanistan has been diverted to Iraq.

“This mission of the last six years is coming to an end just as we were starting discussions on its nature and significance,” said Naoto Kan, the acting president of the opposition Democratic Party.

Through August, Japan had provided more than $190 million in fuel to warships from 11 countries, with nearly 80 percent of the total going to American ships, according to the Defense Ministry.
48 2007-11-02 With leading Democrats like Mr. Schumer giving Mr. Mukasey positive reviews at the outset the White House hoped to use the Mukasey nomination to mend the bitter partisan feelings left by the resignation of Alberto R. Gonzales as attorney general. Now Mr. Schumer says he is undecided, the top Democratic presidential candidates say they will oppose the nomination, and any hope of bipartisan support has been all but erased.

The nomination has not moved out of the Senate Judiciary Committee — a panel vote is expected Tuesday — and the committee could decide to keep Mr. Mukasey from receiving a vote on the Senate floor. Mr. Mukasey’s biggest obstacle is his refusal to declare whether he believes a particularly controversial technique known as waterboarding is illegal and a form of torture.

One Republican consulted on the nomination said the White House realized only recently that confirmation was in doubt, and had debated whether it was wise to risk a partisan backlash by having the president weigh in.

“Everybody understands that there’s a price to be paid for the president upping the ante,” the Republican said. “The price is, you put pressure on the Democrats to have a committee action, and you basically do a warning shot to Republicans, including people like McCain and Graham. The flip side of it is you’re making it far more partisan, so nobody’s expecting now that the vote will be 90 to 0.”

The warning shot may have done Mr. Bush some good, at least with Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, both of whom have condemned waterboarding as torture. They issued a joint statement Thursday saying they would vote for Mr. Mukasey.

“Once he is confirmed, however,” the statement added, “we strongly urge that he publicly make clear that waterboarding is illegal and can never be employed.”

The senior Republican on the judiciary panel, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, said in an interview Thursday that the White House was right to be concerned about the nomination.

Mr. Specter said he was trying to persuade the administration to brief Judiciary Committee members on the C.I.A. program, so that “we can talk it out amongst ourselves and try to come to a consensus.” But he said Mr. Bush’s aides had been “noncommittal.”

Among Democrats and their outside allies, support for Mr. Mukasey is dwindling. In a sign of how much the debate has shifted, the Alliance for Justice, a liberal judicial advocacy group that had spoken kindly of Mr. Mukasey at first, said Thursday that it would oppose him.

“Based on his record as a judge, we had every expectation that he could show some independence from the administration,” Nan Aron, the group’s president, said in an interview. “But his testimony and his answers indicate that he’s really unwilling to distance himself from Bush’s illegal, unconstitutional policies.”

Mr. Bush, in the Oval Office meeting, declined to address waterboarding. “I’m not going to talk about techniques,” he said, adding, “My view is this: The American people have got to understand the program is important and the techniques used are within the law.”

Waterboarding, a centuries-old method that simulates a feeling of drowning, has become a symbol of the larger debate over the C.I.A. detention and interrogation program, and the Mukasey nomination has become a kind of proxy fight for that battle. Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney made the war on terror and the C.I.A. program a central theme of their speeches on Thursday, with Mr. Cheney suggesting that the agency’s efforts had spared Americans another terrorist attack.

“Because we’ve been focused, because we’ve refused to let down our guard, we’ve done — gone more now than six years without another 9/11,” the vice president said, addressing the American Legion in Indianapolis.

Mr. Bush, for his part, took after Congress on a variety of fronts, accusing lawmakers of delaying not only the Mukasey confirmation vote, but also passage of an emergency spending measure to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and legislation that would make permanent the administration’s domestic surveillance program.

“On too many issues,” Mr. Bush said, “Congress is behaving as if America is not at war.”

White House officials said it was Mr. Bush’s idea to invite reporters in for an informal “pen and pad” briefing, without television cameras, something the White House has not done before. Dana M. Perino, the press secretary, said aides to Mr. Bush had been discussing ways to make him more accessible to the press, and settled upon the Oval Office idea after Mr. Bush saw a photograph of President Dwight D. Eisenhower conducting a news conference there.
49 2007-11-02 Adding to the woes, said later in the day that it would cut 11,000 more jobs, suggesting that the housing slump and higher oil prices were continuing to take a toll on the domestic auto industry.

And the Commerce Department released a report on consumer spending that, on another day, might have been mildly reassuring. While continued to grow in September, the report said, investors homed in on the information that it advanced at a slower pace, underscoring fears of fourth-quarter economic slump.

“People are getting nervous looking to the holiday season,” said Anthony Conroy, head equity trader at BNY ConvergEx Group. “People are going to be spending less because they’re paying more for oil and mortgage payments there.”

The Dow industrials, which traded about 200 points lower through much of the session yesterday, finished at 13,567.87, a loss of 362.14 points, or 2.6 percent. Still, the index remained only 4.2 percent below its all-time high, set less than a month ago on Oct. 9. Of the 30 Dow companies, only gained ground.

The Standard & Poor’s 500 closed down 40.94 points, or 2.64 percent, at 1,508.44. And the technology-focused Nasdaq composite index lost 64.29 points, or 2.25 percent, ending the day at 2,794.83.

Small companies fared a lot worse. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization issues dropped 32.84 points, or nearly 4 percent, to close at 795.18.

On the , declining issues outnumbered those advancing by a margin of more than 6 to 1. Volume was a respectable 1.75 billion shares.

Several analysts invoked a Wall Street saying — “buy on the rumor, sell on the fact” — to explain yesterday’s losses.

Steve Sachs, director of trading at Rydex Investments, said investors were now facing an uncertain outlook without the assumption of a Fed rate cut. It was a day, he said, for traders to play it safe.

“Today was nothing more than a round of profit taking,” Mr. Sachs said. “The market’s been rallying. Why not take some off the table?”

That mentality appeared to affect commodities markets as well. Crude oil, which is up more than 50 percent for the year, fell $1.04, to $93.49 a barrel. Gold, which had approached $800 an ounce, retreated by $9.29 yesterday, to settle at $787.30. The dollar, which was at record lows, rose against the euro but declined against the yen and the British pound.

Analysts said that yesterday’s sour sentiment could dissipate somewhat if the October employment report, an important indicator that is to be released today, shows steady growth. Wall Street expects a gain of 85,000 jobs, down from a gain of 110,000 jobs in September.

Thursday’s sell-off began after Citigroup, the world’s biggest bank, was downgraded by three analysts, including Meredith A. Whitney of CIBC World Markets, who raised doubts about its ability to maintain its dividend. Citigroup, she wrote, will need to consider selling assets or reducing its dividend to make up a $30 billion capital shortfall.

The news sent Citigroup’s shares down $2.85, or 6.8 percent, to $38.51, their lowest level in more than four years. Citigroup faced a $5.9 billion write-down for the third quarter after losses stemming from mortgage-backed securities.

The outlook from the analysts pulled down financial companies broadly and set off a new round of questions about how much longer Citigroup’s embattled chairman and chief executive, , would remain in his job.

Dividends are “cash the company is paying out,” said William Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics. “It’s a hard signal.”

Mr. Rhodes said any suggestion that Citigroup would be forced to trim its dividend was akin to “someone hitting you over the head with a hammer.”

Adding to investors’ worries was the weak earnings report from Exxon Mobil, which announced a 10 percent decline in its third-quarter net income, as its profit margins on refining and chemicals narrowed. The shares fell $3.49, or 3.8 percent, to $88.50.

also reported a poor quarter, announcing $1.9 billion in write-downs and a 31 percent drop in net profit.

Investors may also have been unnerved by the disappointing economic data.

Increases in consumer spending, a category that accounts for nearly 70 percent of economic activity, began to slow in September, up 0.3 percent after a 0.5 percent gain in August. That came in 0.1 percent below analysts’ estimates, underscoring concerns that rising energy costs and the fall in housing values were stemming consumption.

“The one-tenth really put a bad taste in people’s mouth on top of a lot of other negative news,” Mr. Larson said.

In other developments yesterday, the Federal Reserve injected $41 billion into the financial system to improve liquidity. The added funds did not stem the sell-off.

Manufacturing activity in October recorded its worst month since March, with American companies hurt by a decline in production coupled with a rise in costs.

“You combine weaker-than-expected economic growth with the Fed suggesting that it is finished cutting rates,” said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at , “and that’s not a great recipe.”
50 2007-11-02 A SWOON ON WALL ST.  An afternoon sell-off sent the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 360 points, or 2.6 percent. Investors worried that Citigroup's woes might be worsening and that consumers would not spend freely this holiday shopping ...
51 2007-11-03 Dr. Scott E. Parazynski, riding on an extension of the station’s robotic arm to reach the damaged array, said his view of the repair site revealed a “hairball” of wire, with guide wire for the array caught in another wire running through the hinge connecting the panels.

And with the close-up view available from Dr. Parazynski’s helmet camera, Pamela A. Melroy, the commander of the mission, said, “Sounds like you have some surgery to do, Dr. Parazynski.”

The first “cufflink,” a wire and metal contraption created by the astronauts using instructions from the ground, slid easily into place along the array shortly before 9 a.m.

“That was a beautiful thing to see, that cufflink go through the hole,” Ms. Melroy said.

“Yes, it was,” Dr. Parazynski replied. That strap, 66 inches long, was intended to stabilize the array so Dr. Parazynski could get to the work of clearing up the problem with the wires.

With the sun at his back and his shadow stark against the brilliantly golden array, Dr. Parazynski began cutting wires after 9:50, cautiously planning each snip in consultation with Ms. Melroy and mission controllers on the ground.

He took care to keep clear of the swaying array, occasionally dampening its motion with a hockey-stick-shaped prodder.

By shortly after 10 a.m., Dr. Parazynski had cut out two offending lengths of wire and moved on to insert the remaining cufflinks. All of them were in place before 11 a.m.

Astronauts inside the station began the delicate process of extending the array to its full length, with the astronauts watching for any hint of trouble. The suspender straps held. Cheers could be heard over the communications loop.

After checking the array for any problems, a clearly relieved Dr. Parazynski radioed to Ms. Wilson, using her team nickname, and asked for a ride back to the airlock on the robot arm.

“Robeau, take me home,” he said.

Although concern outside of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration had run high over the possibility that Dr. Parazynski might suffer electric shocks, perhaps even a fatal one, from the array, the mission managers emphasized at a Friday press conference that such an event was highly unlikely.

Derek Hassmann, the lead flight director for the station, said an astronaut would have to be touching the array with a metal part of his suit at a point where the array’s insulation had come off, and have another part of the suit touch a different part of the array “to complete the circuit.”

Still, the list of warnings read to Dr. Parazynski by Paolo A. Nespoli, the Italian astronaut who was choreographing the spacewalk from the station, was extensive. It included warnings about touching sharp edges from bolts, solar cells, hinges and other areas of the array.

“I’m not sure there’s much less to touch,” Dr. Parazynski said.

Mr. Nespoli said, “We’re not even halfway through the warnings,” and went on to warn against touching areas with “pinch points” and high electrical current, which carry a risk of shock and “molten metal.”

During the procedure, Dr. Parazynski said he saw no sparks.

The spacewalk put him farther from the safety of the airlock than any other astronaut has gone in the history of the space station program. If he had encountered trouble at the array, returning to safety would have required more oxygen than the 30 minutes of emergency supply.

Dr. Parazynski was especially suited to his task of working on the array while keeping a safe distance because, at more than 6-foot-2, he is among the tallest members of the astronaut corps.

“It’s a bit of a reach here,” he said at one point.

Ms. Melroy responded, “That’s what those monkey arms are for,” and then added, “Not many people in the office could do what you’re doing right now.”
52 2007-11-03 Curry missed all five of his free throws, and the Knicks went 14 for 23 as a team, more than accounting for the margin of defeat. Then there was the utter lack of respect paid to Daniel Gibson, who became an instant star with his deft shooting last spring.

Gibson was left open for four 3-pointers in a span of about two minutes in the fourth quarter, as the Cavaliers burst to a 98-90 lead and took control of the game. Stephon Marbury, who had been guarding Gibson, was then benched in favor of Nate Robinson for the next four-plus minutes, as the Knicks tried desperately to regain the lead.

“Nate was playing well,” said Marbury, who had 10 points and 5 assists. “He was making shots. That’s what we needed to win.”

Thomas also said the switch was not about Marbury’s defense, but about Robinson’s hot hand (he finished with 19 points). Thomas hinted that there was more to the decision.

“This is a year where the best people play,” Thomas said.

The Knicks fouled intentionally down the stretch, and with scoring from Robinson and Jamal Crawford, cut the deficit to 106-104 with 15.2 seconds left. Quentin Richardson, who had a rough night battling James, shot an air ball from 3-point range as the game slipped away.

The Cavaliers were missing two key players — Sasha Pavlovic and Anderson Varejão — and much of the defensive tenacity that carried them to the finals last spring. (Varejão remains a contract holdout. Pavlovic, who signed a deal this week, was held up by visa issues but attended the game.)

But James is still James, and he showed off most of his repertory, with smooth jumpers, quick moves into the lane and, when it mattered most, a great passing touch. James drew a crowd and found Gibson for three straight 3-pointers, turning a 3-point deficit into a 95-90 lead. Larry Hughes passed to Gibson for the fourth 3-pointer, which made the score 98-90. Gibson scored a career-high 24 points.

“It did take me back a little bit,” Gibson said, referring to his playoff run as a rookie.

It seemed to be Gibson’s night when he opened the game with a 4-point play, aided by Marbury’s foul at the 3-point line.

Crawford led the Knicks with 25 points and 6 assists. Every Knicks starter except Richardson scored in double figures.

“I think we had some good signs out there,” Curry said.

The Knicks figured to see James at his feistiest after Wednesday’s stumble against Dallas. “We’ll be a totally different team tonight, I promise you that,” James said before tip-off.

Count LeBron James among those who have grown weary of the nonstop speculation surrounding Kobe Bryant’s future with the Los Angeles Lakers. “I think something has to be done, because it’s a distraction for the rest of their team; it’s a distraction for the fans,” James said. “They need to figure out what they’re going to do.” The Chicago Bulls seemed to be the leading contenders to land Bryant, but General Manager John Paxson ruled out a trade Thursday. ... Demetris Nichols, who joined the Cavaliers after being cut by the Knicks last week, said playing for the defending Eastern Conference champions was “a great opportunity for me.” He then added, with obvious disappointment: “I thought the Knicks were a great opportunity for me. But I guess some people didn’t see that.” A second-round pick in the June draft, Nichols declined the Knicks’ request to play a year in Europe. “This is my dream, to play in the N.B.A.,” Nichols said. “I know how good I am. And I know that I can help an N.B.A. team out.” Nichols is no more secure in Cleveland. The Cavaliers have a full roster and are still trying to re-sign forward Anderson Varejão.
53 2007-11-03 In declaring Friday that he would vote against Mr. Mukasey, Mr. Leahy said that “no American should need a classified briefing to determine whether waterboarding is torture.”

“I like Michael Mukasey,” Mr. Leahy added. “I wish that I could support his nomination. But I cannot.”

The White House welcomed the announcement by Mrs. Feinstein and Mr. Schumer, which appeared to give Mr. Mukasey the margin of support he needed to win approval in the Judiciary Committee, which has 10 Democrats and 9 Republicans.

Lawmakers had predicted that if Mr. Mukasey’s nomination was moved to the full Senate, he would easily be confirmed to replace Alberto R. Gonzales, who stepped down in September in the wake of a series of scandals.

“Judge Mukasey is exceptionally qualified and would be an outstanding attorney general,” a White House spokesman, Tony Fratto, said late Friday. “He deserves a vote from the full Senate, where we are confident he would be confirmed.”

Mr. Schumer, who had proposed Mr. Mukasey’s name to the White House for the Justice Department post and had initially championed his nomination, was under increasing pressure from all sides this week to make clear where he stood. His meeting with Mr. Mukasey appeared to be a last-minute effort to rescue the nomination.

Mr. Schumer’s role as the main Democratic champion of the nominee had become especially thorny for him when Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, announced this week that he would oppose Mr. Mukasey, while the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, suggested that he, too, would vote against the nomination because of Mr. Mukasey’s unwillingness to label waterboarding as torture.

Democratic Congressional aides said Mrs. Feinstein, who has broken ranks with her party’s leaders in the past, decided earlier in the week that she would support Mr. Mukasey’s nomination and withheld an announcement until Friday, in coordination with Mr. Schumer.

Her support also proved crucial last week to another of President Bush’s nominees, Judge Leslie H. Southwick. He was confirmed for a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which includes Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Mrs. Feinstein was one of nine Democrats to vote in favor of Mr. Southwick, who had been accused of racial insensitivity.

Mr. Schumer said in a statement that he requested the meeting with Mr. Mukasey “to address, in person, some of my concerns” about his views on torture and the authority of the executive branch. During the meeting, he said, “the judge made clear to me that, were Congress to pass a law banning certain interrogation techniques, we would clearly be acting within our constitutional authority.”

“And,” Mr. Schumer added, “he flatly told me that the president would have absolutely no legal authority to ignore such a law, not even under some theory of inherent authority under Article II of the Constitution.”

The senator’s statement did not address the possibility that Mr. Bush would veto any such legislation.

As suggested by Mr. Schumer, Democrats are likely to move to approve a measure now before the Senate to outlaw waterboarding and other harsh interrogation techniques that many lawmakers and human rights groups have defined as torture. Mr. Schumer said he was “confident that this nominee would enforce a law that bans waterboarding.”

In his confirmation hearings last month, Mr. Mukasey alarmed some Democrats with testimony in which he suggested that the president’s authority under the Constitution could supersede measures passed by Congress, especially in his authority as commander in chief in wartime.

Many in the Bush administration share this sweeping view of executive power. Democrats argued that Mr. Mukasey, as attorney general, might rely on it in allowing the White House to authorize waterboarding and other harsh interrogation techniques that might otherwise be considered illegal or even unconstitutional as torture.

Mr. Schumer suggested that a rejection of Mr. Mukasey would lead the president to appoint an acting attorney general who would not end the turmoil that the Justice Department had known under Mr. Gonzales.

“Judge Mukasey is not my ideal choice,” the senator said. “However, Judge Mukasey, whose integrity and independence is respected even by those who oppose him, is far better than anyone could expect from this administration.”
54 2007-11-03 PESHAWAR, Pakistan, Nov. 2 — A missile fired from an unmanned aerial drone killed five militants and wounded six other people in Pakistan’s lawless tribal areas on Friday, according to a Pakistani security official and a local resident.

The United States has used drones to carry out attacks on militants in the area in the past, but in Washington, a Pentagon spokesman denied that the American military was involved in a strike, Reuters reported. A spokesman for the Central Intelligence Agency, which operates drones as well, declined to comment.

The missile killed the militants inside a compound near a large madrasa, or religious school, that was established by Jalaluddin Haqqani, a Taliban commander with close ties to Osama bin Laden, the security official said. The strike took place in a village outside Miran Shah, the administrative center of the North Waziristan tribal area.

The compound served as a safe house for Islamic fighters crossing between Afghanistan and Pakistan, and was owned by a militant leader from Waziristan, according to the official. Villagers said the drone had fired two missiles, one that exploded inside the compound and another that failed to detonate.

American officials have denied operating drones inside Pakistan, but after previous strikes, local residents and militants have produced missile fragments with American markings. Some strikes have killed senior militants, while others have killed large numbers of civilians.

Mr. Haqqani met Mr. bin Laden when the two men fought Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan as part of an American-backed resistance effort during the 1980s. He served as a senior official in the Taliban government before fleeing to Pakistan in 2001.
55 2007-11-03 Astronauts will take part in an unusually risky spacewalk today in an effort to mend a torn solar array on the International Space Station.

In the procedure, Scott E. Parazynski will be far out on a limb — or, rather, out on the end of a 50-foot-long boom gripped by the space station’s robotic arm. Dr. Parazynski will either unsnag or cut a wire that appears to have hung up on a hinge of a solar panel, putting two tears in a left-side solar array.

Dr. Parazynski will carry a tool kit that includes a craft project put together based on instructions radioed from mission control — five straps with ends like a cufflink’s. They will be pushed through reinforced holes in the arrays that were manufactured to slide pins through for safe storage during ascent.

The straps will bind the panels to their neighbors and take on the strain that the torn panels can no longer handle, allowing full deployment of the array. Col. Douglas H. Wheelock will be positioned at the base of the array to provide visual cues to Dr. Parazynski.

If the procedure does not work, the array may have to be jettisoned, and construction on the station may be constrained by its reduced ability to produce power, especially because the right-hand side arrays are parked because of mechanical problems with the rotary joint that helps point them toward the Sun.

The lead flight director for the station, Derek Hassmann, said, “We need to address one of these two problems before we proceed” with construction missions.
56 2007-11-03 For a market already wary that the balance sheets of major financial institutions, ranging from Merrill to Citigroup and others, are still infected with illiquid pools of credit tied to subprime mortgages, the news was enough to prompt selling among all financial stocks.

Even Goldman Sachs, which so far has escaped the losses reported by its peers, felt an effect, with its stock sinking 4.4 percent.

Also hit hard were the shares of MBIA, the large bond insurer, which were down 6.7 percent.

Behind the drop in Merrill’s stock price is increasing investor uncertainty over the ability of Merrill management to fully asses its losses.

The prospect of a larger round of write-downs has also increased speculation that the firm might reach a point in the coming months where it might be forced to seek a capital infusion from a larger financial partner.

Indeed, top Merrill executives and the chief executive E. Stanley O’Neal presented such an option to the board two weeks ago. The board also considered a sale of its 15 percent stake in Bloomberg at that meeting. Mr. O’Neal was later forced to retire.

Since that point, market conditions have worsened, the stock has sunk further, and a search has started for a chief executive. There is a possibility of a clear-the-decks charge, which would weaken the firm’s capital base even more.

Without a chief executive, it is unlikely that the Merrill board would approve a tie-up with an outside partner. But, the increasingly clouded financial outlook will certainly put pressure on the board to move quickly in picking a successor.

People briefed on the search have said that the board committee, led by non-executive chairman Alberto Cribiore, has pledged to follow a process, hiring a search firm and interviewing outside and internal candidates. The recruiting firm Spencer Stuart has been hired to lead the search, said people briefed on the board deliberations.

Some senior Merrill executives have expressed frustration over the prospect of a prolonged search during one of the most significant crises in the firm’s long history, especially considering the looming, daily challenges and the tenor of the market.
57 2007-11-03 NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 2 (AP) — State Farm Insurance is suing Mississippi’s attorney general, accusing him of violating an agreement to end a criminal investigation of the insurer’s handling of claims on the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina, according to court papers unsealed Friday.

State Farm’s lawsuit claims that the attorney general, Jim Hood, reopened a criminal investigation of the company and its employees “for the purpose of harassment” and to coerce the insurer into settling civil litigation spawned by the Aug. 29, 2005, hurricane.

State Farm says Mr. Hood agreed in January to end his office’s criminal inquiry as part of a settlement agreement that called for the company to reopen and possibly pay thousands of policyholder claims.

A state grand jury was hearing evidence when State Farm reached its agreement with Mr. Hood and lawyers for hundreds of State Farm policyholders. That deal later fell apart after a federal judge refused to endorse it. State Farm later reached a separate agreement with Mississippi’s insurance commissioner to reopen and pay claims.
58 2007-11-03 Standard & Poor’s cut the credit ratings of the three largest American home builders — Lennar, Pulte Homes and D. R. Horton — to junk yesterday as demand for new homes deteriorated.

Lennar, based in Miami and the biggest American home builder, was cut to BB+ from BBB, affecting $2.2 billion in debt, Standard & Poor’s said. D. R. Horton, the second-largest builder, and Pulte, the third-largest, were lowered to BB+ from BBB-. The change affects $3.8 billion in debt for D. R. Horton, which is based in Fort Worth. The downgrade of Pulte, based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., affects $3.5 billion of debt.

New-home sales in September fell 23 percent compared with the period a year ago, the Commerce Department said last month. Tightened lending standards and a glut of unsold new and existing homes for sale is hurting new home demand.

Lennar and Pulte reported a combined net loss of $1.3 billion in their most recent quarters after writing down land values and recording other property-related charges totaling $2 billion. D. R. Horton said on Oct. 16 that orders in its fourth fiscal quarter fell to the lowest level in almost six years.

Moody’s Investors Service cut its ratings on Lennar and Pulte to junk on Oct. 11.

Shares of Lennar fell 25 cents, to $21.17, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. D. R. Horton shares fell 27 cents, to $11.76. Shares of Pulte fell 64 cents, to $13.59.
59 2007-11-03 The Chevron Corporation said yesterday that its third-quarter earnings fell 26 percent, missing analysts’ estimates, on sharply lower profits from gasoline production.

Margins to produce gasoline and other refined products fell during the quarter as prices for the fuel failed to keep pace with surging crude oil prices, dragging down earnings across the industry.

Chevron said its net income fell to $3.72 billion, or $1.75 a share, from $5.02 billion, or $2.29 a share, in the period a year earlier.

Excluding about $400 million for one-time items, it posted earnings of about $1.94 a share, short of the $2.07 expected by analysts.

Revenue in the quarter rose to $55.17 billion from $54.21 billion.

Chevron’s chief executive, David J. O’Reilly, said in a statement that the company had difficulty recovering its higher fuel costs because the market in the United States was well-supplied with gasoline.

Earnings at the company’s refining and marketing segment fell 74 percent, to $377 million, including a loss of $110 million from its refining and marketing operations in the United States.
60 2007-11-03 The problem is that because Mr. Bush broke the law by allowing prisoners and detainees to be tortured, Mr. Mukasey cannot come out and say that he believes that waterboarding and other obvious methods of torture are against the law because it would put the president in an untenable situation.

Mr. Bush is between a rock and a hard place. He must defend his nominee, but by keeping him quiet on the issue of torture he may be giving the Senate Judiciary Committee the backbone it needs to deny Mr. Mukasey’s confirmation. Henry A. Lowenstein

President Bush told reporters: “I’m not going to talk about techniques. My view is this: The American people have got to understand the program is important and the techniques used are within the law.”

In democracies, we do not rely on our leaders to tell us what programs are important and legal, even while hiding their details from us. The American people get to make their own decisions.

When the subject of torture arises, I often wonder how vehement those against it would be had the timing of those planes been one hour later, and 30,000 to 40,000 people had died in the World Trade Center. No doubt, that was what the hijackers hoped for, and expected.

One thing is guaranteed. If it happens again, Americans, our representatives and the media will demand to know why we did not have the organization, the manpower and the methods to stop it before it happened ... or exactly what occurred after 9/11. And what will be the reaction, when the answer is “we had the right people in custody, and for days tried to get the information, without causing the discomforts inherent in what is considered torture, but could not get the necessary information”?

You can lead a nation to water, but cannot make it drink. Lew Berman

If Michael B. Mukasey were to admit that waterboarding is torture, the danger that those who tortured in good faith would be prosecuted is minimal so long as the president has the courage to use the pardon power.

As President Ford demonstrated, one need not await the commencement of legal action to issue a pardon for offenses that may have been committed. Let the president take personal responsibility for the torturing done at his behest. Bob Kelly
61 2007-11-03 WHEREAS constant interference in executive functions, including but not limited to the control of terrorist activity, economic policy, price controls, downsizing of corporations and urban planning, has weakened the writ of the government; the police force has been completely demoralized and is fast losing its efficacy to fight terrorism and Intelligence Agencies have been thwarted in their activities and prevented from pursuing terrorists;

WHEREAS some hard core militants, extremists, terrorists and suicide bombers, who were arrested and being investigated were ordered to be released. The persons so released have subsequently been involved in heinous terrorist activities, resulting in loss of human life and property. Militants across the country have, thus, been encouraged while law enforcement agencies subdued;

WHEREAS some judges by overstepping the limits of judicial authority have taken over the executive and legislative functions;

WHEREAS the Government is committed to the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law and holds the superior judiciary in high esteem, it is nonetheless of paramount importance that the Honourable Judges confine the scope of their activity to the judicial function and not assume charge of administration;

WHEREAS an important Constitutional institution, the Supreme Judicial Council, has been made entirely irrelevant and non est by a recent order and judges have, thus, made themselves immune from inquiry into their conduct and put themselves beyond accountability;

WHEREAS the humiliating treatment meted to government officials by some members of the judiciary on a routine basis during court proceedings has demoralized the civil bureaucracy and senior government functionaries, to avoid being harassed, prefer inaction;

WHEREAS the law and order situation in the country as well as the economy have been adversely affected and trichotomy of powers eroded;

WHEREAS a situation has thus arisen where the Government of the country cannot be carried on in accordance with the Constitution and as the Constitution provides no solution for this situation, there is no way out except through emergent and extraordinary measures;

AND WHEREAS the situation has been reviewed in meetings with the Prime Minister, Governors of all four Provinces, and with Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee, Chiefs of the Armed Forces, Vice-Chief of Army Staff and Corps Commanders of the Pakistan Army;

NOW, THEREFORE, in pursuance of the deliberations and decisions of the said meetings, I General Pervez Musharraf, Chief of the Army Staff, proclaim Emergency throughout Pakistan.

2. I hereby order and proclaim that the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan shall remain in abeyance.

3. This Proclamation shall come into force at once.
62 2007-11-03 The circumstances of Patrick Porco’s killing have always been murky, the subject of much contention, but the circumstances of his life shine some light. At the time of his death in May 1990, Mr. Porco, who lived in Brooklyn, was a close friend of Joey Scarpa, a son of Gregory Scarpa, the notorious Colombo capo known as the Grim Reaper.

By the prosecutors’ account, Mr. Porco and Joey Scarpa took part in a Bensonhurst neighborhood dispute, possibly involving an egg fight, that eventually escalated to murder. The victim in that killing, Dominic Masseria, was shot dead on the steps of a church in 1989.

As the police investigated the killing, prosecutors have said, the senior Mr. Scarpa sent his son and Mr. Porco out of town to hide. The two young men got bored and returned to Brooklyn, prosecutors said, and at some point the senior Mr. Scarpa began to suspect Mr. Porco of planning to implicate his son in the Masseria murder. Mr. Porco was shot dead in a car in Brooklyn.

In a 2006 indictment in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, two men were charged with the murder of Mr. Porco.

One, John Sinagra, 40, was charged with pulling the trigger. But before he went to trial, prosecutors disclosed documents showing that investigators had been told of Mr. Sinagra’s role in 1995.

A defense lawyer, Joseph Giaramita, successfully argued that Mr. Sinagra’s right to a speedy trial had been violated. Justice Gustin L. Reichbach dismissed the charges, and Mr. Sinagra returned home to Las Vegas, where he works for a limousine company.

The other defendant, Mr. DeVecchio, 67, went on trial last month. He had overseen a squad charged with investigating the Colombo crime family, and prosecutors said he had passed confidential information to the senior Mr. Scarpa, including tips on rival informants.

One of the charges accused Mr. DeVecchio of warning Mr. Scarpa that Mr. Porco was planning to inform the police of his son’s role in the Masseria killing.

Before Mr. DeVecchio’s trial collapsed on Wednesday, his lawyers elicited some information to cast doubt on the charge. One witness, Reyes Aviles, testified on cross-examination that Mr. Porco himself had told the Scarpas of his conversations with the police.

Then came the second reason the Porco case stood out.

The primary witness, Linda Schiro, the longtime live-in mistress of Gregory Scarpa Sr., began her testimony on Monday by describing Mr. Porco as a beloved family member, treated like a son in her home. She recounted driving Mr. Scarpa to a pay phone to receive a tip from Mr. DeVecchio. When they returned home, she said, he ordered Mr. Porco killed.

Ms. Schiro’s testimony was called into question when a journalist revealed decade-old tape-recorded interviews with her, eventually leading Justice Reichbach to dismiss all the charges against Mr. DeVecchio. On the tapes, Ms. Schiro contradicted her testimony, emphatically and directly denying Mr. DeVecchio’s involvement in most of the killings.

Except one: In the Porco case, Ms. Schiro’s testimony largely matched the account she had given the journalist, Tom Robbins of The Village Voice.

“Lin called; he said the kid was going to tell the detectives what happened,” Mr. Robbins quoted her as saying in 1997.

Of course, the trouble with Ms. Schiro’s testimony was not proven falsehoods, it was credibility. No one knows for sure whether she was lying in 1997, or this week on the stand, or both. And the fact that her accounts of the Porco murder are consistent does not make them true.

That is all little consolation to Mr. Porco’s family. His brother Michael, 40, who works for Federal Express, seemed resigned to carrying on without a verdict.

“We’ve been doing it for 17 years,” Michael Porco said. “It’s like dragging my body across New York City and all over the place all over again.”
63 2007-11-03 Mr. Giuliani amended that statement last year in testimony to a state grand jury. He acknowledged that the city investigations commissioner, Edward J. Kuriansky, had told him that he had been briefed at least once. The former mayor said, though, that neither he nor any of his aides could recall being briefed about Mr. Kerik’s involvement with the company.

But a review of Mr. Kuriansky’s diaries, and investigators’ notes from a 2004 interview with him, now indicate that such a session indeed took place. What is more, Mr. Kuriansky also recalled briefing one of Mr. Giuliani’s closest aides, Dennison Young Jr., about Mr. Kerik’s entanglements with the company just days before the police appointment, according to the diaries he compiled at the time and his later recollection to the investigators.

The additional evidence raises questions not only about the precision of Mr. Giuliani’s recollection, but also about how a man who proclaims his ability to pick leaders came to overlook a jumble of disturbing information about Mr. Kerik, even as he pushed him for two crucial government positions.

“Rudy can fall for people big time, and sometimes qualifications are secondary to loyalty,” said Fran Reiter, a former Giuliani deputy mayor who now supports Hillary Clinton. “If he gets it in his head he trusts you, he is extremely loyal.”

Mr. Giuliani has routinely met loyalty with loyalty, standing by political allies and friends in their darkest hours. Giuliani Partners, for example, his consulting firm, employs a high school friend, Msgr. Alan Placa, despite allegations that he sexually molested young men years ago.

Mr. Giuliani has said he believes in his friend, who has denied the allegations and was not criminally charged.

In Mr. Kerik’s case, by the time Mr. Giuliani recommended him for the federal job, his administration knew that Mr. Kerik had acted on behalf of Interstate Industrial. It also knew that he had drawn criticism for a range of other incidents, from sending detectives to search for his lover’s cellphone to using officers to research his autobiography.

Mr. Kerik, who declined to speak about his troubles, now faces possible indictment on a range of federal felony charges, including perhaps tax evasion and bribery, stemming in part from his acceptance of $165,000 in renovations to his Bronx apartment paid for by Interstate. In June 2006, he pleaded guilty in the Bronx to state misdemeanor charges relating to the same renovations.

Though Mr. Giuliani’s rivals for the Republican presidential nomination have not made an issue of Mr. Kerik, his indictment could be a major embarrassment for Mr. Giuliani.

Mr. Giuliani, who also declined to comment, still vigorously defends Mr. Kerik’s performance as police commissioner. He told the grand jury that Mr. Kuriansky concluded that nothing in Mr. Kerik’s background, including his ties to Interstate, precluded his appointment as police commissioner.

But Mr. Giuliani now acknowledges that he should have re-examined his friend before recommending him to the White House and that his recommendation had indeed been a mistake.

In 2000, more than half the mayor’s cabinet had opposed Mr. Kerik’s appointment to be police commissioner. His detractors had noted, among other concerns, that Mr. Kerik did not have a college degree, a department requirement at the time for captains and above.

Mr. Giuliani waved off the dissenters. “I believe that the skill I have developed better than any other was surrounding myself with great people,” Mr. Giuliani wrote in his 2002 book, “Leadership.”

“Too many leaders overlook candidates with unusual résumés because of a failure of nerve,” Mr. Giuliani wrote. “By the time I appointed Bernie Kerik, I had hired so many people that I was immune to such criticisms.”

The men who would become patron and protégé first met at a fund-raiser in 1990 in New Jersey honoring a slain New York City police officer.

Mr. Kerik was a comic book hero come to life, a decorated undercover detective with a ponytail and earrings, thick biceps and a taste for four-letter words as nouns, verbs and adjectives. He cultivated relationships with powerful people, including an influential sheriff who five years earlier had made him the youngest jail warden in the history of Passaic County, N.J.

When Mr. Giuliani ran for mayor in 1993, Mr. Kerik organized his security detail of off-duty officers, reserving the weekend shift for himself.

When Mr. Giuliani became mayor, he gave Mr. Kerik a job in the Correction Department. A year later, the mayor asked him to drop by Gracie Mansion.

The two men sat upstairs and shared a bottle of red wine, a gift to the mayor from Nelson Mandela. Mr. Giuliani said he planned to appoint Mr. Kerik as first deputy correction commissioner.

Mr. Kerik, who wrote of this in his autobiography, “The Lost Son,” was taken aback; he was a year removed from being a police detective.

“Mayor, I appreciate your confidence in me, I really do,” he said. “But I ran a jail. One jail. Rikers is like 10 jails.”

Just do it, the mayor replied.

Mr. Kerik followed Mr. Giuliani downstairs to a dimly lighted room. There waited Mr. Giuliani’s boyhood chum Peter J. Powers, who was first deputy mayor, and other aides. One by one, they pulled Mr. Kerik close and kissed his cheek.

“I wonder if he noticed how much becoming part of his team resembled becoming part of a mafia family,” Mr. Kerik wrote. “I was being made.”

Mr. Kerik was named correction commissioner in 1997. He brooked no slacking. He startled sleepy wardens by walking cellblocks at 2 a.m. Violence plummeted, and he basked in good press.

Behind the scenes Mr. Kerik ruled like a feudal lord, many former employees have said. He had taken up with a woman who was a correction officer; he was accused of directing officers to staff his wedding. He befriended the agency’s inspector general, whose watchdog responsibilities require keeping an arm’s-length relationship, and the investigator attended his wedding.

As the years passed, one of his top deputies was convicted of taking $142,000 from a Correction Department charity that Mr. Kerik headed. Another deputy, Anthony S. Serra, became a warden at Rikers Island even after he was accused of coercing officers to work on Republican campaigns. He was later convicted of forcing staff members to do campaign work and dispatching officers to renovate his upstate home.

Mr. Kerik earned $150,500 as commissioner but pleaded poverty. He turned to Lawrence V. Ray, a friend of a few years, who had an engaging manner and a big bankroll.

In 1998, Mr. Ray was the best man at Mr. Kerik’s wedding — and paid for much of the event. Weeks later, Mr. Kerik recommended Mr. Ray for a $100,000 job with Interstate Industrial Corporation, a New Jersey-based construction firm with tens of millions of dollars in city contracts.

Two years earlier, the owners, Peter and Frank DiTommaso, had paid more than $1 million to buy a transfer station from Edward Garafola, a mob soldier, and hoped to obtain a city operating license. But city investigators had found that the company employed mob figures and used mob-controlled trucking firms.

The DiTommasos, who adamantly and repeatedly have denied any ties to organized crime, hoped Mr. Ray could help resolve their problem with the Giuliani administration. Soon after being hired, Mr. Ray took Frank DiTommaso to meet with his friend the correction commissioner.

Mr. DiTommaso recalled the moment for city investigators: “Mr. Ray walked into the office, unannounced, just walked right in; Mr. Kerik got up and came around the desk and give him a big hug and a kiss.”

Within months, Interstate had hired Mr. Kerik’s brother and the commissioner had begun lobbying behind the scenes for Interstate.

One night in July 1999, he sat in Walker’s, a bar in downtown Manhattan, defending Interstate to Raymond V. Casey, a cousin of Mayor Giuliani who was chief of enforcement for the city commission that was reviewing Interstate’s license application. Later that year Mr. Kerik telephoned an assistant commissioner at the Department of Investigation to say that Interstate’s owners, as far as he knew, were clean of mob taint, according to a person familiar with her account.

And that September he had city detectives investigating the company meet Mr. Ray in his city office, a location that underlined for the men that the company had powerful friends.

The lobbying stopped on March 2, 2000, when Mr. Ray and Mr. Garafola, the mob soldier, were indicted on federal charges in an unrelated stock scheme. Top Giuliani officials suspended Interstate’s $85 million in city contracts.

Three weeks later, Mr. Kerik sat down for a nearly two-hour interview with top officials at the Department of Investigation. He talked about his relationship with Mr. Ray and the DiTommasos, about the hiring of his brother and the meeting at Walker’s.

He neglected to mention a key fact: Interstate was paying for $165,000 worth of renovations on his new apartment in the Bronx.

That July, Police Commissioner Howard Safir said he intended to resign. Mr. Giuliani narrowed the field of candidates to two: Chief of Department Joseph P. Dunne and Mr. Kerik, the correction commissioner, who had spent eight years as a police officer.

Mr. Kuriansky, the investigation commissioner, oversaw the background checks. The agency is designed to be semi-independent, but Mr. Giuliani had torn down that wall, senior investigators said, appointing friends like Mr. Kuriansky as commissioner and having them attend his morning meetings.

Mr. Kuriansky, a former special prosecutor, knew that Mr. Kerik had intervened on behalf of a firm suspected of mob ties and that the commissioner’s brother and best friend worked for the company.

But he did not know that Interstate had paid to renovate Mr. Kerik’s apartment. And records indicate Mr. Kuriansky did not think the known record was enough to disqualify Mr. Kerik.

On July 27 that year, according to Mr. Kuriansky’s diaries and his later recollection, he briefed the mayor and Mr. Young, Mr. Giuliani’s close aide, on Mr. Kerik’s relationship with Mr. Ray and Interstate.

Handwritten notes, taken by a city investigator during a December 2004 interview with Mr. Kuriansky, described his recollection: “Meet with RG & DY, discuss BK background review, Ray issue.”

Mr. Kuriansky’s diaries say he conducted a similar briefing for Mr. Young on Aug. 14, 2000, five days before Mr. Kerik’s appointment. Later, in his conversation with city investigators, Mr. Kuriansky summed up what he had related to Mr. Young: “Ray connection to BK, Ray was best man, brother worked at IS - all reported to DY.”

Mr. Young, through a spokeswoman, declined to be interviewed.

Last year before the grand jury, Mr. Giuliani said that he recalled receiving a briefing on Mr. Kerik’s background, but that neither he nor his aides remembered delving into Interstate or Mr. Ray. Even Mr. Kuriansky had trouble recalling the briefings, he said.

Mr. Kuriansky died in July. He refused numerous interview requests before his death and never explained why he did not seem more troubled by Mr. Kerik’s entanglements with Interstate, which seem to violate city conflict of interest rules.

On Aug. 19, 2000, Mr. Giuliani decided the job was Mr. Kerik’s, saying that he saw a fiercely loyal man with natural leadership ability. One Giuliani aide who attended some of the meetings on the choice said he never knew of Mr. Kuriansky’s findings and does not believe the mayor would have overlooked such a problem.

“Had any of us known of Bernie’s relationship to Interstate, it would have demolished him as a candidate,” said the former official. “It’s kind of mind-boggling.”

Mr. Kerik’s 16-month tenure as police commissioner generally drew plaudits. Crime fell, relations with black leaders improved and Mr. Kerik’s ties to Mr. Giuliani grew tighter, to the point where he named the mayor the godfather of his daughter.

Behind the scenes, Mr. Kerik surrounded himself with police and correction buddies. When his book publisher and lover, Judith Regan, believed someone had stolen her cellphone and a piece of her jewelry, a Kerik aide dispatched elite homicide detectives to question suspects.

In researching his book, Mr. Kerik sent officers to investigate his mother’s death, an abuse for which the city’s Conflict of Interest Board later fined him $2,500.

None of the ethics problems seriously damaged Mr. Kerik, though, and when terrorists attacked the World Trade Center, Mr. Kerik won public acclaim, largely because he displayed steady resolve at Mr. Giuliani’s side.

Three years later, after his federal nomination was withdrawn, it was discovered that he had used an apartment originally set aside for weary rescue workers at ground zero as a nest for an extramarital affair with Ms. Regan.

After Mr. Giuliani left office in 2002, Mr. Kerik joined him at his new consulting firm, Giuliani Partners. In 2003, President Bush sent Mr. Kerik to Iraq to reorganize the Iraqi police force. In Baghdad, he signed autographs, surrounded himself with South African bodyguards, slept during the day and joined Iraqi paramilitary units on corruption raids late into the night. He decided to leave suddenly after three months.

He campaigned hard for President Bush’s re-election the next year, bonding with the president on the campaign trail and speaking at the Republican National Convention in New York.

After the election, Mr. Bush sought a director of homeland security. Mr. Giuliani was among the people who promoted Mr. Kerik for the job, and even helped him prepare for the interviews.

By this time, Mr. Kerik’s former warden, Mr. Serra, had been indicted. Another top aide, Frederick J. Patrick, had been sentenced to prison and had been told to reimburse $142,000 taken from the foundation he ran with Mr. Kerik. And newspapers had written of Mr. Kerik’s efforts to protect a correction aide accused of beating his lover.

But if Mr. Giuliani or Mr. Bush took notice, the issues did not give them pause.

“He was a champion of him,” Andrew Card, chief of staff to Mr. Bush at the time, recently recalled of Mr. Giuliani. “It wasn’t an arm-twisting session. It was more of a character reference.”

Mr. Kerik’s tenure as a nominee lasted one week. He withdrew when he and Mr. Giuliani said they discovered that his nanny was in the country illegally and that he had failed to pay taxes for her.

Worse news was coming. Newspapers reported that Mr. Kerik had accepted undisclosed cash gifts from Mr. Ray and lobbied for Interstate. At the time, Mr. Giuliani said he was not inclined to second-guess his choice of Mr. Kerik as police commissioner.

“Sometimes you look back on some of these choices and you made the wrong one,” he said. “In this case, he turned out to be the right one.”

Less than two years later, though, Mr. Giuliani would find himself being grilled about that choice. On April 20, 2006, before a state grand jury, a prosecutor in the Bronx district attorney’s office peppered Mr. Giuliani, one of the most powerful prosecutors in the late 20th century, about his apparent lack of memory.

Would you have considered it unusual and significant, the prosecutor asked, if as mayor in 2000 you had been told that a close friend of your correction commissioner had been indicted in a federal case with organized crime figures?

“It’s really a hypothetical question,” Mr. Giuliani replied. “I mean, sure, it would have been unusual, sure.”

There was nothing hypothetical about the question. The prosecutor was merely laying out the facts established by the Department of Investigation in the months before Mr. Giuliani appointed Mr. Kerik police commissioner.

Yesterday, Mr. Kerik’s lawyer met with federal prosecutors in New York in an effort to stave off indictment. In a recent interview, Mr. Kerik said that he had been steering clear of Mr. Giuliani, lest his troubles hurt his friend, although they did cross paths at the Sept. 11 ceremony at ground zero this fall.

“We have not communicated in months, at all, at all,” he said. “When the last time is, I could not even tell you.”
64 2007-11-03 WEISSBART--Jo-Anne, died unexpectedly on November 1. A funeral service will be held at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 10th St. and Second Ave., on Sunday at 12:30pm. In memory of JoAnne, contributions may be made to the New York University Cancer ...
65 2007-11-04 Yet some officials say that enhancing detainees’ rights could also help the administration strategically, by undercutting a case brought by suspects at Guantánamo that is now before the Supreme Court, which could wind up winning them even more power to challenge their detention.

Under current procedures at Guantánamo, military officers decide whether detainees are properly held as enemy combatants, and the suspects are not permitted lawyers in the detention hearings, known as Combatant Status Review Tribunals.

Facing international criticism for holding hundreds of men without charge for years, officials from President Bush on down have said they would like to close Guantánamo. In recent interviews, officials said the discussion of detainee rights was not an acknowledgment that past policies were flawed, but rather was an indication that the administration was engaged in trying to assess the legal and practical consequences of shutting the detention center and moving detainees to the United States.

Even so, some officials are arguing against major policy shifts, and similar proposals have failed to gain steam within the administration in the past. In addition, any administration proposal would probably face intense scrutiny in Congress.

Before any detainees can be moved, officials have said that they would need to find or build a secure site in the United States and that they would need legislation allowing detainees deemed to be a threat to be held “until the end of hostilities” in the war on terror, even if they were not charged with war crimes. Under current proposals, scores of detainees might continue to be held indefinitely without facing criminal charges.

“These are dangerous men,” said Sandra L. Hodgkinson, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for detainee affairs. “There has to be an appropriate way of handling that.”

The administration has fought for years in court and in Congress against granting the detainees more rights. In the latest instance, the Supreme Court is to consider a case brought by Guantánamo detainees who are seeking to challenge their confinement in habeas corpus suits in federal court.

If the administration loses that case, it could give the detainees even more legal rights and create a precedent limiting the president’s and the military’s power. Lawyers inside and outside of government said a detailed proposal from the administration to give detainees fuller legal protections could convince the justices that they need not resolve the case, Boumediene v. Bush.

The discussions now under way in the administration show the complexities of the internal debate over whether to close Guantánamo, with some officials convinced they are facing unattractive choices: keeping the detention camp open and continuing to draw worldwide criticism or transferring the most dangerous detainees to the United States, where American courts would probably grant them increased legal protections.

Officials have said that to close Guantánamo, perhaps 200 of the 330 detainees there could be transferred to the United States. The remainder would be sent back to their home countries or to other countries, a painstaking process of reducing the number of detainees that has been going on for several years.

But the officials have said that about 200 of the detainees are considered too dangerous to repatriate. Of those, 80 or more, officials say, would be tried for war crimes in military commissions, with the remaining 120 or fewer held indefinitely because of military assertions that they are a threat to American security.

The officials said the current discussions about ways of closing Guantánamo had become more concrete in recent weeks, with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates directing his advisers to come up with a proposal for closing the detention center.

Although Mr. Gates had urged the closing of Guantánamo shortly after he became defense secretary last December, he has said he quickly encountered resistance in the administration. But on Sept. 26 he told Congress in testimony that he had directed his deputies “to put together our own proposal inside the Department of Defense that we could then perhaps use as a basis for discussion” in the administration on how to close the center.

Some people outside the administration who are involved in Guantánamo issues said the political and international pressure on the detention center had now combined with concerns about the impending Supreme Court case in accelerating consideration of potential options.

Matthew Waxman, a former detainee affairs official at the Defense Department who now teaches at Columbia Law School, said the proposal to involve federal judges and detainees’ lawyers in hearings on detainees’ status had been discussed previously in the administration.

But, Mr. Waxman said, the proposal now “is gaining currency because you have greater recognition of the strategic costs of maintaining Guantánamo, combined with the legal risks of leaving it to the Supreme Court to decide what legal rights exist at Guantánamo.”

Under the current proposal, a specially created federal court with strict rules to protect classified information would hear detainee challenges to their detention. Judges who usually sit in regular federal courts would preside and would hear arguments from detainees’ lawyers.

Few details of the proposal are known, but such proceedings would be unlikely to give the federal judges the latitude they would have in the habeas corpus cases the detainees are seeking in the Supreme Court, lawyers said.

Other proposals to give detainees increased rights are also part of the discussions, people knowledgeable about the talks said. The administration could simply agree that detainees held in the United States were entitled to have their cases reviewed in habeas corpus cases, which would undercut several years of legal and Congressional arguments.

Another proposal would improve on the Pentagon’s current detention hearings, now conducted by officers, by adding military judges, for example, one person who has been briefed on the discussions said.

The discussions involve fierce competition between agencies and, at times, within agencies, which sometimes have sharply differing views on Guantánamo. Under Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, the Justice Department was often perceived in the administration as resisting proposals to close Guantánamo.

If Mr. Bush’s nominee, Michael B. Mukasey, is approved as attorney general, he has signaled he might shift the course of the department. In testimony at his confirmation hearings he said he would seek ideas “with the goal of closing it down because it’s hurting us,” and said Guantánamo had “given us a black eye.”

But he added that there was “no easy solution” to the question of what to do with current detainees.

Ms. Hodgkinson, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for detainee affairs, said there were many practical concerns with proposals to increase the legal rights of detainees if they were moved to the United States. She said Pentagon officials continued to insist that enemy combatants held outside the country could be held by the military until they were no longer a threat.

She said the proposal to provide lawyers to detainees for their detention hearings and have their cases heard by judges would need to be clearly limited to detainees held inside the United States. Military officials said this summer that they were holding 24,500 detainees in Iraq alone.

“How would we provide 25,000 lawyers in Iraq?” Ms. Hodgkinson said. “We couldn’t do it if we tried.”

Critics of the Bush administration have accused the government on several occasions of shifting legal tactics on detainee issues when it anticipated losses in court.

That perception could hurt the administration’s credibility with the Supreme Court justices if there is a new shift while the court is considering the case that is to be argued in December, said Barry Friedman, a professor at New York University School of Law who is an expert on the Supreme Court.

Still, Professor Friedman said, if the administration were to propose giving detainees new legal rights, the justices might conclude they did not need to answer the complicated question the case presents of defining the rights of terrorism suspects at Guantánamo.

“It is a tough question,” Professor Friedman said. “As a general matter the court doesn’t answer tough constitutional questions if it doesn’t need to.”
66 2007-11-04 “Nothing’s changed,” Ms. Hochul said in an interview on Tuesday. “It’s all anyone wants to talk about.”

None of the state’s top officials or legislators is on the ballot in Tuesday’s elections. But dozens of clerks, county executives and town supervisors are. And in some areas, Mr. Spitzer’s proposal has the potential to overwhelm the more parochial concerns on which such contests usually turn.

For Mr. Spitzer himself — now struggling to regain the overwhelming public support that sent him to office in a landslide — Tuesday’s election will be the first chance to gauge whether the anger he now faces is merely a passing storm, or something more lasting.

Republicans have seized on the controversy and say it is energizing their voters.

In Nassau County, for example, the issue has come to dominate the tight race for a seat on the County Legislature that, if won by the Republican candidate, would swing control of the body back to that party, dealing a significant blow to state Democrats. The Democratic incumbent, David L. Mejias, said he opposed the initial plan, and he called the governor’s revised version “unworkable.”

But his Republican opponent, Joseph Belesi, has nonetheless painted him as a close ally of the governor — and his license plan — in a series of fliers and mailings that have blanketed the district.

“This issue resonates with the people here because they see it as illegal, and immoral, and I think it has shifted things in my favor,” said Mr. Belesi, a retired police officer.

Mr. Spitzer’s new policy has sent a particular shudder through the ranks of county clerks, 23 of whom are up for re-election Tuesday. In most counties, the clerks process driver’s license applications on behalf of the State Department of Motor Vehicles.

A majority of those clerks voted for a resolution condemning the policy during a hastily called meeting of the state clerks’ association last month, and some have said they would refuse to enforce the policy, which is scheduled to take effect late next year.

Ms. Hochul went a step further. If anyone comes to the main clerk’s office seeking a license with a foreign passport but without a valid visa stamp, Ms. Hochul said, she will process the application — and then pass the person’s name on to the county sheriff as a possible violator of immigration law.

The clerk of neighboring Niagara County is making similar plans, and others may follow. Kathleen A. Marchione, the clerk of Saratoga County and head of the clerks’ association, said that the governor’s revised plan had done little to allay the clerks’ concerns.

“Our position as an association has not changed,” Ms. Marchione said. “This is still a major issue for us.”

But perhaps no local official has been put on the spot quite like Ms. Hochul (pronounced HOKE-ul).

Though Erie County residents seem to support one part of Mr. Spitzer’s new plan — the introduction of two kinds of federally recognized licenses, one of which could be used by United States citizens to cross the Canadian border without passports — Ms. Hochul said that they continued to oppose allowing illegal immigrants to obtain the new plan’s third tier of license, akin to the current standard driver’s license.

“This has really become the centerpiece of this race,” Ms. Hochul said. Buffalo is a border city, she notes, and memories of the six Qaeda recruits, American citizens of Yemeni descent, who once lived in nearby Lackawanna are still fresh.

In fact, Ms. Hochul’s husband, an assistant United States attorney for the Western District of New York, was the lead prosecutor on the case. The six men, who had traveled to a Qaeda training camp in Afghanistan in 2001, pleaded guilty three years ago to charges of providing support to a terrorist organization.

Moreover, Ms. Hochul is herself a Spitzer appointee; she got the job in April after Mr. Spitzer appointed David J. Swarts, the previous Erie clerk, to be the new state commissioner of motor vehicles. Ms. Hochul even held a meet-and-greet for Mr. Spitzer at her home during last year’s campaign.

“I support him on the environment. I support him on worker’s comp reform. I support him on job creation. I support what he’s doing on the waterfront here,” Ms. Hochul said. “But this is an issue I disagree with him very strongly on. And he knows that.”

Ms. Hochul abstained from voting on the clerks’ resolution last month. But she has since registered her disagreement with Mr. Spitzer in myriad ways. She has asked the State Legislature to hold hearings in Buffalo on the issue, sent letters of protest to the governor and to Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo. She also requested a formal opinion from the Erie district attorney on whether the new policy is legal and enforceable.

But her Republican challenger, William A. O’Loughlin Jr., whose otherwise uphill bid for the Erie clerk’s job has received a boost from public outrage over the licensing issue, has said that is not enough. Mr. O’Loughlin, a local businessman and councilman on the Amherst town board, had previously built his campaign around promises to extend the office hours at satellite bureaus and to root out patronage in the operation.

Now Mr. O’Loughlin tells campaign audiences that he, unlike Ms. Hochul, will go to jail rather than enforce Mr. Spitzer’s driver’s license policy.

If the governor “brings along a contingent of state police and says, ‘Here’s two illegal immigrants, give them a driver’s license or I’ll put you in jail,’ I’ll say, ‘Show me the handcuffs,’ ” Mr. O’Loughlin said in an interview.

Though no public polling is available on the race, interest in the licensing issue is intense. The two candidates spent most of a recent 90-minute debate discussing Mr. Spitzer’s policy, which has dominated local talk radio. Their positions on the issue are often the first thing the candidates are asked about, and each is running television advertisements explaining how they will oppose the policy.

“We wanted to talk about our record during the last seven months,” said Ms. Hochul, sounding wistful. She noted that she had expanded electronic filing, created a new call center and added satellite auto bureaus during her brief tenure. But the license issue, she said, is “all anyone wants to talk about.”

The clerks’ protests are not likely to have much practical effect on illegal immigrants seeking licenses. The Spitzer administration estimates that about 80 percent of those seeking licenses will do so in the 10 counties — including Nassau, Suffolk, Onondaga and the five boroughs of New York City — where the state runs its own D.M.V. offices rather than relying on county clerks to process the paperwork.

But the issue has brought a swift response from local lawmakers and candidates. About 20 county legislatures are considering resolutions condemning the new policy or orders to their county clerks not to comply, and several have already passed such legislation, according to Ms. Marchione, the Saratoga County clerk.

Meanwhile, candidates who may never have mentioned illegal immigration now find their positions on the licensing issue closely scrutinized.

Mr. Belesi, for example, has been arguing that Mr. Mejias spoke against the governor’s plan only after Mr. Belesi made an issue of it — a criticism that seems to frustrate Mr. Mejias. “As a county legislator, I never spoke out against the genocide in Darfur, either. I had no reason to raise the issue of the governor’s license plan because it had nothing to do with the business of the Legislature.”

Ms. Hochul, for her part, is not about to let anyone mistake her position. “I feel very strongly that the Erie County Auto Bureau should not facilitate violations of immigration law,” Ms. Hochul explained. Asked how many illegal immigrants she expects to come in seeking licenses, Ms. Hochul responded with a single word.
67 2007-11-04 Their success often depends on the public mood, the moment in history and whether the charges feed into existing doubts about a candidate.

But, said Prof. Bruce Schulman, a historian at Boston University who has studied the question, “One man’s flip-flop can be another man’s ‘admirable flexibility.’ ”

Herbert Hoover attacked Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932 as a “chameleon in plaid” for a series of policy shifts. But Mr. Roosevelt portrayed his new positions as pragmatic and necessary to fight the Depression. Americans seeking deliverance were willing to buy it, Professor Schulman said.

He added that two of history’s greatest flip-flops belonged to Abraham Lincoln, who reversed his 1860 campaign positions against an invasion of the South, and against meddling with slavery in the states. Of course, many of those who would have punished him in 1864 were, by then, Confederates, who would not be voting in the Union elections.

Candidates had greater incentive to flip-flop starting in the mid- to late-1900s, as more states began choosing their delegates through primaries and caucuses, Professor Schulman said. That shifted control from party bosses in convention halls to the more ideological grass-roots activists.

So more candidates first sought common ground with “base voters” before tacking back for the centrists and independents who can be crucial in general elections.

Stuart Spencer, a political adviser to Ronald Reagan, said that he was distressed when Mr. Reagan, before his 1976 presidential race, told him that he would oppose abortion. “I said, ‘You signed the most liberal abortion bill in America,’ ” Mr. Spencer recalled, referring to Mr. Reagan’s signing of a California bill easing abortion restrictions in 1967.

Mr. Reagan never wavered on abortion again, and the move helped endear him to the Moral Majority for the rest of his political career.

But, as President Jimmy Carter’s advisers learned, Mr. Reagan’s image was too strong, and his personality too winning, for a flip-flop charge to work when they used it in an ad against Mr. Reagan. “It was hard to do negatives against Reagan,” said Gerald Rafshoon, a Carter media strategist.

Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts was not so well known and had no such Teflon in 2004. This left him open to perhaps the most relentless barrage of flip-flop charges in the modern political era.

The Bush campaign unleashed a series of attack ads about what they called his “for-and-against” position on the Iraq war. (He supported the invasion but later voted against funding.) They did it before Mr. Kerry had the money to give a full picture of himself in advertisements. They followed with stunts like sending an intern in a “Flipper the Dolphin” costume to his events.

“He was unidentified nationally, and that’s why they pounded him from the moment he was nominated,” said Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry’s campaign communications director. She added, “In many ways, we provided the offerings.”

And, Mr. Bush’s aides said later, the line of attack worked well at a point in the war when voters were seeking certainty in their leaders.

This year, Mrs. Clinton and former Senator John Edwards have come out against the war after having voted to authorize the invasion. But their evolution tracks that of many Americans. And Democrats succeeded in the 2006 midterm elections in portraying Mr. Bush’s certainty on the war as a stubborn refusal to acknowledge failures.

They have also taken a page from the G.O.P. handbook. The Democratic National Committee now sends e-mail messages called “The Daily Flipper” to highlight alleged contradictions.

Senator John McCain of Arizona was a target of the offensive for moves like speaking at Liberty University in 2006, six years after denouncing its president, the Rev. Jerry Falwell, as an agent of intolerance.

Even some of Mr. McCain’s supporters say such moves, meant to bolster his support with religious conservatives who have viewed him with suspicion, hurt his unvacillating, maverick brand and contributed to his stumble last spring. But his aides say that his continued stance behind unpopular positions — like his support for President Bush’s immigration-overhaul proposals that some view as amnesty — should be inoculation enough now.

Similarly, Ms. Cutter said, while Mr. Giuliani has provided openings for Democrats to attack him as a vacillator, his refusal to budge from his vocal support for abortion rights has strengthened his image as being steadfast, even as he has shifted in other areas.

But his position on abortion seems to have benefited Mr. Romney, whose new, pro-life position has helped him with religious conservatives. Some say they fear Mr. Giuliani’s pro-choice stance enough to overlook Mr. Romney’s late-in-life conversion.

“If they come around to seeing things our way the last thing we should do, I think, is throw stones at them,” said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, an influential social conservative group. But, he warned, “For whatever reason, the positions Governor Romney has arrived at are his positions, and if he is to remain politically viable in any way, he will have to maintain those positions.”
68 2007-11-04 BOSTON, Nov. 3 — The Boys and Girls Club of Pittsfield, Mass., relies, in part, on financial gifts to keep running. But officials were not sure they wanted to take a donation of poorly performing stock in a small company when it was offered two years ago, worrying about potential liability and risk to the organization. And club officials figured it would not net that much money, anyway.

Nevertheless, the club decided to accept the gift — which turned out to be the best decision the 107-year-old organization has ever made. The stock skyrocketed in value last year, and it was sold for $13.9 million in December 2006.

“It was basically worthless when we got it,” said John Donna, the club’s president. “I don’t think this happens once in a lifetime. It happens once in several lifetimes.”

The club, which serves thousands of youths in Pittsfield, a city of 45,000 in western Massachusetts, announced the windfall this week, saying it wanted to take time to consult with accountants and lawyers and invest the money in local savings accounts and certificates of deposit. It has created an advisory board to explore how to use the money. So far it has spent $500,000 on much-needed structural improvements to its building.

Mr. Donna said the club agreed not to disclose who donated the stock or the company, but he said the donor was “very happy this happened.”

The club has a $4 million endowment, and spends about $2 million on programs each year. The Boys and Girls Club operates a variety of services, including a skating rink and a summer camp.
69 2007-11-04 IF you have been baffled by stocks’ ability to race higher, even as the price of just about every commodity soars, some clarity may arrive this week with the Labor Department report on third-quarter productivity.

A sharp increase in commodity prices is feared for its potential to drive up costs of manufactured goods and to compel the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates to curb inflation. The Fed expressed concern about rising energy costs in the statement that accompanied its rate cut last week, a worry shared by the bears on Wall Street.

The productivity report Wednesday could allay some of that concern, according to Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. A highly productive economy allows for robust growth with subdued inflation; he expects the report to confirm such conditions’ presence.

A Bloomberg News poll of economists estimates that productivity grew at an annual rate of 3.1 percent in the three months through September. That is above the 2.6 percent annual rate of the second quarter.

Mr. Yardeni says he believes that we are living through “the greatest global boom of all time” and that the productivity report will help to confirm that by coming in with a gain of about 3 percent.
70 2007-11-04 The book, “The Dangerous Book for Dogs,” a parody of Conn and Hal Iggulden’s wildly popular book “The Dangerous Book for Boys, ” was written by Rex and Sparky (with help from Joe Garden and four other crack writers from “The Onion”) and illustrated by the cult cartoonist Emily Flake. Your dog may enjoy fetching it or chewing its corners to stave off thunderstorm anxiety. And, depending on the thought you have previously given to your dog’s emotional makeup, you might conceivably learn something yourself.

Here’s a lesson Iggy could have used: “Don’t make cats look good by comparison. Your owner will always take the side of the cat.”

AS Ms. DeGeneres’s recent trials show, it’s also a pretty dangerous time for girls with dogs. And to be fair, the rules-minded people at the rescue agency, Mutts and Moms, aren’t having that easy a time, either.

They’ve actually received death threats for reclaiming Iggy. The directors of Mutts and Moms might benefit from perusing “The Daring Book for Girls,” which will teach them different ways to indulge their heroic impulses other than saving dogs from celebrities.

The book was conceived by Andrea J. Buchanan and Miriam Peskowitz, who reasoned that “The Dangerous Book for Boys” left out half the world’s children, and received permission from the creators of the boys book to correct the imbalance.

In the “Daring Book for Girls,” the authors mix inspiring tales of girls who made good (mostly familiar names like Joan of Arc, Clara Barton and Amelia Earhart) with a scrap bag of how-tos for girlish activities like making a daisy chain or playing hand-clap games like Miss Mary Mack and Say, Say Oh Playmate.

The writers admit that they’re a little out of touch with the girls of today: “We were girls in the days before the Web, cellphones or even voice mail,” they concede.

Nonetheless, for every tween who covets a Bratz, there’s still an old-fashioned Julia or Ashley who has an American Girl doll and likes to imagine she’s Laura Ingalls Wilder, or who dreams of being a princess like Cinderella or Belle.

In an age when some girls aren’t afraid to surf shark-infested waters, start businesses, fly planes, front rock bands or climb rugged rock faces, Ms. Buchanan and Ms. Peskowitz’s ideas of feminine bravado may seem a little wan.

But, the last time we checked, there were still plenty of girls who wanted to make friendship bracelets, jump rope double-Dutch style, and show off cartwheels and back walkovers.

“The Daring Book for Girls” keeps such practical knowledge from getting drowned in the techno-flow and is indubitably a much more creative pastime for a little girl than repeatedly watching “The Little Mermaid” on DVD.

It’s something you’d be glad to have on hand, in a house full of daughters, if the power ever goes out.
71 2007-11-04 HIGH on the list of marketing challenges that automakers face in selling zero-pollution cars is convincing the public that the cars can cover sufficient driving distances between refills or recharges.

To demonstrate the latest advances in fuel efficiency and hydrogen storage, Katsuhiko Hirose and his team recently drove a fuel-cell Toyota Highlander from Osaka to Tokyo without refueling, a distance of 350 miles. That matches the single-tank range of most gasoline-powered cars and is a major improvement over earlier prototypes.

“We’ve got the systems engineering solved,” Mr. Hirose, general manager for fuel cell system engineering and development at Toyota, said. “This is close to a commercial vehicle.”

A brief test drive of this hydrogen-fueled Highlander at the company’s Higashi-Fuji Technical Center near Mount Fuji gave the impression that the goal of delivering a showroom-ready model is indeed tantalizingly close.

The Highlander, fitted with Toyota’s most recent fuel-cell advances, accelerated and handled indistinguishably from a gas-powered version, with none of the vibration typical of a piston engine. Saying the vehicle purrs vastly understates how smoothly it runs.
72 2007-11-04 These are not the best of times, fiscally speaking, in the great state of New Jersey. Years of irresponsible borrowing by legislators and governors of both political parties have confronted the state with billions and billions of dollars of debt. Unfunded pension costs alone are estimated to be more than $50 billion.

Even so, we urge voters to approve two major bond issues on their Election Day ballots. One would authorize the borrowing of $200 million to save some of what’s left of the state’s rapidly diminishing open space. The other would permit borrowing $450 million for stem cell research that, sadly, President Bush has prohibited the federal government from financing.

Of course we have misgivings. The state is in a terrible financial bind, which Gov. Jon Corzine, if not many of the legislators, freely acknowledges. But the open space and stem cells proposals address needs so compelling that they cannot be ignored.

The open space proposal is urgent. The state cannot postpone acquiring open space because in a few years there will be almost none left to buy. The stem cell proposal touches a moral issue. It is simply unconscionable not to provide money to study the possibility that embryonic stem cells could lead to cures for Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases, spinal injuries and other afflictions. With right-wing politics, abortion foes and religious zealots having successfully pressured the Bush administration not to underwrite research, states like California and New Jersey have no choice but to pick up some of the burden.

The open space bond issue is a watered-down version of an excellent proposal that would have authorized the state to borrow $175 million a year for the next decade to continue its highly successful — and popular — program for acquiring undeveloped land. Mr. Corzine blocked that plan, not because he did not like it, but because he wanted to straighten out the state’s fiscal mess first. He decided instead on a one-year, $200 million borrowing proposal as a stopgap.
73 2007-11-04 Larissa Cheney Brookes and Elizabeth Anne La Blanc were joined in a civil union on Thursday at Town Hall in Ridgewood, N.J. Philip F. Sheridan, a municipal judge there, officiated.

Ms. Brookes (above, left) and Ms. La Blanc met at Smith College, from which they graduated.

Ms. Brookes, 41, is a candidate for a master’s degree in library and information science at San Jose State University.

She is a daughter of Lidia and Robert L. Brookes Jr. of Miami. Her father is the president and chief executive of Eagle National Bank of Miami. He is the chairman of the board of trustees of the Miami Children’s Chorus in Coral Gables, Fla.

Ms. La Blanc, 43, is a staff lawyer in New York at the Environmental Protection Agency, where she specializes in issues regarding hazardous waste sites in New Jersey. She graduated cum laude from the University of California Hastings College of the Law.

She is a daughter of Betty and Robert E. La Blanc Sr. of New York. Her father is a telecommunications consultant in Ridgewood, N.J. He is a trustee of Manhattan College and is on the board of the Brooklyn Philharmonic. Her mother is a docent at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the American Museum of Natural History.
74 2007-11-04 Stephanie Lauren Crissy was married yesterday evening to David Matthew Rader. The Rev. Vic Willis, a Methodist minister, performed a nondenominational ceremony at the Breakers in Palm Beach, Fla.

Mrs. Rader, 25, is an associate in bond sales at Goldman Sachs in New York. She graduated magna cum laude from Duke.

She is the daughter of Susan Crissy and John B. Crissy of Indialantic, Fla.

Mr. Rader, 32, is an executive director in the proprietary trading group of JPMorgan Chase & Company; the group invests the company’s own capital in United States bond and derivatives markets. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania.

He is the son of Elizabeth Reese of Harleysville, Pa., and David Rader of Kingwood, Tex., and the stepson of Robbie Rader and Jack Reese.
75 2007-11-04 Portnoy came up with a number of modern desserts inspired by the flavors and ideas in Teddie’s apple cake — one involved walnuts, olives, an almond mousse and roasted quince; another black walnuts, dulce de leche and olive oil. But in the end, he settled on something much simpler that added complexity while still referencing the original recipe. He made what he calls a ‘‘soufflé crepe.’’

First, you caramelize apples in butter, thyme and a trace of sugar, browning them on the edges and cooking them until tender. Next, you blend together a thick batter seasoned with vanilla bean, cinnamon and allspice and lighten it with whipped egg whites. You reheat the apples with more butter in a skillet, pour in the batter and slip the skillet intothe oven, where the crepe rises magnificently.

Impressive as Portnoy’s creation looks, you don’t fully appreciate his ingenuity until you taste the crepe, which separates into three distinct layers. The browned cap is crisp like a waffle; the middle is dense with apples; the bottom is reminiscent of custard.

The crepe doesn’t last much longer than the time it takes to carry it to the table, but like the apple cake, it’s a one-pan wonder and can be made on the fly.

This recipe appeared in The Times in an article by Jean Hewitt.

3 cups flour, plus more for dusting pan

3 cups peeled, cored and thickly sliced tart apples, like Honeycrisp or Granny Smith

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter and flour a 9-inch tube pan. Beat the oil and sugar together in a mixer (fitted with a paddle attachment) while assembling the remaining ingredients. After about 5 minutes, add the eggs and beat until the mixture is creamy.

2. Sift together 3 cups of flour, the salt, cinnamon and baking soda. Stir into the batter. Add the vanilla, apples, walnuts and raisins and stir until combined.

3. Transfer the mixture to the prepared pan. Bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool in the pan before turning out. Serve at room temperature with vanilla ice cream, if desired. Serves 8.

By Boris Portnoy, the pastry chef at Campton Place in San Francisco.

Tart apples are particularly abundant this time of year. Portnoy used Granny Smith apples, but you can try this recipe with Empire, Macoun, Honeycrisp, Winesap or Pippin.

1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. In a 12-inch iron skillet, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter with the thyme sprigs over medium-high heat. Add the apples and brown on all sides until just tender when pierced with a fork, 10 to 15 minutes. Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of the sugar and cook, gently stirring, until the sugar dissolves and the apples caramelize, about 1 to 2 minutes more. Remove the thyme and set the apples aside. Wipe the skillet clean.

2. In a large bowl, whisk together the vanilla pod and seeds with the melted butter, egg yolks, 1/2 cup of the sugar, cinnamon, allspice, cake flour and a pinch of salt. Whisk in the milk until combined.

3. Whisk the egg whites with a pinch of salt, gradually adding the remaining 1/4 cup sugar. Whip to soft peaks, and then fold into the batter.

4. Melt the remaining 3 tablespoons butter in the clean skillet over medium-high heat, swirling the butter up the sides of the pan. When the butter is foamy, spread the sautéed apples in the pan, then pour in the batter. Transfer to the oven and bake uncovered until the center of crepe no longer wobbles when shaken, 20 to 25 minutes. Sift confectioners’ sugar on top, and if you like, serve with vanilla ice cream or crème fraîche. Serves 8 to 10.
76 2007-11-04 The museum planned several events to celebrate both anniversaries, including “Woof: Barking in Space,” performed by the avant-garde Belarusian puppeteer Yelena Zhelezov and Mr. Wilson’s daughter, DanRae; and screenings of “Kosmicheskiy Reis” (“Cosmic Voyage”), a 1935 film about a moon flight based on Tsiolkovsky’s predictions about living in space (it depicts a cat in a spaceship), and “Nash Vek” (“Our Century”), a poetic reinterpretation of the Soviet space effort made in 1983 by the Armenian filmmaker Artavazd Peleshyan.

Tucked into a small storefront on Venice Boulevard, the museum has been called a modern-day wunderkammer and is the subject of a 1995 book, “Mr. Wilson’s Cabinet of Wonders” (Pantheon), by Lawrence Weschler. In 2001 Mr. Wilson received a MacArthur Foundation “genius award” for his array of curious and awe-inducing exhibitions, which include dioramas and special effects that bring old wives’ tales and folk remedies to life; letters written in the early 20th century to astronomers at the nearby Mount Wilson Observatory; a homage to three ethnologists who documented cat’s cradles; and a collection of decaying dice donated by the magician Ricky Jay. There are all manner of miniatures, among them micromosaics of flowers made by Henry Dalton from butterfly wing scales and human hair sculptures fashioned within the eyes of needles by Hagop Sandaljian.

Some characterize Mr. Wilson as an artist and the museum as an elaborate conceptual artwork, but he strenuously rejects that notion. “We’re allergic to the A-word here,” he said. “Art doesn’t seem to have much bearing on what we do. It can be a limitation on a person.” Mr. Wilson said the place was “modeled on the history of the institution of the museum,” and many exhibitions comprise genuine historical artifacts. The rest are produced by him and staff artisans. Their subject matter can sometimes seem “strangely, wonderfully humorous,” as Mr. Wilson put it, “just because that’s the way the world is.”

The seed for the idea to commemorate the space dogs was sown by one of the museum’s diorama artists, M. A. Peers, who trains dogs and is known within the Los Angeles contemporary-art world for painting realist depictions of purebred dogs on upholstery fabric.

“In the mid-’90s,” Ms. Peers recalled via e-mail, “I initiated and developed a curatorial proposal for the museum about dogs, which included the Soviet space dogs. We were unable to secure funding, but the idea stuck, and as David got more obsessed with Russia, it re-emerged.”

Mr. Wilson’s first trip to Russia, in 1995, was to visit a microminiaturist, but while there he met Olesya Turkina, a contemporary-art curator at the State Russian Museum in St. Petersburg. Her father was once a professor at a military space academy in St. Petersburg, and she is a member of the Russian Space Federation (“for the cultural propaganda of cosmonauts,” as she put it).

To Mr. Wilson’s delight, her husband, the psychoanalyst Viktor Mazin, operates a very Jurassic-like institution: Freud’s Dream Museum in St. Petersburg. (“Both museums,” Ms. Turkina said in heavily accented English during a phone interview, “are dedicated to the knowledge that was left on the margins of our very much totalitarian societies.”)

Ms. Turkina became Mr. Wilson’s collaborator on an increasing number of Russian loans and projects. (She also stars in the two films that Mr. Wilson screens in the museum’s miniature 19th-century theater, one retelling the archetypal Russian story of Levsha, a prerevolutionary microminiaturist whose ingenuity comes to naught, and the other about the 19th-century Russian philosopher Nikolai Fyodorovich Fyodorov, who inspired Tsiolkovsky’s work.) Encouraged by her access to Soviet technological marvels, Mr. Wilson decided to memorialize the space dogs with portraits.

Ms. Peers began painting them in 2001. “For me it was the same as making a diorama for the museum,” she said in her e-mail. “They aren’t representative of my own painting practice, but were created with a sort of fictional persona.”

While her own dog portraits have an obvious Social Realist streak, for these she sought inspiration in old masters who depicted dogs, especially Velázquez and Gainsborough. “The space dogs,” she wrote, “gave me an opportunity to paint straight dog portraits without irony and rely on the Jurassic to provide the context.”

Soon that context will change, for Ms. Turkina is arranging to bring Laika and her confreres full circle. Sometime in 2008 the portraits will be shown at the Space Museum of St. Petersburg, which is housed in the laboratory where the first Soviet rockets were developed.

“It’s a chance to commemorate our common utopia,” Ms. Turkina said, adding: “They’re really very happy to have an exhibition devoted to the space dogs because the space dogs are legendary in Russia. They are real heroes. Nobody asked them if they would like to fly.”

Mr. Wilson finds a kind of poetic justice in the exchange. “The Russian people don’t need to be told how wonderful these animals were,” he said, “but we think it’s wonderful for them to understand they’re not alone in thinking so.”
77 2007-11-04 Dang! He’s surely entitled to such testosterone-fired praise, having led the Patriots to three Super Bowl victories. He is in the midst of an astonishing season with 30 touchdown passes and a 136.2 passer rating, considerably better than Manning’s 102.9.

And there he is staring at us from the print ad for the Movado Series 800 sports watches. He isn’t smoldering with fire; he isn’t even wearing a watch. He. Just. Stares. But you sense that he’d be extremely pleased if you bought one of his limited line of rugged sports watches ($2,500 for the stainless steel model and $20,000 for the rose gold version).

“It’s that look of intensity and focus on achieving his goals,” said Efraim Grinberg, the president and chief executive of Movado. (Derek Jeter also endorses Movado.) Mary Leach, Movado’s chief marketing officer added, “We’re trying to capture the image of an individual who conveys excellence and achievement.”

The Manning iconography would probably not feature a photo session at a California ranch where Brady was shot for Stetson with a model cuddling him or draped over him (wearing a tight T-shirt) in a sports car, or kicking the dirt like Adam Vinatieri.

But Brady dates a supermodel (Giselle Bündchen) and Manning has a wife (Ashley).

Would Namath have agreed to “take it all off” for Noxzema if he’d been married?

Brady’s agent, Donald Yee, said: “Tom’s a guy who’s really gratified to be able to enjoy his life and who does a good job of living in the present. So what he chooses to do or not do tends to evolve with his life in a natural way.”

Rich Eisen, the lead anchor of the NFL Network, said that Manning and Brady demonstrated their styles and personalities in their advertising. “Manning is more populist, and Brady comes across as more of a GQ, Canali-suit-wearing guy,” he said. “Peyton’s the one waving green flags at the Indy 500. He is probably more comfortable being a funny guy, and Tom is more comfortable as the ‘aw shucks’ quiet one behind the scenes.”

Brady last month signed with Glacéau, the maker of Smartwater, which he used as part of his training regimen before signing the deal. There are no ads yet (he will do a television commercial that shows scenes from his life), just an official color photograph showing him casually dressed, serenely clutching a bottle of the electrolyte-enriched water.

“Tom chose us, and he’s very conscious about who he partners with,” said Rohan Oza, the company’s senior vice president for marketing. “The brand is part of his life.”

Brady’s subdued commercial route (he sat quietly in a 2005 Visa commercial as his offensive line squabbled over the type of credit card protection they would provide) is fundamentally different from Manning’s. Manning is close to being the N.F.L.’s class clown, whether he is goofing around with his brother Eli and father, Archie, for DirecTV Sunday Ticket, plopping down with a family to watch a Sony HD TV or dispensing oddball pep talks about diets, aging, golf, haircuts and dating for MasterCard.

“Through his humor, being a family guy and his style of play, he is approachable and gives our brand a personality we couldn’t do on our own,” said Jeff Urban, a senior vice president of Gatorade, which has done about 15 commercials with Manning.

In the Sony ad, Manning (wearing his practice T-shirt and shorts) moves from the field to the television production truck and to a family’s house to demonstrate that Sony’s high definition TV’s are used by broadcasters and fans. As he enters the house, he looks as big as Gulliver and says, “Scoot over a bit” as he wedges himself onto a sofa.

“For Sony, he represents the pinnacle of football,” said Stuart Redsun, Sony’s senior corporate vice president for marketing. “He is authentic to the game.”

DirecTV has used him in its “fourth wall” campaign, in which he appears to interrupt a game in progress to pitch Sunday Ticket, and an ad in which he and Eli come home to witness Archie tutoring Matt Leinart, the left-handed quarterback he has coveted.

“Matt, he’s like family now,” says Archie, who watches his sons on DirecTV.

“DirecTV stands for the best TV experience available, and Peyton personifies the best,” said Jon Gieselman, a DirecTV spokesman. “He personifies our brand.”

Manning’s mainstream accessibility may soon be matched by Brady’s appeal, but Brady is for now the low-key guy’s guy (with a Movado on his wrist). Stetson’s Web site says such a man “is rugged, down to earth, competitive, fair-minded and honestly handsome.” He also “expresses the great American outdoors, freedom, confidence and masculinity.”

A tall order even for a guy with 30 touchdown passes.
78 2007-11-04 NEW YORK is not a hard place to find coffee: street vendors, delis and your own hotel room are among the prominent sources for the not very picky. And of course, there are plenty of cafes — engineered to sell social scenes and designer sandwiches as much as coffee — where you can kill a few hours. Apologies to the French, Spanish and Portuguese, but café — their word for coffee — has become associated as much with comfy chairs and the clickety-clack of laptops as with the beverage. But that's not what you need on your vacation. You need to get your quick caffeine fix in the most civilized way possible, then be on your way. You have a city to see.

At places like Zibetto, a seating-free, white-marble sliver of an Italian-style espresso bar in Midtown, what you get is not café, but caffè. That's what they call espresso on their tiny drinks menu, and the message seems simple enough: if you consider any other kind of coffee to be caffè, you can move on — say, to the cafe with the familiar green logo across the street. Or you stay: you get a fine $2 single espresso (er, caffè) with a lot of dark crema on top, perhaps a lemon or chocolate chip biscotto and three free minutes in Europe. Step outside, and you're back in New York.

Though it may be the Liechtenstein of storefronts, you might stumble upon Zibetto by chance, since it's right there on Avenue of the Americas. Many comparable places are hidden on side streets that offer cheaper rent, sometimes just around the corner from where Starbucks has paid top dollar not to be missed.

If Zibetto has a European feel, there couldn't be a more American feel than at Ninth Street Espresso, just off Avenue C in the East Village, near some great restaurants and nightspots like Esperanto and Baraza. (A new branch is now open inside Chelsea Market on Ninth Avenue.) The coffee menu is simple and serious (no special pumpkin flavors for fall), informing the fraction of customers who understand that espresso is served triple ristretto (three times the coffee grind packed into space for one). But this is a more American barista culture: informal but serious, knowledgeable but cranky. Don't ask for your espresso to go; not only will you not get it, you might get a lecture about why that's a terrible idea.

Closer to the action in the East Village is Mud Spot, the four-year-old offspring of the bright orange Mud Trucks seen at Astor Place and elsewhere around town. It's also a full-service brunch spot, but it keeps the coffee drinks rolling up front. Here, cappuccino lovers might do O.K., but pure espresso devotees will find a lack of crema — the foam cap that forms on a properly made espresso — in their drinks, which are ordered by the shot and served in small glass jars that would more suitably seem filled with lemonade and served with ribs.
79 2007-11-04 Indeed, a recent online search for flights from to over Thanksgiving week turned up a round-trip ticket in coach for $1,499 on Continental. For just $41 more, you could take the same flight in business, stretch out in a roomier “sleeper seat” and dine on a demitasse of morel mushroom soup accompanied by a grilled rosemary shrimp skewer and a beef empanada — just for the appetizer. A search for flights from New York to Rome on Air France in mid-December yielded a business-class ticket for $1,581, including tax. Almost unbelievably, that was cheaper than the coach fare for the same flight, which was listed at $2,363 (with tax) on the airline’s Web site.

By comparison, the walk-up fare for that Air France business-class seat, which connects in Paris, can bet $8,275. The walk-up fare from Houston to London can be close to $10,000.

Even if the discounted business-class ticket exceeds the price of coach, it can still be a bargain given all the extra space, amenities and services that come with a business-class ticket. Most airlines offer business-class passengers access to airline clubs, preboarding privileges and priority baggage handling — not to mention the onboard perks. Business-class seats on Air France, for example, convert into a flat and nearly horizontal bed. They also have a massage function. Other touches include warm washcloths and amenity kits with socks, a sleeping mask, toothbrush, toothpaste and earplugs.

The sale fares “are prime examples on how anyone can upgrade,” said Matthew J. Bennett, editor of , a new blog that offers strategies on using miles to upgrade and on booking upper-class seats for less. But, he points out, not all business-class seats are created equal. For example, Continental’s 777, which flies to London, has business-class seats that are 22 inches wide and recline 170 degrees. But Continental also flies 757s to London that have seats up front that are just 20 inches wide and recline 156 degrees. So it pays to check the aircraft when reserving a flight, Mr. Bennett said.

When searching for business-class bargains, it helps to have flexible dates, since the deepest discounts are offered on specific days. Continental’s Thanksgiving sale is for travel departing between Nov. 18 and 24 and returning Nov. 22 to 24 or Nov. 27 to 28. Air France’s discount business fares are valid for travelers departing Dec. 17 to Jan 4 and returning Dec. 22 to Jan. 9. Tickets must be booked by Dec. 5. And Lufthansa’s specials are only for departures Nov. 18 to 24 or Dec. 17 to Jan. 4, and must be purchased by Dec. 4.

MOST airline Web sites now let customers search for flights using flexible dates (it usually involves checking a box). Some major online travel agencies based in the , like Travelocity and , offer this option only for domestic flights. To search for international fares using flexible dates on a variety of airlines, customers can visit Travelocity’s -based affiliate .

You might also consider an all-business-class airline like Eos, which offers upper-class service for less. Start-ups like MAXJet and l’Avion have also been running holiday sales. MAXJet just extended a sale throughNov. 13 in which it's offering flights from New York to London starting at $998 round trip for travel through February. L'Avion, which plans to begin a Newark Paris route on Saturdays, starting Dec. 22, is offering an introductory round-trip fare of $1,412 until Dec. 30.

If you don’t find a cheap business-class fare right away, don’t give up. While fare sales can be fleeting, airline watchdogs expect to see more airlines slash prices for their upper-class seats before the year is out. Delta and United both offered last-minute sales last year, Mr. Brancatelli said, and he expects to see repeat offers later this year.

Keep in mind that there is a limited number of discounted seats. So if you spot a sale, act fast. And though cut-rate business-class fares offer all the usual onboard perks, they are almost always nonrefundable.

There’s another — potentially expensive — caveat to the business-class bargains. “If you’ve ever sat in premium class before,” Mr. Brancatelli said. “You never want to go back to coach.”
80 2007-11-04 The Dissenter...
81 2007-11-04 WEISSBART--Jo-Anne. We are deeply saddened by the death of Jo-Anne, our friend and former colleague. Our thoughts and prayers go out to her family and friends. Columbia University Office of the General Counsel WEISSBART--Jo-Anne/d, died unexpected...
82 2007-11-05 When the credit bubble popped this summer, many believed that the art bubble would burst as well. It was feared that as hedge fund managers felt the pain, so too would the auction houses. Before the troubles in the credit market appeared, there ha...
83 2007-11-05 Also in the Morning Buzz: the timing of M.T.A. fare increases, the mayor’s sharp tongue and the winners of the New York City marathon....
84 2007-11-05 Google’s Android software is meant to support cellphones of many shapes and sizes. It is wide open to any applications, but wireless carriers have the freedom to lock phones more tightly than even an iPhone....
85 2007-11-05 The Iraq war looms large, but a recent ABC News/Washington Post poll finds increasing concern about the economy....
86 2007-11-05 A college in Pennsylvania calls for campaign stop held on campuses to be open to the public, not just candidate supporters....
87 2007-11-05 Why pay a dividend if investors think you can't afford it? Citigroup today is trading at a dividend yield of 6 percent. On its Web site, Citibank offers the "ultimate savings account" paying 4.5 percent. That relationship speaks volumes about the ...
88 2007-11-05 BEA Systems may have rebuffed Oracle's $17 a share bid. But through a series of negotiating mistakes, it may have unwittingly put itself in a box. In one of the more bizarre maneuvers in the history of takeover defense, the software maker didn't j...
89 2007-11-05 ''Sure, there were issues, but if I have the same degree of success and failure as president of the United States, this country will be in great shape,'' Rudolph W. Giuliani said of Bernard B. Kerik....
90 2007-11-05 Terrorism experts agree that one of the most serious terrorist threats is an attack on a chemical plant. A chemical cloud released from such an attack could put hundreds of thousands of lives at risk. The Department of Homeland Security - which ha...
91 2007-11-05 Scanning the headlines on Monday reveals a blizzard of articles on Citigroup, IAC/InterActiveCorp and PetroChina. Decidedly less obvious is the fact that another hedge fund has gone public in the United States - even though it rang the opening bel...
92 2007-11-05 Rhode Island attracted a national spotlight recently when it repealed a disastrous, four-month-old law under which 17 year-old offenders were automatically tried as adults. Whom did this law throw into the adult system? A lot of young people who d...
93 2007-11-05 Singapore, striving to become the Switzerland of Asia, is gung-ho on hedge funds, The Deal.com reports. Leading the charge is the Singapore government, which has crafted regulations that both streamline the process for establishing funds and give ...
94 2007-11-05 The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said on Sunday it would sell a major part of its capital markets business in the United States to Oppenheimer Holdings as it focuses on its core operations. The businesses to be acquired by Oppenheimer employ...
95 2007-11-05 The shake-up gave rise to fears that other major banks will be forced to write down subprime-related assets, weighing down stocks in the financial sector.

Shares of Merrill Lynch, which may face an ethics investigation into its dealing with certain hedge funds, dropped 2.44 percent, to $55.88, a two-year low. Shares of Bear Stearns dipped 2.2 percent to $99.91, Credit Suisse dropped 2 percent, and Barclays fell 3.4 percent after the banks received downgrades from analysts. Bank of America, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley, and JPMorgan Chase also closed down.

Even Goldman Sachs, the only Wall Street brokerage firm to avoid a bout of write-downs in the third quarter, dropped nearly 5 percent to close at $218.39.

Problems at major banks can affect the ability of smaller businesses to borrow money, which is why the credit market is considered the basic bloodstream of the economy. Traders have been fearful that the problems on Wall Street will infect the broader economy, although employment levels and business growth remain strong.

Crude oil also dipped today, dropping $1.95, to $93.98 a barrel. Analysts said an easing of tensions between Turkey and Iraqi Kurds helped soothe investors’ concerns over geopolitical troubles, which tend to push up the price of oil.

But the average cost for a gallon of gasoline hit $3, a sign that upward pressures on energy prices have not abated. Some market watchers are expecting oil to surpass its all-time inflation-adjusted high of $101.70 a barrel this week.

Investors may also have been unnerved by remarks from Frederic S. Mishkin, governor of the New York Federal Reserve, who told a conference in New York that the Fed’s recent rate cut “could be removed” if the economy proves stronger than analysts expect. He allowed that the Fed “could have waited for more clarity” before making its decision last week, sending a signal to that additional rate cuts are far from guaranteed.

The uncertainty over financial write-downs overshadowed a spot of sunny economic news, as an October survey of restaurants, retailers, and other service businesses showed an uptick in growth. High overseas demand, buoyed by the weakened dollar, and more consumer spending bolstered activity in those businesses, according to the Institute for Supply Management. The group’s index rose to 55.8 from 54.8 in September; a reading above 50 indicates growth.
96 2007-11-05 A House Judiciary subcommittee was the site of a sad spectacle the other day: John Tanner, who heads the Justice Department’s voting section, trying to explain offensive, bigoted comments he made about minority voters. It was a shameful moment that crystallized the need for immediate steps to fight for the rights that Mr. Tanner has been working so hard to undermine.

The administration should, of course, fire Mr. Tanner. Congress should pass a bill to criminalize deceptive campaign practices. And it should reject a pending nominee to the Federal Election Commission, Hans von Spakovsky.

The Justice Department has a long history of protecting the voting rights of minorities. In the Bush administration, the department’s voting rights section has been taken over by ideologues most interested in denying the ballot to minorities, poor people and other groups likely to vote Democratic.

The Justice Department endorsed a Georgia law that would have required many voters to pay for voter IDs, a requirement that a federal judge rightly likened to a poll tax. Mr. Tanner said publicly that blacks are not hurt by ID requirements as much as whites because “they die first.” He was assuming that ID laws disadvantage elderly voters, because they are less likely to have driver’s licenses. And in Mr. Tanner’s world, blacks are likely to die before they become elderly.

As Representative Artur Davis, Democrat of Alabama, made clear in pointed questions, Mr. Tanner had no factual basis for making this claim. Mr. Davis noted that in Alabama, data from the 2004 election showed that blacks over 60 voted at a higher rate than whites over 60.

Mr. Tanner also suggested that black people are likely to have an ID because they need it when they go to check-cashing stores. Again, Mr. Davis showed that Mr. Tanner relied on stereotypes. Then a former employee of the voting section testified that Mr. Tanner regularly used “broad generalizations” and misused statistics.
97 2007-11-05 The testy exchange illustrated the misconceptions and frustrations on both sides as Congress and the White House lurched down the path that led to Mr. Bush’s veto of a bill that had bipartisan support.

For now, Mr. Bush has won the fight by rejecting a bill that he says would have vastly expanded the federal role in health care and covered some children whose families could afford private insurance. But Democrats say they have won because, in elections next year, they can portray Republicans as having neglected the needs of low-income children while pouring hundreds of billions of dollars into the Iraq war.

Missteps by each side made compromise impossible. Democrats say that Mr. Bush described the bill in wildly inaccurate terms, got bad advice from his staff and missed many opportunities to find common ground. Republicans say that Democrats misjudged the president; excluded House Republicans, who in the end were crucial, from negotiations; and aimed negative advertisements at the very members whose votes they needed to override a veto.

The bill symbolizes the inability of Mr. Bush and the new Democratic leaders of Congress to work together, but it also highlights the rift between Mr. Bush and members of his own party, including many who helped create the child health program 10 years ago.

Supporters of the bill have revised it, in an effort to address Republican concerns and pick up more Republican votes. But their efforts to satisfy the president have proved futile. They find themselves where they were in June, facing another veto.

The Senate on Thursday passed the revised version of the legislation, clearing the bill for the president, who said Congress was wasting time.

In the last four months the bill has changed substantially, but the criticism has not, and this frustrates lawmakers like Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, who said the president had been “given some pretty bad advice” by his staff.

Staff members who shaped the White House strategy include Allan B. Hubbard, director of the National Economic Council; Keith B. Hennessey, a former policy director for Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi; and Julie L. Goon, a special assistant to the president.

In an interview, Mr. Hubbard said his work on the bill had been extremely frustrating.

“I was told last January or February by Democrats that their game plan was to send the president a bill that was too big to swallow, and it would be a beautiful political issue for them,” Mr. Hubbard said.

From the start, said Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, administration officials viewed the debate in ideological terms, as “a center court match” pitting supporters of government-run health care against proponents of private health care markets.

Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, said White House officials “have never been helpful in the entire process.”

Representative Michael R. Turner, an Ohio Republican who voted for the bill, said, “The administration did not come forward with any real offer of a solution or a compromise that would break the logjam.” And the Democrats, Mr. Turner said, often seemed more interested in politics than in policy.

In June and early July, Mr. Bush denounced the legislation taking shape in Congress. This infuriated senators of both parties, who were still drafting the bill.

While the small group of senators was hashing out details of their bipartisan proposal, White House officials urged lawmakers to provide tax breaks for anyone buying private health insurance. Mr. Hubbard, a business school classmate of Mr. Bush’s, kept promoting this idea even after Senate Republican leaders told the White House the time was not ripe for this broader debate.

Senator Hatch tried to bring White House officials into the negotiations, believing their involvement would produce a better bill. But, lawmakers said, the administration did not want to discuss the child health program except as part of a broader discussion that included the president’s tax proposals.

In early June, the White House sent a message to Republicans saying the president hoped they would not cut a deal with Democrats. The White House predicted that Republicans would have more “negotiating leverage” in the fall. That appears to have been a miscalculation.

“I have zero impact on what the Democrats do,” Mr. Leavitt said last week.

By contrast, Mr. Grassley and Mr. Hatch maximized their influence by working with Democrats behind the scenes. They held the cost of the bill far below what Democrats originally wanted.

For their part, Democrats misjudged the president. When the Senate Finance Committee approved the child health bill in July by a vote of 17 to 4, Mr. Rockefeller said, “It’s not clear to me that the president has any intention of vetoing this,” because the political consequences could be disastrous.

Explaining why he vetoed it, Mr. Bush said “we weren’t dialed in” to the negotiations. But after checking their calendars, lawmakers said they and their aides had had more than 35 meetings and telephone conversations on the issue with Mr. Hubbard, Mr. Hennessey and Ms. Goon from January through September.

While Senate Republicans were deeply involved in writing the bill, House Republicans said they had been shut out.

On Oct. 25, just hours before the House took up the revised version of the child health bill, Democratic leaders met with several dozen House Republicans to seek their votes for the measure, which had just been introduced the day before.

“The Democrats were simply telling us what was in the bill,” said Representative Thelma Drake, Republican of Virginia. “There was no dialogue.”

Mrs. Drake added that “the Democrats refused to delay the vote because they had already purchased ads to be used against us in our districts.” Some of those have been directed against the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who is up for re-election next year.

“It’s hard to negotiate with somebody when they are shooting at you,” said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell.
98 2007-11-05 Gerald F. Joyce, a professor of chemistry and molecular biology at the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego, said in an interview that the book “lays out the experimental agenda for the entire problem of life on Earth,” an agenda that “remains relevant and that the field continues to pursue.”

Dr. Orgel later collaborated with Dr. Crick, his Nobel-winning colleague at Salk, in refining the provocative notion that the seeds of life may have indeed come from the reaches of space. The concept, known as directed panspermia, proposes that interstellar microorganisms, like spores and bacteria, may have been sown by a higher intelligence. The notion has both detractors and adherents, but for Dr. Orgel, it was part of a far-reaching investigation into life’s beginnings and the possibility of similar phenomena across galaxies.

In the 1970s, as part of that investigation, he assisted the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in analyzing the findings of the Viking missions to Mars. Dr. Orgel and others looked at the components of the soil on Mars and its capacity to support life.

His earliest research had been in the field of inorganic chemistry, in what amounted to a separate scientific career. As a young scientist, Dr. Orgel studied the molecular structure and bonding of metals and wrote an influential textbook, “An Introduction to Transition-metal Chemistry: Ligand Field Theory” (1960).

Leslie Eleazer Orgel was born in London. He received his undergraduate degree and doctorate from Oxford University, where he studied chemistry.

After conducting research at Cambridge, the University of Chicago and the California Institute of Technology, he joined Salk’s Chemical Evolution Laboratory. Although he was officially retired, Dr. Orgel continued his research until several weeks ago.

In 1990, he was named a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He was also a fellow of the Royal Society. He became an American citizen in the 1980s.

He is survived by his wife, Dr. Alice Orgel, an allergist and former member of the faculty at the University of California, San Diego. The couple lived in the La Jolla section of the city.

Dr. Orgel is also survived by a daughter, Vivienne of Santa Cruz, Calif.; two sons, Richard, of Chula Vista, Calif., and Robert, of Lincoln, Mass.; a sister, Delia Weiss of Silver Spring, Md.; and by five grandchildren.

Writing in the journal Nature in 2006, Dr. Orgel reflected on his quest to comprehend the 4.5 billion years of life on Earth, a history that he described as “chaotic intellectual territory.”

Beyond the rudimentary timeline, he said, “almost everything else about the origin of life remains obscure.”

He added that only further and more penetrating research could reveal “the detailed steps that led from unconstrained abiotic chemistry to the organized complexity of biochemistry.”
99 2007-11-05 “It is better to ask for an apology than for permission. The time for a decision has come.”

Much hangs on the future of this small, bedraggled piece of Balkan real estate. It has become a proxy in relations between the United States and Russia as well as a test of Europe’s ability to conduct a united foreign policy.

In the absence of an agreement, analysts say, it is likely that Kosovo will declare independence, and de facto partition will take place, with its Serbian enclaves breaking away and joining Serbia.

Kosovo’s willingness to put off independence for a few more weeks may give the world some limited diplomatic breathing room. But Mr. Ceku said a diplomatic solution with Belgrade seemed hopeless.

On Monday, he will go to Vienna for the latest round of negotiations with Serbia, which is willing to grant Kosovo greater autonomy but is vehemently against its independence. He said the talks, mediated by the United States, the European Union and Russia, were going nowhere because Serbia, backed by Moscow, was intent on obfuscation and delay.

“We are talking to Belgrade, but there is no point we can agree on — nothing is going to change between now and Dec. 10,” he said. “Expectations for independence are very high. People here are becoming frustrated. They are tired of waiting.”

Mr. Ceku stressed his faith that United States — celebrated here with a Bill Clinton Boulevard and with a Statue of Liberty replica atop Pristina’s Victory Hotel — would deliver on its promises to help achieve independence. He said he expected the United States, along with Britain, France and Germany, to coordinate recognizing an independent Kosovo.

But aides said he was privately becoming disillusioned after the United States had repeatedly proposed dates for independence, only to withdraw them. At the same time, several European Union member nations — including Greece, Cyprus, and Romania — oppose recognizing Kosovo without an agreement from the United Nations Security Council.

“Some of them lack the courage,” Mr. Ceku said.

With the United States distracted and the Europeans divided, fears are growing here that frustration among Kosovo’s majority ethnic Albanian population and its minority Serbs could boil over into violence. The hoarding of smuggled guns in homes across Kosovo remains an open secret.

In Pristina’s bustling cafes, some Albanians talk ominously of Kosovo becoming a “Balkan Gaza” if the December deadline passes with no resolution. In Kosovo’s Serbian enclaves, Serbs invoke March 2004, when rioting broke out and Albanian mobs attacked Serbs, killing 19 people and wounding hundreds more, and burned Serbian homes.

Mr. Ceku was adamant that Serbs in Kosovo were not at risk and that tempers could be kept at bay. Many analysts here agree that Albanians are far more focused on independence than on a perceived threat from local Serbs, who make up about 6 percent of Kosovo’s overall population. They contend that Albanians also realize that any recourse to violence would significantly undermine international sympathy for their independence goal.

Still, Mr. Ceku blamed Serbia for stoking tensions by vowing to cancel the agreement that ended the 1999 war if the West recognized a unilateral declaration of independence by Kosovo. He said he did not expect Serbia to take military action if Kosovo declared independence, but, as a former military man, he was not ruling it out. He expressed frustration that officials in Belgrade were telling Kosovo’s Serbs to boycott Kosovo parliamentary elections on Nov. 17.

“Belgrade is telling people they are in danger,” he said. “They are trying to create uncertainty and to delay. But as soon as we declare our independence, the game is over.” He added: “Nothing bad is going to happen to Serbs. We are committed to being a multiethnic democracy.”

Mr. Ceku, a soldier in the army of the former Yugoslavia and a former rebel general accused of war crimes by Serbia, may seem an unlikely champion for reconciliation.

In May 1999, at the war’s height, a group of Serbian paramilitary soldiers and police officers arrived in Qyshk, his home village in western Kosovo, found his family’s house, and shot his 69-year-old father, Hasan, before setting the body on fire and shooting the rest of the village’s men, according to an account Mr. Ceku told to his aides.

But Mr. Ceku, who seldom mentions the attack, said that the people of Kosovo of all creeds needed to put the past behind them. Shortly after becoming prime minister, he was criticized by some Albanian nationalists after he addressed the Parliament in Serbian and appealed to Kosovo’s Serbs to help build the new Kosovo. Mr. Ceku, whose wife is half-Serbian, said Kosovo’s new Constitution, like America’s, would bestow universal rights on all its citizens.

“I was invited to make this place better, not to make revenge.” He added: “A winner has to be generous to the losers after a war. It is in a soldier’s moral code.”

Some critics here, though, said that Mr. Ceku, long considered a hero, was losing credibility.

“Everybody loved him when he was a brave general, but now he looks out of place in his suit and tie,” said Linda Gusia, 30, a sociology lecturer and radio host. “No one trusts our leaders anymore because they have promised independence and every deadline has passed.”

Albin Kurti, 31, a former student leader who is under house arrest in Pristina for organizing demonstrations against what he calls the United Nations “occupation,” went even further. He called Mr. Ceku a “puppet” who was allowing the United Nations and the west to turn Kosovo into a colonial outpost.

He said that Mr. Ceku could not deliver independence since, even if Kosovo unilaterally declared independence in December, it would still be deemed illegal by the United Nations, where Russia has vetoed a plan for internationally supervised self-rule. “Let the people decide,” Mr. Kurti said.

Mr. Ceku, who is not running in upcoming elections, retorted that he was fighting for the people of Kosovo. He acknowledged, however, that politics had turned out to be far messier than even the toughest military battles.

“Getting to independence is my mission,” he said. “But being in the military was easier than this. There is no order in politics.”
100 2007-11-05 “Why are these corporations making these images normative and mainstream?” asked Mr. Coates, 34, a pastor of the Mount Ennon Baptist Church in Clinton, Md. “I can talk about this in the church until I am blue in the face, but we need to take it outside.”

The rallies are taking place as civil rights leaders, cultural critics and others use the moment to debate how to represent the diversity of black life while minimizing offensive words and images. A big issue is the distinction between standards and censorship. Some charge that what Enough Is Enough does is censorship.

BET sponsored a town-hall-like forum on the cultural impact of rap, which turned into a three-part television program in September called “Hip-Hop vs. America.” It began the same day as the Congressional hearing “From Imus to Industry: The Business of Stereotypes and Degrading Images,” called by Representative Bobby L. Rush, Democrat of Illinois. It included performers, scholars and activists, as well as Mr. Dauman and media executives.

The N.A.A.C.P. and the National Congress of Black Women are among the groups campaigning for more corporate responsibility for the music and images in videos and on television. Ms. Lee of BET also met recently with women from Spelman College in Atlanta, and with groups of ministers to hear their concerns.

“The campaign is not anti-BET campaign nor an anti hip-hop campaign,” Mr. Coates said, but a broader attack on damaging stereotypes. Viacom has been the first target because of its visibility, he said, and because BET is the premier channel for black content.

Viacom’s standards for language and images already prohibit some of the most common racial and gender slurs, gang symbols, gratuitous violence and drug use in music videos, said a spokeswoman, Kelly McAndrew. A statement from Viacom said in part the company was “concerned about negative portrayals of African-Americans in the media” and takes a “positive pro-active approach” with programming that respects freedom of expression and serves an audience with diverse interests. On its Web site (enoughisenoughcampaign.com) Enough Is Enough says it wants companies to develop standards that include prohibitions on: racial and sexual slurs; the promotion of illegal activity like drug use; as well as content that “objectifies, degrades, or promotes violence against women” or shows black and Latino men as pimps or gangsters.

Critics of Enough Is Enough see its efforts as plain old censorship of a musical genre that has long been scapegoated. In recent years many groups, like the Hip Hop Summit Action Network, started by the music executive Russell Simmons, have worked with rap artists on issues of language and social responsibility.

“Standards is a coded way of exerting control on free expression,” said Todd Boyd, a professor of critical studies at the School of Cinematic Arts at University of Southern California. “People are less interested in broad representation than in hand-picking the images they approve of.”

Julian Bond, the chairman of the N.A.A.C.P., said in an interview that he applauded Mr. Coates and defended him against critics like Courtland Milloy, a Washington Post columnist who called Enough Is Enough’s methods “Taliban-ing.”

“I believe everything is permissible in speech and imagery,” Mr. Bond said. “It doesn’t mean that I can’t object to it.” In a still-segregated society, he said, people often get their ideas about other groups from what they read, see and hear.

Ms. Lee said she understood how fraught the question of black representation could be.

“We have different segments of our community,” she said. “People want to see different things.” The 27-year-old BET, which reaches about 85 million households, has long been criticized for showing raunchy music videos and a narrow view of black life. This year it began to widen its scope with new shows intended to offer a broader look at black life, including contests for gospel singers and a reality show about affluent teenagers.

Ms. Lee met recently with Mr. Coates and said she remained baffled by what it would take for him to end the rallies. “What I took away from it, he wants to program the network,” she said.

“Rev. Coates is not the final arbiter of taste in the black community,” she added.

Mr. Coates said that Viacom was not upholding its own standards and that the rallies would continue until his group can see results.

Gina McCauley, a lawyer who used her site WhatAboutOurDaughters.blogspot.com to help force a name change for the BET program “Hot Ghetto Mess” (to “We Got to Do Better”), agreed that Mr. Coates had not articulated “an endgame to proclaim victory.” She said she had heard from people who didn’t like the idea of marchers outside Ms. Lee’s home. But Enough Is Enough, she said, has tapped a hip-hop generation’s rage about negative media images.

“I’m just glad people are mobilizing,” said Ms. McCauley, 31, who lives in Austin, Tex.

The Enough Is Enough leaders in New York — the Rev. DeQuincy M. Hentz, 33, pastor of Shiloh Baptist Church in New Rochelle, and the Rev. Roger Williams, 39, pastor of First Baptist Church in Glen Cove, N.Y. — said they saw a long battle ahead.

“We’ll be out here every Saturday for the duration. I think people like Philippe Dauman and Debra Lee are waiting to see how serious we are,” Mr. Williams said on Saturday, as he alternated leading chants and quietly handing out literature to passersby who asked about the rally. “They’ll see.”
101 2007-11-05 One contestant painstakingly made a model of the Starship Enterprise out of an ear of corn, a stalk of celery, an eggplant, a mushroom and other vegetables. Another turned a half-shelled peapod into the hull of a ship. Several contestants made real potatoes into Mr. Potato Head-type creations.

And all of them waited and waited, while Morningstar Farms, a vegetarian food division of the Kellogg Company, blew one deadline after another for announcing a contest winner.

Then some of them got angry. Morningstar Farms, which makes meatless versions of burgers and corn dogs and the like, had set a June 27 deadline for submissions to its “Veggie Creations” contest and promised to award prizes of up to $10,600. The contest rules originally said that judging would happen around July 16, and a Web site for the contest (seeveggiesdifferently.com) still says that winners will be announced around Aug. 15, which was well over two months ago.

“What’s up with the contest? Are they still accepting entries?,” one person wrote on the contest’s MySpace page on Aug. 22. “Either management is hiding something again or the contest has been extended.”

“I don’t mind losing, but I do mind a game being played on me,” said Nancy Kevorkian, a contestant who complained in online forums, to the company and even to the Michigan state attorney general.

Another contestant, Sandra Pelletier, said in an e-mail message Friday, “I wish now that I never wasted my time at seeveggiesdifferently. This is NOT the way to run a contest that solicits passion and creativity from the entrants.”
102 2007-11-05 The trial’s results are promising and could clear the way for prasugrel to gain regulatory approval, according to Dr. Steven Nissen, the chairman of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, who said he had been a consultant to Lilly on other drugs but not on prasugrel.

“There is a safety price to be paid,” Dr. Nissen said, “but I think for the majority of our patients, the benefits look like they’re going to exceed the increased risk.”

But Dr. Tim Anderson, a former emergency room doctor who is now a drug industry analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said he thought that regulators and doctors would be skeptical of prasugrel.

“Prasugrel might get approved, but I see it as more of a niche-type product,” he said. “Better efficacy and higher bleeding, including fatal bleeding — it’s a question mark, a serious question mark, both regulatory and commercial.”

If prasugrel is approved, worldwide sales may reach about $1.6 billion a year by 2012, Dr. Anderson said. Lilly’s share of that would be about $800 million, which would represent about 5 percent of the company’s annual sales. With or without prasugrel, Lilly’s near-term drug pipeline is relatively weak, although the company recently reported positive trial results from a long-acting version of Byetta, its injectable diabetes treatment.

Lilly and Daiichi Sankyo also said Sunday that they will begin a new clinical trial for prasugrel next year. The trial will compare prasugrel and Plavix in 10,000 patients who have heart disease but are not receiving angioplasty.

Before the report in The New England Journal, some industry analysts and scientists had anticipated that prasugrel would fail the trial, in part because Lilly halted two other small trials of the drug last month with only a vague explanation.

The journal released the results to coincide with a presentation at a conference of the American Heart Association, which began here on Sunday.

Like Plavix, which has annual sales of $7 billion, prasugrel blocks the ability of platelets in the blood to form clumps that can cause heart attacks. But that benefit comes with a side effect. Both drugs can also increase the risk of bleeding, causing problems from nosebleeds to fatal strokes.

The trial showed that younger, healthier patients seemed to benefit most from prasugrel. Older and sicker patients were more likely to have severe bleeding while taking the drug.

Because there was a clear split between the two groups, doctors will have a relatively good idea of which patients should receive prasugrel, Dr. Nissen said.

“You can’t give this drug to older, frail individuals, and you shouldn’t,” he said.

In an editorial in the journal accompanying the findings, Dr. Deepak L. Bhatt wrote that “in carefully selected patients, prasugrel may be an advance in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome.”

But Lilly and Sankyo have known for years that prasugrel faces commercial hurdles, because Plavix will lose patent protection in the United States as early as 2011 and in most of Europe by 2013. That would open the door to low-price generic versions of Plavix, and make sales potentially more difficult for the Lilly-Sankyo drug. Insurers and patients are increasingly resisting new and expensive drugs unless they show meaningful health advantages over generics.

As a result, Lilly set a high bar in the trial’s design, trying to prove that prasugrel could reduce cardiac deaths, heart attacks and strokes compared with Plavix. And prasugrel succeeded.

Patients who received it had a 10 percent chance of having one of those problems, compared with a 12 percent chance if they received Plavix — a risk reduction of 19 percent, the study said. That difference was statistically significant, meaning it was not due to chance but to a real difference between the drugs.

For heart attacks alone, the difference was even greater, with prasugrel patients 24 percent less likely to suffer a heart attack. Over all, patients taking prasugrel had 138 fewer cardiac problems than those on Plavix.

But patients also had a 2.4 percent chance of having a major bleeding episode on prasugrel, compared with 1.8 percent chance on Plavix —a 32 percent difference against prasugrel. And they had a 0.4 percent chance of suffering fatal bleeding on prasugrel, compared with a 0.1 percent chance on Plavix. Over all, 35 additional patients taking prasugrel suffered from severe bleeding compared with those taking Plavix.

Looking at patients’ deaths alone, the higher bleeding deaths and reduction in cardiac deaths almost exactly canceled each other out, Dr. Bhatt wrote. He compared the risk of bleeding and heart attack to the perils of Scylla and Charybdis, the legendary monsters who threatened sailors in Greek mythology.

“There is a price to pay for greater platelet inhibition,” he wrote.
103 2007-11-05 It was a violent campaign, with dozens of killings suspected of being politically motivated. And voters were conflicted, as shown in polls putting Mr. Pérez Molina, 56, a neophyte politician, neck and neck with Mr. Colom, also 56, who was in his third bid for the presidency. Mr. Colom will take over from President Óscar Berger on Jan. 14.

“It is incredible to me that a general was even running,” said Rigoberta Menchú, who won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1992 for drawing attention to Guatemala’s civil war.

After suffering through decades of civil war and military dictatorship, Guatemala, a nation of about 13 million, found supposed peace with the signing of a 1996 accord. Mr. Pérez Molina was one of the signatories as a representative of the army; he billed himself the “general of peace.”

On Sunday night he acknowledged his electoral defeat but vowed to continue to press his case politically as “a constructive opposition,” The Associated Press reported.

But with more than 5,000 killings so far this year — one of the highest murder rates in Latin America — the country today is anything but peaceful, with drug traffickers, gang members and other outlaws acting with impunity. Guatemala is considered a major transit route for cocaine going from Colombia to the United States, and traffickers have infiltrated the country’s military, police and justice system.

“Guatemala is in dire shape today, with extreme poverty, failing institutions and ruthless mafias that have been growing virtually unchecked for over a decade,” said Daniel Wilkinson, deputy director for the Americas at Human Rights Watch, a New York-based group.

That is the country the new president will inherit. Mr. Pérez Molina had vowed to take on delinquents with a “mano dura,” or firm hand, and his ads showed him raising a clenched fist.

Mr. Colom, who directed the National Fund for Peace, a government development agency, countered that confronting violence with violence was shortsighted.

“We had a firm hand for 50 years and it caused more than 250,000 victims in a dirty war,” said Mr. Colom, who lost several relatives during the war.

Instead Mr. Colom spoke of creating jobs and addressing the country’s dire poverty, especially among its indigenous communities.

Dr. Rafael Espada, Mr. Colom’s vice presidential candidate, said that a victory by Mr. Pérez Molina would have been a blow to the country’s fragile democracy.

“I can’t live with another military regime in Guatemala,” he said, referring to the possible election of Mr. Pérez Molina. “His job was to kill people. Now he says he has no blood on his hands.”
104 2007-11-05 But all these efforts eventually came undone, often at a serious human cost.

Twenty years later, the city’s ambitious undertaking to improve foster care for the city’s black and Latino children has spanned four mayoral administrations and consumed hundreds of millions of dollars in city, state and federal money. The New York Times spent months examining the investment in minority-run agencies — what once seemed a bold and overdue shift in one of the most challenging areas of social policy.

It is as much a story of trouble as of triumph. The Miracle Makers Inc. of , which swiftly grew into one of the largest of the minority agencies, was banished from foster care in 2005 after years of poor performance that shortchanged children. Two other minority agencies, responsible for hundreds of children, were shuttered and their officials convicted of stealing money. Another closed after city investigators found that agency staff members were giving jobs and contracts to relatives.

Children with St. Christopher’s, city records show, were abused or neglected at disturbing rates. Family Court judges and lawyers cited the agency for years for ineptitude in handling children’s cases. In 2002, St. Christopher’s got so few children adopted that the city gave it a grade of zero in its performance scoring system.

And from 1999 to 2005, seven children whose families had been involved with St. Christopher’s wound up dead. While city and state investigators did not fault the agency directly in each death, in every case they linked agency personnel to a chain of failures and oversights in protecting the children — a discouraging record even for the perilous world of foster care.

Through much of this, though, Mr. Medina maintained the public image of an innovator and a maverick, leading a new, more sensitive effort meant to serve the city’s black and Latino children. His agency was sent thousands of children by the city. He was given grants by major child welfare foundations. He traveled the country preaching the virtues of his ideology.

In the end, though, the problems at St. Christopher’s, combined with the troubles at Miracle Makers, helped put the entire experiment with minority agencies at risk. In 2005, with the foster care population falling, the city placed the nine private foster care agencies with the lowest performance records on notice that they might be closed.

Six of the nine on the review list were minority-run. Had officials closed them, the city, whose foster children were almost entirely black and Latino, would have been left with just two minority agencies.

The agencies, and their political supporters, resisted. They argued that they had faced financial obstacles others had not. And the white-run agencies had experienced their share of painful scandals, as well.

Ultimately, city child welfare officials said they became convinced that a number of the remaining minority agencies were showing improvement, and so today, seven minority foster care agencies are handling some 2,400 children, or about 14 percent of the city’s foster care population, with the city promising better oversight and assistance.

At least one of those agencies, the Coalition for Hispanic Family Services, has a solid reputation earned over many years.

For St. Christopher’s, though, the end came in 2005, when the city canceled its foster care contracts. City investigators found that workers at the agency had doctored case files for children in its care — forging signatures and inserting made-up notations about whether foster homes had been inspected for , or whether children were receiving things as basic as clothing.

“There has been a breach of faith by St. Christopher’s,” said John B. Mattingly, the commissioner of the city’s .

One of the painful truths of child welfare work is that the best agencies can make terrible mistakes. Children can be killed while under the care of organizations with decades of experience and multimillion-dollar endowments. No agency has ever been perfect.

Since the embarrassment at St. Christopher’s, several people involved in the movement to create and finance minority foster care agencies have portrayed Mr. Medina as an opportunist who capitalized on a popular philosophy but never established reliable roots in the neighborhoods he sought to serve. Mr. Medina and two former board members now say that the city had not formally regarded St. Christopher’s as a minority agency, and that it was “open to question” whether it was fair to group it with the others.

A senior city official, though, said that during Mr. Medina’s tenure, the city indeed considered St. Christopher’s a minority agency. The official said what mattered most about minority agencies were their executive directors, and the values they espoused. The official had admired Mr. Medina, and said what happened at St. Christopher’s was heartbreaking.

It is clear, then, that the power of the collapse of Mr. Medina’s dreams — and those of the failed minority agencies — is a consequence of the promise they held: to be better and more committed in caring for the vulnerable families in their own communities.

Mr. Medina resigned in 2005, having received $500,000 in deferred and other compensation approved by his board of directors. Mr. Medina, who was not implicated by the authorities in the records scandal, spent parts of the next two years in , as a handful of his colleagues pleaded guilty in the fraud.

For months, Mr. Medina, who has since returned to the , would not be interviewed by The Times. Recently, he agreed to address some of what happened at St. Christopher’s. He argued that much good work had been done for poor minority families, and he said the city was also responsible for much of what had gone wrong.

The Times’s examination found that the city made numerous missteps over the two decades — allowing agencies like St. Christopher’s to grow too fast, and failing to adequately finance and oversee their operations.

Mr. Medina, though, also conceded his own failings, and was blunt about what had become of his larger ambitions, and his attempt to give race a vital role in the experiments tried at St. Christopher’s.

“We did little to change foster care,” he said.

St. Christopher’s, based in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., was very much the traditional New York foster care agency. Founded in 1881, it had taken in at-risk children for more than a century and raised them on or near its campus of stately stone buildings in Westchester County.

Its decision to hire Luis Medina in 1991, then, was a jolting break from the past. And Mr. Medina underscored the tenor of the agency’s new future early on: He ordered the pictures of white children at the agency’s administrative office taken down and replaced with pictures of black and Latino children.

It was a gesture worthy of the moment.

Tensions had been growing for years in the city’s black and Latino neighborhoods as the foster care system became overwhelmingly filled with their children, and the agencies charged with caring for them continued to be led by white men and women. The agencies — typically Roman Catholic or Jewish — had long been accused of neglecting minority children, even refusing help of any kind to some of them. The children were often placed in homes far from their parents or with foster parents who did not even speak their language.

The tensions only worsened in the late 1980s and early ’90s as the crack epidemic sent tens of thousands of additional children into foster care, nearly all of them black or Latino. Overwhelmed, the foster care system began to fail. Newborn babies were left in ; children who had been removed from their homes for their own safety were made to sleep in city offices for nights on end; those who made it into foster homes regularly became lost in a netherworld of bureaucratic indolence.

Over those years, the average stay for a child in foster care in New York City doubled — to four years.

An idea about one new way forward emerged. Foster care agencies would be created that would be run by people who looked like, and shared the culture of, the children in their care.

The new effort was something of a bow to the politics of the time, and in New York it got a boost when became the city’s first black mayor in 1990. To run the city’s distressed child welfare system, Mr. Dinkins appointed Robert Little, a former foster child himself and a brother of Malcolm X.

Mr. Little made no secret of his disdain for the way the dozens of agencies in the city had treated minority families: He charged that those agencies, in their haste to take black and Latino children from their parents, had failed to be sensitive to a wide variety of social, cultural and racial considerations in a way that had effectively written off hope for minority families.

Starting in the late 1980s, the city and the state provided start-up grants to new minority enterprises; over the years, it awarded those agencies and others that came into existence multimillion-dollar contracts to shelter and protect children. Some of the new agencies grew out of small churches; others sprang from nothing but a proposal by a dedicated community activist.

And in one case, St. Christopher’s, a veteran agency began to remake itself through a single act: the hiring of Luis Medina.

In many ways, Mr. Medina seemed a perfect kind of new leader. He was born to Puerto Rican parents in the in 1950. The family was poor — his father mopped floors for a living — and bounced from the Bronx to Brooklyn. His mother eventually began taking in foster children for extra cash.

Mr. Medina’s mother quickly developed a little family secret: She let the natural parents visit their children in her home, a violation of accepted policy. She did it out of good intentions and a kinship with other struggling parents. Mr. Medina said he came to know the parents as aunts and uncles, imperfect but good-hearted people who had been misunderstood by the city’s child welfare authorities.

It made sense, then, that by the time Mr. Medina got his first job in foster care in the 1970s he was committed to the idea that minorities should be caring for their own. At St. Joseph’s Children’s Services, a Catholic agency in Brooklyn, an experiment in its Williamsburg office had produced a staff that was almost exclusively Latino. But that was not enough for Mr. Medina.

“He felt if you weren’t Hispanic, you couldn’t understand the culture,” said Bruce Henry, who was the white director of the Williamsburg center. “He was constantly telling me that because I am not Hispanic I had no idea how to run the program.”

Once at St. Christopher’s, Mr. Medina was in a position to put his philosophy in place. For some members of the board of directors, Mr. Medina represented a thrilling opportunity to right past wrongs.

“Luis was very impassioned,” said one board member, Dr. Elizabeth A. Wedemeyer. “And there was a lot of excitement because he was a minority leader in foster care, and that was something new.”

Some initial years of distinctive success left Mr. Medina well positioned for what came next.

In 1996, stung by the gruesome death of a young Latino girl, Mayor committed to a total reorganization of the city’s child welfare system. By 1997, the city had come up with a reform plan that benefited the minority agencies that were in the city’s poorest neighborhoods. Mr. Medina had served on a panel that shaped the reform plan.

As it moved forward with the plan, the city publicly committed to better monitoring the work of its foster care agencies.

St. Christopher’s opened two offices in the Bronx and another in . It won enormous contracts to care for greater numbers of children. Mr. Medina added black and Latino managers to run his programs, and pulled the agency out of the association that lobbied on behalf of foster care agencies; he said the foster care system felt like some version of “apartheid.”

And his salary rose significantly, climbing by tens of thousands of dollars a year — by the end his compensation package had topped $300,000 annually — and approved by a board that did not do written performance reviews.

“Our goal is to be the biggest agency in New York,” he told his staff.

But Mr. Medina’s fierce ideology began to divide that staff. By the fall of 1998, senior staff members had begun to express doubts about what was happening at the agency. Some left.

One of those was Jeremy Kohomban, who had been in management positions at St. Christopher’s for nearly a decade. In an interview, he said he had been blunt with a city official about his fears.

“I told him Luis has gone mad,” Mr. Kohomban recalled.

When the police opened the door at 40A Smith Terrace on , the scene was shocking. Three-year-old Victoria Brailey — emaciated, lesions circling her scalp — stood in her crib, mere feet from a corpse. It was her foster mother.

The woman, Rosalyn Summers, had been strangled by her boyfriend, and the child had been with the body overnight, police reports said. In fact, Victoria was found only because the murderer himself had called the authorities. He had been moved to act, he said in a statement, by the child’s cries.

But it was more than an ugly crime scene that day in September 1999. It also represented a failure by Mr. Medina’s agency to make good on one of his most basic philosophical beliefs about how black and Latino children could be kept safe.

Mr. Medina had argued that the benefits of recruiting local foster parents were numerous: They would be better able to keep children in familiar surroundings — in their schools, for example, or their churches. And the foster parents themselves would be easier to monitor for agency caseworkers stationed at nearby offices.

But Ms. Summers, it turned out, lived in an apartment miles from Victoria’s Brooklyn neighborhood. She was a drug addict and onetime panhandler, records show, who beat and starved the child. Neighbors had called in reports of beatings and drug use. But Mr. Medina’s caseworker noted nothing of this.

The idea of recruiting foster parents from the same neighborhoods as the children coming under their care had been a central aim of the city’s new minority agencies. Mr. Medina had underscored the virtues of the goal to city officials when he was on the panel in 1996.

“He was a brilliant advocate for his community,” said , who was then commissioner of the city’s Administration for Children’s Services.

And so in 1997, the city began rolling out its plan to place foster care operations directly into the neediest neighborhoods. Although he had opened his first office in the South Bronx only a year earlier, Mr. Medina landed a $26 million two-year deal that would put more than 1,300 children under his agency’s care — hundreds more than it had before.

But almost from the start, records and interviews show, Mr. Medina’s promise to identify and enlist a network of local, responsible foster parents foundered.

Eventually, Mr. Medina did something that seemed to undermine his operating principle: He turned over nearly all responsibility for recruiting new foster parents to an outside firm — based in .

Mr. Medina said he was merely trying to reach the widest universe of potential foster parents. And he insisted that his agency vetted and trained all the new recruits.

Still, Mr. Medina’s reliance on the New Jersey firm, Marketing Dynamics, struck the firm’s president as extraordinary. “They depended almost exclusively on us,” said the president, David Schild. “They did not do their own recruitment.”

And in time, according to city records, Mr. Medina’s agency struggled to complete the most fundamental steps for ensuring that its hundreds of new foster homes maintained acceptable levels of care and safety. The city’s evaluations of Mr. Medina’s agency showed that in 2000 and 2001 it was among the worst in the city at performing annual reviews of its foster homes.

In its response to the city, the agency admitted why: It had only two employees to recertify more than 900 foster homes.

From 2001 to 2003, the city ranked St. Christopher’s below the average for some 40 agencies in confirmed cases of abuse and neglect in its foster homes. Those statistics — in 2001, St. Christopher’s finished as the fourth-worst in the city — captured a variety of harm being done to children. Some were dying.

Shantel Lisby was 11 months old when she died of a cocaine overdose in her foster mother’s apartment in Brooklyn, blood seeping from her mouth. The drugs had been left in the open, probably by the foster mother’s boyfriend, a drug dealer. State investigators could not find records of how often Mr. Medina’s caseworkers had visited the home.

Two former members of St. Christopher’s board defended the agency, saying that its scores for both abuse and neglect were “reasonably close to average” for most years. They said that each child’s death had been thoroughly investigated and that the agency had completed whatever corrective actions the state required as a result.

The troubles at St. Christopher’s certainly did little to damage Mr. Medina’s stature. From 1999 to 2002, the city awarded his agency more than $100 million in additional foster care contracts.

Others shared the city’s enduring faith in Mr. Medina.

In 2002, St. Christopher’s received a $100,000 grant from a major child welfare foundation for one of his experimental programs. The same year, he was named chairman of the National Council of Latino Executives, and given a seat on the board of the Child Welfare League of America.

Shay Bilchik, who was the league’s president until March, said Mr. Medina was always challenging other executives to think about how to provide distinctive services to their black and Latino families.

“Luis was a very animated, active, creative thinker,” he said.

The show played across the nation. Black and Latino parents, seated on a stage, talked in raw, emotional language about mistakes they had made in caring for their children.

With a mix of anger and pride, they also talked of how they had fought to get their children back from a child welfare system they characterized as unconcerned, one with no faith in their ability to grow into better parents.

“Mr. System” was their bitter nickname for the bureaucracy.

The troupe was Mr. Medina’s inspiration. He paid the parents a stipend to participate in workshops, where a script was developed and rehearsed. He helped secure more than $100,000 in grants so the troupe could travel to cities like and .

One unspoken part of the script was that for parents like those on stage, things would be different with Mr. Medina’s agency.

Parents involved with his agency would have access at all hours to the caseworkers overseeing their children, and a say in decisions about how those children were being raised. They would have frequent visits with their children in warm, homey settings.

It did not take long for Mr. Medina’s new model, according to many who worked for him, to .

Mr. Medina’s main Bronx office became overrun by parents, some of whom were dangerous and some of whom came simply to hang out. The presence of the parents — often confused or furious — and a chronic shortage of staff created disorder, particularly during visiting hours with their children. Telephones could go unanswered, dirty diapers often collected in the corners, toilets went unfixed, fights broke out, children were snatched.

“We felt unsafe,” said Starr Lozada, who was a caseworker based in Mr. Medina’s River Avenue office in the Bronx in 2004. “The birth parents would come and hang out all day. Maybe they would come for the breakfast. Talk with each other. Stay until we closed.”

The parents would even bring in people from the neighborhood, and there was screaming and carrying on, Ms. Lozada said. “We didn’t have much say.”

Lapses could occur. At one office, a mother whose preschool-age children had been removed from her care, because they had contracted , was allowed to camp out with them in the bathroom, unsupervised.

Another mother, who had lost her older children in part because she had forced them to eat their own vomit, arrived at the Bronx office one day in 2001 and walked out of the visiting center with two younger sons, who were also in foster care. The caseworkers did not intervene; the boys were not found for eight months.

Dismay soon led to rampant turnover among the staff. Fully half the work force had to be replaced every year near the end of Mr. Medina’s tenure, as the black and Latino workers Mr. Medina had recruited left in frustration — feeling underpaid and undertrained.

Shortcuts, then, were taken.

For instance, Jacqueline Thompson showed up at the office on River Avenue to inquire about a position. She was hired that afternoon, she said. “I was a little shocked,” she recalled.

But if Ms. Thompson, a caseworker with six years of experience, was taken aback by the swiftness of her hiring, it was nothing like the unease she felt when she was handed case files on about 30 children. Most of the files lacked the basic, required information on the well-being of the children. She contacted the parents and foster parents only to hear that they had not seen a caseworker in months.

“There was no monitoring,” she said.

With staff members fleeing, something of a solution evolved on its own in the Bronx, and it involved Mr. Medina’s favorite program for assisting parents with children in foster care. The program took parents who had gotten their children back from foster care, gave them the title “parent advocate,” and paid them a salary to mentor parents whose children had just been taken away.

By 2003, though, the Bronx office was so shorthanded that some of those parent advocates said they were asked to fill in for overtaxed or uninterested caseworkers. The parents, lacking formal training, would make what amounted to inspection visits to potentially dangerous homes, and their findings, they said, wound up in formal case files. They would even appear in court alongside the families.

Hilda Gonzalez, one parent advocate, said caseworkers sometimes telephoned instead of visiting homes. “They would ask questions like, ‘How are you? Do you have food?’” she said. “And then the advocates would go out on our own to do the visits and make sure they just weren’t lying.”

Such practices violated fundamental standards for a foster care agency. Making judgments about the safety of a household is difficult and dicey; professionals are trained to notice warning signs and to be brave enough to ask tough questions.

In 2003, Angel Centeno, 5 months old, was found dead, his lips a deep purple, his body shoved into a space less than 12 inches wide near the floor of a homeless shelter. The boy had been under the care of a mother with a history of substance abuse, who had had four children permanently removed from her care.

A parent advocate had been playing a critical role in trying to keep tabs on the household.

Cheryl Hawkins, who worked as a parent advocate with other families, said little felt right or safe about the way the program was run under Mr. Medina.

“We worked five hours a day for about $200” a week, Ms. Hawkins said. “I had a caseload of 10. We didn’t have degrees, and we made more home visits than the caseworkers.”

Of all Mr. Medina’s beliefs, this was the most cherished: Families, he liked to say, had “a sacred right to be together.” The city’s child welfare system, he argued, had done a fine job over the years of tearing minority children from their parents, but a miserable job of making the effort to then reunite those families.

And Mr. Medina, a dynamic public speaker, had no problem saying that directly to the leaders of the white-run agencies.

Anne Williams-Isom, a senior official with the city’s child welfare agency who saw Mr. Medina in action, remembered being wowed by his nerve. At meetings she attended, she recalled his being confrontational, at times effectively charging that the white agencies were more interested in getting the daily payments for their foster children than in returning them to their homes.

For Mr. Medina, the moral obligation to reunite families was such an article of faith that he asked an assistant dean at to study the issue. He was certain that the study would prove that his agency had been better able to achieve such reunifications because it was in the hands of minority leaders.

The study was done; the thesis could not be proved. But Mr. Medina’s conviction was not shaken.

And so Mr. Medina boasted that he aimed to reunify more families than any other agency. Adoption was to be used only as a rare last resort.

For a little while it looked as though Mr. Medina’s push was a success. The agency’s record was singled out in an optimistic front-page article in The Times in 1995. That success continued for several years, but then stalled. Mr. Medina said it was because by then he had been left with the more difficult families.

The work of those kinds of broken families back to health is hard. And one of Mr. Medina’s ideas for providing such help — the creation of medical and clinics for parents and children — wound up in financial ruins, with the clinics losing hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.

So the risks of Mr. Medina’s extreme commitment were considerable: Children could be rushed back into homes that were still dangerous or unstable; or they could languish in foster care as one effort after another was made to work with the most deeply disturbed parents.

In both 2000 and 2001, when the city measured how much time it took each agency to reunify children with their parents, St. Christopher’s scored below the average for the city’s 40-plus agencies. By 2002, only two other agencies in the city did worse.

Some felt that the reason might be plain indifference. Sara P. Schechter, a family court judge in who regularly oversaw the cases of children in Mr. Medina’s care, said: “The problems at St. Christopher’s were both qualitatively and quantitatively worse than other agencies. Things that happened occasionally at other agencies would happen all the time at St. Chris. Things like no one showing up at all for the hearings.”

The agency, in responding to complaints at the time, said Mr. Medina’s ideology was partly to blame. It worked far too long with parents who were beyond help.

One girl, identified in court papers only as J. P., suffered the consequences. She was 7 when her mother, a drug addict, dropped her off at school and never picked her up. She is 15 today, has suffered psychological breakdowns and is still in foster care.

Of Mr. Medina’s agency, J. P. says: “Literally, they gave my mother too many chances. It was just stupid.”

J. P. was not alone. Records show that caseworkers at St. Christopher’s repeatedly missed court dates meant to move children into adoptive homes. Scores of the agency’s children ended up spending four or more years in foster care. It was the very fate that had first provoked Mr. Medina into his campaign against the old agencies.

But there were also children who were sent back to homes that were no more safe than when they had been removed from them.

Destiny Spearman was one of those children. She was 3 when Mr. Medina’s agency and a judge agreed that she should be returned to her mother and father. There was, though, ample cause for concern.

When Destiny was a baby, her mother had failed for two days to seek any help for her child after she had broken her femur. And her father had a long criminal record.

The court charged Mr. Medina’s agency with making sure Destiny’s return went well.

Destiny’s father killed her nine months after her return in 1998, smashing her head against a piece of furniture. State investigators could not determine if the caseworker had even visited the apartment she died in. Citing “poor supervision” of the high-risk case, the city ordered Mr. Medina’s agency to review and improve its performance.

Today, St. Christopher’s has a new management team, with a white executive director. The state has granted it several contracts to run educational programs for some of the same vulnerable children that had been in its now-defunct foster care programs. City and state officials have given the agency’s recent work high marks.

Looking back, Mr. Medina says he now recognizes his shortcomings.

“I was not qualified enough to be both an administrator and an advocate,” he said, expressing regret that he had taken such confrontational stands. “Advocacy is perhaps best left to people that do not have to get into the business of delivering the service.”
105 2007-11-05 FALLOUT ON WALL STREET Analysts and bankers say the underlying problems at  Citigroup and Merrill Lynch have been in the making for months and will take many more months to fully play out.      THE SMALLER SCREEN Cyriac Roeding's position as execu...
106 2007-11-06 With Jay Leno of NBC and David Letterman of CBS sidelined by a writers' strike, ABC's 11:35 p.m. alternative -- the half-hour newscast "Nightline" -- may stand to benefit....
107 2007-11-06 A 1945 film and song transformed by the art of animation.
108 2007-11-06 Did the world's top model make the dollar hopelessly unfashionable?...
109 2007-11-06 Even as banking segments like those that securitize subprime mortgages and finance leveraged buyouts suffer from the current crisis, Islamic finance is seeing spectacular growth. Over the past year, Shariah-compliant assets have grown almost 30 pe...
110 2007-11-06 A leading hedge fund trade group unveiled new recommendations Monday aimed at improving practices in the lightly regulated, $2 trillion hedge fund industry. The report issued by the Managed Funds Association updates and expands on recommendations ...
111 2007-11-06 Boston Scientific said Monday it would sell its cardiac and vascular surgery businesses to Sweden-based Gettinge Group for $750 million. Boston Scientific acquired the cardiac surgery unit in April 2006 through its $27 billion acquisition of Guida...
112 2007-11-06 American Financial Realty Trust, which aimed to become the preferred landlord of leading banks and other financial institutions, announced Monday that it was being bought for $1.1 billion in cash and stock by Gramercy Capital, a New York commercia...
113 2007-11-06 Proper handling required. A Brooklyn bar has been busted for illicit lime insertion into bottles of Corona. Quoting from the rap sheet against the bar, Michael Wilson describes the crime as: "A male worker observed having bare-hand contact with on...
114 2007-11-06 A Matisse painting depicting one of the artist’s favorite models fetched $33.6 million tonight at Christie’s, breaking the previous auction record for the artist in a lively kickoff to the fall auction season.

The work, “L’Odalisque, Harmonie Bleue” (1937), was purchased by an unidentified buyer who relayed his bids by telephone to Guy Bennett, the head of the Impressionist and modern art department at Christie’s. The bidding had narrowed to Mr. Bennett and the New York dealer Franck Giraud before the hammer went down.

The previous auction record for a Matisse was $21.7 million.

The $33.6 million paid for “L’Odalisque” includes premiums and commissions but was still well above the painting’s presale estimate of $15 million to $20 million.

The big fall auctions this week and next are viewed as a crucial art-market barometer, and the lively bidding in the first hour of Christie’s sale seemed to buoy spirits in the salesroom. Tonight’s auction focused on Impressionist and modern art, as will Wednesday night’s sale at Sotheby’s.

A dreamy 1889 landscape by Paul Signac also broke an auction record tonight, going to an unidentified bidder for $14 million. Five bidders competed for the painting, “Cassis. Cap Canaille,” a work in orange, green, blue and purple that Signac painted during a stay in a fishing village on the Cote d’Azur. It was being sold by Paul Josefowitz, publisher of the art magazine Apollo, and for the last four years had been on view at the National Gallery in London.

The previous auction record for a Signac was $11.6 million.

After the staggering run-up in art prices in recent years, speculation had resurfaced this fall about whether the art market could finally go bust, in part because of recessionary fears stirred by stock market gyrations and the subprime mortgage crisis. Adding to the suspense, much of the risk this auction season is borne by Christie’s and Sotheby’s, which granted sellers generous guarantees prior to the mortgage crisis to draw their business.
115 2007-11-06 Two bull riders died in separate incidents this weekend. Joshua J. Brunner, 21, who was known as Cody, died Saturday night after he was stepped on by a bull in a United Rodeo Association event in Topeka, Kan., the police said. Brunner had completed his eight-second ride and was injured as he dismounted the bull. Zackary Clinton, 17, died Saturday after being injured at a rodeo in Arkansas, authorities said. The police said the bull threw Clinton to the ground before stepping on his chest.
116 2007-11-06 The freshman Derrick Rose had 17 points, 6 rebounds and 5 assists in his collegiate debut and No. 3 Memphis beat visiting Tennessee-Martin, 102-71, in the 2K Sports College Hoops Classic.Chris Douglas Roberts tied his career high with 28 points and had 8 rebounds for Memphis (1-0). Lester Hudson scored 35 points for Tennessee-Martin.
117 2007-11-06 The China National Chemical Corporation, backed by the Blackstone Group, agreed to pay 3 billion Australian dollars ($2.8 billion) in cash for Nufarm of Australia to form the world’s largest supplier of generic farm chemicals. The offer by China National values Nufarm at 17.55 Australian dollars a share, 27 percent higher than its closing price on Oct. 30, Nufarm said. The price includes the payment of a 30-cents-a-share dividend by Nufarm, it said. Buying Nufarm gives China National entry to the $36 billion global market for herbicides and pesticides as a worldwide agricultural boom spurs acquisitions.
118 2007-11-06 Microsoft and Reliance Communications of India announced a partnership to send Internet-based television services to Indian homes. Reliance will pay Microsoft about $500 million in license fees to use its software for Internet protocol television service, which delivers high-quality video over phone lines to home television sets. Reliance plans to introduce the service in March.
119 2007-11-06 WASHINGTON, Nov. 5 — President Bush pledged Monday to increase intelligence cooperation with Turkey in its fight against Kurdish rebels, hoping to head off any significant Turkish military operation in Iraq.

Meeting in the White House with Turkey’s prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Mr. Bush declined to say how the United States would respond if Turkish forces entered northern Iraq, dismissing it as a hypothetical question that, he said, Mr. Erdogan himself had asked.

Instead, Mr. Bush promised that the American and Turkish militaries — allies in NATO — would work together to fight the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or P.K.K., which he called “an enemy of Turkey, a free Iraq and the United States of America.”

“I can tell you that we — he asked what would my reaction be if there was an attack,” Mr. Bush said, sitting beside Mr. Erdogan in the Oval Office. “Well, that’s a hypothetical question. But what we did talk about is to make sure that there is good enough intelligence so that we can help deal with a common problem, and that problem is a terrorist organization called P.K.K.”

A White House official said that the United States and Turkey already shared significant amounts of intelligence about the Kurdish rebels, who use the mountains of northern Iraq, part of the Kurdish homeland, as a base for raids into Turkey.
120 2007-11-06 For nearly 16 months, Poland had perhaps the world’s most visually unusual leadership: identical twin brothers as president and prime minister with the same round faces, crops of silver hair and defiantly patriotic views. That came to an end yesterday when Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski showed up at the presidential palace with his cabinet and offered up his government’s resignation after a bruising electoral defeat last month. The resignation paves the way for a new government that wants Polish troops out of Iraq and promises a tougher deal on offering a site for a proposed United States missile-defense system. President Lech Kaczynski, whose term is separate from his brother’s and runs until 2010, now faces the duty of asking Donald Tusk, the family rival who defeated his brother, to form the next government, a step planned for later this week.
121 2007-11-06 PepsiCo Inc. said yesterday that it was reorganizing to create three operational units, combining operations in the Americas and dividing its food and beverage businesses in that region.

The old structure had two divisions: PepsiCo North America and PepsiCo International, which each ran its own food and beverage operations.

“Given PepsiCo’s robust growth in recent years, we are approaching a size which we can better manage as three units instead of two,” PepsiCo’s chief executive, Indra K. Nooyi, said in a statement.

The snack food business will include Frito-Lay North America, Quaker and the Sabritas and Gamesa brands in Mexico. The beverages unit includes Pepsi-Cola North America, Gatorade, Tropicana and all Latin American beverage businesses.

The changes effectively move all Central and South American businesses, previously part of the international division, into the new divisions and create two new chief executive positions: one for the newly formed PepsiCo Americas Foods and one for PepsiCo Americas Beverages.

The company, which has headquarters in Purchase, N.Y., said its Americas foods division would account for about 45 percent of its revenue while its Americas beverages unit would make up 30 percent. Its international division would account for about 25 percent.

PepsiCo said John C. Compton, currently chief executive of the North America group, would be the new head of the Americas food division. Massimo d’Amore, executive vice president of the commercial division of PepsiCo International, would be the chief executive of the new Americas beverage unit, the company said.
122 2007-11-06 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate education committee, has postponed introducing a new version of the law until next year, Melissa Wagoner, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kennedy, said yesterday.

“Senator Kennedy is committed to putting together a responsible reauthorization package early in 2008,” Ms. Wagoner said. “But we’re running up against the clock for this year.”

The education committee in the House has worked for months on negotiations to produce legislation to renew the law.

But in recent days, its chairman, Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, has been working on a higher-education bill.

Mr. Miller’s spokesman, Tom Kiley, said the Senate postponement of reauthorization for No Child Left Behind had complicated the work of writing a House bill.

“It’s growing less likely that we get a bill off the House floor this year,” Mr. Kiley said. “We’re continuing our negotiations on the bill with Republicans and with educational organizations, but we’re looking to balance the need to work expeditiously with the need to get this bill right.”

Mr. Miller has not produced a bill despite repeated suggestions as early as June that work on a House reauthorization bill was nearing completion.

Lobbyists for educational organizations who have watched the process closely said it appeared that Mr. Miller had been unable either to find enough votes among the committee’s Democratic majority to pass a reauthorization bill or to stitch together a bill that could attract enough Republicans to form a winning bipartisan coalition.

Alexa Marrero, a spokeswoman for Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on the committee, said: “Chairman Miller has signaled that the committee is turning its attention to higher education. Looking at the calendar, it’s difficult to see how N.C.L.B. could move through the process this year.”

But negotiations continue on some points as lawmakers seek to put together a bipartisan bill that could be introduced next year, Ms. Marrero said.

Mr. Bush has several times recently urged reauthorization of the law. But his efforts have not appeared to help in either chamber, partly because he has been waging a series of veto fights with Congressional Democrats.

And with only a few weeks left before Congress adjourns for the holidays, the House calendar is clogged with appropriations bills and other work.

Speaking of reauthorization, Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president for government and public affairs at the American Council on Education in Washington, said, “It’s dead for this year.”

“The more things move into the presidential election year,” Mr. Hartle added, “the more the long-term fate of any reauthorization bill becomes problematic.”
123 2007-11-06 Lawrence B. Salander, the embattled Manhattan art dealer whose gallery was ordered locked by a State Supreme Court justice last month, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Friday.

Mr. Salander and his Salander-O’Reilly Galleries — which operated from a town house on East 71st Street, around the corner from the Frick Collection — had been facing a barrage of lawsuits alleging that customers or business partners had been defrauded. Some artists or their estates also said they consigned works to Salander-O’Reilly that the gallery sold without their permission.

Lawyers involved in the cases said the bankruptcy filing would delay the other suits while the bankruptcy court deals with which creditors are owed what, and how much each is to be paid.

Mr. Salander, who filed for bankruptcy in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., listed his wife, Julie, as a joint debtor. The filing was reported on Bloomberg.com yesterday. Lawyers familiar with the Salanders’ business dealings say it was separate from a petition to force the gallery into involuntary bankruptcy that was filed last week by three other creditors in federal court in Manhattan.

John W. Moscow, a lawyer representing the Salanders in the Chapter 11 proceeding , said, “They’re doing everything they can to make sure that the people with valid claims get fully paid.” .

Documents filed with the Chapter 11 petition say the Salanders themselves had no more than 49 creditors. The Salanders said they owed money to at least two banks and to William O’Reilly, who started Salander-O’Reilly Galleries with Mr. Salander in the 1970s. They parted ways in the 1990s.
124 2007-11-06 Lawyers for Sergeant Hensley and the other snipers accused in the case have suggested the baiting program is relevant to their defense because it demonstrates the extent to which Army and Pentagon commanders approved unconventional methods of killing not only insurgents but also unarmed men of military age who were believed to be enemy fighters.

Last month, a military jury found one of the other team members, Specialist Jorge G. Sandoval, not guilty of killing two men, on April 27 and May 11, but convicted him of planting evidence — a roll of copper trigger wire — on one of the bodies. An evidentiary hearing for the third member of the sniper team, Sgt. Evan Vela, who is accused of shooting a man in the head with a pistol on May 11 after Sergeant Hensley captured him, is to begin later this month.

All three snipers’ legal cases have raised questions about how military commanders in Iraq have changed or expanded the rules for targeting and killing enemy forces in Iraq during a determined insurgency.

In the Sandoval trial, for instance, a sniper team member, Sgt. David Murphy, testified that Captain Didier told his men before the April 27 killing that their rules of engagement had changed to allow them to kill even unarmed men fleeing a battle in a rural area with American or Iraqi Army forces.

“Engage fleeing local nationals without weapons,” Sergeant Murphy testified hearing Captain Didier say in a radio transmission following a firefight with insurgents that day, using a military term for Iraqis. Referring to the order, Sergeant. Murphy added, “That was the first time we’d heard that.”

Sergeant Hensley is accused of killing a man on April 14 after reporting that he saw the man laying wire for a bomb, court documents said. He was also charged with murder in the second killing, on April 27, in which he ordered Specialist Sandoval to kill a man they believed was fleeing a battle with American forces, after Captain Didier cleared them to shoot.

In the third killing, on May 11, prosecutors say Sergeant Hensley ordered Sergeant Vela to kill an Iraqi man captured near the snipers’ hide-out. But in a sworn statement given later that day and obtained by The New York Times, Sergeant Hensley said he ordered Sergeant Vela to shoot the man after the man, surprised by his capture, struggled to aim a loaded AK-47 at other sniper team members.

“I reached up and put him into a rear naked choke, his hands still on the weapon, struggling to fire it,” Sergeant Hensley wrote in the statement. “I took him to the ground, utilizing his head garment as it slid down over his head. Sergeant Vela then placed 2 9-millimeter rounds in the insurgent’s head.”

Sergeant Hensley’s lawyers are expected to portray all three killings as occurring with the knowledge and encouragement of his superiors.

In interviews, several snipers in Sergeant Hensley’s unit, which has been disbanded, said the First Battalion’s top commissioned and noncommissioned officers had encouraged soldiers to go beyond the normal rules of engagement to increase kill counts.

“They told us over and over again, ‘Hey, if you guys feel threatened, kill them,’” said Specialist Joshua Michaud in an interview at Camp Liberty, Iraq, last month. In the sniper unit, he said, those comments were taken to mean, “Go out there and kill more people.”
125 2007-11-06 H&R Block, the largest United States tax preparer, said yesterday that its chief financial officer, William L. Trubeck, had stepped down, effective immediately.

Becky S. Shulman, the treasurer, was named acting finance chief, the company said. Mr. Trubeck will remain as a consultant through December.

The departure comes in what Mr. Trubeck called in a statement a “very challenging period,” in which there are mounting subprime losses in the company’s Option One Mortgage Corporation unit.

H&R Block, based in Kansas City, Mo., is trying to salvage an agreement to sell Option One to the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management. It had agreed in April to sell Option One for an amount estimated at $1 billion. That agreement collapsed as losses mounted from riskier home loans.
126 2007-11-06 Firefighters removed residents from a section of the Richmond Terrace Houses yesterday after three City Housing Authority workers were overcome by fumes from a cleaning chemical just after 1 p.m., the police said. The Fire Department said that 16 people, including five firefighters, were treated at Richmond University Medical Center in the afternoon. One person was in critical condition, two were in serious condition and the rest were treated for minor injuries. The Fire Department said the workers had used hydrated lime, a cleaning chemical, in an enclosed space.
127 2007-11-06 The official said the plan would give the agencies the authority to certify the safety of products and to list certified products on a Web site that could be viewed by consumers.

By adopting a system of government-sponsored certifications and relying on various industries to police themselves, the official said, the plan would enable inspectors to focus on particular companies and industries with particularly dangerous products or checkered safety records.

The plan would give the drug and consumer protection agencies stronger authority to issue mandatory recalls and would propose steeper penalties on importers of goods that violated American safety laws.

Officials said that the plan would require significant budget increases for the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Food and Drug Administration. No new budget figures will be presented Tuesday, the officials said, but they are likely to be made later this year after the plan is refined. The officials refused to be identified because they did not want to upstage the formal announcement of the plan Tuesday by President Bush.

The safety agencies have had sharp declines in the size of their budgets and staffs over the years. The Consumer Product Safety Commission, for instance, has a staff of about 400, roughly half its size in the 1980s, and has only one full-time employee to test toys. Fifteen inspectors police all imports of consumer products under the agency’s supervision, a marketplace that last year was valued at $614 billion.

In Congress last Tuesday, the Senate Commerce Committee approved without objection legislation that would increase penalties, let the product safety agency publicly disclose reports of defective products and increase the maximum penalty on violations to $100 million, from $1.8 million.

Senior Democrats in both houses called for the resignation of Nancy A. Nord, the acting head of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, after she sent letters to Congress vigorously opposing the legislation. Ms. Nord’s letters closely resembled complaints raised by a coalition of manufacturing associations.

At the urging of industry groups, the White House has objected to a provision that would reward industry whistle-blowers for reporting defective products and another that would give state prosecutors the authority to enforce federal safety laws.

Consumer groups and Democratic lawmakers say those provisions are vital in restoring the credibility of federal safety efforts, while White House officials say the measures would encourage frivolous litigation.

The administration plan was produced by an interagency group headed by Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services. Officials said the group had worked for months to come up with an effective plan for certifying and inspecting foreign goods that would not provoke foreign countries into retaliating or imposing protectionist measures that could hurt American exports.
128 2007-11-06 In Kentucky, Gov. Ernie Fletcher, a Republican, has staged a comeback from just over a year and a half ago when he was under indictment and had approval ratings in the 20s. Still, his Democratic opponent, Steve Beshear, a former lieutenant governor and former attorney general, is expected to win the seat, which was held by Democrats for more than three decades before Mr. Fletcher’s victory in 2003.

Democrats are also expected to win mayoral contests in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Baltimore and Houston. In the Congressional race in Ohio, both parties are holding primaries to fill the seat of Representative Paul E. Gillmor, a Republican, who died in September.

Among the ballot measures, school financing is a particularly hot topic as voters in at least six states — California, Maine, Minnesota, North Carolina, Utah and Virginia — decide local and state measures on education spending.

In Minnesota, more than 120 school districts are asking for more money. In Ohio, where lawmakers have struggled to fix a school-financing system that has been ruled unconstitutional four times since 1997, more than 220 tax levies or bond issues related to school financing are on local ballots.

On the heels of several years of record borrowing by local and state officials, agencies closest to the ground — school districts, for example — are finding it tougher to stretch finances, and administrators are increasingly turning to voters for bailouts.

Overcrowding has left school officials in Antelope Valley, Calif., about an hour north of Los Angeles, asking voters to decide on $240 million in bonds for new construction and renovations.

In Fairfax County, Va., a well-to-do but rapidly expanding Washington suburb, the ballot contains a $365 million bond to build and refurbish schools.

Teachers’ unions and other education groups in Utah have pushed a referendum to repeal a new law that provides school vouchers of $500 to $3,000 to low-income students. The original law was narrowly approved by the Republican-controlled Legislature earlier this year.

G. Terry Madonna, a professor of public affairs and director of the Keystone Poll at Franklin & Marshall College in Pennsylvania, said that especially in areas with recent population growth, local needs have grown but budgets have shrunk and local officials are often required by state constitutions to get permission from voters for new spending.

Some of the most expensive fights involve health care financing.

In Oregon, tobacco companies have spent more than $10 million to block a measure that would increase cigarette taxes by 84.5 cents a pack. The increase would be used to pay for health care for uninsured children. Supporters of the expanded health care coverage have raised almost $1.4 million, much of the money coming from hospitals and health insurance companies, and spent about $460,000 on television advertisements. The spending by both sides has made the ballot measure the most expensive in the state’s history.

Tobacco companies have waged equally aggressive fights in recent years in California and Missouri to defeat similar measures, though one such measure passed last year in Arizona despite efforts by the companies.

In Washington State, trial lawyers and insurance companies are battling a proposal to repeal a state law that allows consumers to seek triple damages in court against nonmedical insurers that unreasonably deny claims.

Oregon voters are also deciding whether to scale back a 2004 law requiring governments to compensate landowners for any loss in value caused by land-use regulations, or to waive those regulations.

So-called wedge issues are not entirely absent from Tuesday’s tickets.

In Texas, conservatives oppose the omission of a stem cell research ban in Proposition 15, a constitutional amendment that would allow the state to borrow $300 million a year over the next decade to finance cancer research.

In Hailey, Idaho, voters are faced with four initiatives that would legalize or decriminalize marijuana and direct city officials to lobby for the passage of similar measures statewide.

In Denver, an initiative would make the private use and possession of an ounce or less of marijuana by people 21 and older the city’s lowest law-enforcement priority. Supporters of the proposed initiative, which is similar to regulations in Seattle and Missoula County, Mont., say that the police have more pressing problems and that the use of small amounts of marijuana is less harmful than alcohol to adults.

Voters in Missoula will decide on a measure calling for the immediate withdrawal of American troops from Iraq. If it is passed, Missoula would join more than 200 other cities and towns that have passed similar resolutions.
129 2007-11-06 In addition to gloves and tongs, Mr. Marcus suggested placing a lime on a plate and allowing the customer to garnish his own beer, though gloves or tongs would be needed to get the lime on the plate.

There are different theories as to why the lime is put there in the first place: It cleans the tip of the bottle, or it kills germs, or it shoos flies, or it masks the taste of skunky beer. But whatever the reason, the first wedge of lime put into a bottle of Mexican beer stuck there, literally and permanently. Today, a Corona without a lime looks like Adam without his fig leaf.

And yet, when was the last time a customer at a New York bar saw a bartender pause to put on gloves or dig around for a pair of tongs to shove lime in the bottle? And more importantly, would the customer still want the beer? Or would he turn around and leave?

An informal survey of several bartenders on whether they use gloves or tongs when garnishing beer bottles was met with incredulity, ridicule and disdain. But when asked to perform this alien ritual, they did their best with the tongs, gripping the little wedges and guiding them into the bottles. Some fumbled, while others took to it like surgeons performing a transplant. None of them seemed happy with the thought of doing it every day.

The first stop was Smith & Wollensky, the revered brass-rail bar and steakhouse in Midtown where the staff wears sharp white coats. Patrick Ford, a bartender for 35 of his 53 years, was standing behind the polished bar amid gleaming bottles on a busy Tuesday night as he considered how to legally garnish a beer.

“I won’t wear gloves,” he said, his tall frame so thin it seemed his white coat was still on a hanger. “It’s not a doctor’s office. It’s a saloon.”

He fished out a Corona and looked around. “We don’t have tongs,” he said. “I’ll use a fork.”

He speared a little wedge of lime and walked past several amused regular customers, toward a waiting Corona. In his coat, holding the fruit before him, he looked like a mad scientist with a laboratory specimen. The lime addressed the lip of the beer bottle with uncertainty, but when Mr. Ford removed the fork, it stuck there. Men cheered.

“Hey, Patty,” one man bellowed. “Give me a Corona over here! Be sure to use a fork!”

The more experienced the bartender, the more ludicrous the rule sounded, as bizarre as using tongs to shake someone’s hand. Good bartenders flow behind the bar, with rhythm and economy of movement, and regulatory disruptions trip them up. Tongs are to a bartender what work boots would be on a ballerina.

Take Dale DeGroff, 59, a bartender since 1974 and the self-proclaimed “king of cocktails,” as well as the author of “The Craft of the Cocktail.” A former bartender at the Rainbow Room, among other New York establishments, he said he had never heard of tongs or gloves for limes in beer bottles until he was called for this article.

“It’s been accepted practice for 200 years in New York that a bartender will twist a lime in your gin and tonic,” he said. “Can you imagine bartenders wearing rubber gloves and how ridiculous that would be?”

His friend Tom Carney, 67, who retired last month from Elaine’s, the Upper East Side grand dame of bars, heard about the lime tongs and said, “You’re kidding me. That’s asinine.”

“Pair of tongs to put a lime on top of a beer bottle?” he said, and went on to perhaps date himself. “It’s got a skin on the back of it that takes scurvy off parts of your body. It’s what they use on ships.”

Moonshine representatives in Red Hook declined to rehash their health department inspection, or to participate in the tongs-lime test. But it is in their favor that the rule seems to be largely unknown both to new bartenders and to the teachers who teach them.

“I’ve never heard of that,” said Tom Sisson, 40, director of the New York Bartending School. “If you went into a bar and the bartender was wearing gloves on his hands, you’d probably feel a little strange ordering a drink from him.” And tongs didn’t sound much better: “I guess it would be a little bit awkward.”

In the interest of thorough reporting, a set of $1.49 tongs was purchased on East 23rd Street and, along with a stopwatch, taken down the block to the Grand Saloon, a neighborhood bar and grill.

Behind the bar, Maureen O’Shea, 43, has served her share of Coronas with limes, even if she does not know why. (“There’s some kind of rumor about not letting flies in, but the guys in the kitchen say that’s not true,” she said). She has never questioned the bare-hand approach.

“You’re constantly washing your hands,” she said. “People come in and say, ‘Oh, I don’t feel so well,’ and then they blow their nose and hand you a $5 bill. My hands are clean, but I guess I can’t speak for everybody.”

She laughed at the tongs, but agreed to give them a go. She squeezed a lime wedge from its little bin and pushed it into the beer bottle without visible agita, in under five seconds. Asked to repeat the act, she did it again, just as quickly.

On the other hand, spearing the lime with a cocktail straw took a whopping 11 seconds, an eternity on a busy night. The 14 sharp little teeth on the tongs seemed to grip the slippery fruit in a way that gloved human digits or other implements could not.

Suddenly, the tongs were not all that funny anymore.

“Quite honestly, it’s not a bad idea,” Ms. O’Shea said, clicking the tongs. “Unless you get a really shaky bartender.”
130 2007-11-06 BOSTON, Nov. 5 — Gov. Deval L. Patrick and legislative leaders proposed a bill on Monday to require all home heating oil and diesel fuel to contain at least 5 percent biofuel by 2013.

Massachusetts would be the first state to require that home heating oil contain renewable fuels, a significant issue in a state where 36 percent of homes use home heating oil, according to Census figures. That compares with the 8 percent national average.

Maine leads the nation, with 87 percent of its homes using heating oil, according to the Census.

The bill would require that all home heating oil and diesel fuel contain 2 percent renewable fuel alternatives by 2010 and increase to 5 percent by 2013.

It would also waive the state’s 23-cents-a-gallon gasoline tax on fuel made from cellulosic ethanol, a gasoline alternative derived from the cellulose in wood chips, switchgrass and other plant mass. Cellulosic ethanol will not be available commercially for about three years.

“For the sake of our environment, our economy and our national security, we must act, and we must act now,” Mr. Patrick said at a news conference. “We have an opportunity to create jobs and drive energy costs down.”
131 2007-11-06 “We now know out of 4,500 people who fly, one will get a D.V.T. within eight weeks after travel,” Dr. Cannegieter said. “It’s not really a huge amount,” but, she said, the risk increases with the duration of a flight and the number of flights in a short period. Obesity, a person’s stature, oral contraceptive use, hormone replacement therapy and inherited blood clotting disorders also increase risk.

A combination of these factors “may increase risk twenty- to fiftyfold,” Dr. Rosendaal said.

Rob Donnelly, vice president for health at Royal Dutch Shell, which participated in the study, said the company uses a Web-based tracking system that helps identify at-risk employees. That allows the company to take additional measures if necessary. Employees log onto the company’s intranet for training about risks, symptoms and preventive measurers for D.V.T. (and other conditions or diseases).

The goal is to have awareness without panic, Dr. Donnelly said. “This is a manageable risk for the vast majority of people.”

Several years ago, Michael G. Reiff, an American executive with Royal Dutch Shell, was hospitalized with life-threatening blood clots on his lungs after a flight from Houston to Amsterdam.

Mr. Reiff, 53, who is head of global compensation and benefits, took long flights almost 50 percent of the time when traveling. He always flew first class or business class.

He has since cut his flying time almost in half and no longer sleeps on planes. “Now I literally walk up and down the aisles.” At work, “I walk the halls every two hours, even at meetings,” Mr. Reiff said.

Rochelle Broome, corporate medical director for primary care at CHD Meridian Healthcare, which operates 231 on-site health care centers for 105 corporate clients, said that in addition to walking, she recommends that employees do frequent seat exercises to ensure increased blood circulation. Many airlines provide examples in flight magazines or in-cabin videos.

“You don’t have to take a pill. There’s no shot. It’s easy,” said Dr. Broome, who experienced several serious D.V.T.’s herself.

About three years ago, CHD Meridian began a series of initiatives on D.V.T. prevention that includes briefings during one-on-one travel consultations and routine exams, informational materials and a yearly D.V.T. awareness month.

D.V.T. typically includes unexplained pain, tenderness, redness and swelling, often in the leg. Once a clot has traveled to the lung, common symptoms include chest pain and breathing difficulties.

But diagnosis can be difficult. Some cases are asymptomatic or can mirror other illnesses. Leg pain can be mistaken for an athletic injury or strained muscle. Chest pain is often diagnosed as a heart attack or the flu.

When Randy Fenninger, 60, president of MARC Associates, a lobbying firm in Washington, entered an emergency room with chest pain, he was not properly diagnosed until almost seven hours later. “My experience is not at all unique,” said Mr. Fenninger, who is president of the National Alliance for Thrombosis and Thrombophilia, a nonprofit health education group.

He recommends that people who have recently been on a plane tell health care workers and check their family medical history. At the time, Mr. Fenninger did not know that he has a genetic clotting disorder that put him at higher risk.

The alliance recently received cooperative agreements totaling more than $1.3 million from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that is to be used to increase public awareness.

But overestimating the risk can lead to use of potentially dangerous precautions, Dr. Cannegieter said. “You try to prevent one problem, but create another one.”

Aspirin is effective in preventing heart attacks and strokes, but not D.V.T. Aspirin and anticoagulant medicine, which also thins the blood, can cause uncontrolled bleeding.

Luc Robyn, corporate medical adviser for Nestlé, which participated in the study, said in the past employees were tempted to take anticoagulants protectively. “But now that we know that absolute risk is not so high we can really tailor recommendations,” Dr. Robyn said. Anticoagulants are administered only if there is a pre-existing condition.

The researchers also warn against wearing commercial compression stockings. They are only effective if custom fit; if not, they may cause harm by blocking blood flow. Excessive alcohol consumption or taking sleeping pills that promote immobility are discouraged.

Lennart Dimberg, lead occupational health specialist at the World Bank in Washington, which also participated in the study, said his organization has a policy stipulating that when travel requires nine or more hours of flying time, staff members may take a one-day rest stop in each direction to recuperate before working.

Dr. Rosendaal said the risk increases during long car, train and bus trips when cramped seating is common, though it is highest during air travel.

“There is some evidence that the low air pressure in a plane affects the complex coagulation system of the blood,” Dr. Rosendaal said. When oxygen level goes down, the body may behave as if it is losing blood, making clot formation more likely. During sleep, less oxygen is taken in, another reason that sedatives are strongly discouraged.

“I’m sure there is a genetic predisposition,” Dr. Rosendaal said. “We know the tip of the iceberg. We have a lot of work to do.”
132 2007-11-06 Duane Chapman, the embattled star of the hit A&E series “Dog the Bounty Hunter,” will appear on the Fox News Channel program “Hannity and Colmes” tonight to talk about the racially charged comments he made in a private phone conversation. Mr. Chapman, who is also scheduled to appear on Larry King’s CNN program tomorrow night, has been apologizing publicly for the comments, which include extensive use of racial epithets. A&E removed the show as soon as a tape of the conversation was made public by The National Enquirer, which paid Mr. Chapman’s son for it. Several advertisers had said they would pull commercials from the show. A&E also announced that it was shutting down “for the foreseeable future” production on the start of 13 new episodes of the series, scheduled to broadcast in January. But Michael Feeney, a spokesman, said that the show, the most successful series on the cable channel over the past five years, had not been canceled. He added: “We are taking a very proactive approach. This is a serious matter.”
133 2007-11-06 “Since 1999, prices for industrial customers in deregulated states have risen from 18 percent above the national average to 37 percent above,” said Mrs. Showalter, an energy lawyer and former Washington State utility regulator.

In regulated states, prices fell from 7 percent below the national average to 12 percent below, she calculated.

That means the difference between market and regulated states nearly doubled, from 25 percentage points to 49 percentage points.

A separate study for the Electric Power Supply Association, which represents independent power generators and favors market pricing, reported last week that retail prices for all customers “rose only slightly higher” than prices in regulated states. A footnote showed that the prices rose 15 percent more in market states than in regulated states.

Both studies relied on the same Energy Information Administration data, but the supply association counted five more states — Arizona, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia — as market states.

In those five states, the government imposed rate cuts, freezes or caps, some of which are still in effect for residential and some other customers. John Shelk, president of the supply association, said that but for efforts to create competitive markets, government would not have ordered lower prices during a transition from regulation to market pricing. Therefore, he reasoned, government-mandated savings should be included in calculating the benefits of market pricing.

Susan F. Tierney of the Analysis Group, a former assistant secretary for policy at the Energy Department during the Clinton administration who conducted the study, said that improvements were needed in both the market and regulated pricing systems.

A larger concern, Dr. Tierney said, is how to deal with rising electricity prices driven by the demands of global economic and technological growth, rising fuel prices and the costs of countering atmospheric damage from burning fossil fuels.

“Focusing more on those improvements seems more constructive than fighting about whether competition or traditional regulation is the best path,” she added.

The data are the latest to show that competition, which was promoted by big industrial companies and Enron as the best way to create competitive incentives to reduce prices, has instead resulted in higher and faster rising prices. Some big industrial customers have turned against the changes they once championed, saying that if markets produced lower prices they would favor them but that electricity auctions have not worked.

In market states, electricity customers of all kinds, from homeowners to electricity-hungry aluminum plants, pay $48 billion more each year for power than they would have paid in states with the traditional system of government boards setting electric rates, according to Mrs. Showalter’s analysis of Energy Department data in an earlier report in September.

Under the rules of these markets, every electric power generator whose bid is accepted gets the highest price paid to supply power, called a clearance price or single-price market. In most auctions, each supplier gets the price at which they offered to sell, known as an as-bid market.

One result of clearance pricing is that nuclear power plants, which must run at a steady rate even when demand for power is minimal, have at times collected $990 per megawatt-hour for power they had offered to give away during low-demand hours.

Gordon van Welie, president of the New England Independent System Operator, which runs the electricity market in that region, said that clearance pricing avoids the costs and risks of taking nuclear plants offline that would occur in an as-bid market if the price they sought was too high to attract any buyers.

Mr. van Welie said he anticipated steady improvements in the efficiency of the auction markets over the next few years as rules are refined, and pointed to a report showing that wholesale prices in all markets declined last year compared with 2005, in contrast to the rise in retail paid by those who use the power.
134 2007-11-06 The “world price” for sugar you commonly refer to is for unprocessed, subsidized sugar, and it does not factor in transportation costs. This is like comparing the price of an orange in Brazil to the price of a carton of orange juice in Manhattan. Food companies in the United States pay less for refined sugar today than they did when Jimmy Carter was in office.

Food companies in the rest of the developed world pay, on average, 65 percent more for their sugar than American companies do. Grocery shoppers in other developed countries pay 30 percent more for sugar than Americans do.

Not only is American sugar affordable, but it’s also of the highest quality. The last time we imported large quantities of refined sugar from Mexico, it had to be re-refined to remove metal flakes, hunks of burlap and even rat feces.

The House of Representatives passed a farm bill that takes the necessary steps to ensure that the domestic sugar industry, including hundreds of New York jobs, can stay in business in the wake of a flood of unneeded, subsidized imports from Mexico. Luckily, most legislators know that without a strong sugar program we’d have to depend on Mexico for sugar, and that would be a recipe for disaster.

Jack Roney

Arlington, Va., Nov. 2, 2007

The writer is director of economics and policy analysis, American Sugar Alliance.
135 2007-11-06 The matter is highly contentious. In 2005, after a bitter debate, Parliament rejected a government proposal to increase the allowable detention time before charges are brought to 90 days.

“It is crucial that the security services do not get drawn into politics,” Nick Clegg, the home affairs spokesman for the opposition Liberal Democrats, said in a statement. “Experience suggests that breathless talk about the terrorism threat and the powers needed to counter it can have a damaging effect on opinion in precisely those communities that we need to keep on our side.”

Mr. Evans was indeed bleak in his outlook, saying he believed that the terrorist threat had not reached its peak and that new recruits were arriving in a “steady flow.”

“Terrorist attacks we have seen against the U.K. are not simply random plots by disparate and fragmented groups,” he said. “The majority of these attacks, successful or otherwise, have taken place because Al Qaeda has a clear determination to mount terrorist attacks against the United Kingdom.”

He said that the would-be terrorists were cultivating ever younger volunteers and that people as young as 15 had been implicated in terrorist activity.

“As I speak, terrorists are methodically and intentionally targeting young people and children in this country,” he said. “They are radicalizing, indoctrinating and grooming young, vulnerable people to carry out acts of terrorism.”

Since the attacks on London’s transportation network in 2005, which left 56 people dead, including the four suicide bombers, the British authorities have arrested hundreds of people as terrorism suspects and reported that many would-be attacks have been thwarted. A foiled plan in July to set off explosions in London and Glasgow was the 15th attempted terrorist plot on British soil since 2001, officials say. More than 200 people have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses in Britain in the last six years.

Officials say the police and security services are currently dealing with about 30 suspected plots and 200 terrorist-related groups or networks.

Striking a slightly defensive note, Mr. Evans said his agents were “under acute pressure to prioritize” and could not monitor every threat. “There will be instances when individuals come to the notice of the security service or the police, but then subsequently carry out acts of terrorism,” he said. “Every decision to investigate someone entails a decision not to investigate someone else.”

He also said espionage activities by Russia and China, among other countries, were siphoning resources from the fight against terrorism. “A number of countries continue to devote considerable time and energy trying to steal our sensitive technology on civilian and military projects, and trying to obtain political and economic intelligence at our expense,” he said.

Mr. Evans was particularly pointed in criticizing Russia, whose relationship with Britain has cooled considerably in recent months.

“Since the end of the cold war,” he said, “we have seen no decrease in the numbers of undeclared Russian intelligence officers in the U.K. — at the Russian Embassy and associated organizations conducting covert activity in this country.”

A man answering the phone at the Russian Embassy here said he could not comment on the assertion that it was harboring spies.

LONDON, Nov. 5 (Reuters) — A man accused of helping to plot botched 2005 bombings in London was sentenced Monday to six years, nine months after pleading guilty to a lesser offense.

Adel Yahya, who was born in Ethiopia, was one of six men tried on charges of plotting attacks on the transport system on July 21, 2005, two weeks after suicide bombers killed 56 people, including themselves, in London.

Detectives said the second plot failed only because the homemade bombs failed to explode.

Mr. Yahya was accused of being central to the plot, but not of being one of the four men who tried to carry out the attacks.

While four of the five others were convicted and sentenced to life in prison for conspiracy to murder, the jury reached no verdict on Mr. Yahya and on the sixth man, Manfo Kwaku Asiedu.

On Monday, a week before his scheduled retrial, Mr. Yahya pleaded guilty to collecting information useful for militants.
136 2007-11-06 “We do feel that there’s a story that’s been missed here,” said Stephen P. Hills, president and general manager of The Washington Post. There is good news about newspaper readership, he said, “but you wouldn’t know that to read the newspapers.”

An analysis of 88 major papers showed that in the last two years, about half of them had seen no change in readership or had registered an increase, said Bob Cohen, president and chief executive officer of Scarborough.

The industry is also hopeful that the new readership figures will make an impression on advertisers, who have broken with historical patterns by retreating from newspapers despite an expanding economy. Executives noted that newspaper Web sites — unlike their print counterparts — draw a lot of young adults, who are desirable among advertisers.

But advertisers have generally not considered an online reader to be as valuable as a print reader, so it remains to be seen what effect the revised numbers will have.

Across the industry, the new audit bureau report shows a 2.6 percent decline in paid weekday circulation from the year-earlier period for more than 500 newspapers whose figures were available, and a 3.5 percent drop on Sundays for more than 600 newspapers.

USA Today, the top-selling weekday newspaper in the country — it does not publish on weekends — had a 1 percent increase in circulation, to about 2.3 million.

Sales of The Wall Street Journal, which does not publish on Sundays, fell 1.5 percent, to about 2 million. The Journal is one of a very small number of papers that charges for access to most of its Web site, and the paper said today that online subscriptions, which are included in the paid circulation figures, have topped 1 million.

The New York Times, which has raised its price twice in the last year, in addition to shedding unprofitable sales, lost 4.5 percent of its weekday circulation (to less than 1.04 million) and 7.6 percent of its Sunday circulation (to 1.5 million).

The circulation of The Los Angeles Times may have bottomed out, after several years of some of the sharpest declines in the industry. For the second straight six-month period, weekday sales held fairly steady, at 780,000, but Sunday circulation dropped 5 percent, to about 1.1 million.

In New York City’s heated tabloid war, The New York Post fell slightly behind The Daily News in weekday circulation, as both papers posted significant declines, dropping below 700,000. The Post overtook The Daily News last year in weekday sales for the first time in decades. The News continues to lead in Sunday circulation by a wide margin.
137 2007-11-06 He noted that the hydrocolloids he uses came from natural sources and often had a long history in the cooking of other cultures.

“In our ongoing search of working with hydrocolloids, we’re always trying to find interesting and new things and new applications,” said Mr. Dufresne, who at times sounded as if he were talking to chemists rather than chefs.

And rightly so. Cooking is chemistry, after all, and in recent decades scientists have given much closer scrutiny to the transformations that occur when foodstuffs are heated. That has debunked some longstanding myths. Searing meat does not seal in juices, for example, but high heat does induce chemical reactions among the proteins that make it tastier. The experimentation with hydrocolloids represents a rare crossover between the culinary arts and food science, two fields that at first glance would seem to be closely related but which have been almost separate. Food science arose in the 20th century as food companies looked for ways to make their products survive the trek to the supermarket and remain palatable. The long list of ingredients on a frozen dinner represents the work of food scientists in ensuring shelf life and approximating the taste of fresh-cooked food.

“Ten years ago, or maybe a little more than that, no chef in a serious restaurant would be caught dead using these ingredients,” said Harold McGee, author of “On Food and Cooking” (Scribner, 2004) and the “Curious Cook” column, which appears in the Dining section of The New York Times. “Because they were industrial stabilizers for the most part.”

Then a few chefs like in and in started experimenting. “They asked what can you do with these ingredients that you can’t do with other ingredients,” Mr. McGee said.

Despite its imposing name, a hydrocolloid is a simple thing. A colloid is a suspension of particles within some substance. A hydrocolloid is a suspension of particles in water where the particles are molecules that bind to water and to one another. The particles slow the flow of the liquid or stop it entirely, solidifying into a gel.

Cornstarch used as a thickener is a hydrocolloid. So is plain flour. But the properties of hydrocolloids differ widely, depending on their molecular structure and affinity for water.

Today, Grant Achatz, chef of Alinea in , uses agar-agar, which is a hydrocolloid made from seaweed that is best known for growing bacteria in petri dishes, and gelatin, a more familiar hydrocolloid made from collagen in meat, to make transparent sheets that he drapes over hot foods. For a dish made of a confit of beef short ribs, he wanted to add a taste of beer so he draped a veil flavored with Guinness on top — “a thin, flavorful glaze that ensured the diner would get some beer flavor in every bit of the dish,” Mr. Achatz said. Plain gelatin would simply melt, and ruin the effect.

Even chefs far from the avant-garde use hydrocolloids. David Kinch, the chef of Manresa Restaurant in Los Gatos, Calif., known for ultra-fresh and ultra-local ingredients, makes purees of vegetables. To keep water from leaking out, he adds a touch of xanthan gum.

One of the dishes Mr. Dufresne presented in his Starchefs talk was what he called “knot foie,” a result of experimentation combining xanthan gum with konjac flour, made from a tuber long used in Japanese cooking.

“We’ve had konjac flour in the kitchen for a long time, and we just hadn’t used it,” Mr. Dufresne said. “We realized, after reading, that it has a really interesting synergy with xanthan gum. It makes a kind of funky, strange gel on its own, but in conjunction with xanthan gum, which on its own won’t make a gel but is just a thickener, it makes a really interesting, very elastic product.”

He continued: “So we thought, well what could we take that normally wouldn’t behave like that but would be really interesting. And almost instantly, we came up with the idea of foie gras.”

One wall of the WD-50 kitchen, with metal shelves filled with white bottles of hydrocolloids, looks almost like a pharmacy. Mr. Dufresne’s reading material includes “Water-Soluble Polymer Applications in Foods” and “Hydrocolloid Applications: Gum Technology in the Food and Other Industries.”

Like scientists, Mr. Dufresne and his staff experiment, recording their observations and findings in notebooks. Using butter — much cheaper than foie gras — they began a series of trials in May to determine the ideal proportion of konjac to xanthan, which turned out to be 70 percent konjac, 30 percent xanthan in a 0.65 percent concentration.

In addition to flexible butter, Mr. Dufresne also has a recipe for a butter that does not melt in an oven. (That innovation has yet to find a place on his menu.) The latest experiments are how to make deep-fried hollandaise sauce, which he hopes to wrap into a variation of eggs benedict.

To make a flexible foie, a foie gras terrine is melted into liquefied , the xanthan and konjac are mixed in, and then a small amount of water and an egg yolk, which helps keep everything evenly suspended in the liquid, are blended in. The mixture is spread on a sheet, chilled, cut into strands and tied into knots. Hence, knot foie.

In the question-and-answer session, one person asked why Mr. Dufresne went to the trouble of making a foie gras terrine, a process that takes half a day of chilling, when the next step was melting it into a liquid.

“We were trying to be true and honest to that aspect of French cooking,” Mr. Dufresne replied. He paused before adding, “And do something kind of crazy with it.”
138 2007-11-06 A NEW MORTGAGE PROBLEM As unprecedented numbers of homeowners default on their mortgages, questionable practices by some lenders that are being revealed in bankruptcy courts are leading lawyers to suggest that companies handling the foreclosures m...
139 2007-11-06 The Iraq war looms large, but a recent ABC News/Washington Post poll finds increasing concern about the economy.      Three in 10 Americans, including as many Democrats as Republicans, called the economy one of the top two issues in the presidenti...
140 2007-11-07 In Brooklyn, Mayor Bloomberg said the names of those who died after 9/11 should not be among the names around the two voids at the planned World Trade Center memorial....
141 2007-11-07 "24," starring Kiefer Sutherland as Jack Bauer, has been postponed due to the writers' strike. (Fox) Three days into the writers' strike, Fox has become the first broadcast network to announce revisions to its prime time schedule. Most notably, th...
142 2007-11-07 Alison looks at two layout possibilities for the bathroom....
143 2007-11-07 A former candidate doubts Giuliani's electability...
144 2007-11-07 The televangelist's backing may help buffer conservatives' concerns about the Republican candidate's moderate stances on social issues. And Senator Sam Brownback endorses Senator McCain in Iowa....
145 2007-11-07 The French bank BNP Paribas is expanding its hedge fund services divisions in New York, Hong Kong and London. Conrad Johnson is joining the bank as a director in the New York office. He comes from J.P. Morgan Securities where he was in the fixed i...
146 2007-11-07 The long awaited next step in consolidating Switzerland's private banks came Wednesday morning as Swiss Life announced the 1.87 billion Swiss franc ($1.65 billion) sale of Banca del Gottardo to BSI. The Financial Times said that the deal will reli...
147 2007-11-07 SMG, a Scottish broadcasting company, will raise 95.1 million pounds ($200 million) in an attempt to lower its debt load and avert a fire sale of Virgin Radio. The company's new management team, installed at the urging of activist investors, cited...
148 2007-11-07 Time Warner is planning to tie a large portion of the compensation it plans to pay its next chief executive to its share price performance, The New York Post reported. The report follows the announcement Monday by the world's largest media company...
149 2007-11-07 The Nasdaq Stock Market has entered into a preliminary agreement to buy the Philadelphia Stock Exchange for $650 million, according to news reports. The board of the Philadelphia exchange, which has reportedly been negotiating exclusively with Nas...
150 2007-11-07 The record price paid in January for the 41-story aluminum-clad office tower at 666 Fifth Avenue – $1.8 billion – was breathtaking, even by the standards of the heady Midtown Manhattan commercial real estate market. Making its first major fora...
151 2007-11-07 There was even a good old-fashioned bidding war for the evening’s prized painting, “L’Odalisque, Harmonie Bleue,” a 1937 Matisse canvas depicting one of the artist’s favorite models lounging in a heavily patterned interior. It went for $33.6 million, well above the painting’s $15 million to $20 million estimate.

Initially there were five bidders, but as the price climbed it finally came down to two — Guy Bennett, who runs Christie’s Impressionist and modern art department in New York, bidding on behalf of a client on the telephone, and Franck Giraud, a private dealer in Manhattan.

Mr. Giraud was glued to his cellphone, steadily raising his hand as Christopher Burge, the evening’s auctioneer, took bids in $500,000 increments. It seemed as though neither bidder would give in.

When the price hit $27 million ($7 million over the high estimate) with no end in sight, Mr. Burge jokingly said, “At some point I’m going to have to sell it.”

Mr. Bennett won out at $30 million ($33.6 million, including Christie’s buyer’s premium), a record price at auction for Matisse. The salesroom burst into applause. (Officials at Christie’s would not identify the buyer.)

The painting was coveted not simply for the arresting image but also for its provenance. Paul Rosenberg, the legendary French dealer who represented Picasso, Braque, Léger and Matisse, had acquired it directly from the artist, and the dealer’s heirs were selling it last night.

That triumphant sale, which came early in the evening, helped set a positive tone for what became a successful auction. Of the 91 lots up for sale, only 17 did not find buyers. The overall sales totaled $394.9 million, above the low $348.6 million estimate but well below the $487.4 million high.

A dreamy 1889 landscape in orange, green, blue and purple that Signac painted during a stay in Cassis, a fishing village on the Côte d’Azur, was also a winner. It was owned by Paul Josefowitz, publisher of the magazine Apollo, and for the last four years had been on view at the National Gallery in London. Four bidders went for the painting, which also ended up fetching a record auction price. It went to an anonymous telephone bidder for $12 million, exactly its high estimate, or $14 million including the premium. (Final prices include Christie’s commission: 25 percent of the first $20,000, 20 percent of the next $20,000 to $500,000 and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)

Late Picassos have been all the rage recently, and the trend continued last night. “Seated Woman in a Turkish Costume (Jacqueline),” a 1955 painting of the artist’s companion Jacqueline Roque, was fought over by four bidders. The seller was the Nahmad Gallery, which has spaces in New York and London; the canvas was last up for auction in 1995 at Sotheby’s, where it went for $2.5 million — considered an enormous sum at the time.

Christie’s had estimated that “Jacqueline” would bring about $25 million last night. It did better than that: $27.5 million, or $30.8 million with premium. (Mr. Bennett was on the telephone again, bidding for a client whom Christie’s did not name.) Another late Picasso, “Man With a Pipe” from 1968, also brought a strong price. Larry Gagosian, the Manhattan dealer, bought it for $16.8 million.

Earlier Picassos fared well, too. “Head of a Woman (Dora Maar),” a 1941 painting of the artist’s lover, went to a telephone bidder who was willing to pay more than five other takers. It brought $16.2 million, well beyond its $8.5 million high estimate.

In a strong market, works on paper bring high sums. A Cézanne watercolor, “Portrait of Vallier” (1904-6), went to a telephone bidder for $17.4 million. It was one of three watercolors by the artist being sold by Donald B. Marron, chairman of Lightyear Capital and a member of the Museum of Modern Art’s board.

Mr. Marron was also selling “The Dream II,” an early Balthus that he bought in 2004 for about $12 million. The six-foot-square canvas became one of the evening’s casualties. Nobody had any interest in buying the canvas of a sleeping girl on a sofa. Its estimate was $9 million to $12 million, but when Mr. Burge saw there was no interest he stopped trying to sell it at $6 million.

There were a few surprises. “The Four Seasons,” an 1872-73 suite of four paintings by Pissarro that has often come to market and sold for $8.9 million at Christie’s in 2004, did very well. Last night a telephone bidder paid $14.6 million, a record price at auction for the artist.
152 2007-11-07 REDMOND, Wash., Nov. 6 (AP) — Microsoft said Tuesday that it had fired its chief information officer, Stuart L. Scott, for violations of company policies, but a spokesman declined to give the exact reason for the dismissal.

“Stuart Scott’s employment with Microsoft was terminated after an investigation for violation of company policies,” a Microsoft spokesman, Lou Gellos, said, reading from a company statement.

Mr. Gellos said Mr. Scott was dismissed Friday. He would not elaborate.

According to Microsoft’s Web site, Mr. Scott was responsible for the information technology infrastructure at the company, the world’s largest software maker. He reported to B. Kevin Turner, Microsoft’s chief operating officer, who in turn reports directly to the chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer.

Mr. Scott joined Microsoft in 2005 after 17 years at General Electric, according to Microsoft.

Mr. Gellos said that Alain Crozier, a corporate vice president who also reports to Mr. Turner, and Shahla Aly, a general manager in the services group, would take over Mr. Scott’s duties until a successor is found.
153 2007-11-07 IndyMac Bancorp, hurt by mounting delinquencies and a collapse in demand to buy its home loans, posted a quarterly loss yesterday that was more than five times what it had projected.

The company, one of the largest independent United States mortgage lenders, halved its dividend, as expected, and said another cut would be possible if it kept losing money.

“It’s going to be a tough year, year and a half,” the chief executive, Michael W. Perry, said in a conference call.

IndyMac shares closed down 28 cents, or 2.2 percent, at $12.49, after the company said it had enough liquidity to ride out the housing slump.

The third-quarter net loss for the company, based in Pasadena, Calif., totaled $202.7 million, or $2.77 a share, in contrast to a year-earlier profit of $86.2 million, or $1.19 a share.
154 2007-11-07 Joe Crawford scored 20 points last night and 20th-ranked Kentucky began the Billy Gillispie era with a 67-40 victory over visiting Central Arkansas in the opening round of the 2K Sports College Hoops Classic.The Wildcats (1-0) advanced to the second round tonight against Gardner-Webb, which defeated Alabama A&M, 69-55.Gillispie led Texas A&M to the Round of 16 at last season’s N.C.A.A. tournament before replacing Tubby Smith.Crawford, a senior guard who was a starter last season, did not take to the court until 13 minutes in. He soon took over the offense, shooting 7 of 11 from the field, including two dunks.The sophomore forward Mark Coury accounted for 10 of Kentucky’s first 12 points. He finished with 13 points and 10 rebounds.The Bears missed their first nine shots and did not score until the junior center Landrell Brewer hit two free throws more than five minutes in. Durrell Nevels led Central Arkansas (0-1) with 10 points.
155 2007-11-07 He also distanced himself from the American presidential race, saying, “Regardless of who is president — male or female — we will work hand in hand together.”

Mr. Sarkozy arrived in Washington without a spouse but with some of the women who reflect the diversity of his cabinet: Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, a former chairman of a Chicago-based law firm, Baker & McKenzie; Justice Minister Rachida Dati, who has a Moroccan father and an Algerian mother; and Rama Yade, his 31-year-old Senegalese-born subminister of foreign affairs and human rights, whom Mr. Sarkozy calls his “Condi Rice.”

At a reception at the French Embassy, he announced that he would take the women to the black-tie dinner in his honor at the White House, saying that they and the rest of his cabinet represent “a new France.”

Among the other members of his party were the chef Guy Savoy, holder of three Michelin stars; Henri Loyrette, director of the Louvre; and several members of the French Parliament.

Mr. Sarkozy awarded the Legion of Honor on Tuesday to seven World War II veterans, including Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, who, as a 20-year-old lieutenant, lost an arm leading an attack in Italy in 1945.

On Wednesday, Mr. Sarkozy will address a joint meeting of Congress, as his predecessor, Jacques Chirac, did before him, before having lunch and holding a news conference with Mr. Bush at George Washington’s home at Mount Vernon. He will also meet with American Jewish leaders.

The entire visit is to last 26 hours.

“Sarko l’Américain,” as he is called, is considered the most pro-American French president in decades. The son of a Hungarian immigrant and a French-Greek woman whose father was Jewish, he unabashedly confesses his admiration for the United States, particularly its work ethic and popular culture.

He told the business council that during his presidential campaign, “I said I was a friend of America, and with that, they elected me — not bad.”

Mr. Sarkozy’s relationship with Mr. Bush is said to be warm, and his tough stance on Iran’s nuclear program — which envisions new punitive sanctions that will hurt French business interests — is welcomed by the White House.

Mr. Sarkozy has brought France closer to the position of the United States on dealing with Afghanistan, where France has troops; the Middle East, where he has called himself a friend of Israel; and Russia. The French leader also supports Washington’s position that the province of Kosovo will eventually become independent of Serbia.

“The tide has really turned in this relationship,” R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary of state for political affairs, said in a speech in Paris last week.

But Mr. Bush is resigned to the fact that Mr. Sarkozy will do nothing to support the American war effort in Iraq. Mr. Sarkozy sidestepped a question at the business council meeting on an American troop withdrawal, saying: “No one is saying that there should be an immediate, unconditional withdrawal. What we want is that as soon as possible, the Iraqi people can decide their future and secure their unity.”

French officials said that Iraq was not even on their agenda.

Nor is France ready to rejoin the military wing of NATO after a four-decade break, despite Mr. Sarkozy’s flirtation with the idea. He has called the possible admission of Turkey into the European Union, which the Bush administration supports, “nonsensical,” saying that 98 percent of Turkey is in Asia Minor, not Europe. He has sharply criticized Mr. Bush for failing to make the environment a high policy priority, a criticism he repeated Tuesday.

Mr. Sarkozy has also faulted the American health care system, which leaves many Americans uninsured, and the fact that much of America knows and cares little about the rest of the world.

“If I was in love with the American model, I’d go and live there,” he wrote in “Testimony,” his 2006 campaign book. “This is not the case.”

Since Mr. Sarkozy’s divorce from his wife, Cécilia, was announced Oct. 18, he has piled even more events onto his already frenetic schedule.

Cécilia Sarkozy said in interviews following their divorce that she wanted to retreat from the limelight and lead a tranquil life. That doesn’t seem to mean the absence of movement, however. The New York Post on Monday ran a photo of her and her daughter Jeanne-Marie leaving Orsay restaurant on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

Mr. Sarkozy has refused to speak about the collapse of his marriage. He stormed out of a recent interview on “60 Minutes” when pressed, before the divorce was announced, about Mrs. Sarkozy’s whereabouts.

Yet in “Testimony,” he confessed his hurt that his wife had left him for several months in 2005, saying that openness in explaining the trauma was in order.

“This evolution toward transparency in public life, unimaginable only 10 years ago, has become inevitable today,” he wrote. “So you might as well deal with it head on and not try to dodge it.”
156 2007-11-07 In many poor nations with oil, the proceeds are being lost to corruption, depriving these countries of their best hope for development. And oil is fueling gargantuan investment funds run by foreign governments, which some in the West see as a new threat.

“Five months ago, readers would not have recognized S.W.F. as meaning sovereign wealth fund,” said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, referring to the funds set up by Russia, Norway and others to invest their oil profits. “And yet now,” he said, “they’re recognized as one of the fundamental forces of the global economy.”

The basic calculus of expensive oil still holds: exporters enjoy a windfall and importers bear a heavier burden. But some unexpected countries are reaping benefits, as well as costs, from higher prices.

Consider Germany. Although it imports virtually all its oil, it has prospered from extensive trade with a booming Russia and the Middle East. German exports to Russia grew 128 percent from 2001 to 2006; exports to the United States grew just 15 percent.

Throughout Europe, the rise of the euro has acted as a hedge against fluctuations in the dollar-denominated oil market, while the heavy taxation of fuel has made rising oil prices less jarring to motorists.

“For Europeans,” said David Fyfe, a senior oil market analyst at the International Energy Agency in Paris, “$100 oil is mostly symbolic.”

Elsewhere, it is much more. For developing countries, oil can be a tool of national transformation — whether the goal is a middle-class standard of living or a utopian society.

In Venezuela, President Hugo Chávez is pouring oil proceeds into a socialist revolution, creating free health care, free education and cheap food; enabling heavy public spending that has helped fuel four years of economic growth.

The trouble, said Theresa Paiz, a Latin American director for the Fitch ratings agency, is that “it’s not really clear how the money is invested.” Mr. Chávez’s government is steering large chunks of money to development funds and state-owned companies not subject to audits.

Transparency International, an organization that tracks corruption, ranks countries from least to most corrupt, and in its 2007 index Venezuela was at 162 out of 179 countries.

Concerns about corruption are even more pronounced in Nigeria and Angola.

Oil-rich Angola is taking in two and a half times the cash it did three years ago. Hotels in the capital, Luanda, are booked months in advance, largely by foreign oil companies. Sales of luxury cars are booming, and the International Monetary Fund projects the economy will grow 24 percent this year, one of the world’s fastest rates. Yet analysts for the Catholic University of Angola’s research center say two in three Angolans live on $2 or less a day, the same ratio as in 2002, when the country’s decades-long civil war ended.

The government is eager to show that oil wealth is benefiting ordinary citizens. It has rebuilt 2,400 miles of roads, refurbished 4 airports, and laid 430 miles of new railroad track.

But many Angolans take it as a given that oil has enriched public officials most of all. In 2003, a newspaper in Luanda identified the 20 richest people in Angola: 12 were government officials; 5 were former officials. Angola’s growing muscle — it is now the biggest oil supplier to China and the sixth biggest to the United States — is leading it to rethink its global position. It recently joined the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and is limiting its cooperation with the I.M.F.

In perhaps the most far-reaching change, China has become Angola’s financier, lending Luanda as much as $12 billion for the country’s reconstruction, in return for guaranteed oil supplies.

The contest among importers to secure access to oil supplies has become fierce.

China, a one-time oil exporter that now must import half its oil to lubricate its booming economy, is facing politically troublesome shortages of fuel from Shenzhen to Beijing, as Chinese refining companies refuse to supply diesel at unprofitable state-regulated prices. To head off a crisis, China raised retail prices for fuel nearly 10 percent on Nov. 1.

India is potentially even more vulnerable than China, some analysts say. Although it consumes a third as much oil as China, it imports 70 percent of its oil. It also has no strategic reserves, and demand is growing faster than in any other economy except China’s. Like China, India subsidizes fuel, particularly the kerosene used by lower- and middle-class families for cooking — a policy that costs it some $12 billion a year. If oil reaches $100 a barrel and stays there, analysts say, India will be forced to roll back those subsidies.

“Sooner or later, prices are going to bite,” said Subir Gokarn, Standard & Poor’s chief economist in Asia. “Clearly household budgets will be significantly affected.”

Without an increase in retail prices, officials at the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas warned recently, they might no longer be able to buy adequate supplies of crude for India’s refineries. “Unless consumers are paying for what they consume,” said M. S. Srinivasan, the petroleum secretary, the ministry “is going to be left with a big hole in its pocket.”

But raising fuel prices could ignite even greater civil unrest in India than in China, where a man was killed recently after jumping a line to buy gas in the city of Xinyang, in Henan Province.

Even in developed countries like Canada, rising oil prices can cause dislocation. The region around the oil sands in northern Alberta is the closest thing the developed world has to a 19th-century boom town. The influx of workers has created a shortage of skilled labor in neighboring British Columbia, where construction is under way for the 2010 Winter Olympics.

In comparison, the problems faced by other oil producers seem almost benign. For them, the most burning question is what to do with all the money. Norway, the world’s 10th-largest oil producer, wants to guarantee every child a subsidized kindergarten spot by the end of 2008.

It has increased spending on kindergarten to $3.3 billion this year, from $2.75 billion, partly using money transferred from its $350 billion State Pension Fund, once known as the Petroleum Fund. Most of the fund is earmarked to pay the future pensions of Norway’s 4.6 million people.

“The discipline is structural,” said Johan Nic Vold, a consultant and former executive at Royal Dutch Shell. “Without it, the demands on politicians to use the oil revenue would be almost insatiable.”

Perched on the Persian Gulf, Dubai has taken a similarly long view. Treating its oil reserves as temporary, it used the proceeds to expand pell-mell into tourism, trade, real estate and construction. The oil sector now accounts for only 5 percent of Dubai’s gross domestic product.

But perhaps no country has reveled in its oil wealth like Russia. NetJets Europe, the private-jet company, plans to open an office in Russia because the traffic between Moscow and London has become so dense.

This month, Christie’s will stage what it expects to be a record-setting auction week dedicated to Russian art, including the auction of a Fabergé egg made for the Russian royal family.

Russians have kept London’s high-end real estate market buzzing. “There are a lot of Russian buyers around who are prepared to pay a vast amount of money,” said Michael Chetwode of the Home Search Bureau.

Back home, Russia’s oil wealth is trickling down. Mr. Putin is using it to finance “priority national projects,” like improved health care and education, and access to affordable housing.

Oil may also help Mr. Putin cling to power after he leaves the presidency, perhaps as prime minister. As he noted recently, “We all remember what state the country was in seven, eight years ago.”

Eight years ago, oil was trading at $16 a barrel.
157 2007-11-07 Air travelers are asking for trouble if they show up for a flight with 3.5 ounces of shampoo in their carry-on bags. But the has decided that the government should not even trouble chemical plants to account for the storage of anything under 2,500 pounds of deadly chlorine. The department’s new rules on reporting stockpiles of toxic chemicals, issued last week, have certainly made the industry happy. They should make the public worried.

Chemical plants — and petroleum plants, paper mills and other industrial facilities that use dangerous chemicals — are one of the nation’s greatest vulnerabilities. An attack on such a facility could create a deadly chemical cloud that would put hundreds of thousands of people in danger. Just consider the result of an accidental train derailment in in 2002 — a cloud of deadly chemicals hundreds of feet high and several miles long — and magnify it by what would happen if terrorists planned and carried out an attack in a highly populated area.

The government should be doing everything it can to guard against such catastrophes.

The Bush administration has shown repeatedly, however, that it does not want to impose reasonable requirements on chemical plants. That may have to do with its general opposition to regulations, or it could be connected to the enormous amount of money the chemical industry spends on lobbying and campaign contributions. The industry does not want to bear the expense of serious safety rules, and it fights them furiously. In a recent study, reported that the chemical industry spent more money in a year lobbying to defeat strong chemical plant legislation than the Department of Homeland Security spent on chemical plant security.

The rules the department issued last week are far too lax about when facilities need to report stockpiles of chemicals like chlorine, fluorine and hydrogen fluoride to the government. According to the new rules, which watered-down proposed rules that the department had released in April, a chemical plant does not have to report the storage of 2,499 pounds of chlorine, even if it is located in a populated area — or across from an elementary school.

If 450 pounds of chlorine are stolen, enough to cause mass casualties, the theft need not be reported. Chlorine has been used by insurgents in , and it is high on the list of chemicals that should be kept out of terrorists’ hands.

It is troubling that these industry-friendly rules were developed in part by Department of Homeland Security employees who previously worked for the chemical industry — and who may one day work for it again. Rick Hind, the legislative director of the Greenpeace Toxics Campaign, contends that such employees have had an “undue influence.” The department says it draws on former chemical industry workers simply because of their “relevant prior experience.”
158 2007-11-07 Facebook says it is using only information that its members choose to share. And, while the site is using the information on behalf of advertisers, Facebook is not giving it to marketers, said Chris Kelly, Facebook’s chief privacy officer.

Facebook’s much-anticipated plan — which the company calls “social advertising” — was revealed yesterday at a gathering of advertising executives and reporters in New York. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, spoke in grand terms about of the death of mass advertising and said that in the future, ad messages would increasingly be conveyed from friend to friend through online networks.

“Nothing influences a person more than a recommendation from a trusted friend,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.

Facebook users will not be able to avoid these personally recommended ads if they are friends with participating people. Participation can involve joining a fan club for a brand, recommending a product or sharing information about their purchases from external Web sites.

Mr. Zuckerberg said he thought this system would make the site feel “less commercial,” because the marketing messages will be accompanied by comments from friends. When asked about people who might not like ads, Mr. Zuckerberg shrugged and said, “I mean, it’s an ad-supported business.”

While Facebook executives said that the ads would feel more like content because they would be yoked to a friend’s comments, some analysts said the approach could backfire.

“Just because you like Reebok doesn’t mean I am going to like Reebok,” said Jeremiah Owyang, a senior analyst at Forrester Research.

Facebook has 60 advertisers already signed up as partners, and last night 100,000 new profiles were added to the site to promote products, bands and other interests. Condé Nast will ask visitors to its Flip.com and Epicurious.com sites if they would like to send information back to Facebook, and will later expand the option to its other sites.

The New York Times Company will also allow visitors to its newspaper Web sites to zap information about their visits to those sites back to friends on Facebook.

Executives from consumer brand companies attending the announcement said they viewed ads on social networking sites as a priority in their ad spending. At Facebook, “the numbers speak for themselves — their numbers are staggering,” said Babs Rangaiah, Unilever’s director for media and entertainment.

Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook had discussed the new program with Microsoft before signing a $240 million deal that allowed Microsoft to sell display ads on its site. The new breed of recommendation-related ads are not a part of that deal, he said.

Facebook’s program will compete with MySpace for advertisers’ dollars. MySpace, which is owned by the News Corporation, said Monday that it was trying to expand its ad targeting system to local advertisers. MySpace and Facebook scan their members’ pages to try to figure out what sort of ads the people who posted them might be interested in.

“On Facebook, we know exactly what gender someone is and exactly what age they are,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.

Some privacy experts applauded Facebook for letting people choose whether or not to make product recommendations. But they also expressed concern that Facebook might one day change its policy of not sharing data with marketers.

“That’s been one of the historical problems in this field — the shifting promises,” said Chris Hoofnagle, a senior lawyer at the Samuelson Law, Technology & Public Policy Clinic at the University of California in Berkeley.
159 2007-11-07 “What is in it for somebody to want to be in a role where they’re being supervised by two bazillionaires?” said Mary Key, who advises corporations and governments on leadership practices for the Institute for Corporate Productivity in Tampa, Fla.

“One would be the power of association, and another is contacts. But do you give that person the responsibility and authority to achieve certain results, to hold them accountable, or not?”

For now, Michellene Davis, a lawyer and former executive director of New Jersey Lottery who had been Mr. Abelow’s chief of staff, is acting treasurer. But administration officials say that Ms. Davis, 36, does not want the job.

In an interview, Mr. Abelow said that he had not yet offered the job to anyone nor was he in any hurry because of his “enormous confidence” in Ms. Davis and the rest of the senior staff. He also said that he and the governor wanted to tap “someone who has the strength to stand up and say, ‘This is what I think is right,’ and add skills to the organization.”

Still, Mr. Abelow conceded that the search had not been easy. “It is hard to find people of substantive experience with terrific leadership skills who want to give up their jobs and work in the public sector,” he said.

If anything, the job figures to be even more difficult than in past years because Mr. Corzine’s vision for shoring up the state’s sagging finances figures to dominate the state’s agenda in the months ahead.

With a $3 billion budget deficit threatening, Mr. Corzine has already directed his cabinet members to scour their departments for as many cuts as possible, something many regard as trying to squeeze blood from a turnip after years of paring the budget. Soon he is expected to roll out his plans to try to get more money out of state assets like the New Jersey Turnpike.

And if that is not enough, the governor and whoever becomes the next treasurer must eventually grapple with the state’s soaring debt burden, and pension and health care systems that face tremendous shortfalls. Then there is the growing drumbeat of complaints about soaring property taxes and how they are chasing residents to other states.

The longer Mr. Corzine waits to pick a treasurer, the less time his appointee has to be confirmed by the Senate Judiciary Committee and absorb the Corzine playbook on finances.

“I think it’s unusual that it’s taken so long for it to be filled,” said Michael M. Horn, a treasurer in the Kean administration who was co-chairman of Mr. Corzine’s budget transition team. “I can’t remember it being this vacant for this long. It’s a real void because the treasurer’s job includes involvement on all of the major boards and authorities in the state, and leadership is needed to see that there’s input into those boards.”

Mr. Corzine’s protracted search does not come as a total surprise to many who follow the workings of state government here. Critics say he tends to take his time gathering information and making decisions, though allies insist he is merely being thoughtful.

It should be noted that Mr. Abelow was not Mr. Corzine’s first choice to be treasurer. Indeed, people in his administration say that several candidates — including another Goldman Sachs colleague — declined the offer because of the scrutiny and the financial-disclosure requirements, among other reasons.

This time around, the speculation goes, he will not promote someone from within the treasurer’s office, and may also shy away from yet another Goldman Sachs recruit, since there are already several who are among his closest advisers here.

One option, Mr. Horn suggested, was that Mr. Corzine might pick another cabinet official to fill the slot, then appoint someone else for that position. This is what happened to Mr. Horn, who was insurance commissioner before Gov. Thomas H. Kean shuttled him over to Treasury.

One thing that Mr. Abelow promised was that his replacement would be entrusted to do the job unfettered.

As he put it, “I am not looking to be a dual officeholder.”
160 2007-11-07 WASHINGTON, Nov. 6 (AP) — Two top Yahoo officials on Tuesday defended their company’s role in the jailing of a Chinese journalist but ran into withering criticism from United States lawmakers who accused them of complicity with an oppressive Communist regime.

“While technologically and financially you are giants, morally you are pygmies,” Tom Lantos, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said angrily after hearing from the two executives, Jerry Yang, the chief executive, and Michael J. Callahan, the general counsel.

The journalist Shi Tao was sent to jail for 10 years for engaging in pro-democracy efforts deemed subversive after Yahoo turned over information about his online activities as requested by Chinese authorities.

Mr. Lantos angrily urged the two men to apologize to the journalist’s mother, who was sitting directly behind them.

Mr. Yang and Mr. Callahan turned around from the witness table and bowed from their seats to Mr. Shi’s mother, Gao Qinsheng, who bowed in return and then began to weep.
161 2007-11-07 When Mario Biaggi, the revered Bronx congressman, was about to be sentenced in a racketeering case in 1988, he declared in court that the hostile testimony and unflattering publicity were punishment enough.

During his trial, he said, “I died a little bit every day.”

Nonetheless, he was sentenced to eight years in prison. After two years and two months, though — six months before he would have been eligible for parole — the sentencing judge released the 73-year-old Mr. Biaggi because he had what his lawyer described as life-threatening heart and neurological illnesses.

That was in 1991.

Last month, he celebrated his 90th birthday.

The party, organized by his children and grandchildren at a Bronx restaurant, was attended by family members, former colleagues and constituents and admiring dignitaries, including Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and Representatives Charles B. Rangel, a Manhattan Democrat, and Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican, and Michael Long, the state Conservative Party leader.

It was a testimonial not only to his longevity, but also to his enduring personal appeal.

“A stalwart,” Mr. Kelly said of Mr. Biaggi, who was a highly decorated police officer before he entered politics. “He’s present at every police memorial ceremony. A real hero in the annals of the New York Police Department.”

But how did Mr. Biaggi explain his survival 16 years after his release from prison?

“Hey, it wasn’t supposed to be a death sentence,” he said in an interview last week. “I returned to New York to get superior medical care.”
162 2007-11-07 Lawyers for Sharpe James, the former Newark mayor, have asked that a federal indictment on corruption charges be dismissed because the government has failed to prove a crime. In motions filed in Federal District Court late Monday, the lawyers also said that Mr. James would have an “exceptionally difficult, if not impossible” time getting a fair trial in Newark, but they stopped short of asking for a change of venue. They also asked for a delay in the start of the trial, set for early next year, to allow them to review about 240,000 documents.
163 2007-11-07 Add ever-multiplying newspaper boxes, bollard posts put up for security after Sept. 11, and extra trash bins and the sidewalks may be the most crowded they have ever been, according to Vanessa Gruen, a director of special projects at the Municipal Art Society of New York, a design watchdog group, who also works closely with its streetscapes committee.

“If you look at any old photographs of New York from a few decades ago, you will see that the sidewalks were pretty clear,” Ms. Gruen said. “There’s definitely a lot more stuff.”

For restaurants, the privilege of offering alfresco dining has a price. A 150-square-foot sidewalk berth anywhere between 96th Street and Canal Street costs $4,749.29 annually, about $31 a square foot. (Owners also pay a $510 fee for the two-year license.)

These consent fees, which are the city’s going rate for private businesses to lease public real estate, were doubled or tripled in 2003, when the regulations changed. The fees have created a significant revenue stream for the city; it has taken in $10.7 million in cafe fees this year, according to Jonathan Mintz, the consumer affairs commissioner.

But restaurants don’t seem to be balking at the costs, since cafes are a much cheaper way of increasing capacity than securing a larger indoor space, according to Loren Baron, a broker at CB Richard Ellis who specializes in restaurant leasing.

Restaurants typically pay the same rent rate as stores, generally higher those paid for offices and homes.

If a restaurant pays $150 a square foot annually for a 2,500-square-foot space along, say, Hudson Street in the West Village, the rent would total $375,000 a year. Adding 500 square feet in a sidewalk cafe would cost $16,000 in annual consent fees, but if the restaurant were to expand its indoor size by 500 square feet, the annual rent cost would be close to $75,000.

So, Mr. Loren said, the economics favor the sidewalk, even though outdoor cafes are viable for only about nine months a year. That may soon be expanded, however, as the city has decided to start permitting portable gas heaters for outdoor cafes.

High-visibility outdoor seating can also serve a useful marketing function, said Stephen Hanson, president of Be Our Guest, which owns 13 New York restaurants, 7 with sidewalk cafes. Mr. Hanson estimates that in his restaurants, cafes have helped to increase the number of customers by as much as 15 percent.

His newest restaurant, Primehouse New York, has taken over a 10,000-square-foot space at Park Avenue South and East 27th Street, which was formerly home to a sports-themed restaurant.

Though the city allows cafes here, the previous tenant did not offer one, but Mr. Hanson will put 10 tables on the East 27th Street side, to open in April.

One perk of having a sidewalk cafe is that the restaurant’s name can be printed on the cloth dividers ringing it, he said.

“It gives you a visual lift, almost like advertising,” Mr. Hanson said.

A sidewalk cafe provides an advantage, though, only in relatively genteel neighborhoods. A 60-table restaurant owned by Be Our Guest, Vento, at 675 Hudson Street in the heart of the meatpacking district, has 25 more tables outside. A decade ago, when the neighborhood was rougher, the cafe probably would not have been there at all, Mr. Hanson said.

While adding tables and chairs on the sidewalk can be accomplished fairly inexpensively, some restaurants spend as much as $30,000 adding French doors and railings, according to Steve Wygoda, an architect who said he had worked on more than 250 cafes in the last two years.

And there are intangible benefits to the public, he added. “They are beautifying the sidewalk, and where aesthetics are concerned, the public will always benefit,” said Mr. Wygoda, who is a principal of SWA Architecture, based in Huntington, on Long Island.

That New York’s sidewalks are now seen as valuable for businesses and the city — and for residents as well — comes as a paradox to Paul Steely White, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group that has organized a “Reclaiming the Sidewalk” initiative. That is because in the early 20th century, he said, New York viewed its sidewalks as barriers to cars and trimmed them back regularly to allow for wider roads.

Now, he suggested, the city should get rid of some of its parking spaces, which are its most undervalued real estate, costing just $1.50 an hour, and put sidewalks in their place.

Buildings facing those spaces could benefit. “Sidewalk areas not just a way just to get from A to B, but can almost function as parks,” Mr. White said, “and parks drive real estate values.”
164 2007-11-07 What raised eyebrows was the financing of 666 Fifth and other buildings sold late last year and early this year, said Robert M. White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm.

A group of lenders led by the real estate unit of Barclays Capital agreed to provide an interest-only first mortgage of $1.215 billion based on an annual cash flow of $114 million, or 1.5 times the debt service, according to a document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

But a footnote pointed out that the cash flow from existing rents would actually cover only 0.65 percent of the debt service. Mr. White calculated that the building’s shortfall amounts to $5 million a month. A $100 million reserve fund was included in the debt package to cover the shortfall.

“This is one of the best examples of how excessive the lending market got,” Mr. White said. “Fortunately, before it got too far out of control, the market clamped down and put a stop to it all.” Barclays had no comment.

Underwriting standards have tightened considerably since the summer, and now investors like the Kushners who bought property early in the year are finding they have to invest more of their own money — and assume more of the risk — than they had expected.

Like many buyers, Kushner relied on high-cost short-term financing to make up most of the gap between the first mortgage and the purchase price for 666 Fifth. The 1957 tower fills the block between 52nd and 53rd Streets and is perhaps best known for its Isamu Noguchi sculpture with cascading water.

By the time the bridge loans had to be paid off, the theory went, the building would be refinanced or the 80,000-square-feet of glassy retail space, most of which faces Fifth Avenue, would be sold as a condominium.

It has not worked out that way. In the spring, the company hired the Carlton Group, a New York investment bank, to help it restructure the deal. But in recent weeks, the company used its own cash to pay back one $200 million bridge loan, said Jared Kushner, the publisher of The New York Observer and a principal in Kushner’s New York office. Another repayment deadline is coming up soon.

Mr. Kushner said the company had a variety of options, including “writing a big check ourselves.” The cash-rich Kushners recently sold 17,500 apartments in five Eastern states for about $2 billion, according to a spokesman.

Scott A. Singer, the executive vice president of the Singer & Bassuk Organization, a real estate finance and brokerage company, said investors with cash “are in a much better position to adapt to the current environment” than those with “overleveraged assets.”

The Kushners are thought to be much better off than Harry Macklowe, the New York real estate investor who also faces a deadline for repaying a bridge loan. Many real estate professionals say Mr. Macklowe could lose control of the seven Midtown Manhattan office buildings he bought this year as part of the Blackstone Group’s purchase of Equity Office Properties as well as his prized General Motors Building on Fifth Avenue between 58th and 59th Streets.

Kushner’s quest for new sources of capital has not been helped by the criminal record of the company’s chairman, Charles Kushner, some real estate finance specialists said. Mr. Kushner, Jared’s father, spent time in federal prison recently after pleading guilty to witness tampering, tax evasion and filing false campaign reports. Prosecutors accused him of hiring a prostitute to lure his brother-in-law, a potential witness against him, into a compromising situation and having the encounter taped.

Charles Kushner’s name is not listed on the deed for 666 Fifth, which was signed by his son and George Gellert, the chief executive of the Atalanta Corporation, a food importer based in Elizabeth, N.J.

Their broker, Howard L. Michaels, chief executive of the Carlton Group, said the building had generated a lot of interest from investors because of the prospects for rent growth over the next few years. Leases for more than 800,000 square feet of space (out of a total of 1.45 million — with rents far below today’s market rates — are scheduled to expire before 2011.

Annual asking rents for spaces that are currently available range from $92 to $118 a square foot, according to the CoStar Group, a research company in Bethesda, Md.

Mitchell Konsker, a vice chairman at Cushman & Wakefield, described 666 Fifth as “a sleeper” that offers tenants a wide variety of floor sizes in a location with the same cachet as Park Avenue.

Many people in real estate worry that the subprime mortgage debacle could lead to sizable layoffs in the financial services industry, emptying a lot of office space in Manhattan and causing rents to fall. But Mr. Konsker said a number of tenants outside that industry are currently looking for space. And so far, although the pace of leasing has slowed, there is no evidence that asking rents have declined.

Marketing the retail space at 666 Fifth Avenue as a condo has posed a major challenge for Mr. Michaels. The space is leased to Brooks Brothers; Hickey-Freeman, a men’s clothing retailer; and the National Basketball Association. Though the annual rents are $600 to $700 a square foot, well below the market rate, the leases have another seven years or so left.

Faith Hope Consolo, the chairwoman of retail sales and leasing for Prudential Douglas Elliman, said annual rents in some nearby stores are $1,700 a square foot or more. But those levels cannot be reached unless the current tenants can be induced to move.

Still, Mr. Michaels said, “I’m confident that we have some very good proposals and that something is going to happen.”
165 2007-11-07 The second season of “Metropolitan Opera: Live in High Definition” will begin on Dec. 15 with a presentation of Gounod’s “Roméo et Juliette,” starring Anna Netrebko and Roberto Alagna (right) and conducted by Plácido Domingo. It will be the first of eight live opera transmissions to be seen in more than 600 movie theaters, arts center and universities in North America, Australia, Europe and Japan — triple the number of last year’s sites, the Met said. Ticket sales in North America begin on Friday. The 2007-8 series will include a New Year’s Day presentation of Humperdinck’s “Hansel and Gretel,” as well as Verdi’s “Macbeth,” Puccini’s “Manon Lescaut,” Wagner’s “Tristan und Isolde,” Britten’s “Peter Grimes,” Donizetti’s “Fille du Régiment” and Puccini’s “Bohème.” Among the participating movie houses is the Walter Reade Theater in Lincoln Center. The “Live in High Definition” program will expand in New York into public schools in all five boroughs.
166 2007-11-07 “The failure to properly address waste disposal in the first decades of nuclear energy development has left a legacy of doubt in the minds of the public and politicians over its overall safety,” Tomihiro Taniguchi, the deputy director general for nuclear safety and security at the International Atomic Energy Agency, said at a conference in Bern, Switzerland, in October. “If this doubt is not ameliorated soon, it could well lead to all the ambitious plans to expand the use of nuclear power on a global scale being significantly delayed.”

Around the world, waste and spent fuel are stored on an interim basis in pools of water or in casks, many near ground level. That leads to concerns about the vulnerability of the materials to disasters like terrorist attacks, and it raises persistent questions about whether the materials can be effectively monitored for periods that exceed recorded human history many times over.

Firing neutrons at waste in a process called transmutation can speed up radioactive decay, reducing the amount of time the waste remains dangerous. Reprocessing spent fuel reduces its volume and toxicity. But neither procedure eliminates waste. So international officials like Mr. Taniguchi say permanent disposal in a combination of clay and rock, or in salt domes, is the best long-term option for isolating waste like spent fuel, which contains materials that can take up to a million years to degrade to the extent that the toxicity is negligible.

Posiva, a waste disposal company owned by Finnish nuclear operators, is digging a tunnel at Olkiluoto, an island in the west of Finland, in anticipation of final approval for storing waste a quarter of a mile underground. Burial could begin in 2020. That could make the site the first of its kind, demonstrating to opponents of nuclear power that long-term disposal is feasible and helping the Finnish nuclear industry save money on storage in future decades.

But the Finnish case is exceptional. Many residents in the Olkiluoto area accept nuclear facilities because there are already nuclear power plants on the island that provide employment and hefty tax revenue. The local geology also turned out to be favorable.

In other parts of the world, similar efforts face seemingly implacable opposition. For decades, United States authorities have sought to put high-level waste inside Yucca Mountain, in Nevada. President Bush gave the green light in 2002, but Nevada’s governor vetoed the plan. Although Congress overrode that veto and government officials say they could open a site there by 2017 if all goes according to schedule, few people consider that timetable realistic.

The prospect of sustained opposition from Nevada has left officials in the federal government hinting at the need to restrict transparency in the future.

Winning local support is “a noble objective,” said Edward F. Sproat, the director of the federal Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management.

But “if you set your program up so that local acceptance is an absolute necessity to site your repository, I’m not going to say you will fail, but you should be prepared to fail,” he said.

In Japan, which generates a third of its electricity at nuclear plants and where authorities are aiming to raise that proportion, the central government is offering up to $17 million each year in subsidies to municipalities that volunteer to be considered as disposal sites.

In January, Toyo, a rural town in southern Japan, was the first to apply for the subsidies. But some town assembly members and residents, as well as neighboring local governments, protested. The Toyo mayor, Yasuoki Tashima, who backed the project, called an early election to seek endorsement for his plan, but he lost overwhelmingly. His successor promptly withdrew the application, saying that the town had narrowly avoided a “reckless act.”

Kenji Ogiwara, a vice minister of economy, trade and industry, said no other municipalities had applied since the election in Toyo. Mr. Ogiwara, who spoke in Bern, also seemed to say that the Japanese government should get tougher by nominating sites rather than waiting for volunteers.

In France last year, to increase public acceptance after widespread protests in the 1980s against burial, legislators made such plans contingent on the ability of future generations to exhume waste. The law in France — which relies on nuclear plants for more than 80 percent of its electricity and has one of the largest accumulations of waste in Europe — was written to allow for other means of disposal if new technology comes along.

Some experts warn that those requirements make sites more costly to maintain and could undermine the viability of underground storage.

“The idea is that at some point you’ll seal the shaft and walk away because you can’t guarantee monitoring for hundreds, let alone thousands, of years,” said Simon Webster, the head of a unit responsible for nuclear fission at the European Commission. “Leaving a channel of escape into the biosphere could be self-defeating.”

At Zwilag, the interim storage site overseen by Mr. Heep and owned by four Swiss nuclear operators, the temperature of high-level waste inside the casks is about 575 degrees Fahrenheit. But because they are insulated, the casks deliver a steady warmth similar to a household radiator.

Openings in the walls of the storage building naturally move fresh air around the casks and through the roof, even during warm weather, removing the heat without spreading radioactivity, Mr. Heep said.

There is plenty of room for casks at Zwilag, which is not expected to fill up until much later this century. But the industry may need all the space it can get if opponents continue to find ways to stop burials.

Voters in Nidwalden, a Swiss canton, rebuffed the government in 1995 and 2002 on plans to bury waste there.

After those setbacks, Switzerland passed legislation that took effect in 2005, depriving cantons of the right to veto plans to bury waste, but allowing for a national vote on the final selection of a site.

“We think that’s not fair,” said Jean-Jacques Fasnacht, a doctor who lives in Zürcher Weinland, one of many areas that Swiss authorities are studying as a future waste site. “We worry that people living in Geneva won’t be concerned about what happens in the north of Switzerland.”

Dr. Fasnacht, a co-president of a Swiss antinuclear group, KLAR Schweiz, is joining forces with similar groups in France, Germany and Austria to raise money for studies with the intent of persuading Swiss voters that underground burial will still leave waste vulnerable to attacks by terrorists and to radiation leaks from geological changes.
167 2007-11-07 “The Brothers Size,” which opened at the Public Theater in January as part of its Under the Radar Festival, has reopened at the Public, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village; (212) 967-7555. It is running through Dec. 23. Following are excerpts from Jason Zinoman’s review, which appeared in The New York Times on Jan. 20.

“The Brothers Size,” Tarell Alvin McCraney’s absorbing and emotionally resonant drama set in the bayou country of Louisiana and loosely based on West African myths, is decidedly the work of a young writer. But there is evidence in Mr. McCraney’s richly drawn characters and colloquial poetry, which manages to sound both epic and rooted in a specific place, to suggest that he has a long career ahead of him.

Ogun Size (Gilbert Owuor) and his younger brother, Oshoosi Size (Brian Tyree Henry), have taken very different paths. Ogun has dedicated his life to a single-minded pursuit of his career running an auto-repair shop, while his sibling, a wandering soul who has just returned from prison, is happily aimless. As different as they are, the Sizes remain, like it or not, rigidly locked in tandem, defined in large part by their relationship.

The elusive possibility of freedom is the central theme here, and it plays out in the depiction of a racist justice system, as well as in the more universal struggle to break away from the limits of family.

There’s a taut tension between these handsome, athletic actors. With the help of the director, Tea Alagic, they create a vivid, very recognizable world, using almost no set and simple, almost ritualized movements. Mr. Henry is the standout, alternating between aggrieved anger, delicate vulnerability and gleeful playfulness. It’s the kind of performance that sweeps you away.

This is not a flawless work, by any means. The ending builds to an emotional climax, but then finishes abruptly with a whimper. But such quibbles are forgotten every time Mr. McCraney surprises you with a sudden burst of poetry or, as is often the case, song.
168 2007-11-07 Though anger clearly existed over Mr. Spitzer’s proposal — as well as his bout with scandal and his battles with Albany Republicans — many local races appeared to hinge, as they traditionally do, on local issues like property taxes and municipal services, or on the specific strengths and weaknesses of the candidates themselves.

“It’s clear that all politics really are local and that the pundits really missed the mark on this one,” said June O’Neill, the chairwoman of the state Democratic Party. “For weeks, all we’ve heard was that driver’s licenses would be a key issue in these races. That just didn’t come to pass.”

Republican county executive candidates appeared headed to victories in Erie and Onondaga Counties, despite being significantly outspent by their Democratic opponents. And the county clerk in Sullivan County, whom Mr. Spitzer appointed this year to fill a vacancy, lost yesterday, thanks in part to attacks from the Republican candidate that he had not come out quickly enough against Mr. Spitzer’s proposal.

“While the results are still coming in, it is clear that New York’s Republican Party has come a long way in the past 12 months,” said Joseph Mondello, the state Republican chairman.

But the Erie County clerk, Kathleen C. Hochul, who was appointed by Mr. Spitzer in April to fill a vacancy, cruised to an easy victory over the Republican candidate, William A. O’Loughlin Jr., after weeks in which she criticized Mr. Spitzer’s proposal and said she would report to the county sheriff anyone applying for a driver’s license without a valid visa.

The Rev. Paul Decker, a Baptist minister and registered Republican in the Buffalo suburb of Williamsville, said he voted for Ms. Hochul. “I just felt that she handled the issue with a lot more integrity,” he said.

Mr. Spitzer did not campaign yesterday. Though he had made several appearances in recent weeks at rallies and fund-raisers for Democratic candidates upstate and in the Hudson Valley, some Democratic officials said that they had discouraged him from venturing into their backyards for fear of energizing Republican voters.

“I told them not to allow him to come here,” said Richard H. Shaffer, the Democratic county chairman in Suffolk. “I said that would not be a good idea.”

That strategy — and the overwhelming popularity of Steve Levy, a Democrat who is Suffolk’s county executive and an ardent foe of illegal immigration — appeared to work yesterday.

In a county where Republican voters dominate but Republican officials have been plagued by scandal, Democrats appeared to increase their majority in the County Legislature by one seat. They also appeared to retain local supervisor offices in two key towns, Islip and Brookhaven, and to win a new majority on the Islip Town Board. Republicans appeared to capture the Brookhaven Town Board, however.

Democrats appeared to hold on — barely — to a seat in the Nassau County Legislature that, had they lost, would have swung control to Republicans, a major substantive and symbolic victory. David L. Mejias had an unofficial margin of less than 200 votes.

In that district, Mr. Spitzer’s plan to offer licenses to illegal immigrants became a major issue late in the campaign, with the Republican challenger attacking the Democratic incumbent as an ally of the governor and a less-than-ardent opponent of the license plan.

Both candidates pursued relentless door-to-door campaigns that lasted until the last hour yesterday, and Republican officials said they may yet request a formal recount.

More than a half-dozen voters leaving the polling station at Farmingdale High School said they had been visited personally by the candidates, Mr. Mejias, the Democratic incumbent, and Joseph Belesi, the Republican challenger.

Dennis Springer, who said he was a regular Democratic voter, said he voted for Mr. Mejias — the first Hispanic elected to the Nassau Legislature — even though “I disagreed with the immigration thing.”

In Monroe County, Democrats won one hard-fought legislative seat despite a late effort to blanket the area with mailers that charged local Democrats with aiding terrorists because of their support for Mr. Spitzer’s licensing plan.

Though the seat will not by itself swing control of the County Legislature, Democrats hope it will presage a strong effort next year against two Rochester-area Republicans in the State Senate.

Democratic officials acknowledged that the licensing proposal had not helped their candidates, but said yesterday that it had proved pivotal in only a small number of races. Privately, many said they expected the issue to be off the table by next year, though neither Mr. Spitzer nor his Republican opponents in Albany show any sign of letting the matter drop.
169 2007-11-07 In his study of auto-repair shops, Henry Schneider varied what he told the mechanics in one important way. At half of the 40 Connecticut garages where he brought a Subaru station wagon for an inspection, he said that he and his (fictional) wife had just moved to town. At the other half, he said they were about to move to Chicago.

And it made a difference — in one way, at least.

At the garages where the mechanics thought he was new to the neighborhood, and therefore a potential long-term customer, he was charged an average of $37.70 for the inspection. At the other garages, he paid $59.75, on average.

The difference suggests that garages do indeed care about their reputation. With someone who might come back again and again, they wanted to send a signal that they were a good garage. The way they sent that signal was to charge relatively little for an inspection.

But the quality of the inspection provided by the two different groups of garages did not differ in any noticeable way. The garages that assumed Mr. Schneider could be a long-term customer still diagnosed his car’s problems as poorly on average as the other garages. They also suggested unnecessary repairs roughly as often.

Mr. Schneider concluded that repairs themselves were probably too complicated for an average customer to understand. So the garages didn’t try to woo customers with good service. They instead used something simple enough for the average driver to understand: price.

This idea is consistent with other research that’s been done on car-repair shops. Thomas Hubbard, an economist at Northwestern University, has studied emissions inspections done in California, and he found that private businesses that did the inspections were much more likely to give cars a passing grade that state regulators were.
170 2007-11-07 All the news isn't bad for Duane (Dog) Chapman, whose use of a racial slur cost him his popular A & E reality show, ''Dog the Bounty Hunter.'' A magistrate in Honolulu dismissed a government attempt on Monday to extradite Mr. Chapman to Mexico to ...
171 2007-11-07 THE WORLD OVER A BARREL   The prospect of triple-digit oil prices (the price of a barrel reached $96.70 yesterday) has redrawn the economic and political map of the world. Oil-rich nations are enjoying historic gains, while major importers -- incl...
172 2007-11-08 The online world is still discussing the merits of Pat Robertson's support for Rudy Giuliani and Sam Brownback's praise for John McCain....
173 2007-11-08 I thought tomorrow's column should be about the market turmoil - but I kept coming up blank on what to say, except "Eeeeekkkk!" So the column is about something else. My general comment on the markets, however, is that financial markets obey the F...
174 2007-11-08 My husband and I will be spending time in Paris, and we'd like to take a day trip to Luxembourg. Can this be done, and if so, can you recommend an itinerary? Rita Franus, Stamford, Conn. Getting to the capital city of Luxembourg for a day trip fro...
175 2007-11-08 AOL said it would buy Quigo, a seller of small, sponsored links that run next to articles, marking its fourth advertising acquisition this year. The price was reported to be about $340 million. The latest deal highlights AOL's goal of selling ads ...
176 2007-11-08 American Public Education increased the expected price range of its initial public offering to $18 to $19 a share, setting up the company's two venture capital owners for a richer-than-expected payday. American Public, a provider of online post-se...
177 2007-11-08 The Nasdaq Stock Market confirmed Wednesday that it would acquire the Philadelphia Stock Exchange for $652 million to expand its presence in the fast-growing equity options business. Taking over the Philadelphia exchange will give Nasdaq about 15 ...
178 2007-11-08 Stock markets ended flat for the day as investors showed a spot of optimism in the final hour of trading. But technology stocks swooned as investors faced a grim fourth-quarter forecast from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.

The Dow Jones industrials closed down 0.3 percent, or 33.73 points, after spending much of the day in the red. The benchmark index lost 360 points yesterday and dropped more than 200 points today before climbing back in a late rally. The broader market was virtually unchanged for the day, down 0.06 percent as measured by the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Sinking technology stocks battered the Nasdaq composite index, which fell 1.9 percent, to its lowest level since September. Cisco Systems, the networking company, reported a 37 percent increase in earnings but failed to surpass analysts’ expectations. The market’s punishment was swift: Cisco shares dropped 8.9 percent and similar losses hit I.B.M. and Oracle. Even Google, a perennially bullish stock, dipped more than 5 percent.

Investors remain skittish about economic troubles, from a lack of confidence in the credit market to the global ramifications of a weakening dollar and rising oil prices. Some banks continued to fall today, with shares of Citigroup recording their eighth consecutive decline. But others, like Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase, showed modest gains.

“It’s a hackneyed expression that the market needs certainty,” said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at The Hartford financial firm. “There’s a reason it’s hackneyed.”
179 2007-11-08 “We are experiencing among our clients an awakening that the United States is in big trouble,” said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs.

The rise in oil prices, which briefly traded yesterday above $98 a barrel before settling at $96.37, now appear to be pushing up the cost of gasoline, heating oil and jet fuel as well. That only intensified concern that American consumers may no longer be able to sustain their spending on other goods and services, particularly the large numbers of gas-guzzling vehicles still being turned out by the Detroit automakers.

The most immediate trigger for the sell-off in the dollar, traders said, was a jarring signal that suggested China might shift some of its enormous hoard of foreign currency reserves — worth more than $1.4 trillion, primarily in dollars and dollar-denominated assets — into other currencies to get a better return on its money.

“We will favor stronger currencies over weaker ones, and will readjust accordingly,” Cheng Siwei, vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress told a conference in Beijing on Wednesday. A Chinese central bank vice director, Xu Jian, said the dollar was “losing its status as the world currency,” according to Bloomberg News.

Mr. Cheng later told reporters he was not saying China would buy more euros and dump dollars. But as markets opened across Europe, those words echoed as an invitation to sell the American currency.

The dollar fell to its lowest level against the Canadian dollar since 1950, the British pound since 1981, and the Swiss franc since 1995. The euro rose to a new record, $1.4729, before retreating.

While the reaction to the Chinese statements appeared to have been overblown, analysts said the larger forces assailing the dollar and the stock market were more deep-seated: uncertainty about the magnitude of the mortgage-related credit crisis, and the growing sense that, sooner or later, the unraveling of the American housing market must color the larger economy.

Recent weeks have featured a string of unpleasant reckonings for major Wall Street banks, with several slashing billions of dollars from balance sheets to account for losses in the mortgage market. Yet investors fret that there is more pain to come, with no way to know how much or where, given the spider’s web of financial deals that propelled the housing boom.

“What it all comes down to beneath the surface is the perception of credit-related problems, and the perception that this is spreading in ways that cannot be anticipated,” said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.

Though the losses from the subprime mortgage crisis are frequently estimated at $200 billion, only about half of this money has been accounted for, Mr. Ruskin said, with the markets forced to guess where the next batch of bad holdings will emerge.

“A lot of people do the math and there still seems to be a big hole there,” he said.

Amid the carnage, though, there were still several signs that the economy remains healthy. Productivity — a measure of how much the country produces for each worker — expanded more than expected in the summer, the Labor Department said, suggesting that the economy still has the ability to grow without stoking too much inflation.

But stocks dropped from the opening bell. The Dow closed down 2.64 percent, at 13,300.02. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index tumbled 44.65 points, or 2.9 percent, to 1,475.62. The Nasdaq composite index fell 76.42 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,748.76.

The market was also reacting to news from General Motors that it would write down $38.6 billion in future tax benefits after a string of poor sales in North America and Germany, logging its biggest quarterly loss ever. The company’s stock price dropped 6.1 percent, to $33.95 a share.

The uncertainty about the credit markets pushed financial stocks down nearly 5 percent.

“The mood is dreadful,” said Brian Gendreau, an investment strategist at ING Investment Management. “People are saying, ‘Well, is that all? If they were that wrong about so much, is it possible they’re still wrong?’”

As the economic implications of the mortgage crisis filtered out, the recriminations went on. New York Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo said he would subpoena records from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-backed lenders, as he continued to look into whether banks had inflated the value of homes.

The euro’s rise is being propelled by differing approaches to interest rates on opposite sides of the Atlantic. The Federal Reserve has been cutting rates to ease strains on the American economy. The European Central Bank is likely to hold rates steady when it meets today.

“There will be a natural flow of money toward countries where interest rates are going to be holding,” said Stuart A. Schweitzer, managing director of global markets at JPMorgan Asset and Wealth Management.

For Americans, the ramifications of a weak dollar are varied. World travelers feel the pinch as the price of European hotels and restaurants soar in dollar terms. At home, the prices of imported goods like German-made cars and French wine inch up. Some fret that a further weakening in the dollar could sow inflation, as the impact of higher-priced imports — oil in particular — filters through the economy.

Indeed, some now see the dollar and the price of oil as intertwined: As the value of the currency falls, sellers of oil demand more dollars for the same barrel. And as oil prices climb, this impedes American growth, making the dollar less attractive.

Many see a weaker dollar as an unavoidable means of shrinking the United States trade deficit, which last year exceeded $800 billion. A weaker dollar helps make American goods cheaper on world markets.

Exports have been surging, giving companies in the United States a source of growing profits as sales soften at home.

“We’re in an unsustainable situation in terms of accumulating enormous deficits,” said Clyde Prestowitz, a former trade negotiator in the Reagan administration, and now president of the Economic Strategy Institute. “The only way out of that is through a weaker dollar.”

Still, some say fears about a flight from the dollar are exaggerated; China and Japan depend on the purchasing power of Americans for their exports. They, along with the oil producers, hold so many dollars that they are loath to do anything to cause a precipitous fall.

But investors keep worrying about another surprise.

“You’ve basically got capital market jitters about the United States,” said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
180 2007-11-08 NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 7 (AP) — The Louisiana attorney general, Charles C. Foti Jr., is suing the state’s largest property insurance companies, accusing them of conspiring to limit payments to policyholders after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and engaging in an elaborate price-fixing scheme.

Mr. Foti’s wide-ranging lawsuit, filed on Wednesday in a state court in New Orleans, claims that Allstate, State Farm Fire and Casualty and other insurers worked together to manipulate damage estimates and offer reduced claims payments after the 2005 hurricanes.

The lawsuit claims the companies coerced policyholders into settling damage claims for less than their actual value by editing engineering reports, delaying payments and forcing policyholders to go to court to challenge the estimates.

In Mississippi, Judge Michael T. Parker of Federal District Court extended on Wednesday a restraining order that prevents that state’s attorney general, Jim Hood, from continuing a criminal investigation into State Farm’s handling of Hurricane Katrina claims, a company spokesman said.

State Farm sued Mr. Hood in September to keep him from reopening a criminal case or continuing grand jury hearings over charges that the company fraudulently handled policyholders’ claims after Katrina.
181 2007-11-08 “We will favor stronger currencies over weaker ones, and will readjust accordingly,” Cheng Siwei, vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress told a conference in Beijing on Wednesday. A Chinese central bank vice director, Xu Jian, said the dollar was “losing its status as the world currency,” according to Bloomberg News.

Mr. Cheng later told reporters he was not saying China would buy more euros and dump dollars. But as markets opened across Europe, those words echoed as an invitation to sell the American currency.

The dollar fell to its lowest level against the Canadian dollar since 1950, the British pound since 1981, and the Swiss franc since 1995. The euro rose to a new record, $1.4729, before retreating.

While the reaction to the Chinese statements appeared to have been overblown, analysts said the larger forces assailing the dollar and the stock market were more deep-seated: uncertainty about the magnitude of the mortgage-related credit crisis, and the growing sense that, sooner or later, the unraveling of the American housing market must color the larger economy.

Recent weeks have featured a string of unpleasant reckonings for major Wall Street banks, with several slashing billions of dollars from balance sheets to account for losses in the mortgage market. Yet investors fret that there is more pain to come, with no way to know how much or where, given the spider’s web of financial deals that propelled the housing boom.

“What it all comes down to beneath the surface is the perception of credit-related problems, and the perception that this is spreading in ways that cannot be anticipated,” said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.

Though the losses from the subprime mortgage crisis are frequently estimated at $200 billion, only about half of this money has been accounted for, Mr. Ruskin said, with the markets forced to guess where the next batch of bad holdings will emerge.

“A lot of people do the math and there still seems to be a big hole there,” he said.

Amid the carnage, though, there were still several signs that the economy remains healthy. Productivity — a measure of how much the country produces for each worker — expanded more than expected in the summer, the Labor Department said, suggesting that the economy still has the ability to grow without stoking too much inflation.

But stocks dropped from the opening bell. The Dow closed down 2.64 percent, at 13,300.02. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index tumbled 44.65 points, or 2.9 percent, to 1,475.62. The Nasdaq composite index fell 76.42 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,748.76.

The market was also reacting to news from General Motors that it would write down $38.6 billion in future tax benefits after a string of poor sales in North America and Germany, logging its biggest quarterly loss ever. The company’s stock price dropped 6.1 percent, to $33.95 a share.

The uncertainty about the credit markets pushed financial stocks down nearly 5 percent.

“The mood is dreadful,” said Brian Gendreau, an investment strategist at ING Investment Management. “People are saying, ‘Well, is that all? If they were that wrong about so much, is it possible they’re still wrong?’”

As the economic implications of the mortgage crisis filtered out, the recriminations went on. New York Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo said he would subpoena records from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-backed lenders, as he continued to look into whether banks had inflated the value of homes.

The euro’s rise is being propelled by differing approaches to interest rates on opposite sides of the Atlantic. The Federal Reserve has been cutting rates to ease strains on the American economy. The European Central Bank is likely to hold rates steady when it meets today.

“There will be a natural flow of money toward countries where interest rates are going to be holding,” said Stuart A. Schweitzer, managing director of global markets at JPMorgan Asset and Wealth Management.

For Americans, the ramifications of a weak dollar are varied. World travelers feel the pinch as the price of European hotels and restaurants soar in dollar terms. At home, the prices of imported goods like German-made cars and French wine inch up. Some fret that a further weakening in the dollar could sow inflation, as the impact of higher-priced imports — oil in particular — filters through the economy.

Indeed, some now see the dollar and the price of oil as intertwined: As the value of the currency falls, sellers of oil demand more dollars for the same barrel. And as oil prices climb, this impedes American growth, making the dollar less attractive.

Many see a weaker dollar as an unavoidable means of shrinking the United States trade deficit, which last year exceeded $800 billion. A weaker dollar helps make American goods cheaper on world markets.

Exports have been surging, giving companies in the United States a source of growing profits as sales soften at home.

“We’re in an unsustainable situation in terms of accumulating enormous deficits,” said Clyde Prestowitz, a former trade negotiator in the Reagan administration, and now president of the Economic Strategy Institute. “The only way out of that is through a weaker dollar.”

Still, some say fears about a flight from the dollar are exaggerated; China and Japan depend on the purchasing power of Americans for their exports. They, along with the oil producers, hold so many dollars that they are loath to do anything to cause a precipitous fall.

But investors keep worrying about another surprise.

“You’ve basically got capital market jitters about the United States,” said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.

Following are the results of yesterday’s auction of 10-year Treasury notes:
182 2007-11-08 The industry has changed significantly in the wake of the antitrust ruling. Bank of America and Citigroup, two of the largest three credit card issuers, signed a deal to offer their own customers American Express-branded cards, and HSBC and General Electric’s financial service arms reached agreements with Discover.

And with the American credit card market largely saturated, debit cards and payments using mobile phones are the areas that are most ripe for growth.

The agreement resolves American Express’s claims against Visa’s members, including some of the industry’s biggest issuers, like JPMorgan Chase, Capital One, Washington Mutual and Wells Fargo. Visa will pay American Express $945 million now and an additional payment by the end of next March, its statement said. It will then pay American Express $70 million each quarter until the full settlement is paid.

That payment is expected to be made largely with the proceeds of Visa’s I.P.O., which will reduce the liabilities of each of its individual members. It will also significantly reduce the gains they might realize from the offering, however. Visa’s new structure as a publicly traded company is expected to insulate shareholders from exposure to legal claims in several major cases. Those liabilities will be passed along to its member banks instead.

But Visa still has to resolve its case with Discover, which has similarly high stakes. The $2.1 billion settlement with American Express will establish a benchmark, but it is not clear if the damages in the Discover case will be higher or lower.

While Discover’s own customers tend to charge less on their cards, holders of Discover cards issued through other banks spend significantly more. Discover’s user fees may be lower than those of American Express, its more prestigious rival, however. Leslie Sutton, a Discover spokeswoman, declined to comment on any pending litigation.

The lawsuit could put MasterCard on the hook for over a billion dollars in damages to both American Express and Discover. Sharon Gamsin, a MasterCard spokeswoman, said the company was “confident in our legal position and believe we have a strong defense.”

Yesterday, MasterCard shares rose 8 cents, to $199.48. Discover shares fell 98 cents, to $17.26. American Express shares closed yesterday at $55.37, down $3.20.

American Express said it would recognize $1.3 billion from the settlement in the fourth quarter. But in light of the windfall, it planned to incur charges for several expenses, including investments in its rewards and marketing programs, philanthropic activities and the cost of the litigation.

The battle between Visa and American Express intensified in the last five months when Kenneth R. Feinberg, who headed the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund, was brought in as a mediator. Lawyers reached agreement last Thursday, and the boards of both companies approved the settlement this week.
183 2007-11-08 Minaya said he also had flexibility to add to his payroll, but he seems more inclined to spend heavily on pitching.

“I always believe, whenever the dollars are available, you first try to invest in pitching,” he said.

The Mets are intrigued by the free-agent right-hander Carlos Silva, a sinkerballer for the Minnesota Twins, but Minaya has not spoken with his agents at the general managers’ meetings. Minaya also said the Mets planned to meet with Tom Glavine if Glavine decides he wants to keep pitching.

“It’s fair to say if he wants to come back, we’re going to sit down with him and see what he’s looking for,” Minaya said.

Glavine, who turns 42 in March and lives near Atlanta, has spent the last five seasons with the Mets after pitching for the Braves for 16 years. The Braves have talked with Glavine and his agent, Gregg Clifton, and his return there is more realistic than it was last season, when Atlanta never made an offer.

“This year, he’s going to have the option of Atlanta,” Minaya said. “We’re going to just let him spend time with his family and decide what he wants to do.”

Frank Wren, the Braves’ general manager, said: “We’re going to be able to sign some free agents. We hope to improve our starting pitching, so he’s a guy we’ll consider.”

DAMON LIKES WHAT HE HEARS The Yankees’ Johnny Damon met with General Manager Brian Cashman and Manager Joe Girardi here Wednesday, at Girardi’s request. Damon, who lives nearby, made the 12-minute drive in his black Ferrari and was happy with Girardi’s message.

“He seems to be an awesome guy; I’m looking forward to playing for him,” Damon told reporters, adding later, “He just said, ‘You’re going to be my leadoff hitter and play left field.’”

MOLINA AND VIZCAíNO ON LIST Brian Cashman said the Yankees were interested in retaining two of their lesser free agents, catcher José Molina and reliever Luis Vizcaíno. But while Cashman was complimentary of first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz, he seems unlikely to bring him back.

“How he fits for us going forward is the question,” Cashman said. “We have Shelley Duncan that’s emerged, we have Jason Giambi that very well could be playing a lot of first base, and we have Wilson Betemit.”

Giambi started only once in the division series, but Cashman said he would be an everyday player again next season at first base and designated hitter.

“He’s too good a player to do anything other than play,” Cashman said.

CLEMENS SENDS SIGNAL In a sign that Roger Clemens’ pitching career could be over, his agent told the Astros that Clemens was set to start his personal-services contract with Houston as a consultant. “He’s moving toward retirement and leaving open the possibility of playing,” the agent, Randy Hendricks, said. (AP) MITCHELL SETS DEADLINE George J. Mitchell, who is leading Major League Baseball’s investigation into the use of performance-enhancing drugs, has set Saturday as the final day he will accept documentary evidence and conduct interviews, according to a lawyer familiar with the investigation. The deadline was first reported by cbsnews.com.

“It is a drop-dead deadline,” said the lawyer, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the investigation. “A player can either talk or his lawyer can submit other documentary evidence, but after that date they plan on going forward with the report.”

Mitchell is believed to be in the final stages of his investigation and will probably issue his report before the end of the year.

Meanwhile, the sentencing date for Kirk Radomski, a former Mets clubhouse attendant who has admitted to distributing performance-enhancing drugs to players, was postponed to Dec. 14. Radomski pleaded guilty to steroid distribution and money laundering in April. The sentencing date, which had been postponed once before, was set back so Radomski could continue to assist Mitchell and the ongoing federal investigation.

In court papers filed in April, Radomski said he supplied dozens of players with anabolic steroids, amphetamines and human growth hormone, from 1995 through 2005.

MARTíNEZ AND ALOU HELP Pedro Martínez had planned to be in Florida to start preseason training. Instead, he and his Mets teammate Moises Alou have remained in their native Dominican Republic to help relief efforts for people displaced by last week’s Tropical Storm Noel.

During a teleconference, Martínez said an overflowing river had wiped out an entire community. “They don’t have anything,” he said of the survivors. “They are just waiting for us to bring something to eat.

“People were left in the middle of the river. People were dragging their kids out. Some of them were taken by the water.

“I’m like the mayor here. People just run up to me and, I can’t. I can’t. I’m not enough.” FRANK LITSKY
184 2007-11-08 He said he still believed that most residents supported the concept of stem cell research despite the objections of anti-abortion groups and the Roman Catholic Church. And he did not rule out putting the measure back on the ballot at some point, although Mr. Codey later told reporters that would not happen next year.

Democrats said the rejection of the stem cell measure taught them a broader lesson: that voters are frustrated by the bleak fiscal landscape in a state saddled with $30 billion in debt, and they do not trust Trenton to fix the problem.

“They’ve told us to resolve our alarming and pressing financial problems,” Mr. Corzine said.

Yet voters approved borrowing $200 million to preserve open space. Explaining the seemingly mixed message, former Gov. Brendan T. Byrne said that the $450 million sought for stem cell research was “an intimidating figure,” but that the money for open space was approved because New Jersey has always been environmentally aware.

From a numerical standpoint, Democrats did not have a terrible night on Tuesday. Buoyed by a fund-raising advantage of three to one, they added a seat to their majority in the Senate, and now have a 23-to-17 edge; they lost two seats in the Assembly, and now have a 48-to-32 advantage.

Still, another ballot measure showed just how disgruntled many voters were — or at least the estimated 30 percent of registered voters who bothered to cast their ballots. (According to the attorney general’s office, until this year the lowest turnout had been 31 percent, in 1991.)

They rejected a proposal that would have funneled money from last year’s sales tax increase to property tax rebates, something critics of the plan had dismissed as an election-year gimmick.

“I think the voters cut up the credit card,” said Ruth B. Mandel, director of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. “They said, ‘We’re not going to let you borrow any more money until you can pay our bills.’”

Proponents of stem cell research view it as an opportunity to develop cures for diseases like diabetes and Parkinson’s. But opponents call it an unproven pseudoscience that requires the destruction of human embryos and opens the door to human cloning.

Several Catholic churches in the state circulated fliers during Sunday services expressing qualms about the initiative.

“Certainly a number of people in the state heard our message about ethical stem cell research, and were moved,” said James G. Goodman, a spokesman for the Archdiocese of Newark. “But there certainly were many financial reasons in people’s minds as well.”

One television commercial produced by New Jersey Right to Life, an anti-abortion group, said: “Research has not produced one cure. Not one. Question 2 is about taking your tax dollars for something that Wall Street and the drug companies will not invest in. Think about it.”

On Wednesday, Mr. Corzine — who made embryonic stem cell research a major issue in his 2005 campaign for governor — blamed himself and other supporters of the measure for not doing a good enough job educating the public about the potential economic benefits. He also said the campaign could have done a better job clarifying that the $450 million was to be borrowed over 10 years, rather than all at once.

“Twenty-twenty hindsight is always better,” he said. “It obviously needed an additional boost to get voters out that would identify with this issue. But that’s easy to say the morning after.”

How the defeat of the initiative will affect the research complex going up in New Brunswick was unclear. While the state had already committed $270 million for construction costs for that building as well as others around the state, Ronald S. Heymann, vice president of New Jersey Citizens’ Coalition for Cures, which advocates stem cell research, said that if the money did not materialize, the building “shouldn’t be sitting there empty.”

Mr. Heymann and others expressed concern that any delays in securing research grants could drive scientists elsewhere.

“Every time the resource is denied to this research it’s tragic,” said Robert N. Klein, the chairman of a board overseeing a $3 billion stem cell program in California. “For California to carry the leadership for a great part of the nation alone is a monumental task.”

But for many New Jersey voters, there are more pressing issues.

Beth Sarsfield, a 49-year-old chemist who works in New Brunswick, said that although she had voted for the stem cell measure, she was not upset that it had been rejected. “I didn’t think it was going to be totally effective,” she said.

Ms. Sarsfield said that her mother — like her, a loyal Democrat — had voted against the measure.

“I think there are a lot of people who think there’s a lot of debt in New Jersey,” Ms. Sarsfield said. “From people in my family, they did not feel it was going to be sufficiently funded and that it would be ineffective — it was going to be a waste with debt.”

Asked if her mother had struggled in making her decision, Ms. Sarsfield answered quickly, with a word that was reverberating around the state: “No.”
185 2007-11-08 The vaccine was being tested among 3,000 volunteers at high risk of developing AIDS in nine countries, including those at immunization centers organized by the National Institutes of Health in the United States. Merck’s was seen as one of the most promising experimental AIDS vaccines to have been tested on people. Many scientists and advocates of AIDS research have called the failure of the experimental vaccine a major setback.

“The new analyses are both disappointing and puzzling” because they offer no explanation for the vaccine’s failure, said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, a partner in the vaccine trial.

In September, a preliminary analysis of about half those in the trial suggested that those vaccinated were becoming H.I.V.-infected at roughly the same rate as those receiving a placebo. There were 24 H.I.V. infections among those vaccinated compared with 21 who received a placebo.

But the new analysis looked at all the trial participants and found a wider difference — 49 in the vaccinated group compared with 33 in the placebo group. Further analysis showed that the imbalance was much more apparent among those who had the highest level of pre-existing immunity to the cold virus used in the vaccine.

Among 778 male volunteers who had a high level of pre-existing adenovirus immunity, 21 of those receiving the vaccine developed H.I.V. infections compared with 9 in the placebo group. Researchers told reporters by telephone that when such an analysis is performed after a trial is stopped, defining what is statistically significant is difficult.

The difference between the groups with low levels of adenovirus immunity was smaller — 28 among the vaccine recipients compared with 24 who received a placebo. That difference was not statistically significant.

Findings could determine the underlying biological mechanism responsible for the vaccine’s failure. It will take months to years for such tests to be completed, Dr. Keith Gottesdiener, a Merck vice president, said in an interview.

Although 35 percent to 40 percent of the trial participants were women, only one woman developed H.I.V. The reason for the gender difference is unknown. Her case was removed from the statistical analysis.

The new reports create even more scientific confusion about how to develop a vaccine to stop the global H.I.V. pandemic, which has infected an estimated 39 million people and killed 25 million more.

The findings raise questions about whether adenovirus can ever be used as a crucial ingredient in an AIDS vaccine and whether new tacks will be needed. Use of a modified virus as a vector to deliver H.I.V. genes is a new and evolving way to make an AIDS vaccine. The Merck vaccine included three synthetic H.I.V. genes.

Scientists and groups that advocate AIDS research said the vaccine failure should not lessen the commitment to develop a vaccine.

The new data “raise more questions than answers for the field of AIDS vaccine,” the AIDS Vaccine Advocacy Coalition, a community and consumer-based group, said in a statement.

The coalition urged AIDS scientists not to begin trials of other new vaccines until more definitive conclusions could be reached from further analysis of the Merck vaccine.

Meeting participants will continue discussions today about whether the trial leaders should continue to observe the participants without telling them whether they received the vaccine or a placebo and the results of their exposure to the cold virus before the study began. A recommendation will be made in about 10 days, Dr. Gottesdiener said.

“We did a beautiful experiment, but it definitely was a disappointment,” Dr. Larry Corey of the University of Washington, who led the investigators, said in an interview. “One lesson is that scientists will have to look at vector-based immunity more thoroughly than we have in the past.”
186 2007-11-08 On Wednesday the national average gas price for unleaded regular reached $3.04 — an increase of nearly 28 cents in the last month, according to AAA, the automobile club. Average gasoline prices in November had never exceeded $3 a gallon before this year. A year ago, the average price at the pump was $2.20, meaning it costs roughly $12.50 more today to fill a car with a 15-gallon tank.

In some states the average price motorists are paying is much higher. In California, for example, the price on Wednesday averaged $3.31.

For now, prices are well below the record of $3.23 a gallon, set during a spike last May. But recently they have been rising by 2 cents a gallon every day. Motorists are feeling the pain across the nation.

Jim Lunn, 48, wore a sweatshirt bearing the name of his favorite football team, the Cleveland Browns, as he filled the tank of his red Dodge pickup this week at a station in Avon Lake, Ohio. He said he liked going to games, but these days, he often stays home on game day.

“With gas prices being what they are, I can’t afford to drive all the way downtown,” he said. “So I just watch the games at home. It’s nowhere near as fun.”

If gasoline prices are causing motorists to drive less over all, it is not evident in the national statistics. Americans have consumed an average of 9.3 million barrels of gasoline a day so far this year, an increase of 0.6 percent from last year, according to the Energy Department.

One reason many consumers have shaken off the gasoline price increase may be that gasoline expenditures claim less than 4 percent of after-tax personal income today, compared with more than 6 percent in 1981 when gasoline prices were also high, according to a recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

But there are signs that many Americans are feeling the pinch, and business economists are worried that rising gasoline prices will cut consumer spending this holiday season.

Michael P. Niemira, chief economist for the International Council of Shopping Centers, said that average weekly earnings of American households over the last year have outpaced increased expenditures for gasoline. But he added, “With the expectations of higher gasoline prices and home heating expenses this winter, the potential exists that consumers will have less discretionary purchasing power.”

He noted that over the last couple of years consumers have been consolidating their shopping trips to save on gas. Meanwhile, lower-income drivers are especially unhappy with prices at the pump.

At a gas station in Norwalk, Ohio, where gasoline was selling on Tuesday for $3.09, drivers said the cost was crimping their lives.

“Generally, I go out less now,” said Janet LaVigne, 51, who fills her 1994 Mazda Protégé daily to deliver newspapers in communities outside Cleveland. “I do my job and come home. I used to go out to the movies, sometimes to restaurants, but now I can’t afford the gas.”

Sara Scheerer, a 17-year-old high school senior, said the high cost of fueling her 1999 Ford Explorer to drive to basketball team practices and school had forced her to get a salesclerk job at Walgreens. “I can’t spend as much money on other stuff like clothes,” she added.

Energy experts see few signs that gasoline prices will ease soon.

Geoff Sundstrom, a spokesman for AAA, projected that average regular gasoline prices nationwide would be at least $3.20 by Christmas. Amanda Kurzendoerfer, a commodities analyst at Summit Energy Services Inc., an energy manager for large users of oil and natural gas, predicted a price as high as $3.50 by Christmas — which would be a record for any time of year.

“If you look at gasoline prices relative to oil, it’s low right now,” she said. “Oil fundamentals are tight and tightening through the end of the year, demand has continued to be strong, non-OPEC supply is not keeping up and OPEC appears to not be eager to boost production.” She was referring to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, the oil cartel.

Ms. Kurzendoerfer predicts that while oil prices could exceed $100 a barrel in the near term, they will average $75 to $80 in 2008. Still, she said gasoline prices would most likely be higher in the spring when refiners have to produce more expensive blends for warmer weather and the heavy summer driving season begins.

William R. Veno, an expert on gasoline at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, an energy consulting firm, also projects lower crude prices next year. But he warned that gasoline inventories could drop in the coming months as refiners expect to produce more profitable heating oil for the winter, leading to further pressure on gasoline prices.

“We could enter the springtime with unusually low inventories,” he said, “which would add further to very high gasoline prices in the spring.”
187 2007-11-08 But voices as varied as those of Mohammad Alipour-Jeddi, the head of market analysis for OPEC, and William F. Galvin, the secretary of state in Massachusetts, have blamed speculators for rising prices. “There is enough crude in the markets,” Mr. Alipour-Jeddi said Monday. Bottlenecks in refining and “speculative activities” are forcing prices higher, he said.

Mr. Galvin, meanwhile, is asking the Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate what role investors have played in higher prices.

A subcommittee of the United States House headed by Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, is investigating commodities trading, and one bill before Congress proposes giving Nymex’s regulator, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, more oversight over Nymex’s rival, the Intercontinental Exchange.

Analysts say the market has gone from a small group of oil users and producers to a full-fledged investment arena in recent years, like stocks or bonds. Prices can move according to intangible factors like fear, just as they do in the equity markets, the analysts say. Investing in oil has also become a hedge against a weak dollar.

“Looking at oil supply and demand doesn’t help me to understand oil prices” any longer, said Roger Diwan, a partner with PFC Energy, a consulting company in Washington. “I need to look at the dollar, at inflation and at credit squeezes.”

India is understandably concerned about high prices. The country imports 70 percent of its crude oil and has few strategic reserves and a deeply divided political landscape.

Buying stakes in overseas oil properties is proving much cheaper for India than purchasing crude on the open market. In some areas where India has purchased stakes in oil fields, it is pulling light crude oil — the kind that sets the benchmark oil price — out of the ground for less than $40 a barrel, Mr. Srinivasan said.

But Nymex executives dismiss Mr. Srinivasan’s suggestion of halting oil trading. “Nymex is just a central point where buyers and sellers can come to exchange their wares,” Richard Schaeffer, the chairman of Nymex, said in a telephone interview. “We don’t make the prices. We make the prices known.”

Without Nymex, Mr. Schaeffer said, users could “only imagine a group of countries getting together and saying ‘What do we charge today?’”

Despite the risks of ever-rising oil prices, analysts say that Mr. Srinivasan’s idea is unlikely to be adopted; the oil market has become too big and too powerful. “There is no way to put the genie back into the bottle,” Mr. Diwan said.
188 2007-11-08 The Nasdaq Stock Market confirmed yesterday that it would acquire the Philadelphia Stock Exchange for $652 million to expand its presence in the fast-growing equity options business.

Taking over the Philadelphia exchange will give Nasdaq about 15 percent of American options trades. By comparison, the market leaders — Chicago Board Options Exchange and International Securities Exchange — control two-thirds of American options trades.

Nasdaq, which previously announced plans to start its own options trading market by December, edged out NYSE Euronext and other bidders to buy PHLX, the nation’s oldest exchange.

Options markets are in demand because they offer higher margins than stock markets, where competition and the advent of alternative electronic networks have hurt trading volume and squeezed profit.

Last month, Nasdaq agreed to take over the Boston Stock Exchange for $61 million. In September, the company struck a deal to buy the Nordic market operator OMX jointly with Borse Dubai for about $4.9 billion.
189 2007-11-08 The first was a problem with a rotary joint that keeps the right-side arrays facing the sun. Engineers had noticed that the joint was vibrating oddly and using too much power; during the second spacewalk, on Oct. 28, Daniel M. Tani removed a cover from the joint and found that it was fouled with metal shavings, suggesting that some part of the joint was grinding itself down. The joint will be repaired next year.

Then on Oct. 30, as astronauts inside the station opened the newly relocated solar array, a guide wire snagged on one of the folding panels’ hinges and tore two holes in a 110-foot-long “wing” of the array. Plans for the remaining spacewalks were shelved to take on a high-stakes, high-risk effort to repair the torn array.

On Saturday, Scott E. Parazynski rode the station robotic arm, extended with a sensor boom from the shuttle, to reach the array, snip the errant wires and apply five “cufflinks” that took the strain off of the material around the tears and allowed the damaged array to be fully extended.

The shuttle’s seven astronauts were Pamela A. Melroy, the commander, who is a retired colonel in the Air Force; the pilot, Col. George D. Zamka of the Marine Corps; Dr. Parazynski; Stephanie D. Wilson; Col. Douglas H. Wheelock of the Army; Paolo A. Nespoli, an Italian representing the European Space Agency; and Mr. Tani, who flew up with the crew and remained aboard the station. The shuttle brought Clayton C. Anderson back to Earth on his 15th wedding anniversary; he had lived and worked aboard the station since June.

In interviews from space on Tuesday, Mr. Anderson said he expected that readjustment to gravity might be a little rough.

In an evening news conference, Ms. Melroy said the mission felt like hitting “a triple home run” with its dual construction tasks and the round-the-clock effort to come up with a fix for the solar array. “What you saw is who we are at NASA,” she said.

The end of this mission sets off a scramble aboard the space station to prepare for the next shuttle visit, with three spacewalks planned by the three-member station crew so that the orbiting outpost would be ready for a new laboratory module, known as Columbus, that will be brought up by the Atlantis on a mission that may begin as early as Dec. 6.

In a news conference after the landing, NASA’s administrator, Michael Griffin, said it was hard for most people to appreciate the difficulty and the accomplishments of the work going on in orbit far above their heads.

“I think — and I don’t say this lightly — I think that building the space station is far more difficult and certainly far more complex than was executing Apollo,” Mr. Griffin said. “What’s happening here is extraordinary. And it’s way beyond anything that has ever been done by human beings before, anywhere.”

Difficulties like the solar array problem are to be expected, he said, but can’t be predicted.

“I can’t change the brake pads on my car without encountering any problems,” Mr. Griffin said. “Part of learning how to live and work in space is learning how to identify and deal with those problems when they do occur.”
190 2007-11-08 Q. I want to buy one of those digital photo frames. I’ll insert a memory card containing the photos, but how do I get the photos on my computer onto that memory card? The computer has no slot for the card.

A. Digital photo frames are a great way to show off your pictures in a tabletop slide show. Although there are wireless-enabled frames, most models read the photos from a small memory card inserted into the back of the device.

One fairly simple way to move images from your computer’s photo library onto the frame’s memory card is to use a gadget called a U.S.B. card reader-writer. They are usually available for less than $20 on Amazon or at computer stores.

Some models, like the SanDisk ImageMate 5-in-1 Reader/Writer, have slots for different card types. Others, like Iogear’s line of pocket readers, resemble U.S.B. thumb drives with a slot on the end to insert a specific type of memory card, like a Secure Digital card.

Once you have the card reader-writer connected to the computer and a memory card inserted, it should show up on the computer’s desktop like any other external drive so you can copy photos onto it. When you have the photos on the card, pop it out of the reader and stick into the digital photo frame. If you have your camera cable, it may also be possible to copy photos from the computer to the memory card by using the connected camera in the role of the card reader-writer.

You may prefer to buy a wireless photo frame to stream pictures from the PC, e-mail them right to the frame or pull them in from an online photo gallery. They will usually cost more than a frame with just a card slot. Kodak (www.kodak.com), Momento (www.momentolive.com) and eStarling (www.estarling.com) have wireless models available. More will be on store shelves or online as the holidays get closer.
191 2007-11-08 The notes I made while playing the game are almost all quotations, including those from a “Torture Me Elmer” doll that screams “What have you done to my legs?” or “Not the face”; a waitress whose bizarre version of diner lingo includes requesting a sandwich by shouting to the cook, “Julia Roberts, put a bullet in her brain and kiss her with Andy Rooney”; and a profane young rat named Tiny Tim who alters the lad’s famous blessing with an expletive. You can get through 201, like the other Sam & Max episodes, in under five hours, and for fans of the sardonic humor of the series, there are few better ways to spend an afternoon.

I didn’t note any funny dialogue from the action adventure game Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction, even though there was some, because I was too busy scribbling descriptions of weapons.

Crazy weapons are the hallmark of Insomniac Games’ Ratchet & Clank series, and Tools has some very cool ones, including one gun that fires tornadoes and another that tosses a hive of stinging insects on the ground, a robotic bodyguard that will shoot anything that attacks, and something called a Groovitron, a disco ball that forces your enemies to dance rather than shoot.

In Tools, Ratchet, a catlike alien who is the last of his species, and Clank, his robot sidekick, must save the universe from the evil machinations of Emperor Tachyon, an oppressive dictator out to kill Ratchet.

Stopping Tachyon involves wiping out legions of enemies like 20-foot-long centipedes, bomb creatures and killer robots of various sizes.

Most of the game involves being set upon by wave after wave of enemies. Normally I don’t care for games of this sort, but the crazy number of weapons makes it far more interesting than some game that involves simply switching from a shotgun to a grenade launcher.

While Tools is primarily focused on mayhem, it does toss in some platform-game elements, like jumping from one floating disk to another or sliding along rails booby-trapped with electrical hazards. Occasionally you play as Clank, who can slow time to bypass whizzing obstacles and command strange alien robots.

The game also sometimes uses the motion-sensitive aspects of the PlayStation 3’s controller. You tilt and wiggle the controller to guide Ratchet when he is falling through space, to control a laser to cut through rocks or to play a mini-game involving connecting circuits with a rolling ball. None of these are great, largely because the control felt a little off. Though they don’t add much to the game, they’re tolerable.

Throughout the game, Ratchet collects nuts and bolts from fallen enemies that can be used to purchase new weapons as well as a substance called raritanium that can be used to increase the power of your current weapons. Weapons also become stronger through use. You can’t help but get a little thrill when just after firing your rocket launcher you see a message that your weapon has suddenly become more powerful.

Tools is the first Ratchet & Clank game I’ve actually enjoyed. The previous installments were vaguely entertaining for an hour or two, until I would hit some challenge that would stymie me, at which point the game would send me back to a point that would have me replay the last five minutes before being killed off again.

I’ve been trying to figure out why this game was so much more enjoyable. It is partly because it didn’t throw anything too infuriating at me early on. It was a long time before I hit a section that really gave me trouble, although the game still made me replay too large a chunk to get back to my sticking point.

It may be that Tools is just so incredibly good looking. Battles take place on exotic, beautifully designed planets with majestic vistas that make you feel as though you are adventuring through a vast universe. Everything in the game is huge: spaceports, valleys, caves and space itself, through which you fly in a number of sequences that require you to shoot down enemy craft. Everything about the game is gorgeous, from the elegant arcs of wasps shooting toward enemies to the way the nuts and bolts that Ratchet collects float off the ground and gently glide toward him.

Tools is, very simply, the best game to come out for the PlayStation 3 since it was introduced last year. It’s definitely a game children will want to ask Santa to bring them.

Do make sure, though, that when the kids approach Santa they’re wearing a bulletproof vest, just in case they’re on the naughty list.
192 2007-11-08 Southwest Airlines abandoned its longstanding first-come-first-served approach to seating yesterday, giving business travelers, who pay the highest fares, first choice in boarding.

Those travelers will also receive extra frequent-flier credits and a free alcoholic beverage, in a move the airline expects to bring in an additional $100 million a year.

Southwest, which for 36 years has competed with low fares and a simple business approach, is becoming a more complex company. The number of fares it might offer on a single flight, for instance, is increasing to as many as 15, from the current 8.

The changes are prompted by increased competition from traditional carriers like United Airlines and American Airlines, which have reduced their costs in recent years and can now profitably offer many fares equivalent to Southwest’s.

Rising fuel prices, meanwhile, have forced the airlines to increase fares. For Southwest, attracting more business travelers is crucial in seeking more revenue per ticket.
193 2007-11-08 If you’ve ever looked at a digital camera full of photos and thought, “Best get to it, those pictures aren’t going to upload themselves,” you can think again.

Eye-Fi has created a memory card with a built-in Wi-Fi transmitter that will automatically upload your photos to any of 17 photo sites when you are within range of a designated wireless network.

The 2-gigabyte SD memory card looks like any other, but it has a small antenna and Wi-Fi service inside. For setup, the card must be in the supplied card reader and formatted to recognize the right network.

If you use a photo sharing site like Shutterfly, Flickr or Facebook, the card will send photos over the Internet to Eye-Fi, which then formats them for the site. It also automates sign-in and passwords so that your photos seem to appear magically.

The $100 Eye-Fi card and reader is available online from Amazon, Buy.com and Wal-Mart.
194 2007-11-08 Yaniv Bensadon, the chief executive of fixya.com, started his site after he moved back to Israel from the United States and found that his electronics would often malfunction in the new environment. The manuals and the support offered by the manufacturers rarely helped.

His site groups questions and answers to problems and organizes them according to product type, brand name and model number. The page for the Microsoft Xbox 360, for instance, lists more than 100 questions with answers. Most provide a single solution, but one common problem, overheating, has 81 posts debating the best fix. All but about a dozen of the questions had answers, although some were a bit brief. (Microsoft has offered to fix those overheating Xbox 360s.)

“Like any other consumer out there, I had problems with my Xerox printer, Palm Treo 700, Belkin wireless router and even Sony portable DVD,” Mr. Bensadon said. “On each of the problems I posted, I received a great solution within 5 to 10 hours.”

Fixya rates the people who offer advice. Anyone can claim to be an expert on a topic, but their rating will rise or fall with the quality of their answers. The site also offers paid services from users who charge about $10 to $20 a problem.

Knowledge is only half of the battle. A number of sites specialize in providing spare parts but also provide the information on how to install them as the incentive to use the site. PDAparts.com, for instance, sells replacement screens, batteries, cases and other parts for Palm Treos, iPaqs and other P.D.A.’s. Videos describing the process of opening the cases — probably the trickiest part of repairing today’s electronics — can be downloaded from the site.

Most other gadgets come with batteries that are easy to replace without custom tools. Replacement batteries for cellphones are often marked up by the devices’ manufacturers, while third-party replacements are often available for 60 percent to 80 percent less. Companies offering replacement batteries for iPods often offer better batteries with higher capacities and longer lifetimes. Ipodjuice.com, for instance, sells a 1,200-milliamp-hour battery that will replace the 600-milliamp-hour battery that shipped with a fourth-generation iPod — an improvement that lets the Web site claim that the repaired iPod will “last 100 percent longer.”

Most replacement kits include small tools for popping open iPods and video instructions for swapping batteries.

For those who do not want to get their hands dirty or wait for an answer, dozens of businesses specialize in fixing some of the most common problems. Ryan Arter, the president of IResQ.com, said his company has been fixing Apple products since 1994. Today, hundreds of iPod, iPhone and iBook owners send their broken machines by overnight mail to his shop in Olathe, Kan., where technicians repair them.

Prices depend on the item and the damage. Replacing a screen on a fourth-generation iPod, for instance, costs $94 for parts, labor and overnight shipping in both directions. Replacing the battery on an iPhone costs $79.

You can take the device to an Apple store for a new battery, and it will cost only $65. But you may not get the same device back, a concern if the gadget is personalized.

“They’re definitely worth repairing,” Mr. Arter said. “Sometimes they’re engraved and they have some special meaning.

“Are they disposable?” he said. “No. They’re little computers. They’re a big investment.” But he says that it makes little sense to fix a device if there are two or three problems with it.

Shannon Jean, the founder of TechRestore.com, a competitor in Concord, Calif., says that the data on a device can be more valuable than the gadget itself. An iPod or a laptop may carry thousands of dollars worth of music and a immeasurable amount of documents, spreadsheets or other information.

“When there’s data involved, that defines what people will pay, especially when there’s downtime involved,” he said.

Among the sites offering help with repairs, it is hard to find one that tells you whether it makes economic sense to pay for the repairs. But some decisions are easy. Basic DVD players are usually cheaper to replace. So are PCs with outdated operating systems like Windows 95. For everything else, especially when a new device costs less the one you bought, the choice is harder. Is it wise to pay $80 to repair a $300 digital camera that now costs $100? Unlikely.

Deciding between repairing a gadget or replacing it with a newer, often better model is a bit of a gamble. Most sites caution that they cannot fix every problem. Some problems like a cracked screen can be easy to estimate and straightforward to repair. Random glitches and odd behavior, however, may be impossible to pinpoint, leaving the user with a bill for ineffective repairs.

Chris Adamson, an editor at O’Reilly Media in Sebastopol, Calif., offers a cautionary tale. He shipped a faulty iPod that was failing on planes to an online company, which he does not want to mention by name. It took a week for the service to diagnose the problem before suggesting replacing the hard disk for $120. The solution, however, did not address the basic problem, and he now finds himself asking for a refund, which the company does not want to give.

He recommends thinking of the devices as having a short life span, perhaps three or four years. “If it fails after that period, accept that you’ve gotten your value out of it and get something new,” he said.
195 2007-11-08 “In the last recession, young and small businesses created fewer jobs than they do today,” Mr. Schramm said. “In the next recession, the power of small businesses to create jobs counter-cyclically will be stronger,” in part because of the inroads they have made over the last decade into the services sector and the global economy.

Mr. Prakken said the latest A.D.P. report, the only large-scale national study that breaks down results by company size on a monthly basis, “answers the burning question of the day: are the housing crisis and the August seizure of the credit markets spilling over into the broader economy? The answer seems to be no.”

Richard Enos, co-founder and chief executive of StudyPoint, a Boston tutoring company, says he believes he has found a niche neglected by the big companies in the industry. “We want to build the nation’s most successful private in-home tutoring services company,” he said.

Mr. Enos said he had just hired two people, bringing his full-time staff to 32, from 23 a year ago, and planned to hire two more soon.

He projects revenue growth of 31 percent this year, to $4.2 million, and 66 percent next year, to about $7 million. He said he hoped to expand to 30 or 40 cities, up from 10 today. “We’re really trying to ramp up our growth,” he said.

So is Paul Borgman, co-founder and chief executive of the Smoothstone IP Communications Corporation, a business communications services company in Louisville, Ky. He said he had doubled his work force to 100 over the last year and expected to add 40 more employees by this time next year. He said he also planned to open offices in 12 more cities in 2008, up from 7 today.

Meantime, he expects revenue to continue doubling every three years. “Our sales funnel has never been more robust,” he said. “The prospects coming into our funnel have never been more dynamic. We see no effects of an economic slowdown.”

Another report released last week suggests some decline in confidence among small-business owners, but it also contained encouraging signs. The Discover Small Business Watch, based on a monthly survey of 1,000 business owners with fewer than five employees, showed modest declines in the percentage who thought economic conditions for their businesses were improving and who planned to increase investments. The survey also found a bigger drop in the number who planned to hire more workers.

The numbers, though, were “not as sharp as one might anticipate given the overall gloom” about the economy today, said Sastry Rachakonda, director of Discover Financial Service’s small-business credit card unit, which publishes the poll.

Moreover, the most important indicator, the portion of respondents who reported cash flow problems, declined to 42 percent, from 46 percent in September, he said. While that was higher than 34 percent a year ago, Mr. Rachakonda said, it showed that the sector was weathering the current economic storms well.

“If the cash flow numbers continue in the same trend, the small business economy will be fine,” he said.

The latest jobs report from Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an outplacement firm in Chicago, also pointed to a more buoyant economy than headlines about depressed housing and stock declines would seem to augur.

The number of planned cuts by employers declined for the second consecutive month in October, to 63,100, from 71,700 in September and 69,200 in October 2006, the survey said.

“This is definitely a positive report,” said John A. Challenger, the firm’s chief executive.

Similarly, last Friday, the online payroll service SurePayroll released a survey showing that both hiring and salaries at small businesses were up in October.

One reason small businesses may be outpacing big corporations in the uncertain environment is that they are run by entrepreneurs who are known for their knack of spotting money-making opportunities and acting quickly on them.

“We’ve thrived on a formula for medium-sized enterprises that nobody else has come up with,” Mr. Borgman, of Smoothstone, said, which he said was to provide and manage customized phone equipment and telecommunications systems for his clients at all their locations.

“We save our clients more money than our competitors could, and we save them headaches because we offer a single solution,” he said. “This resonates even in this economic environment, when companies’ budgets and hiring are not as robust as they were one or two years ago.”

John-Claude Hallak, vice president for sales and marketing of Hallak Cleaners, an upscale dry cleaner founded by his father, recently spent $250,000 to refurbish his store in Manhattan, $100,000 to upgrade the exterior of his 12,000-square-foot plant in Hackensack, N.J., $60,000 for a Green Earth Cleaning machine and $40,000 to add a truck to his fleet. He plans to invest $100,000 for an automated assembly and bagging system and $100,000 to $500,000 on improvements at his Hackensack building.

He said he had expanded service in Manhattan and planned on hiring at least two more people. He foresees steady revenue growth of 10 to 15 percent a year for the rest of this decade, a modest rate, by his reckoning. “I believe strongly in the tortoise and the hare,” he said.

Mr. Hallak pursues an age-old business strategy of aiming at the highest end of the market, which by definition is limited but, he says, is also very loyal. “For most of the industry, it’s a commodities business, very price sensitive,” he said. Not so for people with $12,000 dresses or $30,000 wedding gowns that need cleaning.

“I track everything,” he said. “I can tell you every time you had your powder blue suit cleaned and what other items you brought in with it. I can see whether accounts are lapsing and what kind. You can gain all sorts of insights. If the percentage of high-end products we get slips to 50 percent from 60 percent, but overall business increases, that means more people are doing one-stop shopping.”
196 2007-11-08 “Nobody could expect that,” Mr. Prodi said in an interview published in The Financial Times on Wednesday. “Psychologically and socially, the speed, the impact is incredible,” he added.

After the killing, Mr. Prodi’s government enacted an emergency decree permitting local authorities to expel immigrants deemed dangerous, and a reported three dozen people, mostly Romanian, were forced out.

But amid a debate on making that decree permanent, anger and the potential for violence remain high. On Friday night, three Romanians were wounded, one seriously, after being attacked in Rome by a mob armed with knives and metal bars.

While the beating shocked many Italians, the killing seemed to underscore a larger fear and unease about immigration.

“It’s not a problem of Romanians, but of foreigners,” said Annalisa Menciassi, a hotel worker in the Tuscan town of Casciana Terme. “Because you hear so many bad things, people are just afraid.

“I don’t discriminate because of race or color or ethnic background,” she said. “But it is also true that just as we accept them, they also have to accept us and abide by our rules.”

While apologizing for crimes committed by Romanians, Mr. Tariceanu said he had come to Italy to “ensure safety for the Romanians who work and lead an honest life in Italy and who represent the vast majority of Romanians there.” He said he was worried about a rising xenophobia here.

He and Mr. Prodi agreed to a packet of measures, including more Romanian police officers in Italy, better border controls and new ways to integrate immigrants. The two men also wrote a letter to the European Commission asking for help for nations that receive immigrants from other European countries and for a strategy for integrating the Roma in Europe.

“The destination member states don’t have on their own the means to confront the difficulties that face them,” the letter read.

The issue is also sending tremors through Mr. Prodi’s fragile center-left government. While he has pledged that there will be no “mass deportations,” the center-right opposition is calling for tough measures, including the right to expel immigrants who have not been proved to be a threat.

After the killing, Gianfranco Fini, leader of the opposition National Alliance, directly took on the delicate question of criminality among the Roma, saying that they “are not able to be integrated into our society.”

But even politicians who are more centrist have expressed worries about criminality, particularly among Romanians. Walter Veltroni, Rome’s mayor and the leader of the centrist Democratic Party, said that three-quarters of all arrests in the city last year involved Romanians. The Italian police have reportedly been rousting illegal encampments of Roma around the city.

Nazareno Guarnieri, a Romany who leads an Italian Gypsy advocacy group, said that the Roma were being scapegoated and that criminals made up only a small part of the estimated 160,000 Gypsies in Italy, while 90,000 of them were Italian citizens. The real problem is that Italy has not figured out how to deal with the changes caused by the arrival of so many immigrants, he said.

“It is a society that has changed very rapidly,” he said. “The shame, the fear,” he said, “is that we have a political class that instead of managing this change are pandering to voters. And the people who don’t understand the problem say, ‘Bravo!’ It is a kind of search for votes. This is propaganda.”
197 2007-11-08 “We will favor stronger currencies over weaker ones and will readjust accordingly,” Cheng Siwei, vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress told a conference in Beijing earlier today. A Chinese central bank vice director, Xu Jian, said the dollar was “losing its status as the world currency,” according to Bloomberg News.

Mr. Cheng later told reporters that he was not saying China would buy more euros and dump dollars. But as markets opened across Europe, those words echoed as a invocation to sell the American currency.

The dollar fell to its lowest level against the Canadian dollar since 1950, its weakest perch against the British pound since 1981, and its smallest value against the Swiss franc since 1995. The euro rose to a new record, $1.4729, before retreating.

While the reaction to the Chinese statements appeared to have been overblown, analysts said the larger forces assailing both the dollar and the stock market were more deep-seated: uncertainty about the magnitude of the mortgage-related credit crisis and the growing sense that, sooner or later, the unraveling of the American housing market must weigh on the larger economy.

Recent weeks have featured a string of unpleasant reckonings for major Wall Street banks, with several slashing billions of dollars off balance sheets to account for losses in the mortgage market. Yet investors fret that there is more pain to come, with no way to know how much or where, given the spider’s web of financial deals that propelled the housing boom.

"What it all comes down to beneath the surface is the perception of credit-related problems, and the perception that this is spreading in ways that cannot be anticipated," said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.

Though the losses from the subprime mortgage crisis are frequently estimated at $200 billion, only about half of this money has been accounted for, Mr. Ruskin said, with the markets forced to guess where the next batch of bad holdings will emerge.

"A lot of people do the math and there still seems to be a big hole there," he said.

Amid the carnage, though, there were still several signs that the economy remains healthy. Productivity — a measure of how much the country produces per worker — expanded more than expected in the summer, the Labor Department said, suggesting that the economy still has the ability to grow without stoking too much inflation.

But stocks dropped from the opening bell. The Dow closed down 2.64 percent, at 13,300.02. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index tumbled 44.65 points, or 2.9 percent, to 1,475.62. The Nasdaq composite index fell 76.42 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,748.76.

The market was hit by news from General Motors that it will write down $38.6 billion in future tax benefits after a string of poor sales in North America and Germany, logging its biggest quarterly loss ever. The company’s stock price dropped 5.4 percent, to $34.21 a share.

The uncertainty about the credit markets pushed financial stocks down nearly 5 percent.

"The mood is dreadful," said Brian Gendreau, a strategist at ING Investment Management. "People are saying, ’Well, is that all? If they were that wrong about so much, is it possible they’re still wrong?’ "

As the economic implications of the mortgage crisis filtered out, the recriminations went on. The New York State attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, said he would subpoena records from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac , the government-backed lenders, as he continued to investigate whether banks inflated the value of homes to fuel their real estate business.

The euro’s rise is being propelled by differing approaches to interest rates on opposite sides of the Atlantic. The Federal Reserve has been cutting interest rates to ease the strains on the American economy. The European Central Bank is expected to hold interest rates steady when it convenes Thursday.

“There will be a natural flow of money toward countries where interest rates are going to be holding," said Stuart A. Schweitzer, managing director of global markets at J.P. Morgan Asset and Wealth Management.

For Americans, the ramifications of a weak dollar are varied. World travelers feel the pinch as the price of European hotels and restaurants soar in dollar terms. At home, the prices of imported goods like German-made cars and French wine inch up. Some fret that a further weakening in the dollar could sow inflation, as the impact of higher-priced imports — oil in particular — filters through the economy.

Indeed, some now see the dollar and the price of oil as intertwined: As the value of the currency falls, sellers of oil demand more dollars for the same barrel. And as oil prices climb, this impedes American growth, making the dollar less attractive.

Many see a weaker dollar as an unavoidable means of shrinking the United States trade deficit, which last year exceeded $800 billion. A weaker dollar helps make American goods cheaper on world markets.

Exports have been surging, giving companies in the United States a source of growing profits as sales soften at home.

“We’re in an unsustainable situation in terms of accumulating enormous deficits,” said Clyde Prestowitz, a former trade negotiator in the Reagan administration and now president of the Economic Strategy Institute. "The only way out of that is through a weaker dollar."

Still, some say fears about a flight from the dollar are exaggerated: China and Japan depend on the purchasing power of Americans for their exports. Those countries, along with the oil producers, hold so many dollars that they are loath to do anything to set off a precipitous fall.

But investors keep worrying that they are about to be hit by another surprise.

"You’ve basically got capital market jitters about the United States," said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
198 2007-11-08 Well, in that case, how could it miss?

The resulting phone is beautiful. Its aspirations to Appleness are evident immediately: there’s the nearly buttonless façade, the huge black expanse of screen, the iPod-like control dial that both spins through lists and clicks at the four compass points. It even lights up when you have messages waiting.

The back and sides have the subtlest rubbery texture, making the phone feel both soft and secure. And it’s small — 4 by 2.1 by 0.6 inches, smaller than the BlackBerry Pearl — which makes it feel even more natural in your palm.

But the Shadow is intended to be a communications powerhouse. That means e-mail, chat and text messages, and that means you need a keyboard. So the phone’s top and bottom halves slide apart like tectonic plates, revealing a handsome, illuminated thumb keyboard.

It’s not a full keyboard of 26 submolecular keys like the one on the Treo or full-size BlackBerry. Instead, it has only 20 large, square keys — well, large for a smartphone; they’re about the size of your front teeth, so they make nice fat targets for your thumbs. It’s the same system used on the BlackBerry Pearl. In fact, T-Mobile licensed the hardware design from the BlackBerry’s maker, though it substituted its own software.

Most of the keys have two letters painted on them; when you press GH, UI, TY, the software figures out that you mean “guy.” Unfortunately, the drawbacks of the 20-key keyboard remain the same as on the Pearl: every now and then, the software gets it wrong. GH, UI, TY may be “guy,” but it’s also “hit,” or “gut” or “git.” And proper names or unusual words — forget about it. You have to tap those out using the multitap method, where you press the GH key twice to indicate H, and so on.

But talk about well-equipped. The Shadow has about as long a feature list as you can find on a phone.

It has a bright 320-by-240-pixel screen; an above-average 2-megapixel camera with video; a memory card slot; Bluetooth, including wireless stereo music; Web browser; removable battery with five hours of talk time; speakerphone; speed-dial keys; voice dialing; and a quad-band antenna so you can use it in most other countries, if you’re willing to pay steep roaming rates.

There’s even Wi-Fi, so that you can Web surf at decent speeds when you’re in a wireless hot spot. The good news is that T-Mobile charges only $20 a month for unlimited Internet use at T-Mobile hot spots and over its super-slow cellular network. (That’s on top of a voice plan).

There you have it: the Shadow, one of the least expensive smartphones on the market, loaded with features, feeling luxurious and looking stunning in your hand. For once, you don’t have to be jealous of the much cooler phones available in Europe.

But then you turn the thing on.

Unfortunately, after they did such a great job designing the hardware, T-Mobile’s chief executive and his ex-Apple designer punted on the software. They equipped this phone with Microsoft’s Windows Mobile 6. As it turns out, that decision is just as much an impediment to the Shadow’s greatness as AT&T exclusivity is to the iPhone.

Frankly, Windows Mobile 6 is a mess. Common features require an infinitude of taps and clicks, and the ones you need most are buried in menus. Apparently the Windows Mobile 6 team learned absolutely nothing from Windows Mobile 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.

And lest you think I don’t have Microsoft’s best interests at heart, here’s a list of helpful suggestions. At no charge.

First of all, a cellphone should not display a “wait” cursor. Ever. And definitely not almost every time you change screens, as on the Shadow.

If your Web browser can’t play Flash videos, it should just say so. It should not say, “Make sure the path and file name are correct and that all the required libraries are available.” (Insert your own joke here about double-checking the local public library’s operating hours.)

When you’re finished looking at a text message, you should not have to open a menu to find the Delete command. When you’re on a phone call, you should not have to open a menu to find the Speakerphone command. When you take a picture, you should not have to open a menu to find Send and Delete.

A cellphone should not have a Task Manager. You should never have to worry about quitting programs because you’ve used up too much memory.

A cellphone should auto-format phone numbers with parentheses and hyphens when you enter them in the address book. When the cursor is in a number box, like ZIP code, the keyboard should automatically start typing numbers. The owner should not have to press the alternate-symbols key.

If the phone has a navigation wheel, the big, clickable center button should always mean “O.K.” Always. It should never do nothing, even when there’s an O.K. label over one of the tiny softkeys.

When you’re assigning a contact to one of the five “My Faves” slots, a T-Mobile calling plan that gives you unlimited calls to your five favorite numbers, three confirmation screens is two too many.

If it takes four presses on the More button just to see everything in the Start menu — and you provide no direct way to get to the first page from the last — you need to redesign.

A locking feature, which prevents the buttons from being pushed accidentally in a purse or pocket, is nice. But it should be optional. And one button press should suffice to unlock it; two in sequence is just annoying.

Now, there are certainly advantages to having Microsoft inside your phone. For example, this phone can open and edit (but not create) Microsoft Office documents. And it uses ActiveSync on a Windows PC, meaning that your phone is always up to date with your Outlook calendar and address book.

But over all, it’s a shame that such bloated, baffling software runs a phone whose hardware is so close to perfect. (The only hardware disappointment is that scroll wheel, which is balky and slow to respond. T-Mobile agrees, and has a fix planned for the next batch.)

So T-Mobile’s news release, it turns out, was half right. The Shadow does maintain “all the powerful calling, messaging and picture sharing capabilities people crave.” Unfortunately, it doesn’t “significantly reduce the complexity often associated with many feature-rich devices.”
199 2007-11-08 DOLLAR SINKS; SHARES FOLLOW  Stock markets plummeted and the dollar sank to a record low against the euro as investors worldwide grew skittish over rising oil prices and the prospect of a substantial economic slowdown in the United States. The Dow...
200 2007-11-09 A search of Apple’s code unleashes a fever of speculation about what is next. Could it be movie rentals through iTunes?...
201 2007-11-09 An argument against the hand wringing about Nasdaq’s fall. The only way to prevent the ill-effects of a tech stock bubble is for share prices to fall....
202 2007-11-09 Apple locks the iPhone, and hackers release it. Again....
203 2007-11-09 A group called the Foundation for a Secure and Prosperous America is running an ad praising John McCain for his support of the Iraq war....
204 2007-11-09 Fred Thompson proposes that the country take part in a 401(k)-style matching retirement savings plan to shore up Social Security....
205 2007-11-09 The financial stocks were having a great little rally today, and then someone looked at the latest S.E.C. filings. You can get the gory details over at a Wall Street Journal blog. Seems that both Bank of America and J.P. Morgan thought Friday afte...
206 2007-11-09 Correction Appended This week brought a civil rights breakthrough. The House of Representatives passed the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, which would protect gay people against workplace discrimination. (Related Editorial: An Overdue Step for ...
207 2007-11-09 This round's Bruno Magli may turn out to be the Sprint Katana cell phone....
208 2007-11-09 Barclays, the British bank, sure moved fast today after rumors spread it was going to take a 10 billion pound writeoff. It filed the following with the S.E.C. today: "Barclays PLC (the "Company") announces that on 9 November 2007 it purchased for ...
209 2007-11-09 Carrie Brownstein, from Sleater-Kinney (now on hiatus), and SNL's Fred Armisen have become a comedy team – they've been making deft and funny short films under the name ThunderAnt. Here's my favorite thus far: "Feminist Bookstore." (Click on the...
210 2007-11-09 Writers hold signs outside Paramount on Thursday. (Reed Saxon/AP) - The New York Times: "At least two major television studios, 20th Century Fox and CBS Paramount, have sent breach-of-contract letters to the show runners on their current series wh...
211 2007-11-09 All five senators who are running for president missed the vote on Michael B. Mukasey....
212 2007-11-09 John McCain and Mitt Romney on the indictment today of Rudolph W. Giuliani's former police commissioner. Updated, with the Giuliani campaign's response....
213 2007-11-09 Intel Capital, the venture capital arm of chip giant Intel, announced Thursday that it has injected $10 million into security company Iovation, which targets online fraud and abuse based on the identification and "reputation" of Net-enabled device...
214 2007-11-09 Mr. Riccio said he told Mr. Beardsley he had an interested buyer who wanted to meet in the hotel room to see the items, but it was Mr. Simpson and his group en route.

Mr. Riccio also said that Mr. Beardsley admitted several times that the items were stolen in advance and after the raid. “He came right out and said these items were stolen from O.J.’s trophy room, no doubt about it,” Mr. Riccio said of Mr. Beardsley.

But Mr. Fromong testified on Thursday that he rightfully owned the Simpson items and had purchase receipts from another dealer, Mike Gilbert, to prove that. Those receipts have not been entered into evidence and it remains unclear how Mr. Gilbert came into possession of the items. The defense argues that if the items were originally stolen from Mr. Simpson, the incident cannot be viewed as a robbery.

Today Mr. Simpson’s lawyer, Yale Galanter, repeatedly questioned Mr. Riccio on whether Mr. Fromong had ever said the Simpson merchandise was stolen. Mr. Riccio acknowledged Mr. Beardsley had said so in Mr. Fromong’s presence before the Simpson group arrived, but Mr. Riccio also said that Mr. Fromong was on the phone at the time and may not have been listening.

Mr. Beardsley “was real up front about it from the beginning to the end,” Mr. Riccio said.

Mr. Galanter also asserted that because Mr. Fromong and Mr. Beardsley are heard on a tape surreptitiously made by Mr. Riccio as telling Mr. Simpson to take his items but not to take items related to Mr. Montana and Mr. Rose, it was a reflection that Mr. Fromong and Mr. Beardsley also regarded the Simpson items as belonging to the former football star.

When the other men started taking other items, Mr. Fromong and Mr. Beardsley objected, Mr. Riccio said.

The prosecutor, Chris Owens, later asked Mr. Riccio whether Mr. Fromong and Mr. Beardsley had reason to be frightened of Mr. Simpson and his allies. “I would say there was intimidation, yes, but I didn’t see a gun” until about a minute into the six-minute encounter, Mr. Riccio said.

The final witness of the week was Charles Cashmore, one of the five men who entered the room with Mr. Simpson. Mr. Cashmore is one of the three men who have pleaded guilty to a charge of felony accessory to robbery, which may result in a sentence of probation, in exchange for testifying against Mr. Simpson and the other two co-defendants.

Mr. Cashmore reiterated the version of events heard several times before, that he and the group burst into the room and, at Simpson’s direction, took the memorabilia. He said he met Mr. Simpson that same day through an acquaintance, Clarence Stewart, who is one of Simpson’s co-defendants.

The presence of guns at the incident came as a shock, Mr. Cashmore testified.

Attorneys for Mr. Stewart and the third defendant, Charles Ehrlich, complained today about Mr. Cashmore’s appearance on Fox News Channel with Greta Van Susteren on Thursday night. Mr. Ehrlich’s attorney, John Moran Jr., said the appearance had violated the judge’s order that witnesses not listen to any of the other people’s testimony or discuss testimony during the hearing.

Justice Court Judge Joseph Bonaventure Jr. asked Mr. Cashmore whether he had discussed anything of substance about the case with Ms. Van Susteren and he insisted he had not, saying he merely answered a couple of questions about how he was feeling.

“I do not find a violation of my order,” Judge Bonaventure concluded. Still, he said, “I am somewhat disturbed by this, a witness in this case after being told not to watch at any testimony going on television.”

The hearing is adjourned until Tuesday morning, stretching proceedings that were expected to last two days into at least a third. Clark County Justice Court Chief Judge Douglas Smith, who has been designated by the court to discuss the case, said this is an unusually long preliminary hearing.

Thus far, only four of the expected eight prosecution witnesses have been called. The defense is not planning to call witnesses. District Attorney David Roger could have expedited the process by going to a secret grand jury to get the charges bound over for trial. In that case, the defense is not allowed to cross-examine witnesses but the testimony cannot be used at trial. Since Mr. Fromong had a heart attack days after the Sept. 13 incident, Mr. Roger wanted to make sure his testimony was preserved in case his health deteriorating.

“Also, the public is wanting this information and I suspect the district attorney wants the public to know we’re not just making this up,” Judge Smith said.
215 2007-11-09 A Manhattan personal assistant has told investigators that she fatally bludgeoned her boss, the well-connected real estate agent Linda Stein, in the woman’s opulent Fifth Avenue apartment because Ms. Stein swore at her, waved a stick at her and blew marijuana smoke into her face, the police said today.

The assistant, Natavia Lowery, 26, of Brooklyn, was arrested this morning. At an afternoon news conference, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said Ms. Lowery had told the police that she struck Ms. Stein six or seven times on Oct. 30 with a four-pound exercise stick.

Mr. Kelly said that in Ms. Lowery’s account, Ms. Stein had used “profanity and derogatory language” and refused to stop blowing smoke at her even though the smoke was making her sick. Ms. Lowery had worked for Ms. Stein for about four months, but said Ms. Stein had not verbally abused her until the day of the killing.

Ms. Lowery, who was held at the Seventh Precinct on the Lower East Side, was to be charged by the Manhattan district attorney’s office this evening.

The police said that investigators followed a dual path in their investigation, combing for physical evidence while conducting dozens of interviews with Ms. Stein’s friends, acquaintances and family members.
216 2007-11-09 Stocks declined sharply today after another large bank said that it would write down the value of some of its assets, reigniting fears of a credit squeeze, and technology stocks extended their losses. The Dow Jones industrial average plummeted more than 200 points, or 1.7 percent.

Technology stocks, which suffered one of their first significant sell-offs in months yesterday, dropped more than 2 percent today. Qualcomm, the wireless company, said last night that it expected business to drop over the coming months, underscoring fears that technology companies will be hurt by an expected slowdown in the economy over the next few months. Cisco Systems, the networking giant, ignited yesterday’s sell-off with a similar report. The Nasdaq composite index, heavy with technology shares, closed down 68.06 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,627.94.

In the financial sector, Wachovia said today that it would lose $1.1 billion on bad bets on mortgage-backed securities and that it would set aside up to $600 million for loan losses in the fourth quarter. That adds to the $1.3 billion in losses and write-downs the bank announced last quarter, making Wachovia the latest prominent victim of the collapse in the subprime loan market. The bank’s shares dipped nearly 4 percent before regaining their losses and posting a slight gain.

Stocks, which started the day in the hole, had recovered much of their losses in the afternoon but slid again in the last half-hour of trading and ended near their lows for the session. The Dow finished at 13,042.74, down 223.55 points, or 1.7 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock closed down 21.07 points, or 1.4 percent, at 1,453.70.

Technology shares had been virtually unscathed by the recent market turmoil, but profit-taking and the gloomy fourth-quarter outlook have started to cut into their elevated prices.
217 2007-11-09 Based on the fact that the 27,000 suits cover about 47,000 sets of plaintiffs, the average plaintiff will receive just more than $100,000 before legal fees and expenses, which usually swallow 30 percent to 50 percent of payments to plaintiffs. Plaintiffs who do not want to accept the settlement can pursue their own claims, but with so many of the top trial lawyers in the United States agreeing to the deal, they may have difficulty doing so.

After several weeks of negotiations, Merck reached the settlement with lawyers who are on the steering committee that represents lawyers for the plaintiffs who have sued Merck in federal court. Those lawyers, and a handful of others, represent most of the 47,000 different groups of plaintiffs.

“It’s a fantastic deal,” said Danny Becnel, a Louisiana lawyer who said he represented about 1,000 plaintiffs. Mr. Becnel credited Judge Eldon E. Fallon of Federal District Court, who is overseeing the federal lawsuits from his court in New Orleans, with pressing the two sides to the table.

“He had everything to do with it,” Mr. Becnel said. “He was critical.”

The settlement does not end the government investigations that Merck faces, which include both civil and criminal inquires from several states and the Justice Department.

But for Merck, which has already spent more than $1.2 billion on Vioxx-related legal fees, the settlement will put to rest any fears that Vioxx lawsuits might bankrupt the company, or even have a significant financial impact. While eye-popping, the settlement payment represents less than one year’s profits for the company, the third-largest American drug maker.

Investors evidently consider it a good outcome for Merck, sending its shares up more than 2 percent in today’s trading, while many other stocks were down for the day.

For plaintiffs, the settlement will provide a measure of vindication and financial relief. And plaintiffs’ firms will earn nearly $2 billion in fees at their standard rates of 33 percent to 40 percent.

But the agreement is far smaller than Wall Street analysts and lawyers predicted when Merck withdrew Vioxx, and especially after the verdict in the first case. In 2005, most analysts estimated that Merck’s ultimate liability in Vioxx would be between $10 billion and $25 billion.

Merck withdrew Vioxx from the market in September 2004, after a clinical trial proved that it increased the risks of heart attacks and strokes. But internal company documents showed that Merck’s scientists were concerned about the risks of Vioxx several years earlier. And a large clinical trial that ended in 2000 also showed that Vioxx was much riskier than naproxen, an older painkiller sold under the name Aleve.

The settlement vindicates Merck’s risky decision to take cases to trial rather than agree to a quick, early settlement. By aggressively defending itself, Merck exposed the weaknesses in many plaintiffs’ cases. Some plaintiffs could not prove they had taken the drug, and others were overweight, smoked, or had other risk factors for heart attacks.

That strategy looked as though it had badly backfired in August 2005, when a jury in Angleton, Tex., returned a verdict of $253.5 million on behalf of Carol Ernst, whose husband, Robert, had died after taking Vioxx for less than a year.

But Merck decided to stick to its strategy, continuing to insist it would not settle cases. And in a series of cases in 2006 and 2007, Merck defeated plaintiffs in California, Florida, New Jersey, Illinois and Louisiana, while losing only a handful of cases.
218 2007-11-09 Plaintiffs will receive different settlement payments depending on the severity of their injuries and the length of time they took Vioxx.

“We’ve been asked by the judge to talk to the plaintiffs and we are talking to them,” Kent Jarrell, a spokesman for Merck, said at 12:30 Friday morning. “Right now, there is no finalized agreement.”

Two lawyers with knowledge of the deal, however, confirmed it independently.

Based on the fact that the 27,000 suits cover about 47,000 sets of plaintiffs, the average plaintiff will receive just over $100,000 before legal fees and expenses, which usually swallow between 30 and 50 percent of payments to plaintiffs. Plaintiffs who do not want to accept the settlement can pursue their own claims, but with so many of the top trial lawyers in the United States agreeing to the deal, they may have difficulty doing so.

After several weeks of negotiations, Merck reached the settlement with lawyers who are on the steering committee that represents attorneys for the plaintiffs who have sued Merck in federal court. Those lawyers, and a handful of others, represent most of the 47,000 different groups of plaintiffs.

“It’s a fantastic deal,” said Danny Becnel, a Louisiana lawyer who said he represented about 1,000 plaintiffs. Mr. Becnel credited Judge Eldon E. Fallon of Federal District Court, who is overseeing the federal lawsuits from his court in New Orleans, with pressing the two sides to the table.

“He had everything to do with it,” Mr. Becnel said. “He was critical.”

The settlement does not end the government investigations that Merck faces, which include both civil and criminal inquires from several states and the Justice Department.

But for Merck, which has already spent more than $1.2 billion on Vioxx-related legal fees, the settlement will put to rest any fears that Vioxx lawsuits might bankrupt the company, or even have a significant financial impact. While eye-popping, the settlement payment represents less than one year’s profits for the company, the third-largest American drug maker.

For plaintiffs, the settlement will provide a measure of vindication and financial relief. And plaintiffs’ firms will earn nearly $2 billion in fees at their standard rates of 33 percent to 40 percent.

But the agreement is far smaller than Wall Street analysts and lawyers predicted when Merck withdrew Vioxx, and especially after the verdict in the first case. In 2005, most analysts estimated that Merck’s ultimate liability in Vioxx would be between $10 billion and $25 billion.

Merck withdrew Vioxx from the market in September 2004, after a clinical trial proved that it increased the risks of heart attacks and strokes. But internal company documents showed that Merck’s scientists were concerned about the risks of Vioxx several years earlier. And a large clinical trial that ended in 2000 also showed that Vioxx was much riskier than naproxen, an older painkiller sold under the name Aleve.

The settlement vindicates Merck’s risky decision to take cases to trial rather than agree to a quick, early settlement. By aggressively defending itself, Merck exposed the weaknesses in many plaintiffs’ cases. Some plaintiffs could not prove they had taken the drug, and others were overweight, smoked, or had other risk factors for heart attacks.

That strategy looked as though it had badly backfired in August 2005, when a jury in Angleton, Tex., returned a verdict of $253.5 million on behalf of Carol Ernst, whose husband, Robert, had died after taking Vioxx for less than a year.

But Merck decided to stick to its strategy, continuing to insist it would not settle cases. And in a series of cases in 2006 and 2007, Merck defeated plaintiffs in California, Florida, New Jersey, Illinois and Louisiana, while losing only a handful of cases.
219 2007-11-09 California sued the Environmental Protection Agency to force it to decide immediately on the state’s application to impose strict limits on emissions of heat-trapping gases from cars and light trucks. The application for a waiver from federal law to allow tougher air quality rules than those mandated by the E.P.A. has been pending for nearly two years. Automakers oppose the rules, saying they are unattainable at reasonable cost. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said the federal government had no basis to deny the waiver. “Our health and our environment are too important to delay any longer,” he said. Fourteen other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, joined California in seeking the new emissions rules, which would require automakers to reduce emissions from current levels by 30 percent or more by the 2016 model year.
220 2007-11-09 A judge rejected a motion to dismiss juvenile charges against a teenager at the center of a civil rights controversy. Lawyers for the teenager, Mychal Bell, left, one of six black teenagers accused of beating a white schoolmate, said that trying him again amounted to double jeopardy. “We contend that he can’t be tried for the same case twice, and he’s already been tried in adult court,” said one of the lawyers, Carol Powell Lexing. The judge, J. P. Mauffrey Jr. of District Court, rejected that motion. Ms. Lexing said they would appeal. Mr. Bell, 17, is the only one of the so-called Jena Six to stand trial. In June, he was convicted in adult court of aggravated second-degree battery and conspiracy. The convictions were later overturned, and the case was sent to juvenile court. Mr. Bell was ordered to jail last month for a probation violation in an unrelated juvenile-court case.
221 2007-11-09 With George J. Mitchell’s investigation into drug use looming over Major League Baseball, player agents were informed by union officials earlier this week that up to 11 players who are now free agents could be named in Mitchell’s report when it is ultimately issued.

The union conveyed the information to the agents at a briefing in Manhattan on Wednesday. In effect, the union was connecting the dots. The names of players who received letters requesting that they meet with Mitchell, which is confidential information known to the union, were matched with the more than 100 players who have already filed for free agency. The result was 11 names, a figure that the union told the agents was not worrisome since it is not a big enough group to have an impact on this year’s free-agent market.

According to union officials familiar with the Wednesday meeting, the player agents were not told the names of the 11 players, although individual agents would know if a free agent they represent had been contacted by Mitchell, who was appointed by Commissioner Bud Selig in March of 2006 to undertake the investigation.

In addition, the union reiterated yesterday that it did not know what information Mitchell would include in his report, and if any players believed to have used performance-enhancing drugs would be named.

“The players association does not know who, if anyone, will be named in the report,” Steve Fehr, a lawyer for the union, said in a telephone interview. In reference to the Wednesday meeting, he added that “no one at the association said that anyone would be named in the report.”
222 2007-11-09 Bora Milutinovic, who coached five teams to the World Cup finals, was fired as coach and technical director by the Jamaica Football Federation. The federation informed the Serbian-born Milutinovic on Wednesday that it was firing him for breach of contract. A statement from the federation did not elaborate, and calls to the federation were not immediately returned.Milutinovic took over as the coach and the technical director of Jamaica’s program last November and led the team to the Lunar Cup title earlier this year. But Jamaica has not played since July and has fallen in the FIFA world rankings to 103.
223 2007-11-09 The Mets’ third need is a front-line starting pitcher, which becomes even more important if Tom Glavine decides to return to the Atlanta Braves, for whom he pitched 16 years before joining the Mets in 2003. With a new owner, the Braves are prepared to spend more money on players than they were able to last season.

“Atlanta has much more interest this year than last,” Minaya said.

The Mets could sign a free-agent starter. Liván Hernández, Carlos Silva and Kyle Lohse are available, but they do not fit Minaya’s definition of a front-line starter. Dontrelle Willis would be an ideal addition, but the Florida Marlins have not indicated he is available. Willis would require a huge price, but the Mets could include one of their young pitchers and one of their young outfielders in a package for him.

HELMETS FOR COACHES As Major League Baseball decided to move toward requiring first- and third-base coaches to wear helmets during games, the father of Mike Coolbaugh sat in his home in Texas wondering if a helmet could have saved his son.

In July, Coolbaugh was struck in the neck by a line drive while coaching at first base for the Tulsa Drillers, a Class AA affiliate of the Colorado Rockies. He was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital. An autopsy showed a burst blood vessel in his neck near his brain.

“I don’t think a helmet would have helped Mike, it hit him in the neck,” Robert Coolbaugh said in a telephone interview from his home in San Antonio. “The odds of Mike getting hit in the head were one in a billion.”

At the final day of the general managers’ meetings, the general managers and baseball officials yesterday discussed the matter and decided they wanted to adopt the rule change. The issue will be formally discussed at the winter meetings.

“They didn’t take a formal vote, but the consensus of the group was that we should have coaches wear helmets,” Patrick Courtney, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, said in a telephone interview. “The specifics — whether they would wear helmets with earflaps, helmets without earflaps or a hat with a liner — were not defined, though. They are trying to increase safety.”

HALL OF FAME CANDIDATES Billy Martin and Walter O’Malley are among 20 candidates for induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame to be considered by its Veterans Committee.

The votes on two ballots, one for managers and umpires and one for executives, will be taken Dec. 2 and announced the next day. A candidate needs 75 percent of the votes to be inducted into the Hall of Fame.

TORRE WORKING ON MEMOIR Joe Torre, named manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers last week after ending a 12-year reign with the Yankees, is working on a memoir. The book will be co-authored by Sports Illustrated’s Tom Verducci and will include Torre’s memories of the Yankees. Doubleday, an imprint of Random House Inc., will publish the book in the spring of 2009. (AP)
224 2007-11-09 The Bloomberg administration said yesterday that its termination of its contract with the developer hired to build a championship golf course in the east Bronx had prompted an additional $7 million payment even though the developer had made little progress building the course.

The payout to reimburse the developer, Ferry Point Partners, for its costs brings the total of city money spent on the unfinished golf course in the Throgs Neck neighborhood to $15 million, said the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr.

The city has also lost at least $3 million in licensing revenue that it would probably have received had the course been completed years ago as planned, and it is spending $2.2 million a year to monitor potential toxic hazards at the site, a former municipal landfill.

Mr. Thompson said in a statement: “It is simply astounding that after failing to perform any significant work at the site, Ferry Point and its subcontractors are walking away with millions of dollars. It is as if we are rewarding failure.”

The city voided its contract with the developer last year, but it was not terminated until Oct. 26, according to the termination agreement. The city is now looking for a new developer. Under the contract’s provisions, the parks department could have deemed Ferry Point Partners in default and avoided making more payments, Mr. Thompson said.
225 2007-11-09 Amgen’s shares fell 17 cents yesterday to $56.03, while Johnson & Johnson’s rose 68 cents to $64.59.

The drugs are used by about one million Americans a year, mostly people with anemia caused by cancer chemotherapy or kidney failure. Combined sales worldwide were nearly $10 billion last year.

The main factor expected to depress sales of the drugs in the coming year is a new reimbursement policy by Medicare. Amgen said yesterday that it would formally ask the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or C.M.S., to overturn that policy.

Medicare’s new policy applies to patients with anemia caused by chemotherapy. Medicare cuts off reimbursement for the drugs once a patient’s hemoglobin — the component of red blood cells that carries oxygen — rises above 10 grams for each deciliter of blood.

Amgen said the new labels on the drugs support its cause. For cancer patients, the label calls for using the lowest possible dose that allows a patient to avoid blood transfusions, with hemoglobin levels not to exceed 12 grams for each deciliter.

“The label gives physicians discretion between 10 and 12,” Kevin W. Sharer, Amgen’s chief executive, told securities analysts yesterday. “That’s the main point. And the C.M.S. decision does not.”

But F.D.A. officials said that the Medicare decision was consistent with the new label.

“This is not a target,” Dr. Richard Pazdur, the director of the agency’s cancer drug office, said about the hemoglobin level of 12. “This is an upper boundary for safety concerns.”

Medicare has said that it cannot overturn its decision without new evidence. Amgen said it would present some new evidence, including information showing that more cancer patients are now needing blood transfusions. But some analysts were skeptical that the company would succeed in overturning Medicare’s decision.

The new labels came after the F.D.A. held two advisory committee meetings to consider the safety of the drugs. The agency had first slapped a so-called black box warning, the toughest kind, on the drugs in March as an interim measure.

For patients with kidney failure, the label calls for hemoglobin levels to be maintained at between 10 and 12. That is perhaps a bit less restrictive than the label in March.

But new wording in the label calls for doctors to exercise restraint or possibly discontinue use for patients who do not reach the desired hemoglobin levels after 12 weeks of treatment.

Until now, dialysis centers have tended to give such patients astronomical doses in an effort to raise their hemoglobin levels.

Joel Sendek said in a note to clients that the new label would reduce sales by “eliminating the exorbitant doses given to those patients who have historically been a major source of revenue for Amgen” and for dialysis centers.
226 2007-11-09 The Federal Reserve has approved the application by the sixth-largest Chinese bank to open an office in New York, its first branch in the United States.

China Merchants Bank, based in Shenzhen, a commercial center in southeast China, will engage in wholesale deposit-taking, lending, trade finance and other services, the Fed said. The bank has $146 billion in assets and is indirectly controlled by the Chinese government.

Under federal law, deposits at the branch will not be government-insured, so the branch will cater primarily to businesses, not individuals, said H. Rodgin Cohen, chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell, which advised China Merchants on the application.

Chinese-American investment and trade will be the bank’s focus, he said.

China Merchants is the first Chinese bank to be allowed to open a branch in the United States in two decades, Mr. Cohen said.

In approving the application, the Fed said it had found that the Chinese government engaged in adequate oversight of the bank, including requiring annual audits. In 2003, the Chinese government created a bureau to combat money laundering and in 2007 joined the Financial Action Task Force, a group that develops and promotes policies to combat money laundering.
227 2007-11-09 “We are experiencing among our clients an awakening that the United States is in big trouble,” said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs.

The rise in oil prices, which briefly traded yesterday above $98 a barrel before settling at $96.37, now appear to be pushing up the cost of gasoline, heating oil and jet fuel as well. Today, oil was trading above $97 a barrel. That only intensified concern that American consumers may no longer be able to sustain their spending on other goods and services, particularly the large numbers of gas-guzzling vehicles still being turned out by the Detroit automakers.

The most immediate trigger for the sell-off in the dollar, traders said, was a jarring signal that suggested China might shift some of its enormous hoard of foreign currency reserves — worth more than $1.4 trillion, primarily in dollars and dollar-denominated assets — into other currencies to get a better return on its money.

“We will favor stronger currencies over weaker ones, and will readjust accordingly,” Cheng Siwei, vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress told a conference in Beijing on Wednesday. A Chinese central bank vice director, Xu Jian, said the dollar was “losing its status as the world currency,” according to Bloomberg News.

Mr. Cheng later told reporters he was not saying China would buy more euros and dump dollars. But as markets opened across Europe, those words echoed as an invitation to sell the American currency.

The dollar fell to its lowest level against the Canadian dollar since 1950, the British pound since 1981, and the Swiss franc since 1995. The euro rose to a new record, $1.4729, before retreating.

While the reaction to the Chinese statements appeared to have been overblown, analysts said the larger forces assailing the dollar and the stock market were more deep-seated: uncertainty about the magnitude of the mortgage-related credit crisis, and the growing sense that, sooner or later, the unraveling of the American housing market must color the larger economy.

Recent weeks have featured a string of unpleasant reckonings for major Wall Street banks, with several slashing billions of dollars from balance sheets to account for losses in the mortgage market. Yet investors fret that there is more pain to come, with no way to know how much or where, given the spider’s web of financial deals that propelled the housing boom.

“What it all comes down to beneath the surface is the perception of credit-related problems, and the perception that this is spreading in ways that cannot be anticipated,” said Alan Ruskin, chief international strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital.

Though the losses from the subprime mortgage crisis are frequently estimated at $200 billion, only about half of this money has been accounted for, Mr. Ruskin said, with the markets forced to guess where the next batch of bad holdings will emerge.

“A lot of people do the math and there still seems to be a big hole there,” he said.

Amid the carnage, though, there were still several signs that the economy remains healthy. Productivity — a measure of how much the country produces for each worker — expanded more than expected in the summer, the Labor Department said, suggesting that the economy still has the ability to grow without stoking too much inflation.

But stocks dropped from the opening bell. The Dow closed down 2.64 percent, at 13,300.02. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index tumbled 44.65 points, or 2.9 percent, to 1,475.62. The Nasdaq composite index fell 76.42 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,748.76.

The market was also reacting to news from General Motors that it would write down $38.6 billion in future tax benefits after a string of poor sales in North America and Germany, logging its biggest quarterly loss ever. The company’s stock price dropped 6.1 percent, to $33.95 a share.

The uncertainty about the credit markets pushed financial stocks down nearly 5 percent.

“The mood is dreadful,” said Brian Gendreau, an investment strategist at ING Investment Management. “People are saying, ‘Well, is that all? If they were that wrong about so much, is it possible they’re still wrong?’”

As the economic implications of the mortgage crisis filtered out, the recriminations went on. New York Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo said he would subpoena records from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-backed lenders, as he continued to look into whether banks had inflated the value of homes.

The euro’s rise is being propelled by differing approaches to interest rates on opposite sides of the Atlantic. The Federal Reserve has been cutting rates to ease strains on the American economy. The European Central Bank is likely to hold rates steady when it meets today.

“There will be a natural flow of money toward countries where interest rates are going to be holding,” said Stuart A. Schweitzer, managing director of global markets at JPMorgan Asset and Wealth Management.

For Americans, the ramifications of a weak dollar are varied. World travelers feel the pinch as the price of European hotels and restaurants soar in dollar terms. At home, the prices of imported goods like German-made cars and French wine inch up. Some fret that a further weakening in the dollar could sow inflation, as the impact of higher-priced imports — oil in particular — filters through the economy.

Indeed, some now see the dollar and the price of oil as intertwined: As the value of the currency falls, sellers of oil demand more dollars for the same barrel. And as oil prices climb, this impedes American growth, making the dollar less attractive.

Many see a weaker dollar as an unavoidable means of shrinking the United States trade deficit, which last year exceeded $800 billion. A weaker dollar helps make American goods cheaper on world markets.

Exports have been surging, giving companies in the United States a source of growing profits as sales soften at home.

“We’re in an unsustainable situation in terms of accumulating enormous deficits,” said Clyde Prestowitz, a former trade negotiator in the Reagan administration, and now president of the Economic Strategy Institute. “The only way out of that is through a weaker dollar.”

Still, some say fears about a flight from the dollar are exaggerated; China and Japan depend on the purchasing power of Americans for their exports. They, along with the oil producers, hold so many dollars that they are loath to do anything to cause a precipitous fall.

But investors keep worrying about another surprise.

“You’ve basically got capital market jitters about the United States,” said William R. Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
228 2007-11-09 First, you should understand the securities themselves. The underlying source of payment is subprime mortgages, and that is a market where the outlook keeps getting worse. But these securities are “super-senior” — a great salesman’s phrase — and will not suffer unless losses grow to extreme levels that wipe out the value of junior securities backed by the same loans. The losses are not that high yet, or even close to it, but fear is rising.

So how can we estimate what the market price would be if there were a market? First, Citi thought it needed to estimate how much money the securities would eventually bring in. To make that estimate, it had to guess what will happen to house prices. Then it had to decide how risky the forecast was and pick an interest rate at which to discount the estimates. The riskier it is, the higher the rate Citi should choose and the bigger the loss it should take.

Come to think of it, tea leaf reading may be more reliable.

The only actual market price Citi looked to came from what are called the ABX indexes, which do trade. Investors can use them to buy protection from defaults on mortgage-backed securities, and they are trading as if real estate prices are likely to plunge and defaults soar. Is that a reasonable estimate, or a reflection of panic? Or both?

There is a temptation to think Citi’s write-offs are too high, given that they were announced just as Chuck Prince was being forced to walk the plank and step down as chief executive. Taking a big hit when the old guy leaves is a traditional way to make the new guy’s tenure look better. But there is no way to be sure.

This is no way to run a financial system. It is obvious that no one — not boards or chief executives or Wall Street analysts — appreciated how big the risks were that were producing the extraordinary returns that Wall Street enjoyed until the music stopped.

Now the boards are firing the chief executives, and the analysts have flipped from Polyannas to Cassandras. “It seems,” wrote David Hendler of CreditSights, speaking of stock analysts, “that their transition from positive momentum calls to frightened negative-case valuation calls are adding to the big swings in credit and stock valuations both on the up and down sides.”

For companies, that can get downright agonizing. This week, Ambac, which has written insurance to protect investors in some C.D.O.’s, fired back. It said a report by Ken A. Zerbe, a Morgan Stanley analyst, was too pessimistic. The report’s flavor was captured in its title, “On the Knife’s Edge: Can the Financial Guaranty Industry Survive?” His answer: Maybe. Mr. Zerbe acknowledged he had been too optimistic in the past.

One of Ambac’s complaints was that Mr. Zerbe did not give it enough credit for having insured not just paper based on the mortgages going bad — the ones written in 2006 and 2007 — but on the earlier mortgage pools that have shown fewer problems.

Unfortunately, even as the chief executive of another financial insurer, Dominic Frederico of Assured Guaranty, was complaining in a conference call about “the hysteria of the market,” analysts were going through the latest reports on pools of subprime mortgages. They showed significant increases in delinquencies and foreclosures from 2004 and 2005 loans. Perhaps the difference is not that those loans were better, only that the problems took longer to surface.

Since the end of May, financial stocks are down 20 percent or more, while most other stocks have held their own. At some point, financial stock valuations will fall so far that prices are ridiculously low. Maybe that has already happened for some stocks, but it takes a lot of nerve to place that wager when it is so clear that the companies themselves are only beginning to understand the foolish risks they took.
229 2007-11-09 AMES, Iowa, Nov. 8 — The scene outside the old Victorian-style courthouse in Dubuque on Thursday morning showed that the indictment of Bernard B. Kerik is at the very least a big distraction for Rudolph W. Giuliani’s presidential campaign.

The site had been chosen with care: Mr. Giuliani spoke across from the courthouse, which has a statue of Justice atop its golden cupola. With him were two former United States attorneys who were there to talk about Mr. Giuliani’s record as a corruption-busting federal prosecutor before he became mayor of New York.

But the only federal corruption case that reporters asked about was the one being built against Mr. Kerik — his former driver, police commissioner, partner, and, briefly, choice to head the federal Department of Homeland Security. A grand jury on Thursday voted to charge Mr. Kerik, and he is expected to be arraigned on a sealed indictment at midday Friday in United States District Court in White Plains on corruption-related charges, according to people briefed on the case.

So Mr. Giuliani said once again said that he had made “a mistake in not checking him out more carefully.” He pointed out the successes he had in New York. And almost lost in the mix was Mr. Giuliani’s effort to highlight a less well-known aspect of his own biography, and to talk up his new endorsement from Pat Robertson to Iowa voters.

Of course, a trial during the heat of a presidential campaign could prove another challenge for his bid at a crucial time.

Mr. Kerik’s lawyer, Kenneth M. Breen, has said several times during the course of the investigation that his client intends to fight the charges. And while the timing of any trial is difficult to predict, several lawyers who practice in White Plains said that the case could reach trial in six months to a year — at the height of the political season.
230 2007-11-09 MERCK IN VIOXX SETTLEMENT  Merck has agreed to pay $4.85 billion to settle 45,000 lawsuits by people who claim they or their family members suffered injury or died after taking the pain medication Vioxx, according to people with direct knowledge o...
231 2007-11-10 Could Mel Brooks's life be imitating his show "The Producers," in which hucksters intend for a musical to bomb so as to abscond with investors' money? That's maybe a charitable explanation for the new high-budget production of "Young Frankenstein....
232 2007-11-10 In a culture industry fueled by formula, no genre has been more important to Hollywood than the western. From the birth of "the movies" through the classical Hollywood era (1920-1960), the western played not only a vital role as a popular narrative form — and one that would comprise nearly a fifth of all feature films from the silent era through the 1950s — but also in shaping the business of filmmaking itself.

The symbiosis of movies and westerns actually began not in Hollywood but in New Jersey and New York, where Edwin S. Porter's "Great Train Robbery" was made in 1903. This 10-minute, one-reel film, with its sequential plot, multiple locations and climactic gunfight, set the standard for both the western and narrative filmmaking. The popularity and physical requirements of the genre, especially locations, were key reasons for the industry's migration to Hollywood after 1910. (And the fact that most films were shot outdoors or on open-air stages, because of the requirements of early film stock and cameras, among other factors, reinforced the preference for "outdoor" subjects like the western.) By the mid-1920s, maybe half of Universal's annual output of 60 or so feature films was westerns, most of them low-cost "oaters" starring Hoot Gibson. Running a strong but distant second among the studios was Fox Film Corporation, but its westerns, starring Buck Jones and Tom Mix, had higher production values.

Universal distributed its films in small-town and rural markets, where demand for westerns was consistently strong and undiscerning — hence its heavy emphasis on low-cost, formulaic plots. Fox, however, owned a theater chain as well as a distribution arm. Most of its theaters were located west of the Rockies, where westerns were especially popular, and many of its theaters were in major urban markets that played only top features for a wide range of audiences. This explains why Fox made fewer westerns but of greater quality, and why it risked an occasional big-budget western like "The Iron Horse" (1924), an epic directed by John Ford, who got his start directing two-reel westerns at Universal.

Though high-end Hollywood westerns all but disappeared during the early 1930s — following the failure of several big-budget epics in 1930-31, just as the costly conversion to "talkies" and the full impact of the Depression hit the industry — the genre still flourished with low-budget series and serial production. But more expensive production resumed late in the decade: 1939, the annus mirabilis for top-notch westerns, saw the release of Paramount's "Union Pacific," directed by Cecil B. DeMille; Fox's "Jesse James," starring Tyrone Power; "Dodge City" from Warner Brothers, starring Errol Flynn in his first of many western roles; and "Stagecoach" from United Artists. "Stagecoach" was distinctive for its melding of the mythic and the historic, best evidenced perhaps by its unlikely but awesome setting in Monument Valley, Utah, which established the iconic landscape of "the West" (despite its inhospitableness), along with the conventions and clichés of cheaper westerns (including John Wayne's cowboy persona).

During the postwar era, so-called adult and psychological westerns like "Red River," "Winchester 73," "High Noon," "Shane," "The Searchers" and "Rio Bravo" were solid commercial hits. Mostly they also were all independent productions — evidence of Hollywood's desperate financial straits due to a series of postwar shocks, particularly court decrees that dismantled the studio system and the rise of commercial television. In fact, TV played a crucial role in transforming Hollywood's western film production. On the one hand, the studios favored widescreen Technicolor westerns like "Shane" and "The Searchers" because they were readily distinguishable from TV shows. On the other hand, the studios soon realized — taking a cue from lesser western stars like William Boyd (Hopalong Cassidy), Gene Autry and Roy Rogers — that they could reactivate their moribund B-movie divisions to produce TV series. The leader here was Warner Brothers, which placed "Cheyenne" on ABC in 1955 and within three years was supplying a third of the network's prime-time schedule, including the hit westerns "Sugarfoot," "Bronco," "Maverick" and "Colt .45." By 1958-59, 8 of the Top 10 shows were westerns; a year later there were 48 westerns on television, including 30 in prime time.

That was the last gasp of the western as Hollywood production staple, however. By the 1960s, the western had peaked both as a viable Hollywood commodity and as a national myth to ease America's rural-urban transformation, in part brought low by a combination of market saturation and generic exhaustion. The form has endured, of course, but primarily via isolated exercises in nostalgia or parody or art-film revisionism. There have been occasional signs of life — in Clint Eastwood masterworks like "The Outlaw Josie Wales" and "Unforgiven," for instance, and in the current spate of westerns like "3:10 to Yuma" and "The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford." But these are mere relics of what the western once meant to Hollywood and to the moviegoing public.
233 2007-11-10 “We’re not sure if this is the end of it or not, or how much more of this is going to continue,” said Robert Dye, senior economist at PNC Financial. “That is clearly spooking financial markets.”

Stocks dropped sharply early in the day but began to climb back in the afternoon before ending near their lows for the session. A pair of quarterly statements, filed by JP Morgan and Bank of America late in the day, may have unnerved investors after both banks mentioned billions of dollars in leveraged loan commitments.

The broader equity market has lost 4.38 percent in the last three days, as measured by Standard & Poor’s. The S.& P. 500-stock index dipped 1.43 percent yesterday, or 21.07 points, to close at 1,453.70. For the week, the average was down 3.7 percent.

Yesterday’s sell-off began after Qualcomm, the wireless company, said it expected business to drop in the fourth quarter, underscoring fears that technology companies will be hurt by an expected slowdown in the economy over the next few months. The report came on top of a similarly grim outlook from Cisco Systems, the networking giant, that led to a technology sell-off on Thursday.

Technology shares had been virtually unscathed by the recent market turmoil, but the reports sent traders scrambling to take profit out of the market.

Blue-chip technology shares extended their declines yesterday, with Apple, Google, I.B.M. and Oracle all closing the week deep in the red. The Nasdaq composite index finished down 68.06 points, or 2.5 percent, at 2,627.94.

In the financial sector, Wachovia said it would lose $1.1 billion on bad bets on mortgage-backed securities. That added to the $1.3 billion in losses and write-downs the bank announced last quarter, making Wachovia the latest prominent victim of the collapse in the subprime loan market.

The bank’s shares dipped nearly 4 percent before regaining their losses and posting a slight gain.

Financial stocks briefly rallied but fell back in late trading, though shares of Citigroup increased for the first time in over a week.

The bad news out of Wachovia was particularly jarring for investors. Banks have been forced to announce more write-downs as they try to calculate the value of infected assets related to home loans, leaving investors uneasy about the credit market.

William Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics, said the recent string of bank write-downs had given rise to a “cockroach theory”: one in the kitchen means others in the wall.

“People are afraid that they’re not finished,” Mr. Rhodes said. “That’s really what it boils down to. They look at this and go, ‘Holy cow, you wrote off this much this quarter? How much are you going to haul off next quarter?’”

Some analysts said profit taking spurred the week’s declines, after many market watchers, including Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said they expected a noticeable slowdown over the next few months as rising energy prices hurt consumer spending and a weak dollar hurts business.

“Will Rogers once said that sometimes the return of your money is more important than the return on your money,” said Marc Chandler, who directs currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. “This is one of these times.”

Turmoil in the equity market, while separate from broader financial indicators, can take its toll on the larger economy.

“If your stock portfolio is less, you’re not going to go out and buy that new car,” said Mr. Dye of PNC.

But he noted that the sell-off may spur banks to address the uncertainty by calculating the precise value of the complex financial instruments that were ravaged by the subprime collapse.

“In the long run this is a healthy process,” Mr. Dye said. “In the short run this is very painful.”

Crude oil futures rose 86 cents yesterday, to $96.32 a barrel, after a nominal record on Tuesday. Oil prices were up 0.4 percent for the week. The euro was at a record.

In credit markets the 10-year Treasury note yielded 4.21 percent, down from 4.28 percent late Thursday and the price, which moves inversely to the yield, rose 18/32 to 100 9/32.
234 2007-11-10 Visa, the biggest credit card network in the nation, said in a regulatory filing yesterday that it hoped to raise $10 billion in an initial public stock offering.

Visa said it planned to deposit a portion of the company’s proceeds from the offering into an escrow account to pay settlements or judgments related to litigation.

Visa disclosed on Wednesday that it would pay the American Express Company up to $2.07 billion to settle a lawsuit contending that Visa illegally stifled competition. Under the plan, Visa said its member banks would absorb the costs of the settlement.

Despite a turbulent week on Wall Street, which ended with a major drop yesterday, Visa’s offering is hotly anticipated by investors. Visa is following in the footsteps of its rival, MasterCard, the stock of which has more than quadrupled since the company went public in May at $39 a share.

As Wall Street struggles, MasterCard and Visa have secured the role of processing the world’s credit card payments but taking on none of the debt. The risk is instead held by the 25,000 banks in more than 200 countries that issue the cards.
235 2007-11-10 If it looks like a recession and feels like a recession ...

“Quite frankly,” said Senator Charles Schumer, peering over his glasses at the Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, “I think we are at a moment of economic crisis, stemming from four key areas: falling housing prices, lack of confidence in creditworthiness, the weak dollar and high oil prices.”

He asked Mr. Bernanke, at a Congressional hearing Thursday, if we were headed toward a recession.

An aide handed the chairman his dancing shoes, and Mr. Bernanke executed a flawless version of the Washington waffle. He said: “Our forecast is for moderate, but positive, growth going forward.” He said: “Economists are extremely bad at predicting turning points, and we don’t pretend to be any better.” He said: “We have not calculated the probability of recession, and I wouldn’t want to offer that today.”

With all due respect to the chairman, he would see the recession that so many others are feeling if he would only open his eyes. While Mr. Bernanke and others are waiting for the official diagnosis (a decline in the gross domestic product for two successive quarters), the disease is spreading and has been spreading for some time.

The evidence is all around us. Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland told Mr. Bernanke that many members of Congress are holding forums in their districts “to help people who are coming to our doors, literally with tears in their eyes, and trying to figure out how they’re going to manage a foreclosure that’s right around the corner.”

The housing meltdown is getting the attention, but there’s so much more. Bankruptcies and homelessness are on the rise. The job market has been weak for years. The auto industry is in trouble. The cost of food, gasoline and home heating oil are soaring at a time when millions of Americans are managing to make it from one month to another solely by the grace of their credit cards.
236 2007-11-10 Getting them to forgo bottled water on hikes or at work may prove harder. That is where reusable bottles come in.

In April — months before the environmental groups’ criticism — Nalgene Outdoor Products, a unit of Thermo Fisher Scientific that sells reusable bottles, introduced a Web-based campaign to promote their use. Called Refill Not Landfill, it asked visitors to the site to make an online pledge to give up bottled water for a week, a month, even a year. It also offered a $10 32-ounce bottle with the campaign slogan prominently displayed.

Nalgene is using the proceeds to buy carbon offsets, but the campaign — or, more accurately, the media attention that it received — has helped its bottom line as well. “We were on Oprah. We got a lot of press. Our product really got introduced to John Q Public,” said Abe Hayes, a sales manager for Nalgene, who said sales of Nalgene reusable bottles increased as much as 30 percent in some stores in the months after the campaign.

The campaign also attracted the attention of Brita, which called Nalgene to suggest a partnership. The two companies came up with Filterforgood.com, a Web site that in many ways emulates the Nalgene campaign: it includes an online pledge, it sells reusable bottles with the campaign logo for $10 and it promises to donate 40 percent of proceeds, up to $25,000, to the Blue Planet Run Foundation, a water-centered nonprofit group.

“We wanted to create a badge that people can carry to show they are reducing their impact on the planet,” Mr. McGowan said.

Procter is taking a different tack. It has long promoted PUR systems as saving consumers hundreds of dollars a year. Lately, it has added in-store displays that describe how using PUR filters can “save the environmental impact of 3,200 16-ounce bottles of water,” Mr. O’Brien said. And it is including free refillable bottles, made to fit in a car’s cup holder, with many of its filter systems.

“The consumer’s mind is wide open right now, and they are looking at water as a way to reduce their environmental footprint,” he said.

Few of the companies are using mass-market advertising to promote the environmental link to filters. They do not have to. Environmentalists, scientists and journalists are doing it for them.

In July, the magazine Fast Company ran a lengthy piece about the downside of bottled water that spurred a flurry of blog items and articles. Environmentalists’ phones began ringing.

“We were doing nonstop interviews, and, of course, we stressed water filters as one of the solutions,” said Jon S. Coifman, media director for the Natural Resources Defense Council.

Consumers clamored for more information. Searches for the phrase “bottled water” on the group’s Web site increased 155 percent in April through September compared with the period in 2006. Visits to its online Consumer Guide to Water Filters doubled.

Similarly, Food and Water Watch, a consumer advocacy group, said traffic to the bottled water section of its Web site soared this summer. So it is now using the bottled water discussion to woo consumers back to their taps.

“If they don’t like the taste, or worry about something that’s in the water, we recommend they get a filtration system,” said Wenonah Hauter, the group’s executive director. Food and Water Watch also plans to work with municipal water systems to distribute reusable bottles that display a heart and that city’s name — for example, “I Heart New York Water,” reminiscent of the old “I Heart New York” campaign.

Even museums are joining in. Last month, to promote an exhibition called “Water: H20 = Life” that opened Nov. 3, the American Museum of Natural History sent journalists a list of Water Facts on Tap. It detailed the financial and environmental toll exacted by bottled water — and noted that about 40 percent of bottled water sold in the United States is just filtered tap water.

Filter companies also see vast potential for overseas sales. In India, for example, contaminated water supplies have created a booming market for bottled water. So General Electric, which is registering double-digit growth in home filtration systems in the United States, is putting up water kiosks at Indian train stations, where people can fill their own bottles with filtered water for a few rupees per liter.

“My gut tells me that in the U.S., it’s water quality issues, more than environmental ones, that are driving sales,” said Jeffrey J. Fulgham, chief marketing officer for GE Water and Process Technologies, which also sells systems to bottled water companies. In India, though, “the big driver is cost,” Mr. Fulgham said. “And bottled water certainly costs more than a few rupees.”
237 2007-11-10 “If they want to be president of the United States, they should have informed themselves,” he said in an interview in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. While not questioning his opponents’ patriotism, he said: “Giuliani could have informed himself by remaining on the Iraq Study Group. Some people tell me that he was fired. Some people tell me that he withdrew. Whatever it is, he didn’t show much interest in a war where young Americans are fighting and dying.”

More than any Republican candidate, Mr. McCain has been an outspoken supporter of the war. While that appeared for much of the year to be a problem for him as the public grew increasingly disenchanted with the lack of progress in stabilizing Iraq, he is casting the glimmers of improvement there as a vindication and a selling point as he tries to get his campaign back on track.

A poll by CBS News last month found that 33 percent of Americans believed the troop increase was making the situation better in Iraq, with 41 percent saying it had made no difference and 13 percent saying it had made things worse.

Mr. McCain said that he did not know if Americans would be receptive to his view on the war, and that his unstinting support for the invasion might have cost him the support of many of the independent voters who helped propel his campaign in 2000.

But he said that just as he had taken blame for the failures of the war, he would ask voters to recognize where he deserves credit.

When Senator Sam Brownback, the Kansas Republican who recently ended his own bid for the presidential nomination and who had initially opposed the troop increase, endorsed Mr. McCain in Iowa on Wednesday, he said he had been wrong and Mr. McCain right. He even referred to the stepped-up effort as the “McCain surge.”

But in highlighting the successes of the surge, Mr. McCain is walking a fine line, since Iraq has more often than not served as a graveyard for optimism.

When Mr. McCain visited a Baghdad market in April, he was accused of painting an overly sunny description of the area’s safety, failing to note that he had been guarded by more than 100 soldiers in armored Humvees.

Mr. McCain said he regretted how his poorly worded comments seemed to underplay the difficulties of the war. Now he is usually careful to highlight the challenges that remain in Iraq, specifically citing the problems with the country’s government and a corrupt police force.

“I know and you know how frustrated and saddened Americans are about this war,” Mr. McCain said in Iowa. He said the war “was terribly mishandled for nearly four years” by Mr. Bush and former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.

When Mr. McCain’s wife, Cindy, joined him recently in South Carolina, she told voters that they have one son, a marine, overseas, and another at the United States Naval Academy.

Mr. McCain said he started to realize America was off course on a trip to Basra in the summer of 2003, when a British colonel warned him that the situation, unchanged, was headed for disaster. He said that when he raised those concerns with Mr. Rumsfeld, he was ignored.

In November 2004, Mr. McCain delivered a detailed speech to the Council on Foreign Relations in which he blasted the administration and critics of the war. “Simply put, there does not appear to be a strategy behind our current force levels in Iraq other than to preserve the illusion that we have sufficient forces in place to meet our objectives,” he said.

But he campaigned for Mr. Bush in 2004, and even as Mr. McCain pushed for changes, he also often talked about progress.

Other Republican candidates have said much less on Iraq, and their campaigns rejected Mr. McCain’s assertions that they had fallen short in their approaches.

Adm. Robert J. Natter, an adviser to Mr. Giuliani, said: “I assume that Senator McCain’s emotions got the better of him. To even suggest Mayor Giuliani does not care about our servicemen and women serving and dying overseas is an example of letting politics come before thoughtful commentary on matters of national security.”

Mr. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, has said he withdrew from the Iraq Study Group because he was considering running for president and did not want to interject partisan politics into the process. But he also missed several meetings before he withdrew, giving lucrative speeches on some meeting days.

A search of archived news articles and transcripts from 2003 through fall 2006 turned up no reports of his calling for a change of course in military strategy in Iraq. Nor could his campaign point to any public statements on the issue. When he introduced his “12 Commitments” this summer, which he said represented America’s most important challenges, there was no mention of Iraq.

Mr. Giuliani rarely speaks in detail of mistakes made in the war. In fact, he has said repeatedly that “we focus too much on Iraq,” obscuring the broader “terrorists’ war against us.”

Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, went to Iraq for a day in May 2006, just months after the bombing of a golden-domed shrine in Samarra set off sectarian killing that was still sweeping the country. “I am not engaging in Monday morning quarterbacking,” Mr. Romney told The Boston Globe. “I supported the war, as did Congress and many Democrats. We have learned some lessons about the period immediately following major conflict. I believe we are doing the right thing.”

Aside from mentioning “problems” in Iraq, he did not push for a change of course. In September 2006, as the surge was being considered, Mr. Romney said, “My inclination would be more boots on the ground, not less.”

A spokesman, Kevin Madden, said, “Governor Romney is not interested in the idea of claiming credit for being the first to criticize.” He added, “Governor Romney is interested in showing the kind of leadership it takes to deliver solutions and attain results.”

Mr. Thompson, a Tennessean who voted in 2002 to authorize the war just months before leaving the Senate, said little in public about war strategy in later years.

“Despite retiring from the Senate in 2002, Fred Thompson has never hesitated from openly and honestly assessing the situation in Iraq,” said Todd Harris, a spokesman for the campaign.
238 2007-11-10 Israel has declared Gaza a “hostile entity” and is moving to reduce its supplies of energy to the territory, while maintaining imports of essentials for life, hoping to put economic pressure on Hamas to stop constant rocket attacks from Gaza into Israel. Gaza is thus isolated diplomatically and economically.

According to the United Nations, an average of 74 truckloads of goods a day entered Gaza in October, down from 253 truckloads a day in April. The consequences have meant a shrinking economy coupled with a severe increase in prices even for basic foodstuffs like flour, cooking oil and chicken.

The average income of nonrefugees in Gaza has dropped 22 percent since June and 70 percent of them are now existing on less than $1.20 a day, compared with 55 percent in June, according to the World Food Program.

Since June, wheat prices have increased 40 percent, bread prices 20 percent and rice 15 percent. But because of the inability to export, the prices of vegetables have fallen 30 percent or more, further undermining the agricultural sector.

“Israel won’t allow a humanitarian crisis,” said Miri Eisin, spokeswoman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. “But Hamas forcibly took over Gaza, and they are the rulers now, and we don’t have to work after a violent takeover with people who attack us every day.”

Asked if she understood Israeli policy, Ms. Ashour said: “Yes, I do understand. Maybe if I were in their place I would do the same thing. But my family is clean. I’m not a hazard to anyone.”

Ghassan Matar, 25, is a Fulbright scholar who has had to delay his studies in business information systems at Central Michigan University. “No such field of studies exists in Gaza,” he said. “My dream is to focus on outsourcing in software, so I can invest in Gaza’s human resources. Such a field can flourish even if the crossings are closed.”

But Mr. Matar, who was supposed to start school on Aug. 27, is stuck in Gaza. The university, he said, has agreed to let him begin in the spring semester, in January. “I’m afraid to lose this chance,” he said. “I’ve worked two years to get this scholarship.” He describes himself as apolitical. “I blame all the parties,” he said.

The issue of the students has embarrassed the Israeli government, which is facing lawsuits and bad publicity for denying ordinary Gazans the chance to study in the West.

Christopher Gunness, a spokesman for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, dealing with Palestinian refugees, said, “It cannot be in Israel’s interest to shrink the intellectual space in which peace and moderation can grow in Gaza.”

He added: “The next generation must have a decent education, both as a bridge from this shut-down Gaza and over which different values can find their way in. We all need to step back and look at the bigger picture. Isolation risks driving the younger generation into the hands of the radicals.”

Mark Regev, a spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Ministry, said that Hamas mortars had complicated the exit of students and the infirm, but that the government wanted to solve the student issue. “We don’t want to keep students locked up inside Gaza,” Mr. Regev said. “It’s kind of a self-inflicted wound. We hope to have a solution shortly.”

Shlomo Dror, a spokesman for the army’s coordinating office that deals with Gaza, said the issue was complicated. The Erez crossing into Israel was problematic, in part because Jordan did not want to handle hundreds of students, he said, followed by as many as 4,000 people seeking medical attention abroad.

An earlier effort to bus Gazans through Erez to Nitzana into Egypt was dangerous and long, he said, so now Israel wants to use Kerem Shalom. But Hamas regularly mortars it, and the airport authority that ran it removed security equipment when it was shut. “We’re trying to find a way to get them out with a high level of security,” Mr. Dror said. “If Hamas stops attacking Kerem Shalom, we can move out several hundred people a day.”

But the problems of the students can seem minor compared to other restrictions. Marwan Sawafiri, 40, who runs the Sawafiri for Chicken shop in Gaza City, said the price of chicken has risen about 40 percent since the end of Ramadan in mid-October, when Israel stopped allowing special shipments for the holiday.

Gazans raise chickens, he said. But the chickens are hatched from fertilized eggs imported from Israel, and fed with Israeli chicken feed. “Now we get many fewer imports, so the prices go up,” he said.

Coca-Cola and packaged fruit juice have disappeared from shops, and a printer cartridge costs $60. Even the price of flour, considered a necessity by Israel, has gone up 40 percent, said Muhammad Hassouna, 30, who runs his family’s grocery.

Hamad Dahdar, 25, the chief butcher at a clean but nearly empty meat shop, has been told that he can work only 20 days a month, to save other jobs. His income has gone down by a third, to $200 a month, “and you can see, we’re just standing around,” he said.

Stewing beef has gone up a third in price, “and people who once bought a kilo buy only a half,” he said. Beef and lamb are also imported through Israel and quantities are down. But taxes are not. The Hamas administration in Gaza, cut off by the Fatah-appointed government in Ramallah, is taxing imports, from cigarettes to beef. “Now we have two governments,” Mr. Dahdar said. “And both of them want to collect taxes.”
239 2007-11-10 ROCHESTER, Nov. 9 — It was to have been a day of celebration at the Rochester Institute of Technology. Instead it was a day of mourning for two seniors who died in an early morning fire on Friday after flames engulfed their off-campus house.

“This is, frankly, every parent’s nightmare,” said William W. Destler, who hours after the fatal fire was inaugurated as the ninth president in the university’s 178-year history. “You send your children to college to increase the chances that they’ll have a successful life, and you don’t expect them to not come home again.”

The two students who died in the fire were identified as Syed Ali Turab, 21, a communications major from New Milford, N.J., and Seth Policzer, 21, a computer engineering student from Parkland, Fla. A third student, Michael DiCocco, 21, a senior industrial design student from Canastota in central New York who was rescued from a second-floor window, was seriously injured in the blaze. Three other students escaped unharmed, the authorities said.

The light green house is about 12 miles from campus, in a neighborhood of century-old colonials where musicians, artists and college students live.

“It’s a neighborhood where there’s some partying — not crazy partying, but when we heard screaming, it sounded like party screaming at first,” said Aaron Boucher, 34, a drummer who owns the house next door and called in the fire at 2:39 a.m. “I ran over here, and there were flames shooting 10 feet out the windows. I’m barefoot in my underwear, and I’m screaming.”
240 2007-11-10 The ideas and sometimes the actors ricochet around the stage with such energy and scattershot purpose in Adam Rapp’s “Bingo With the Indians” that they might be in a pinball machine. A dark comedy that starts with a sitcom premise and finally invokes questions about the meaning of life, the play spins out of control, but that forgivable chaos comes from a writer who hasn’t reined in his overabundance of ideas.

The entire play is set in a shabby New England motel where three members of a New York theater group have arrived with a scheme: They’ll steal the cash box from the local church bingo (it happens to be Indian night) and use the money to rent a performance space back home. The personalities and sexuality of these three are set up through strained, supposedly comic name calling, but the information turns out to be relevant. Dee, the lesbian director who feels persecuted because she is underappreciated as an artist, sits at a table cleaning a gun and barking orders; Wilson, a gay, deadpan would-be playwright, sits on the bed in a black bobbed wig reading “The Da Vinci Code”; Stash is a hyperactive actor with the attitude and mustache of a 1970s X-rated-film star.

The plot deepens with the arrival of Steve, a naïve young man whose parents own the motel. Steve is already seduced by the idea of theater, an ambition Wilson ruthlessly uses to attempt a physical seduction. As Mr. Rapp loads on ever-darkening ideas — Steve’s sister has died in a car accident, and his grieving mother shows up in the room too — the veering tone echoes an acting exercise that Steve and Wilson do called Smile/Unsmile (one person holds a smile until the other says to stop). But the theatrical theme remains central. As Steve reads a scene Wilson wrote, assuming the mask of a fictional character paradoxically allows him to confront reality.

“Bingo With the Indians” explores themes that run through other Rapp plays (most prominently, “Red Light Winter”; most recently, “American Sligo”): how far people will go to get what they want; how they face desires they barely knew they had; how grief seeps to the surface, and pent-up rage explodes.

The Bats, the Flea’s resident company of young actors, tackle the material fearlessly. (There is nudity and simulated sex, but anyone attracted to Mr. Rapp’s plays is not likely to be shocked.) Evan Enderle is especially good as Steve, his shoulders hunched, his hair falling in his eyes, but desperate to escape his narrow life. Rob Yang is funny and then coldly scary as Wilson, and Missel Leddington is touching as Steve’s mother. Jessica Pohly as Dee, and Corinne Donly as a woman she picks up at the bingo game have less to do.

Cooper Daniels is way over the top as Stash, especially when he delivers a coke-infused rant that has him spouting the final lines of “The Three Sisters.” (“If only we knew. ...” ) But Mr. Rapp, who directed his own play, is as responsible for that as the actor.

Mr. Rapp also has unresolved staging problems with the Flea’s small downstairs space, which actually has the rectangular shape of a pinball machine. I couldn’t see into the motel bathroom, but people with worse seats couldn’t have seen the actors’ faces so well.
241 2007-11-10 Ibrahim Gambari, the United Nations envoy who ended a six-day mission to the country on Thursday, said the government and its political opponents had agreed on a “process” that would “lead to substantive dialogue.”

But it is a reflection of the glacial pace of change in Myanmar that allowing Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi to meet with her colleagues passes for progress.

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, 62, who has been held under house arrest on and off since 1990, said in a statement released by the United Nations late Thursday that she was willing to “cooperate” with the government in the “interest of the nation.”

She said she would represent “as broad a range of political organizations and forces as possible,” not just her party.

This may be out of necessity, analysts say. The National League for Democracy, which won the 1990 elections that were ignored by the military, has been reduced to a skeletal party after many of its leaders were harassed, jailed or fled the country.

“She’s got a pretty weak hand,” said Sean Turnell, a specialist on Myanmar at Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia. “So many people have been arrested, she’s isolated, she’s been imprisoned for 19 years, her husband has died, her children have grown up without her. That’s got to wear you down.”

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi has been called to negotiate with the generals several times over the past 17 years. None of the talks have persuaded the government to begin relinquishing control.

So far there is little to suggest that these negotiations are different, said Win Min, a lecturer in contemporary Burmese politics at Payap University in the northern Thai city of Chiang Mai.

“They are just making procedural concessions,” Mr. Win Min said.

But he noted that the junta had stopped dismissing her as “irrelevant” in state media, the word used to describe her for years.

Anger over the crackdown may have also led to cracks within the government, especially among younger officers in the military. Mr. Win Min said he had heard reports of lenient treatment from recently released leaders of the September demonstrations.

“They thought they would be very hurt,” he said of the released dissidents. Instead, he said, the officers told them: “We are just doing our jobs. We are not going to torture you.”
242 2007-11-10 The commission’s conclusion that the cable industry has grown too large will be used to justify a raft of new cable television rules and proposals. They include a cap that would prevent the nation’s largest cable company, Comcast Corporation, from growing, and would prevent other large cable companies, like Time Warner, from making any new large cable acquisitions.

The decision comes as Mr. Martin is about to formally announce his plan to relax a different media ownership rule. That rule has restricted a company from owning a newspaper and a television or radio station in the same community.

How dominant the cable industry is has been a matter of dispute. The largest cable companies say they are under increasing competition from the satellite and telephone companies. But commission officials and consumer groups say that the large cable companies dominate the marketplace. They cite as evidence the fact that cable rates have risen significantly faster than inflation.

Next week, Mr. Martin is expected to formally propose that the newspaper and broadcast cross-ownership restriction be relaxed in the nation’s largest cities if the television station is not one of the largest in the community. He has told officials that he hopes to complete action on that rule in December.

The cable finding suggests that Mr. Martin is not approaching the media ownership debate with a uniform deregulatory approach — as his predecessor did — but is instead taking a more nuanced approach and intervening in one market, cable television, even as he tries to loosen the rules for other media conglomerates.

In the cable proceeding, senior commission officials said that this month the agency would announce as part of its annual report on the state of the video services market that it has broad new regulatory authority over the cable industry under the so-called 70/70 rule of the Cable Communications Act of 1984.

Under that provision, the agency may adopt rules necessary to promote “diversity of information sources” once the commission concludes that cable television is available to at least 70 percent of American households, and at least 70 percent of those households actually subscribe to a cable service.

Officials and consumer groups said that the 70/70 cable television finding would provide the legal basis for the commission to adopt rules in the coming weeks and months aimed at increasing programming and reducing rates for consumers.

The consumer groups and networks that are independent of the cable companies have long maintained there is no adequate process for the commission to sort complaints when a cable company refuses to carry programs.

The commission is preparing to take steps to make it less expensive for rivals of the largest cable conglomerates to buy their programs — so that, for instance, a satellite company would find it less expensive to buy programs by the Turner Broadcasting System, a unit of Time Warner.

One of the proposals under consideration by the commission would force the largest cable networks to be offered to the rivals of the big cable companies on an individual, rather than packaged, basis. That proposal, known as “wholesale à la carte,” is vigorously opposed by the large cable companies.

The agency is also preparing to adopt a rule this month that would make it easier for independent programmers, which are often small operations, to lease access to cable channels.

And Mr. Martin has been circulating a plan that would use the finding on cable television dominance to set a cap on the size of the nation’s largest cable companies so that no company could control more than 30 percent of the market.

The limit would prevent Comcast from acquiring more cable companies and would significantly limit the growth of other large players, notably Time Warner. The commission’s previous cap on cable ownership was thrown out six years ago by a federal appeals panel that said the agency had not provided an adequate justification for the rule.

Immediate winners from the cable finding are independent program networks, like NFL Network and Hallmark Channel, that do not have business affiliations with the cable companies, the satellite television companies and the telephone companies that are seeking to compete by offering their own video services.

Consumer groups applauded the cable television decision, although some speculated that it could give Mr. Martin some political cover as he sets about taking other aspects of media control in a deregulatory direction. (The groups oppose the deregulation of other media ownership rules.)

“The 70/70 finding is enormous,” said Andrew Jay Schwartzman, president of the Media Access Project, an advocacy organization devoted to diversity of voices and ownership that has opposed consolidation in the media. “It gives the commission a blank check to regulate an industry that Congress had largely deregulated.” Fearing new regulation, the cable industry has lobbied the commission for years to challenge the method used to count the market.

Officials and lobbyists from the cable industry criticized the finding, saying that independent studies and the commission’s own analysis from last year have concluded that cable television, while available to far more than 70 percent of American households, is actually used by far less than 70 percent of those households. They also suggested that Mr. Martin had an overly expansive view of the rule, and that it could only be used in limited circumstances.

“Every independent analysis of the marketplace shows that cable serves less than 70 percent of the nation’s households,” said Kyle McSlarrow, the president and chief executive of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, the industry’s main trade group. “And even the F.C.C. staff concluded last year that cable was well short of this threshold.

“The provision itself is a relic of decades-old regulation and there is no basis for reviving it now,” Mr. McSlarrow added. “Twisting statistics in order to breathe life into this rule is simply another attempt to justify unnecessary government intrusion into a marketplace where competition is thriving and new technology is providing consumers more choices, better programming and exciting new interactive services.”

By contrast, consumer groups and phone companies have urged the commission to invoke the rule. They say it gives the commission broader authority than the cable industry has claimed.

“The finding will give the commission an arsenal of tools to limit discriminatory practices — notably exclusive dealing, tying arrangements and other relationships — if they harm the diversity of programming,” said Gene Kimmelman, vice president for federal affairs at Consumers Union and an outspoken critic of the cable television industry.

The commission’s finding and its expected new regulations are the latest moves by Mr. Martin against the cable industry’s largest players.

Mr. Martin has repeatedly criticized the companies for rapidly raising rates and providing many channels that few viewers watch. He also expressed alarm about the close business ties between the cable companies and many of the largest producers of programs.

And Mr. Martin has urged the companies to offer consumers more choices so that they do not have to pay for dozens of channels that they never watch.
243 2007-11-10 Clinical trials prove that Vioxx raises the risk of heart attacks, but linking its use to any one person’s problems is difficult, especially when the person had other risk factors like smoking.

More broadly, the case shows that after years of aggressively lobbying against trial lawyers, corporate America has regained substantial leverage against plaintiffs and their lawyers — whose lawsuits bankrupted Dow Corning and the asbestos industry in the 1990s. In many states, changes governing lawsuits have made claims tougher to bring and win, while much public opinion has turned against plaintiffs.

“The law governing class-actions has grown decidedly less favorable than it was,” said Peter Schuck, a professor at Yale Law School who specializes in complex litigation.

Merck said it was agreeing to a settlement now because the judges overseeing the cases had encouraged both sides to come to terms and because it wanted to stop spending $600 million a year on its defense.

Of course, what is good news for Merck may be less so for the patients who suffered heart attacks or strokes after taking Vioxx. Depending on how many claims are filed to the settlement fund, those people will receive payments averaging about $120,000 each before legal fees and expenses, which could swallow about 40 percent of their payments.

Plaintiffs are not required to accept the settlement. But under terms of the agreement their lawyers must encourage them to do so — and would not be allowed to represent those clients if they insisted on bringing their cases to court.

Besides Merck, the biggest winner in the case may be the plaintiffs’ lawyers. They will split nearly $2 billion in fees and expenses, although that figure is far lower than they initially hoped.

Dr. Eric Topol, a cardiologist who in 2001 was co-author of a paper in The Journal of the American Medical Association warning of the risks of Vioxx, said he believed that the payment amounted to little more than a slap on the wrist for Merck.

“I think they’ve gotten off quite easily, frankly, for the problems that they’ve engendered,” Dr. Topol said.

If Dr. Topol’s view is correct, Merck’s lawyers deserve much of the credit. In 2005, as it faced a public relations nightmare, Congressional hearings, angry doctors, a plunging stock price and tens of thousands of lawsuits, Merck could have opted to empty its corporate coffers for a quick settlement. Instead, said Benjamin Zipursky, a professor at Fordham Law School who has closely followed the case, the company chose to fight, despite the short-term public relations hit.

“They decided they would deal with it by taking a ‘no-holds-barred, we’re going to fight every case’ strategy.” Mr. Zipursky said, “What it looks like today is that’s a good strategy when you get in that situation.”

Lawyers for Merck and for plaintiffs said they had been working in secret on the agreement for almost a year. In December 2006, the judges in Louisiana, New Jersey and California who oversee the vast majority of the 27,000 federal and state lawsuits asked the sides to begin negotiating.

Progress toward a deal proceeded in fits and starts, with much of the negotiating taking place in Washington and New Orleans, said Christopher A. Seeger, who is on the committee of lawyers that represents all the plaintiffs’ lawyers who have sued Vioxx in federal court.

Douglas R. Marvin, a partner at Williams & Connolly, led the negotiations for Merck, while Russ M. Herman, a New Orleans plaintiffs’ lawyer and past president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, represented plaintiffs.

“At the beginning, nobody had any hope that it could turn into anything,” said Mr. Seeger, who represents about 2,500 Vioxx claimants and was part of the negotiations from the outset. At first, the sides met about once a week, but the pace of the talks quickened as the parties moved closer to a deal, he said.

Theodore V. H. Mayer, a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed, the law firm coordinating Merck’s defense, said the negotiations had been difficult, but moved steadily forward.

“This was from the beginning to the very end a very robust negotiation on both sides, very hard fought,” he said.

Befitting a deal between teams of lawyers, the final agreement is 70 pages long, with several appendixes.

Both sides had incentives to settle the case. Merck has won 8 of the last 10 cases to go to juries, the most recent in state court in Tampa, Fla.

But Merck has faced large verdicts in the cases it has lost, including a $253.5 million verdict in the first case, on behalf of Carol Ernst, whose husband, Robert, died after taking Vioxx for less than a year — although Texas laws on punitive damages reduced that amount to $26.1 million.

In addition, Merck’s legal spending could have risen next year with a new wave of trials scheduled. And the lawsuits were a distraction for Merck’s senior management team, although the company has successfully introduced several new products in the last two years.

Plaintiffs, meanwhile, faced uphill trial battles, as well as the possibility that the Supreme Court would rule in the current session, in a separate but potentially precedent-setting case, that federal law bars many of their state court claims.

But before Merck would agree to a settlement, it wanted certainty that its liability would be capped and it would not face an endless pool of claimants out of the 20 million Americans who had prescriptions for Vioxx during its five years on the market.

Wyeth, another drug company, agreed in 1999 to pay $3.75 billion to settle lawsuits over the fen-phen diet drug combination, which was linked to heart problems. But because Wyeth’s settlement did not contain the boundaries Merck has secured, Wyeth’s liability has soared to $21 billion as new claimants have emerged.

Under the Merck agreement, no matter how many people file claims, the company’s payout is capped at $4.85 billion.

But Merck does not expect large numbers of new claimants to emerge. In 42 states, plaintiffs have three years or less to file a claim against a person or company they think injured them. Merck withdrew Vioxx in September 2004, and lawyers for both sides say that statutes of limitations will effectively bar new claims.

Moreover, Merck can walk away from the agreement if more than 15 percent of all the claimants refuse to settle.

“It looks nearly airtight,” said Dr. Tim Anderson, an industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. “You’ll still have a residual tail of litigation that will continue for a long time, but that residual tail will be inconsequential to Merck.”

Several analysts issued reports on Friday saying that Merck appeared to have reached a favorable deal, though some warned that they would need to examine the details to be sure.

To receive settlements, plaintiffs will not be required to prove that Vioxx caused their heart attacks or strokes. But they, or their families, will have to provide evidence that they did suffer a heart attack or stroke, that the heart attack or stroke occurred less than 14 days after they last took Vioxx, and that they had taken Vioxx for at least 30 days. People who took Vioxx for longer, who had fewer other risk factors, and who suffered more severe problems will receive larger payments than people who meet only the minimum criteria.

Mr. Schuck, the Yale Law School professor, said Merck appeared to have used its victories in court to drive a hard and successful bargain with plaintiffs.

“It played hardball, and the nature of the settlement that was reached reflects that,” he said. “The predicted liabilities for them were much, much higher.”
244 2007-11-10 As oil prices surged over the last few months, natural gas prices in the United States did something that could help to cushion the economic shock. They fell.

A result is that those who heat their homes with natural gas — by far the dominant fuel in the United States — will see prices roughly in line with last winter’s. But for those who use heating oil, as many do in the Northeast, prices seem likely to be about 50 percent higher than they were last winter.

Oil and gas prices have never moved in lock step, in part because each has different users. But the bigger reason is that one is part of a global market and the other is not.

Tankers can move oil or refined products to anywhere from anywhere, and will do so if prices rise in one region relative to those in another. Growing demand for oil in Asia, as well as fears of instability in the Middle East, have helped to raise oil prices.

Natural gas, on the other hand, has limited worldwide transportation. The market for liquefied natural gas is growing, and is a significant part of energy planning in China and other countries. But there is little capacity to move L.N.G. out of the United States if prices here fail to keep up with those in other parts of the world, as they have this year. While some power plants can shift between oil and natural gas, most users cannot, no matter how much prices get out of line.
245 2007-11-10 Ana Melendez is a woman in mourning, though you wouldn’t immediately know it from her warm, gravelly laugh and sparkling eyes. But each day is a reminder that some of the most important people in her life are gone.

In 1998, her 2-year-old grandson Randy Gonzalez died after his mother’s companion knocked him off his bed to stop him from crying.

A year later, Ms. Melendez’s mother died. She lost her sister to cancer in 2001.

And in August, she lost one of her six children: her daughter Angie Monserrate died after a decade-long illness. She was 32.

“I’ve been through a lot,” Ms. Melendez, 50, said through a translator.

She moved to New York from Puerto Rico in 1985, just two weeks after losing a kidney that had been damaged by a kidney stone. She came for the superior medical care, but right after her arrival she got a job at a cookie factory in Brooklyn. However, she had to leave after a year because standing on her feet for hours caused her legs to swell. She has not worked since, as additional medical problems have piled up over the years.

“I have medication for my asthma, diabetes, depression and blood pressure,” she said, ticking off her maladies. “And now a kidney stone.”

When the time came to pay for her daughter’s funeral, Ms. Melendez was nearly $2,000 behind in rent, partly because it increased suddenly. Section 8 housing vouchers and a small allotment from Workfare pay most of her $1,004 monthly rent, leaving her with a $143 balance. But her sole source of income is the $616 a month she receives in Supplemental Security Income, coupled with $45 in public assistance for a dependent son, Michael, 17.
246 2007-11-10 That’s her diplomatic way of saying that the network is a rip-off, a 24-7 loop of reruns, analysis, hagiographic films — and, oh yes, eight (eight!) Thursday night games, which will begin on Thanksgiving and run to the end of the season. The eight games, which the N.F.L. took back a few years ago from the games it had sold to the networks, are the battering ram the league is using to beat down the cable companies.

So here we are, less than two weeks from Thanksgiving. The first NFL Network game of the season, the Colts against the Falcons, is nearly upon us. The cable companies are showing no signs of folding. And what is Jerry Jones doing? He’s running to the regulators and the politicians, just as he threatened to do when I spoke to him a month ago, claiming that the cable companies are abusing their power as gatekeepers of television content.

Legislators in four states so far have filed bills that would pretty much ensure that the N.F.L. gets its way. In Texas, Mr. Jones has been using the fact that two Cowboys games will be shown on the network to stir up all kinds of trouble. He’s calling on Cowboys fans all over the state to abandon Time Warner in favor of competitors like DirecTV. And he’s talking to sympathetic legislators, who have threatened to file bills favorable to the N.F.L., bills that are being written by lobbyists hired by the league. (The Texas Legislature, which meets every two years, is not in session now.)

And then there’s Washington, where the N.F.L. is backing a proposal that would insert the Federal Communications Commission into these kinds of disputes. The proposal probably would ensure that the NFL Network gains the “carriage” it is seeking; it would also wreak havoc on the workings of the market — and would be quite likely to raise cable bills a lot more than $1 per subscriber. This, apparently, is what happens when you say no to the National Football League.

Big cable companies have power; there’s no disputing that. Yes, the Internet may someday render their business model irrelevant, but that day is a long way off. For now, for a television station to have wide distribution — which every station wants — it must persuade Big Cable to put it on either basic cable or basic digital. Even networks that have been around for a while and have decent distribution complain that cable companies are difficult to negotiate with, because the cable companies hold the trump card. If the negotiations break down, what are you going to do? Take your content away?

On the other hand, cable companies don’t have anywhere near the power they once did. First came the 1992 Cable Act, which made it illegal for cable companies to give their own channels — like CNN, which Time Warner owns, or the Golf Channel, which Comcast owns — a leg up over other stations. Then came the rise of satellite competition from DirecTV and EchoStar, the owner of DISH Network. More recently, even as Comcast and Time Warner have begun to offer broadband and phone service, the big phone companies like Verizon have rolled out television service.

One result of that new competition is that cable companies’ stocks have been hammered this year; Comcast, for instance, has dropped more than 30 percent just since the summer. But that’s hardly the only reason cable stocks have dropped. There are questions about capital spending, cable valuations and so on. Indeed, cable investors are notorious for blowing hot and cold.

The other result is that cable is simply not in a position to thumb its nose at programming that its satellite and telephony competitors can use to lure customers away. For instance, Comcast and Time Warner would love to have the Sunday Ticket package that the N.F.L. sells exclusively (for $750 million a year) to DirecTV. But they can’t have it: the N.F.L. doesn’t want Sunday Ticket — which includes every game being played every Sunday — on cable, for fear that it would disrupt the viewing habits of those who watch football on networks like ESPN and Fox, which are paying billions of dollars to the N.F.L.

But a measly eight games? That’s a different story. Ms. Witmer told me that when customers abandoned Time Warner for a competitor, the company conducted surveys to find out why they left. “We ask, ‘Are you leaving for the NFL Network?’” she said, adding that the number of people who responded “yes” was negligible. It seems self-evident that if the NFL Network were truly responsible for luring customers from Time Warner, the cable operators would fold like a cheap suit. Or rather it’s self-evident to everyone except those running the N.F.L. “I think you’re seeing people moving because of the NFL Network,” insisted Frank Hawkins, the league’s senior vice president for business affairs.

Of course, if Mr. Hawkins — and Jerry Jones — believed that, he would simply let the market sort this out. As satellite and telephony continued to make inroads, the cable companies would presumably sign up the network as a means of fighting back. Instead, the N.F.L. has chosen the path of the most craven capitalists: they’ve run to the feds, looking for special favors.

And they just might get what they want. Senior officials at the Federal Communications Commission said Friday that the agency is preparing to impose new regulations that would make life easier for independent programmers like the NFL Network.

Specifically, the NFL wants something people in the cable business are calling (apologies for mixing sports) “baseball-style arbitration.”

The idea actually came from the F.C.C. itself, which early last year ruled that the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network had the right to baseball-style arbitration with Comcast, which was acquiring part of the old Adelphia cable system, of which M.A.S.N. was a part. This was a big deal in Washington, because M.A.S.N. broadcasts Washington Nationals games. After the commission’s ruling, Comcast wound up negotiating a carriage deal with M.A.S.N.

Since then, independent networks have latched onto the idea as a way to force a better outcome in their negotiations with Big Cable — and they are pushing it hard at the F.C.C. How does this kind of arbitration work? In a baseball salary arbitration, the player comes up with one figure — say, $7 million. The team comes up with a counterproposal — say, $2 million. The arbitrator, however, cannot split the difference; he has to pick either $7 million or $2 million.

“I think it would work really well,” said Mr. Hawkins, the N.F.L. business officer. “We would have to really think about whether 70 cents is the right number, just as they would have to think about whether their number was the right number.” Just as in baseball, each side would have an enormous incentive to arrive at a realistic number; otherwise it would be likely to lose the arbitration.

On the surface, this approach has a certain appeal. With arbitration, independent cable networks would know that if they made a good enough case, they would not only be guaranteed carriage, but also would get a price they deemed fair. But do we really want the F.C.C. dispatching arbitrators every time a cable network wants more money? If they went down this path, nobody would be negotiating; they would just arbitrate. Why can’t Mr. Hawkins think hard about whether 70 cents is the right number now, without an arbitrator in the room?

Besides, think for a minute about what baseball-style arbitration did to, well, baseball. For a stretch of about 10 years, when arbitration was in vogue, it probably did more to ratchet up baseball salaries than any other factor. One favorable arbitrator award for a decent shortstop caused every shortstop to get a big raise. And because baseball executives feared losing arbitration judgments, they put in numbers — or negotiated deals to avoid arbitration — that were higher than they thought the market called for. Ultimately, baseball-style arbitration was great if you were a baseball player, but not great at all of you were a team owner — or, for that matter, a fan, who ultimately paid the freight. The same would probably happen to cable customers; they would be the ones who wound up paying the price.

When N.F.L. executives complain about Big Cable, they always try to cast the status quo as an example of the market gone awry. If cable didn’t have so much power; if cable weren’t so busy protecting its own stations; if cable only had more concern for its customers ...

But from where I’m sitting, it looks as if the market is working just fine. The NFL Network wants 70 cents per subscriber per month for eight games. The market is saying that is too much money for too little product. If you’re trying to sell something and nobody is buying, you have to drop the price. At least, that’s what real capitalists do.
247 2007-11-10 REFINERY FIRE   The Valero Energy Corporation, the biggest United States refiner, said its refinery in Port Arthur, Tex., was processing 185,000 barrels of oil a day, about 57 percent of capacity, after a fire early yesterday. Output is expected t...
248 2007-11-11 When Mississippi State defeated Alabama on Saturday, the Bulldogs became bowl eligible for the first time since 2000. After the victory, Sylvester Croom, the fourth-year Bulldogs coach, emphasized its importance. "In three hours, we changed the wa...
249 2007-11-11 Wachovia, it its 10-Q filed Friday, became the first money market fund sponsor that I have noticed to have to dip into its own assets to bail out its money market fund. Wachovia reports that during the third quarter it paid $1.1 billion to purchas...
250 2007-11-11 How Hillary Clinton should have answered in that debate....
251 2007-11-11 Wow. We're all over the Hollywood writers' strike today. Global warming could get an inferiority complex. No fewer than four articles, from Maureen Dowd's late-night comedy withdrawal pangs, to intimations of the death of TV in Op-Ed, to a writer'...
252 2007-11-11 The resurgent Bulldogs, who were 9-25 in Croom’s first three seasons, have won six games in a season for the first time since 2000.

Mississippi State beat then-No. 14 Kentucky two weeks ago, and the win over No. 21 Alabama made the Bulldogs 2-2 during a streak of four consecutive games against ranked opponents.

Alabama (6-4, 4-3) and first-year coach Nick Saban have lost two straight. The Bulldogs limited Alabama to four field goals by Leigh Tiffin.

Croom was hired by Mississippi State four years ago, making him the first black head coach in SEC history, but he inherited a team on N.C.A.A. probation.

This year, the team could play in a bowl.

“For some of these guys, they did not have to come here, but they did because they wanted to build a championship program for this state,” Croom said. “In three hours, we changed the way people look at this program across the nation.”

Titus Brown, like Croom a Tuscaloosa native, ended the game with a sack as Alabama edged into Mississippi State territory in the final seconds.

“It means a lot, and it really says a lot about this program,” Brown said. “We can compete with anyone in the conference, and these guys come out to work every day. I’m glad to see the hard work finally paid off.”

John Parker Wilson threw for a season-low 121 yards and two interceptions. He rarely found receivers open and often had to throw the ball away under pressure in the second half, completing 16 of 34 passes.

Alabama ran for 153 yards, with top tailback Terry Grant getting 75.

With first-and-goal from the 3 and 34 seconds left on Saturday, it appeared the Alabama offense would finally score a touchdown against Mississippi State. But the Bulldogs swarmed Grant twice, and on third down Wilson was hit by Brown as he threw. Johnson intercepted the pass and raced down the left sideline with just an offensive lineman to beat as a school-record crowd of 56,188 howled in delight. The return gave the Bulldogs a 10-9 halftime lead.

“We messed the game up at the very end of the first half,” Saban said. “That was a critical turnover right there before the half and cost us probably a 10- or 14-point swing.”
253 2007-11-11 No. 5 Georgetown and its star center, Roy Hibbert, started slowly before Hibbert came alive to finish with 23 points and 8 rebounds in a 68-53 victory over William & Mary yesterday in Washington.William & Mary led for long stretches in the first half, by as many as 5 points, but Georgetown pulled away late. The Hoyas (1-0) held their first double-digit lead when Jonathan Wallace’s 3-pointer with under four and a half minutes left increased their lead to 58-48.Laimis Kisielius led William & Mary (0-1) with 16 points, all in the first half.
254 2007-11-11 The stock market declined sharply last week, and technology stocks, which had bolstered the market for weeks, fell into a swoon.

The toll of the months-long credit crunch mounted, as financial companies, including Wachovia, Morgan Stanley and the American International Group, took new write-downs.

Congressional testimony by Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, contributed to the gloom. Mr. Bernanke said that the economy was slowing, but that rising oil prices were stoking inflation — seeming to suggest that the Fed would not lower interest rates again soon.

Shares of Qualcomm, Apple, Google and Oracle all had deep losses.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 552.36 points, or 4.1 percent, to close at 13,042.74. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 55.95 points, or 3.7 percent, to close at 1,453.70. The Nasdaq composite index declined 182.44 points, or 6.5 percent, to close at 2,627.94.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.21 percent from 4.32 percent the previous week.
255 2007-11-11 Farmers use artificial bovine growth hormone to increase a cow’s milk production by a gallon or more a day. The federal government maintains that it is perfectly safe, but it remains illegal in many other countries and critics continue to question its safety. Regardless, many American consumers buy rBGH-free milk because they are uncomfortable with the idea of milk that comes from cows that have been shot full of artificial hormones and because it’s cheaper than organic milk, which, of course, doesn’t allow use of the artificial hormones. But the backlash against rBGH has unsettled its manufacturer, Monsanto, and the dairy farmers who have come to rely on it to raise production. They have spent more than a decade trying to persuade federal and state authorities to ban or restrict non-rBGH labels on the grounds that there is no difference in milk from cows that are treated with the hormone and those that are not.

They finally found an ally in Dennis Wolff, Pennsylvania’s agriculture secretary.

Late last month, Mr. Wolff announced a crackdown on “absence labeling” on milk, meaning labels that tell consumers what isn’t in a product rather than what is.

He argues that “hormone free” labels are misleading because cows produce hormones naturally. Even labels that are more carefully worded, such as “contains no artificial hormones” will soon be verboten in Pennsylvania because Mr. Wolff said that there were no scientific tests to prove the truth of such a claim.

His ban also extends to phrases like “pesticide free” and “antibiotic free,” which he maintains are confusing for consumers because they suggest that milk without those labels contains pesticides or antibiotics. In fact, he said, processed milk is tested repeatedly in Pennsylvania to make sure that it doesn’t contain those substances.

“It confuses them,” he said. “It seems to imply there is a safe, nonsafe dimension.”

A former dairy farmer, Mr. Wolff said he decided to look into the issue after he received calls from farmers complaining that they were being forced to stop using bovine growth hormone if they wanted to continue selling their milk to certain dairies. He also said his office had received many calls from confused consumers.

Mr. Wolff’s office could not provide surveys or research showing that consumers were confused by the issue, and was unable to come up with even one name of a consumer who had complained.

The Ohio Department of Agriculture held a hearing on the milk labeling issue last week, though no decision has been made.

The proliferation of labels making health claims on food is clearly a source of confusion to consumers. And governments can play a useful role in making sure that the labels are accurate. But Mr. Wolff’s edict doesn’t have anything to do with helping consumers. Otherwise, he would have tried to refine the labels or create a system for verifying dairy farmers’ claims (a process for which the Food and Drug Administration issued guidelines — in 1994).

Rather, Mr. Wolff is bucking consumer demand, which will benefit Monsanto and a bunch of whiny dairy farmers. Monsanto certainly doesn’t need his help. On Thursday, the company told investors that its gross profits should double in the next five years. And I find it hard to muster sympathy for farmers who refuse to change to meet consumer demands. Most businesses certainly don’t have that luxury.

It’s harder still to find much merit in Mr. Wolff’s arguments for the labeling ban.

He defends the labeling decision by arguing that the non-rBGH labels can’t be verified by scientific testing because there is no difference between milk from cows that has been treated with bovine growth hormone and those that have not. But the same argument could be made about organic milk.

He also argues that absence labels such as “no artificial hormones” suggest that products without those labels are inferior. So what? As long as the claim is accurate, isn’t the point of labels to differentiate one product from another?

Using Mr. Wolff’s reasoning, you could argue that organic labels on milk are unfair because they suggest that non-organic food is inferior. The same goes for labels for “natural,” “from grass-fed cows” and “locally produced.”

But here Mr. Wolff contradicts his own argument. There are exceptions to his rule, for what he describes as “puff” claims like “farm fresh” and “locally produced.”

Isn’t he saying that milk produced in New Jersey is inferior? And how do you scientifically prove it’s from Pennsylvania anyway?

TODD RUTTER, president of Rutter’s Dairy in York, Pa., said he was particularly incensed that he learned about the new standards the day after the decision was made, when he was called by reporters. Mr. Rutter’s dairy began labeling its milk as having “no artificial growth hormones” on Oct. 1, using labeling guidelines from the F.D.A. He said his label was reviewed and approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture last summer.

“I’m not arguing that it may be bad for you, may not be bad for you,” he said. “We just feel that consumers, when given the choice, for the same price point, will always choose a product that they believe is the most naturally produced available.”

Leslie Zuck, executive director of Pennsylvania Certified Organic, said she, too, was disappointed with the ruling. But she offers a sensible compromise. Instead of banning the labels, why couldn’t dairy farmers who use the artificial growth hormone use their own labels?

Ms. Zuck suggests this: “We use rBGH and it’s great stuff!”
256 2007-11-11 AT first glance, Crocs and Coach might not appear to have much in common. One is known for its plastic clogs that, while comfortable, will never be beloved by the arbiters of style. The other is famous for deluxe leather handbags that command both high prices and respect from tony consumers.

But when it comes to their shares, Crocs and Coach have been treading a similar path in recent weeks, with both falling sharply after disappointing Wall Street when they announced their latest earnings. The trajectory of Crocs has been especially sharp, plunging 50 percent since the end of October after more than tripling this year. That’s not the only similarity; in both cases, the drop was preceded by heavy selling among corporate officers and directors, including top executives. At Crocs, insiders dumped more than $176 million worth of their shares this year while Coach officers sold $57.2 million.

The last sale by Keith D. Monda, Coach’s president and chief operating officer, took place Sept. 19, when he unloaded 50,000 shares at $50.64, netting $2.5 million. Within weeks, as worries mounted about the entire retail sector, Coach warned that it was “concerned with recent traffic trends in our North American retail stores,” and analysts cut their earnings estimates. By last week, Coach shares were trading at $32.58.

Heavy selling by insiders before a stock swoons doesn’t necessarily mean they knew something before the rest of us found out the hard way — after all, selling (or buying) based on nonpublic information is illegal. Coach says the sales were part of routine dispositions by corporate officers who naturally want to diversify their holdings. A spokeswoman for Crocs declined to comment for this article.

The selling was hardly a secret: it was disclosed as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Before the plunge, two Web sites, Seeking Alpha and Motley Fool, both wrote about the insider selling at Crocs. And Crocs has been a favorite of short sellers — investors betting on a drop in the stock. They think that Crocs could emulate other companies whose products exploded in popularity — like Boston Chicken and Krispy Kreme — but eventually faded.
257 2007-11-11 Parents of my generation were taught to remove pain and failure from our lives. “No, you can’t hang upside down on the monkey bars,” and “Yes, everyone gets a trophy.” These are the ideas that guided our lives.

Eliminate risk even at the expense of fun and experience. Failure is wrong, and showing up is the same as winning.

What results is a group of kids who graduate from high school and are afraid to take the risks required to succeed because there is a high possibility of failure.

It’s not that breaking your arm while racing your friend down his stairs on mattresses inherently makes you a stronger person. It’s that the experience teaches you how to stop it from happening again.

Childhood is the time to be cut and scraped and to make mistakes, because it is then that you learn how to handle obstacles and adversity for later in your life when you have no one to bail you out.
258 2007-11-11 TerraPass has sold 80,000 offsets so far this year, compared with 20,000 at this time last year. In the last 18 months, the number of people who used The CarbonNeutral Company’s Web site to buy offsets to counter the carbon from airplane flights increased by a multiple of 10.

Offsets aim to provide a ton-for-ton trade of carbon or carbon-equivalents. Carbon dioxide isn’t the only heat-trapping pollutant in the atmosphere, so the warming potential of other greenhouse gases is converted into carbon equivalents for the purpose of trading.

Most vendors provide online calculators so buyers can determine their emissions, or they can just pick the national average, which is about 20 tons a year per person, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. Offset prices, set by the retailer, generally run $2.50 to $20 a ton.

Money spent on offsets goes to projects that will remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, avoid their production altogether or destroy them before they are released.

Projects include those that focus on renewable energy, like wind and solar; reforestation; methane capture, which takes methane emitted from the waste of cows or landfills and turns it into electricity or destroys it; and the retiring of carbon credits.

Carbon credits, which are bought and sold in the United States on the Chicago Climate Exchange, represent the right of companies to emit a certain amount of greenhouse gases. Companies that need to increase their emissions must buy credits from those who have reduced theirs. Consumers buy those credits and retire them, preventing companies from using them to pollute.

Erik Blachford, chief executive of TerraPass, said climate change is an “all-hands-on-deck crisis; we need the private sector’s resources and business experience to effectively engage consumers on the scale necessary to address the problem.”

An online survey of more than 2,000 TerraPass customers in June found that 64 percent use compact fluorescent bulbs, 16 percent drive hybrid cars and half have contacted a government representative about climate change.

Jeffrey Potter is typical. He is 38 and works for an environmental group in Madison, Wis. He and his wife, Annie, a teacher, are expecting their first child this spring. A year ago, they bought carbon offsets from the Bonneville Environmental Foundation for about $150 to offset the estimated yearly carbon emissions from their Subaru wagon.

“It’s an easy thing to do and it’s affordable,” Mr. Potter said, “but it only makes sense if it’s part of a broader strategy to reduce your greenhouse emissions.”

Critics of carbon offsets say consumers are simply buying their way out of having to make meaningful reductions in energy consumption. “It doesn’t make sense to buy offsets for your Hummer,” said Dale Byrk, a senior attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council in Washington. It would make more sense to reduce energy consumption by not driving a Hummer in the first place, she said.

Kevin Smith, a researcher at Carbon Trade Watch, which provides research on greenhouse gas trading, and author of a report called “The Carbon Neutral Myth,” said offsets “take people’s impulse to do something about climate change and commodify it.”

“The message is, ‘Give us your money and we’ll deal with the problem,’ when real responses to climate change involve people being active in their communities, using political pressure and making changes themselves,” he added.

Another problem is a lack of objective standards to use in making purchasing decisions. “There is no Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval in this market,” Ms. Byrk said, “so the onus is on the buyer to make sure they are purchasing a legitimate offset.

Many retailers use independent verifying companies to ensure that promised carbon reductions are occurring. TerraPass, for example, uses Green-e, a nonprofit independent certification and verification program, as well as SES Inc. and First Environment, both of which are recognized as approved offset project verifiers by the Chicago Climate Exchange.

For guidance, buyers can turn to the Web site of Environmental Defense, a nonprofit advocacy group based in New York. The site lists approved offset projects, rather than screened retailers, because offsets within a retailer’s portfolio can vary in quality.

ENVIRONMENTAL experts say that however imperfect, offsets are an important part of the overall plan to reduce greenhouse gases.

“The easy way out is to do nothing,” said Eric Carlson, executive director of the offset retailer Carbonfund.org. “Carbon offsets are a self-imposed tax, which gives you the financial incentive to reduce your emissions as much as economically feasible.”

Offsets don’t necessarily have to involve an either/or debate, said Ron Luhur, a carbon markets specialist at Environmental Defense. “At Thanksgiving, for someone who has to get on the plane to see Grandma across the country, they can’t escape those emissions,” he said. “If you want to be doing everything you can, you want to offset those — because it’s certainly better than doing nothing.”
259 2007-11-11 Suddenly, the sun is back. In the 1970s, during the energy crisis, its popularity as an energy source was on the rise. But then oil prices dropped, consumers no longer felt shock at the gas pump, and the sun lost its sheen as a power-harnesser. Solar panels across the nation fell into disuse and started to seem quaint.

Now, oil prices are rising, and along with them a renewed awareness that the oil in the ground is finite and that greenhouse gas emissions are endangering the planet. More people are squinting up at the big, hot, pulsating sun and thinking: Look at all that energy up there!

Shipments of solar thermal collectors rose 29 percent from 2005 to 2006, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. Contributing to the growth was the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which offers new tax incentives for solar installations.

Look for more homes and businesses to make the solar leap, as long as the price of oil keeps rising.
260 2007-11-11 Melissa Lynn Grigorieff and Jonathan Garo Koomey are to be married today at the Main Post Chapel at the Presidio in San Francisco. The Rev. Dr. Caroline Litzenberger, an Episcopal priest, will perform the ceremony.

The bride, 39, is the vice president for marketing and investor relations at FibroGen, a biotechnology company in South San Francisco. She graduated from Yale and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.

She is the daughter of Maria Grigorieff and Paul Grigorieff of Winchester, Mass. Her parents are photographers and own their own studio there.

The bridegroom, 45, is a consulting associate professor in civil and environmental engineering at Stanford and a project scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif. He graduated cum laude from Harvard, and received both a master’s and a Ph.D. degree in energy and resources from the University of California, Berkeley.

His mother, Cynthia Chaffee of Huntington Station, N.Y., is a private piano teacher. His father, Richard Koomey of Stamford, Conn., who is retired, was a lawyer for the Howmet Corporation in Greenwich, Conn., at the time a division of Pechiney, the French aluminum producer.
261 2007-11-11 Five Connecticut environmental groups recently called on the state to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 80 percent by 2050. They promise a proposal in time for the next legislative session that would, if passed, impose mandatory caps on fossil fuel emissions to combat global warming.

This would be a good move, one more example of states’ taking on this important issue in the absence of aggressive federal policies.

The move is separate from Connecticut’s involvement in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, an agreement among a group of Northeastern states to cap and then reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants, using a market-based trading system. Power plants account for 25 percent of Connecticut’s greenhouse gas emissions.

But that leaves plenty of pollution to worry about — most notably from cars and trucks, which account for 35 percent of carbon emissions in the state, according to a report by the environmental groups, roughly their contribution to carbon emissions nationally.

Connecticut could do better if it tried. The Census Bureau’s American Community Survey paints a bleak picture of how little Connecticut commuters use mass transit, which is spotty or unavailable in large areas of the state. Of the state’s more than 1.3 million commuters, just under 70,000, or around 5 percent, take mass transit.

That’s a poor showing, considering that as many as 52,000 residents actually walk to work. More mass transit — a lot more — must be introduced into Connecticut if pollution is ever to be reduced substantially.
262 2007-11-11 At the market, I have had to wait in line to buy blueberries and organic lettuce. The sugar-sweet Sungold cherry tomatoes disappear quickly, and the crowd around the bicolor corn makes me think of blue-light specials at Kmart. But the tables of greens are as lonely as tall girls at a seventh-grade dance. I can only guess it’s because many people don’t know what to do with them.

To a transplanted Southerner — that would be me — the first and most important use that comes to mind for greens is gumbo. I grew up in Texas, raised by a family of Louisiana women who never let it be forgotten that they left their home state only in my grandfather’s search for oil. So gumbo appeared often on the menu in my parents’ house.

The origins of gumbo go back to the early 1700s in Louisiana, where French settlers were attempting to adapt bouillabaisse (fish stew) to the ingredients at hand. The native Choctaw Indians introduced sassafras, whose dried and ground leaves produce filé powder, and African slaves brought okra seeds and a technique of long, slow cooking in cast-iron pots. Spaniards, who took over the territory from the French, added more piquant spices and served the dish over rice.

The final piece of gumbo magic is cayenne pepper, brought into play first by Spanish-French Creoles fleeing slave revolts in the Caribbean, and made even more popular by a New Orleans banker named Edmund McIlhenny, who in the 1860s developed a process of crushing the peppers, aging the mash, blending it with vinegar and bottling the sauce under the name Tabasco.

With all that history in the development, there is, of course, nothing simple about making gumbo. The recipe I follow is a two-part effort: Stage 1 produces the base, a thick stew of vegetables and dark Cajun spiciness that gives the soup its unique flavor; in Stage 2, you add broth and your choice of seafood, sausage or poultry to turn that base into whatever kind of gumbo you prefer. Ladle the finished dish over rice with a sprinkling of filé powder, and voilà: gumbo. The soft olive-colored filé powder has the musty flavor of sage, with a bit more kick, and replaces okra as a thickening agent for the soup.

That’s right: no okra. Although the word gumbo in fact comes from a West African word for okra, it’s the one ingredient I don’t shop for. The Louisiana women in my family laced their gumbo liberally with okra, but even my Southern friends will debate the merits of okra’s slimy texture — an acquired taste, to be sure — so I give my New Jersey guests a break and cook my gumbo without it.

I make batches of the vegetable base once or twice a year and freeze it in small containers, as my recipe produces enough to feed about 50 people. In the same way that some cooks keep sourdough starter, I like to always have a stash of gumbo base in my freezer.

It used to be that just the shopping part was daunting, since my gumbo recipe suggests using six types of hearty greens. In fact, until the antioxidant craze hit New Jersey, I had to range far and wide for greens like the flat, meaty collards I regard as essential for gumbo — ingredients that are standard fare in Southern supermarkets. But New Jersey farmers’ markets, especially in October and November, overflow with green leafy vegetables: dark, two-toned beet greens and pale turnip greens; peppery arugula; curly, robust kale; bitter mustard greens; and my precious collards. Add to that a couple of shiny green peppers, fresh parsley, garlic, and a bunch of fat scallions, and I’m good to go.

When I have all the ingredients assembled, I take a deep breath and begin by making the roux, a tedious process that requires constant stirring of equal parts oil and flour in a cast-iron skillet for a half-hour or more. The author of my gumbo recipe is named, unaccountably, Crescent Dragonwagon. (Even as I pull her cookbook, “The Dairy Hollow House Soup and Bread,” off my shelf, visions of long, flowered skirts and ropy macramé wall hangings float through my head.)

Ms. Dragonwagon has the nerve to suggest that you can actually manage other recipe-related tasks while you periodically check the roux. I have a news flash for her: if I take my baby blues off that roux for even 10 seconds, what greets me on my return is an oily mess peppered with little black flakes of burned flour, and I have to throw the whole thing out and start over.

In classic French cooking, the roux is the thickening agent, but the roux called for in most of those recipes is a pale, wimpy mixture. Gumbo roux, on the other hand, must cook long enough for the flour to reach a dark mahogany shade whose toasted nutty flavor touches a spot deep in my soul, or at least as far down as my gallbladder. As it happens, the lengthy cooking process lessens the roux’s ability to thicken, which is why you need either okra or filé powder.

The only other major task is to ribbon all those greens. Ribboning — stacking several leaves on top of one another, and cutting them lengthwise into strips about 2 inches wide, then stacking the strips and slicing them crosswise into quarter-inch ribbons — is the secret to a great-looking gumbo.

In the spectrum of tedious tasks, I sometimes think ribboning ranks higher even than stirring roux. It’s certainly one reason my gumbo takes the good part of a day. But the end result produces raves. And I am not one to turn up my nose at that.
263 2007-11-11 Marc Aronson begins his complex, unusual history of race with a confession. Standing in line at a snack bar, he watches as several boys are accused of stealing money from the tip jar. He believes them guilty, he admits, because they are black.

It’s a brazen beginning. What Aronson has constructed is a genealogy of prejudice, and he never hesitates to place himself in this troubled family tree. He challenges his readers to undergo the same investigation: to connect the personal to the historical, to understand our own worst impulses. We have to be smarter, more knowledgeable, more critical about racism, Aronson tells us. Our children aren’t ready for it? They have to be. They live with it and carry its awful weight to this day.

Aronson’s history moves from the ancient Greeks to Eminem as he traces the accretion of racial thinking. The value of this book is in the connections he draws: between Jews and Ethiopians in the mind of medieval Catholics, between the persecution of Catholics in Ireland and of Africans in America. Sometimes Aronson provokes, as when he calls ancient Jews opposed to Greek influence “fundamentalists” and describes the Crusades as “exactly like the jihad of modern Islamic terrorists.” Sometimes he explicitly targets contemporary politics, as in his section on racially biased immigration restrictions in 1924. He quotes a senator voting for the measure: “The American people want us to discriminate.” No senator today would dare make such a statement about immigration — but it might still be true.

Many connections may not, however, be clear to any reader not already versed in the happenings of the last 3,000 years. Historical characters become two-page anecdotes, which both humanizes the past and provides opportunity for massive information overload. David Hume, Charles Darwin, Gilgamesh and the military tactics of the Civil War all have their place in 270 pages of text. The speed and sweep of Aronson’s narrative create head-spinning moments, especially when the reach of reference extends beyond any reasonable expectation for 12-year-olds.

But this is less problematic than what young readers will not find. Aronson writes that his history is about “race and racism in the West,” but he is never explicit that his focus is on prejudice in the white mind. This matters because one of the pillars of Western racism, unmentioned here, is that history belongs to whites: everyone else is either trapped in the past or merely subject to the doings of the master race.
264 2007-11-11 The new V.I.P. zones and tiered levels are a big departure from the largely democratic nature of cruising. Yes, cruise lines have long offered pricey cabins like presidential suites and penthouses that come with special perks like butlers and priority boarding. But common amenities like pools, and dining rooms have generally remained available to all guests. The new cabin classes contradict that.

“It’s like a return to the class system,” said Carolyn Spencer Brown, editor of , where consumers post detailed critiques of ships. It’s about “getting away from the masses,” she added.

It’s all part of an effort by cruise ships to attract more upscale passengers and shed their image as floating mass-market buffets. With new cruise ships holding thousand of passengers, the statelier staterooms and exclusive excursions are a way to appeal to travelers who don’t want to feel that they’re sharing their vacation with everyone onboard.

“You can be on a mass-market ship but have a very intimate experience,” said Jeffrey Krudop, manager of leisure services at Conference & Travel Services, a Carlson Wagonlit agency in Fort Wayne, Ind.

The stratification is even extending to the spa. Costa Cruise Lines introduced a new line of cabins last year with direct and unlimited access to the Samsara Spa through a private elevator and stairs. In addition, guests staying in the Samsara Cabins and Suites enjoy preferred seating at Ristorante Samsara, the spa’s eatery. Celebrity Cruises and Carnival Cruise Lines plan to introduce a similar concept next year.

Passengers seem to like the exclusivity. Costa Cruises says its spa cabins, which cost about 20 percent more than regular cabins in the same category, tend to sell out fastest. Norwegian Cruise Line says its Courtyard Villas, which can cost $4,500 for two for a week, always sail full. And Crystal, which recently began offering intimate $1,000-a-head dinners with hard-to-get and extravagant meals, says it sold out its first offering within hours of the onboard announcement.

Crystal also reports a 55 percent increase in its custom shore excursions, called Private Adventures, for the first eight months of the year. The trips, which are tailor-designed for families, couples and individual passengers who don’t want to go ashore with gaggles of fellow passengers, can range from private tours through vineyards in Italy to birthday picnics atop the Rock of Gilbraltar. Seabourn Cruise Line offers a similar service through its Signature Service Desk, which lets guests plan their own excursions, like a private visit with a Russian family in their summer dacha outside , or a tour through ’s Meilenwerk complex of vintage car shops. Several other cruise lines offer guided tours with a private car for families and couples who want to get away from the crowds.

Some cruise lines are taking a more accessible approach to exclusivity. Princess Cruises, for example, lets passengers pay $10 for a half-day in the Sanctuary, an adults-only retreat on the uppermost forward deck of the Crown Princess and Emerald Princess. The spa-inspired retreat offers private outdoor massage cabanas and light, healthy meals and drinks. So-called Serenity Stewards are on hand to provide chilled face towels, Evian atomizers, smoothies and pre-loaded MP3 players with noise-canceling headphones.

“I love it up there,” said Ms. Spencer Brown of Cruisecritic.com. “It gets you away from the craziness.” It’s a nice alternative to the main pool, she said, “where everyone is screaming and shouting.”

Small cruise ships don’t see the new offerings as a threat. The smaller vessels have always offered more intimate and special experiences by taking fewer people to less-accessible destinations, including off-the-beaten-track waterways and tiny ports that passengers on large ships rarely get to see.

“It seems like what they’re doing is trying to provide the experience and ambience we have on our small ships,” said Dick West, chairman and managing director of -based Cruise West, which operates nine vessels ranging in size from 78 to 138 guests. “In that sense, it’s a validation of what small ship cruising is all about.”
265 2007-11-12 A list of people who have been honored with the key to the city since 1978. Anyone you think should be added?...
266 2007-11-12 Oklahoma State permanently dismissed linebacker Chris Collins from the team Monday, six days after he pleaded guilty to felony aggravated sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl....
267 2007-11-12 NBC's post-iTunes digital download service, NBC Direct, came online in beta mode two days ago, and the reviews are almost uniformly grim. NBC Direct [http://www.nbc.com/Video/] is important because it is the first attempt by a broadcast television...
268 2007-11-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
269 2007-11-12 The much-anticipated Carnegie Hall debut of the Simón Bolívar Youth Orchestra of Venezuela finally arrives, with flair....
270 2007-11-12 Senator John McCain of Arizona has again called upon the newly formed Foundation for a Secure and Prosperous America, to stop advertising on his behalf and asked his donors not to contribute to the group....
271 2007-11-12 Stock in the Blackstone Group slumped on Monday after the private equity giant reported weaker profits than it earned last year. The firm said it had a net loss of $113.2 million for its third quarter, or 44 cents a common unit, owing to $802.6 mi...
272 2007-11-12 That didn't take long. IBM said Monday it would acquire Cognos, a maker of business-intelligence software, in an all-cash deal it valued at about $4.9 billion. Cognos, based in Canada, has been highly touted as a takeover target, especially since ...
273 2007-11-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
274 2007-11-12 NYMEX Holdings has entered into an agreement to buy a 15.1 percent stake in Norwegian sea freight derivatives exchange Imarex. "Following settlement of this transaction, NYMEX Holdings Inc. will hold 1,714,544 shares in the Company, representing 1...
275 2007-11-12 Hellman & Friedman plans to sell its $1 billion stake in Nasdaq Stock Market via a secondary stock offering, while Silver Lake is selling about $530 million of its shares. Hellman stands to realize more than 3 times its $300 million investment in ...
276 2007-11-12 Seven months before the European Soccer Championship, Adidas and Nike are angling to grab market share and defend their European turf in the growing $5 billion global market for soccer gear. To that end, Nike recently agreed to pay 285 million pou...
277 2007-11-12 Visa, the biggest credit card network in the nation, said in a regulatory filing Friday that it hoped to raise $10 billion in an initial public stock offering. Visa said it planned to deposit a portion of the company's proceeds from the offering i...
278 2007-11-12 As one of Silicon Valley's most respected entrepreneurs, Marc Andreessen is something of a connoisseur of what he calls "productivity porn," or techniques to maximize personal productivity. But in recent months, Mr. Andreessen – a founder of Net...
279 2007-11-12 The proposed $625 million sale of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange to the Nasdaq Stock Market has some stockholders and former members feeling bitter, according to The Philadelphia Inquirer. They don't object to the $652 million price tag. What ril...
280 2007-11-12 The concept behind SNIF Labs verges on the nutty: The Boston-based start-up is developing intelligent tags for dogs to wear, so that their owners can monitor their daily activity and track the friends they've made at the park. It's social networki...
281 2007-11-12 How to spin a pencil:...
282 2007-11-12 Credit: Doug Kanter for The New York Times
283 2007-11-12 Shares of some of Japan's biggest exporters fell steeply on concerns about weaker sales in the United States. Canon fell 2.7 percent to a three-month low of $49.36. Honda Motor dropped 3.6 percent to $34.18. Toyota Motor fell 2.8 percent to $54.36.

The size of today's stock market drops also reflected the anxiety felt by many investors here about how housing market problems will weigh on the overall United States economy, which remains the largest and richest market for Asian exports from earphones to automobiles.

"It is going to be hard for investors to settle down until there are some signs of stability in the United States economy and stock markets," said Kiichi Fujita, an equity strategist at Nomura Securities in Tokyo. "There's a worldwide flow of capital out of stocks until the American real estate market problems blow over."

Japanese exporters were also hurt as the dollar lost ground against the yen. A stronger yen erodes the value of their overseas profits, and makes their products more expensive and less competitive outside Japan.

The dollar briefly fell below 110 yen per dollar for the first time since May 2006, before bouncing back slightly to 110.21 yen in late Tokyo trading. The dollar has dropped about 6 percent against the yen in the last month.

The dollar's declines reflected broader pessimism about the outlook for the American economy, and particularly whether slowing growth will force the United States Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again, analysts said. Lower interest rates mean lower returns for investors, decreasing the attractiveness of investments in that country.

Analysts said the dollar's declines also signaled a weakening of the so-called yen-carry trade, an outflow of Japanese investment money into overseas assets like American stocks and bonds. This flow, triggered by Japan's near-zero interest rates, had propped up the dollar, as Japanese investors sold yen to buy dollar-denominated assets. Analysts said that Japanese investors, most of them individuals, have grown more cautious since the subprime problems started stirring up global financial markets last summer.

"There has been a drop in appetite among Japanese individual investors for the yen-carry trade," said Junya Tanase, a foreign exchange strategist in the Tokyo office of JPMorgan Chase Bank. "A result has been more dollar selling."
284 2007-11-12 Some of the biggest declines came in Japan, the region’s richest economy and home to its largest stock market. The benchmark Topix index fell 2.5 percent to 1,456.40, its lowest level since October 2005. The Nikkei 225 stock index also lost 2.5 percent to 15,197.09, its lowest in 16 months.

Elsewhere in Asia, falls were even steeper. The Hang Sang index in Hong Kong closed down 3.9 percent, while shares listed on the South Korean Kospi index slumped 3.4 percent. Major share indexes in Europe were mixed.

Shares of some of Japan’s biggest exporters fell steeply on concerns about weaker sales in the United States. Canon fell 2.7 percent to a three-month low of $49.36. Honda Motor dropped 3.6 percent to $34.18. Toyota Motor fell 2.8 percent to $54.36.

The size of today’s stock market drops also reflected the anxiety felt by many investors here about how housing market problems will weigh on the overall United States economy, which remains the largest and richest market for Asian exports from earphones to automobiles.

“It is going to be hard for investors to settle down until there are some signs of stability in the United States economy and stock markets,” said Kiichi Fujita, an equity strategist at Nomura Securities in Tokyo. “There’s a worldwide flow of capital out of stocks until the American real estate market problems blow over.”

Japanese exporters were also hurt as the dollar lost ground against the yen. A stronger yen erodes the value of their overseas profits, and makes their products more expensive and less competitive outside Japan.

The dollar briefly fell below 110 yen per dollar for the first time since May 2006, before bouncing back slightly to 110.21 yen in late Tokyo trading. The dollar has dropped about 6 percent against the yen in the last month.

The dollar’s declines reflected broader pessimism about the outlook for the American economy, and particularly whether slowing growth will force the United States Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again, analysts said. Lower interest rates mean lower returns for investors, decreasing the attractiveness of investments in that country.

Analysts said the dollar’s declines also signaled a weakening of the so-called yen-carry trade, an outflow of Japanese investment money into overseas assets like American stocks and bonds. This flow, triggered by Japan’s near-zero interest rates, had propped up the dollar, as Japanese investors sold yen to buy dollar-denominated assets. Analysts said that Japanese investors, most of them individuals, have grown more cautious since the subprime problems started stirring up global financial markets last summer.

“There has been a drop in appetite among Japanese individual investors for the yen-carry trade,” said Junya Tanase, a foreign exchange strategist in the Tokyo office of JPMorgan Chase Bank. “A result has been more dollar selling.”
285 2007-11-12 PISCATAWAY, N.J., Nov. 11 — With the Don Imus imbroglio and a defeat in last season’s national championship game behind it, Rutgers was hoping to begin a new chapter and a new season on a positive note Sunday night. Instead, the Scarlet Knights were left to deal with a different kind of painful experience: a last-second loss.

No. 7 Stanford defeated the third-ranked Scarlet Knights, 60-58, after the sophomore Epiphanny Prince was called for a foul with 0.1 of a second left in the game for swiping at Stanford’s Candice Wiggins about 80 feet from the basket.

With Prince standing nearby in tears, Wiggins made both free throws to give Stanford the victory.

Prince said she did not think she fouled Wiggins, who also cast doubt on the call.

“I was just kind of pushing it up, and I think what happened is she kind of just swiped at me,” Wiggins said. “I don’t know if there was contact or not, but just the actual motion of swiping when you’re driving hard is going to look like a foul.”

For Rutgers, Sunday’s game was its first since losing to Tennessee in last season’s N.C.A.A. final. After that game, Imus, a radio talk show host, made disparaging remarks about the team that eventually led to his firing. The situation gave the Rutgers players and Coach C. Vivian Stringer an unwanted place in the national spotlight.
286 2007-11-12 With heavy snow hampering visibility, Marc Gini of Switzerland won a slalom in Reiteralm, Austria, for his first World Cup victory. Bode Miller of the United States, competing independently, was 26th. Miller, who hit his chin on a gate in the first run, came to a near standstill and almost missed a gate in his final run. The top American was Jimmy Cochran, who was 14th.
287 2007-11-12 Donovan McNabb and Andy Reid put aside a season of turmoil with an extra-long embrace after the Philadelphia Eagles’ defense stopped the Washington Redskins for the last time yesterday.

“There was a lot of love there,” McNabb said. “A lot of love.”

McNabb had faced questions all week about his future in Philadelphia. Reid is dealing with personal problems and a possible second losing season in three years. The Eagles would have essentially been buried for the season had they lost, but a 20-point fourth quarter led by McNabb and Brian Westbrook helped visiting Philadelphia defeat Washington, 33-25.

Westbrook scored the go-ahead touchdown with 3 minutes 16 seconds remaining. With the Eagles (4-5) trailing by 5, McNabb threw a screen pass to Westbrook over the middle. Lineman Shawn Andrews leveled linebacker Rocky McIntosh, one of at least four critical blocks against Washington (5-4) that allowed Westbrook to scamper for a 57-yard touchdown.

¶Green Bay held Adrian Peterson to 45 yards on 11 carries before knocking him out of the game with a sprained knee as the host Packers routed the Minnesota Vikings, 34-0.

The Packers kept pace with Dallas in the National Football Conference at 8-1. Minnesota is 3-6.

¶The backup Selvin Young rushed for 109 yards as the visiting Broncos defeated the Kansas City Chiefs, 27-11.
288 2007-11-12 BAGHDAD, Nov. 11 — The Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, said in a news conference on Sunday that increased security in Baghdad had allowed thousands of families to return to their homes in the capital and outlying areas.

The number of suicide attacks, car bombings and other terrorist acts has fallen 77 percent in Baghdad from last year, Mr. Maliki said, adding that 7,000 families had returned to the capital. Together, Mr. Maliki said, the improvements showed “we were able, after eight months of imposing the law, to drive Baghdad from its dark, black days into a brighter time that people feel optimistic about.”

Mr. Maliki’s assertions were the latest in a series of glowing reports he has offered since the start of the security plan in February. And while his assessment of the decline in violence matches that of American military commanders, it was not clear how he had tallied the number of returning families, which officials say have been exceedingly difficult to locate. The significance of the returns is also a subject of debate.

Most of the capital’s displaced people have yet to return, and the number of those leaving still outpaces those returning, according to Dana Graber Ladek, the Iraqi displacement specialist for the International Organization for Migration.

Over a million Iraqis have fled their homes in the past year and a half, she said, nearly three-quarters of them from Baghdad. And though the Iraqi government is offering one million Iraqi dinars, or roughly $812, to each Baghdad family that returns, she said, only a fraction of residents has done so.
289 2007-11-12 Miguel Cotto did some uncharacteristic ducking and dancing in the ring at Madison Square Garden against Shane Mosley on Saturday night. He used an effective jab, which was as surprising as his speed.

Cotto’s newfound swagger continued after the fight, which he won in a unanimous 12-round decision to retain his World Boxing Association welterweight title. During a news conference, Cotto (31-0) rejected the request of the former welterweight world champion Antonio Margarito for a title shot, telling him to get in line. He said his sights were set on a big-money opponent like Oscar De La Hoya or Floyd Mayweather Jr.

And Cotto, 27, made it known that he believed it was his time to shine.

“You’re going to have Miguel Cotto for a long time,” he said.

Cotto’s victory over a fighter who had won world titles in three weight classes was not what left people impressed. It was the manner in which he won that demanded attention.

Cotto showed more boxing skills against Mosley than during any fight in his nearly seven years as a pro. He was smart and he was tactical. He landed more jabs than Mosley, 98 to 71, and often beat him to the punch.
290 2007-11-12 WASHINGTON, Nov. 11 — Throngs of veterans gathered on Sunday under a clear sky on the Mall to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, a stark symbol of a war that bitterly divided the nation.

In a poignant reminder of that tumultuous time, the veterans wept, prayed or reminisced at the stone memorial inscribed with the names of 58,256 Americans killed or missing in the Vietnam War.

“I can hardly explain how I feel,” said Joe Hatathle, 63, who was an Army engineer in Vietnam and who traveled here from Rock Point, Ariz., to attend a ceremony to rededicate the memorial. “It’s a mix of sadness and pride.”

At a time when the nation is divided over the war in Iraq, the gathering was, to many in attendance here, a momentary break from the politics of war.

It was a sentiment that seemed to be summed up by the ceremony’s keynote speaker, Colin L. Powell, a Vietnam veteran who when he was secretary of state pushed the United Nations Security Council to adopt a resolution demanding that Iraq comply with weapons inspections or face the prospect of war.
291 2007-11-12 SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 11 — Intel plans to announce a family of microprocessor chips on Monday that it says will speed the availability of high-definition video via the Internet.

Sean Maloney, Intel’s chief sales and marketing officer, said last week that the chips’ increased computing power would begin the transformation of today’s stuttering and blurry videos, the staple of YouTube and other video streaming sites, into high-resolution, full-screen quality that will begin to compete with the living room HDTV.

“It’s biggest impact is high-definition video,” he said. “It will be highly addictive.”

As consumers clamor for more Internet video, a huge computing burden is placed on companies like Google, Microsoft and providers of digital video, who must compress the video files so they can be streamed to desktop and portable computers.

Intel’s new family, made up of 16 processors, would first be used in servers and high-end desktops that compress the video. They are the first chips based on a new manufacturing process that Intel says will give it a significant competitive advantage by increasing computing performance while reducing power consumption.

The chips, which were developed under the code name Penryn, use a re-engineered transistor that is about half the size of its predecessor. It switches more quickly, requires less switching power and leaks less current than that previous transistor.
292 2007-11-12 So before Finra can try to educate investors about investing, it has to educate them about its existence.

“It’s a brand new organization, which always presents a challenge,” said Howard Sherman, the New York-based managing director of Doremus. “But the origin companies were well known. Now the name itself needs to get some traction in the marketplace.”

Against that backdrop, Doremus’s print, radio and television campaign is taking a lighthearted and simple approach to the millions of baby boomers who it says are less than prepared for retirement.

A full-page print ad, which will run in major business magazines like Forbes, Fortune and BusinessWeek, features an image of a portly man wearing a suit and a tiny, pointy red hat. In the same ad, another photograph shows a large white dog frolicking on its back; a third image depicts a young woman with a shopping basket in a supermarket with shelves stocked with toy bears.

“Small cap? Rollover? Bear market? Know what these terms mean to your money? Even if you do, you can learn lots more at finra.org,” the ad’s copy says.

The idea, according to a Finra statement, is to help the retirees of the near future as well as the more than 70 million Americans who will retire by 2030, with an estimated $15 trillion in retirement savings, to plan now for their financial futures. Finra said that more than half of those over 65 failed a basic financial literacy test that it recently conducted.

Finra’s campaign comes in the midst of a steady beat of bad investment news, ranging from billions of dollars in write-downs by Wall Street banks from soured mortgage investments to a resurgence in penny stock swindles pitched at naïve investors.

But it also appears amid a bewildering variety of investor information and stock-picking tools — and that may be a challenge for Finra.

Just about every mutual fund company’s Web site offers sophisticated online retirement planning guides and investment return calculators. Commercial banks are quickly catching up. Business television shows and magazines blare with analyses of hot stocks and industries. And a cottage industry of investor-protection Web sites has popped up in the wake of a series of corporate scandals.

Perhaps with that theme of information overload in mind, a radio spot for Finra — one of three — features playful violin music sound as a man says, “If you know enough to worry that you just don’t know enough, head for finra.org.”

Three similarly themed television ads will run over six weeks over outlets like CNBC, Fox Business Network, the Discovery Channel, the History Channel and HGTV. Web-based ads will appear on www.WedMD.com, a medical and health Web site, and www.drugstore.com.

Finra’s unspoken sales pitch is that it is not actually selling anything. As a regulator that also protects and educates investors, “Finra doesn’t really have a competitor,” Mr. Sherman said.

Mary L. Schapiro, Finra’s chief executive, said that “it would be little less daunting if we had a product to sell.”

She added: “It’s much less about the branding than about the education. We’re trying to drive people to our Web site where they can pick up our educational tools.”

Finra’s Web site has online savings and return calculators, as well as an investor knowledge quiz and a hypothetical stock market game.

Finra’s consumer investing tools appear online amid a jargon-laden array of communications to and about its members. But Ms. Schapiro said that the organization was “striving very hard to make sure we have no jargon” in its new campaign.

Gerri Leder, the founder and chief executive of LederMark, a financial marketing company in Baltimore, said that “there’s enough of an audience for a credible, noncommercial ally for the investor — that’s half the battle.” But, she said, “Finra’s not a name that rolls off your tongue.”
293 2007-11-12 To use the phrase “states’ rights” at the site where civil rights workers were martyred is more than a careless slip. It was blasphemy. It was profoundly unpatriotic. It belittled the sacrifices not only of the Philadelphia Three but of those called by Lincoln our honored dead.

It was a dishonorable act. It cannot be excused by staff incompetence.

David Brooks is correct. This country has been too critical of the Republicans’ Southern strategy. We, as a nation, really need to back off the Republican Party in general and Ronald Reagan’s legacy in particular. While, as Mr. Brooks says, it’s obviously true that race played a role in the G.O.P.’s ascent, we can’t assume that there was a master conspiracy to play on the alleged Klan-like prejudices of American voters.

All you need is five minutes’ worth of research to establish the truth of this. Go to your favorite search engine and type in the name Lee Atwater and the words “Southern strategy.” This should clear up any lingering doubts you may have over Ronald Reagan and the Southern strategy.

Contrary to what David Brooks says, the “slur” that Ronald Reagan began his 1980 campaign by resurrecting the segregationist refrain of “states’ rights” is no slur at all. Mr. Brooks himself admits that Mr. Reagan’s use of the term was “callous, at least” and that Mr. Reagan missed an opportunity to profess his support for civil rights.

Mr. Reagan failed to do so for a good reason, however: he had opposed every federal civil rights law to come down the pike since 1964. Ronald Reagan was obviously extending, not rejecting, the Goldwater/Nixon “Southern strategy.”

Doug Rossinow

St. Paul, Nov. 9, 2007

The writer is an associate professor of history, Metropolitan State University.

It wasn’t Ronald Reagan’s going to Philadelphia, Miss., that exposed the Republican racism, nor was it his speaking of states’ rights. It was doing the two things together that made the symbolism clear. It would be kinder to say that the Republicans “just didn’t get it” when they allowed the event to occur, but then I would have to say that David Brooks still doesn’t get it.
294 2007-11-12 “Lance single-handedly made investors in New York aware of malaria,” said Ken Shubin Stein, a managing director at Spencer Capital Management, a New York hedge fund. “He made us realize we could do something about it.”

Mr. Laifer has inspired people to fast against malaria and to dunk basketballs around the world, using any net available. He recently began a Facebook campaign called “One Million Faces Against Malaria,” trying to show what one million people look like, since at least that many people die every year of malaria. He has also worked with doctors and economists to build health clinics in Africa, create 11 malaria-free zones and develop programs to train child soldiers to become child doctors.

Awareness has been raised. Malaria No More, a nongovernmental organization focused on educating the private sector, estimates that financing for the fight against malaria is up 300 percent in the last three years, to $2 billion.

This offers scant comfort to Mr. Laifer. “We’ve raised a lot of attention, but there’s the same amount of death,” he said. “How can you feel good about that? Any day that someone dies of a mosquito bite is a tragedy of epic proportions.”

Last year, he and Rob Mather, chief executive of Against Malaria, a British charity, started Madness Against Malaria, a riff on March Madness, the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, to harness the excitement that people feel about their sports team and put it toward rescuing dying children. “You don’t have the same excitement about saving lives,” Mr. Laifer said.

For the inaugural Madness Against Malaria, 168 teams registered (anyone can; teams included sixth-grade students in Philadelphia and hedge fund managers like Whitney Tilson), and the 64 that raised the most money qualified to compete in March 2007. For six weeks, teams faced off against each other online to see who could raise more money for bed nets; the winners advanced to the next round, just like the bracketed N.C.A.A. competition.

In the end, more than $104,000 was generated to buy approximately 20,000 insecticide-treated bed nets, a highly effective tool in preventing malaria. Next year’s Madness Against Malaria is already under way.

Mr. Laifer became interested in malaria while watching an interview with Jeffrey Sachs, the Columbia economist, on the “Charlie Rose” program. He was stunned to learn that malaria kills 1 million to 3 million people a year; at a minimum, equal to seven jumbo jets filled with mostly women and children a day.

Malaria is a perfect business problem: urgent and solvable. Mr. Sachs estimates that it will cost $3 billion a year to eradicate malaria, the equivalent of two days of Pentagon’s spending, or $3 for every person in the high-income world. That would cover the cost of medicine ($1 per treatment dose) and the bed nets ($5 per net with each protecting at least two people for three to five years). Africa loses $12 billion a year in productivity to malaria.

Although he started a malaria advocacy group, Mr. Laifer decided not to set up his own registered charity. Instead, he has focused his efforts on other nonprofits. In a world where grant dollars are limited, this open-source approach stands out. “Lance doesn’t really care where you are ideologically,” said Richard Tren, a director of Africa Fighting Malaria, a policy and advocacy group. (Mr. Laifer sits on the board.) “He works with left of center or right or libertarian, if you are doing bed nets or spraying or just treatment. He’s just interested in your results.”

While Mr. Laifer is intensely frustrated by the lack of urgency and “professionalism” he sees in the donor community, he understands it. “We’ll take risks that career people can’t take and fill in the gaps all together,” he said. “We’re all one team against the mosquitoes.”

There are strong differences among many groups. For example, Malaria No More charges $10 a net compared with the $5 Mr. Laifer believes it costs. (Nongovernmental organizations like Unicef deliver the nets they donate; Malaria No More includes the cost of distribution and education.)

But because Malaria No More delivers the nets and generates awareness, Mr. Laifer supports it, too. Of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, a prominent supporter of both malaria control and vaccine, he says: “I hope by the time they have a vaccine there is no one in the world with malaria.”

To get there, he wants people and business to make this a long-term priority. He notes that Americans spend $40 billion a year on pet supplies and that there are more Little League coaches in New Jersey than malaria volunteers worldwide.

Hedge fund managers, an impassioned and results-oriented species, are one channel. So are businesses. Mr. Laifer wants to see who will own the idea of wiping out malaria: FedEx, the ultimate logistics company? Google, with tentacles in nearly every corner of the planet?

“The blessing of malaria is that it’s easy to attack logistically — it’s not about the science,” Mr. Laifer said. “It’s about: do you have the willpower to save three million lives every year?”
295 2007-11-12 By the late ’80s, shelters were euthanizing about 17 million dogs and cats a year. That figure fell to about five million in 2000 and just under four million last year as a result of a push by animal welfare groups to discourage the practice in favor of spaying and adoption programs, Mr. Mountain said.

For two decades, Best Friends has operated under a “no kill” philosophy. After Hurricane Katrina, the group rescued 4,000 pets stranded by the disaster and took another 2,000 from shelters, Mr. Mountain said, bringing thousands to Kanab. In Peru this summer, volunteers rounded up hundreds of animals separated from their owners after the earthquake there.

“We read about these tragedies and we feel for the humans who are suffering, but all of a sudden it hits you, ‘Oh no, what about the pets?’” Mr. Mountain said.

Financed by small donations from 350,000 members, Best Friends is able to pay a large staff by controlling salaries and expenditures. (Mr. Mountain earns about $72,000 a year.) Members receive a bimonthly magazine with heart-wrenching profiles of animals and volunteers, as well as stories about rescue missions.

Many animals that come to Best Friends need serious care. Take Luna, a miniature horse from Duck Creek, Utah, that is recovering from a farm accident that broke its leg. Or Finch, a cat from Bakersfield, Calif., that was set on fire by a teenager. Both animals have been in Angel Canyon for months and are not expected to find new homes until next year.

The sanctuary divides up its animals by species, assigning them to kitchen-equipped “care units” (TLC Cat Club, Horse Haven, Feathered Friends). The largest unit, Dogtown Heights, is a complex of 37 buildings and play areas, some shaded against the Utah sun. The sanctuary also has a cemetery for animals who die while under its care.

One volunteer, Jeanne Modesitt, said that she and her husband, Robin Spowart, live in Kanab and come to the sanctuary four mornings a week to walk dogs that had been turned away or expelled from shelters because they were deemed too aggressive.

“When they see us coming, they yelp and jump around with excitement,” said Ms. Modesitt, who writes children’s books. “By making their lives happy, it fills our hearts, too. It’s the ultimate antidepressant.”

Many other volunteers live nearby, but some come from other parts of the country. “My goal as a volunteer is to do all I can to prepare each dog for a new permanent home,” said John Helmsorig, a retired photographer in Wappingers Falls, N.Y., who has made 10 trips to the sanctuary since 2003. “I take great personal pride in being a small part of that success.” His duties include feeding dogs, scooping poop in the dog runs and mopping and disinfecting indoors. Sometimes Mr. Helmsorig, who puts himself up in a hotel, walks troubled dogs into town to help them become accustomed to people again.

For the most part, rehabilitated pets are returned to the shelters that originally took them in or placed in other ones, and the society works to find them new homes. Kiska Icard, director of program management at the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in San Francisco, said that Best Friends was a great partner for urban shelters that lack space and resources for animals that need special care.

“We’re all here for the same reason,” she said. “But because of what Best Friends has to offer in terms of geography, they are able to take and house and place animals we simply can’t support.”

The sanctuary has become a destination of sorts and offers tours by reservation (435-644-2001). After lingering near the TLC Cat Club, Mr. Mountain stopped near Horse Haven to marvel at two residents grazing not far from a sandstone cliff.

“There are many days here where the work is just as exciting now as it was 20 years ago,” he said. “To know we’re making a difference in these animals’ lives — I can’t think of anything more fulfilling than that.”
296 2007-11-12 “They are doing everything they can to make it difficult,” said Ralph Kaehler, a Minnesota farmer who sells cattle feed in Cuba. “It’s unfortunate.”

American businesspeople and state officials have been coming to the fair for six years, ever since Congress gave in to pressure from the agriculture lobby in late 2000, during the waning days of the Clinton administration, and lifted a four-decade ban on selling food to Cuba.

Since then, the number of farm states and agribusinesses who want a piece of the Cuban market has been growing, despite the Bush administration’s steady tightening of sanctions. For farm states, the need for jobs has trumped cold-war politics.

“It’s helped our economy,” said Ron Sparks, the Alabama agriculture commissioner, as he talked with people near the booth for the Mobile Port Authority. “It’s helped our farmers. I don’t talk national policy.”

Now in its 25th year, the annual trade fair drew more than 1,000 companies from 53 countries to a sprawling fairground known as Expocuba just outside Havana.

The atmosphere was festive, with more than a dozen restaurants where people drank Havana Club rum and puffed on Cuba’s famous cigars, a treat several Americans appeared to enjoy. The five-day fair, which ended Saturday, also attracted hundreds of ordinary Cubans.

Aside from state officials, the American delegation included several shipping companies and large agricultural outfits like Pilgrim’s Pride, Cargill and Purdue. Their sales representatives worked in the booths all day before returning to the Hotel Nacional, an art deco landmark, and then heading out to enjoy the Havana night life.

Some Americans at the fair predicted that Cuba’s market would open up more after Fidel Castro gave up power permanently, and they said they wanted to get a head start on deal making. Many envision a return to the prerevolution days when the United States was Cuba’s biggest trading partner, as wheat and durable goods flowed south while sugar, tobacco and rum flowed north.

But financial and travel restrictions have never been tighter, as the Bush administration has quietly stepped up the prohibition of tourism to and from Cuba and invented new ways to squeeze the island financially. It has also increased efforts to fine international banks that handle transactions in dollars for the Cuban government as well as companies that do business in both Cuba and the United States.

American farmers complain that Washington has also tried to find ways to hinder agricultural sales to the island. Since the ban was lifted in 2000, an exception to the general trade embargo against Cuba, sales from American farmers to the island have risen to about $500 million a year, Cuban officials say.

But the Bush administration has required the purchases to be made in cash and, since 2004, that the payment must be received before shipment. The system has created immense logistical headaches for American shippers and food exporters. Loads of grain and poultry end up waiting for days on a dock until proof of payment arrives, shippers said.

“There are lot of delays in loading because of that,” said Eric T. Junker, the owner of Americana Marine Services, which ships grain to the island.

President Bush and other supporters of the sanctions maintain that every dollar that enters Cuba helps support a despotic regime. In his speech on Oct. 24, Mr. Bush asked Congress to maintain the embargo and said the transfer of power from Fidel Castro, who has been ill, to his brother Raúl, amounted to “exchanging one dictator for another.” He called for elections after Fidel Castro’s death.

Cuban officials argue the embargo hurts American farmers more than it does the government here. But they also acknowledge the American attempts to punish foreign companies for doing business here have hurt them in dozens of small ways, from limiting their ability to buy to certain medicines to making it impossible to get spare parts for scientific equipment.

“The blockade makes doing business here insecure,” said Pedro Álvarez Borrego, the chairman of Alimport, the government-owned company that imports food.

The biggest blow, however, has been to tourism. The minister for tourism, Manuel Madero, said that before Mr. Bush took office, about 80,000 Americans visited Cuba every year, usually going through Mexico or another country. He declined to give a number for the current year, but said it had been reduced to trickle.

Luis M. Morejón, who operates a small tour company, said he used to arrange tours for at least 30 Americans a year in the late 1990s. “Now this whole year I haven’t had one,” he said.
297 2007-11-12 Mr. Hessell, a plaintiff in the federal case, was resentenced to time served on Nov. 2 by a state judge. The decision was unusual. Judge Battani’s eventual order will almost certainly address only parole board procedures, and there is no particular reason to think that other Michigan lifers will get a sympathetic hearing from state judges in the meantime.

Russ Marlan, a spokesman for the state corrections department, said Judge Battani’s decision was incorrect.

“We don’t agree that there has been an ex post facto violation,” Mr. Marlan said. “There was no fundamental shift, no change in philosophy. These offenders who received a life sentence received a life sentence for very serious crimes.”

Mr. Hessell could barely describe the sensation of freedom.

“I am driving an automobile right now, and I have my sister in my car, and her son,” he said, talking on a cellphone, a device that was new to him. “When I went in, she was a 3-year-old in diapers, and now she’s got a 15-year-old son.”

In 1976, Mr. Hessell participated in a plot against a suspected police informant that left a woman dead and a man badly injured. Mr. Hessell’s biological father, a career criminal he had just met, was by all accounts the driving force in the plot, and no one accuses Mr. Hessell of killing anyone.

Life in prison may well be the correct sentence for crimes like Mr. Hessell’s. But there is little question that Michigan and other states have changed the rules in the middle of the game.

It used to be, the plaintiffs in the Detroit suit said, that more than 5 percent of lifers were paroled every year. These days, the number has dropped to less than a fifth of a percent.

A survey of 95 current and retired judges by the Michigan bar released in 2002 indicated that a majority thought that lifers eligible for parole would serve fewer than 20 years. In the old days, if judges really wanted prisoners to spend the rest of their days in prison, they would impose terms of life without parole or what they called “basketball score sentences,” like 90 to 120 years.

Mr. Marlan, the corrections department spokesman, said the better practice was to give words and numbers their ordinary meanings.

Courts in other states have also been struggling with how far states can go in changing their pardon and parole systems retroactively. In 1997, for example, the Pennsylvania board of pardons reserved a seat for a crime victim and required a unanimous rather than majority vote.

Last year, a lower court ruled that those changes violated the ex post facto clause. Last Monday, a federal appeals court in Philadelphia said the particular plaintiffs in the suit may not have had standing to sue and ordered the trial judge to look into that. It did not address the central question in the case.

There is strong evidence that most offenders age out of violent crime. And keeping them inside can cost $40,000 a year. That adds up, said Paul D. Reingold, a law professor at the University of Michigan and the lead lawyer in the Detroit case.

Assume, Professor Reingold said, that only half the people he represents had been freed around the time that the judges who sentenced them thought they would get out.

“If the state had not been violating the Constitution for the last 15 years,” he said, “it would have saved, oh, $20 million a year.”
298 2007-11-12 SECURITIES BACKUP FUND With agreement among the country's three largest banks on how to structure a $75 billion fund to prop up distressed securities, the big question becomes, will it help?      PRINCE'S BONUSCharles O. Prince III, who resigned a...
299 2007-11-13 Maybe it’s not so easy to improve recommendation software after all. In October 2006, Netflix, the online movie rental service, announced that it would award $1 million to the first person or team who could devise a system that is 10 percent mor...
300 2007-11-13 Just when it seemed that Berlin in Lights had found its anthem. Dan Wakin reports below that the French horns of the Berlin Philharmonic played “Mambo” from Bernstein’s “West Side Story” yesterday, apparently rather genteelly, in a conce...
301 2007-11-13 "No." That single syllable, as spoken by Goldman Sachs chief executive Lloyd Blankfein on Tuesday, seemed to be worth about $6 billion to Wall Street on Tuesday. It came in response to a question about whether his firm expected to take significant...
302 2007-11-13 His new campaign spot touts his battle against "wasteful" projects, like the Bridge to Nowhere and the Woodstock museum earmark....
303 2007-11-13 Citigroup's embattled capital markets unit is regrouping under its new leader. In a memo sent Tuesday, James Forese, Citi's new head of capital markets, announced another round of changes that will organize the division more like its investment ba...
304 2007-11-13 British investor Guy Hands' Terra Firma, on the hunt for additional equity investors in EMI, is telling prospective partners they can nearly quadruple their money in the struggling major label and cash out within five years, The New York Post repo...
305 2007-11-13 The hedge fund at the center of Overstock.com's controversial short-selling lawsuit has filed a counterclaim against the online retailer, arguing it is trying to cover up questionable accounting and poor business decisions. In a complaint filed la...
306 2007-11-13 The company has $29 billion in customer deposits. About half the deposits are over the $100,000 threshold covered by federal deposit insurance, according to Mr. Bhatia. Customers are more likely to withdraw cash not covered by government insurance.

This summer, a run on a English mortgage lender, Northern Rock, was prompted by concerns about the company’s ability to finance itself in the short-term debt market. The run was dissipated after public officials assured customers that the government would back their deposits.

In a note to customers on its Web site, E*Trade’s president, R. Jarrett Lilien, assured customers that it had enough capital to meet regulatory requirements and could absorb a write-down of as much as $1 billion and “remain well capitalized.”

Like many other financial companies, E*Trade built a significant mortgage business during the housing boom, making loans to its customers, packaging them into securities and investing in the bonds backed by mortgages. The company’s approach was similar to the model followed by many investment banks.

On Friday, the company said it would have to write down an unspecified portion of a $3 billion portfolio in asset-backed securities, which include bonds backed by first- and second-lien home loans. The company also withdrew its previous earnings forecasts, which had already been lowered several times this year.

E*Trade has been forced again to reconsider its investments because credit ratings agencies like Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services have downgraded tens of billions in mortgage securities in recent months.

Mortgage specialists expect more downgrades because more homeowners are likely to default on loans as house prices fall and it becomes harder to refinance loans.

E*Trade executives have said they expect most of their mortgage portfolio to hold up fine under the stress — a position the company continued to maintain yesterday. But analysts have questioned the soundness of that rosy view.

Sean J. Egan, managing director of the Egan-Jones Ratings Company, an independent credit rating firm, said it was hard to envision E*Trade taking a write-down as small as $1 billion. In a recent filing, the company said it held $16.6 billion in mortgage-backed securities for sale at the end of September, up from $13.9 billion in December. It also held $32.4 billion in loans receivables, up from $26.4 billion.

“The name E*Trade is a misnomer in the sense that their mortgage business is now dwarfing their securities business,” said Mr. Egan, who estimates that the company will need to raise several billion dollars in fresh capital to shore up its financial position.

Other financial firms like Merrill Lynch & Company, Citigroup and UBS have written off sizable portions of their holdings in mortgages made to people with blemished, or subprime, credit.

Analysts at Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank have estimated that the aggregate credit losses could total up to $400 billion, which would be much larger than the savings and loans crisis of the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Mr. Bhatia estimated that E*Trade could lose up to $5 billion if it tried to sell its mortgage portfolio today. It is hard to value mortgage securities because few bonds have traded hands since the credit crisis began in late July.

Potential buyers are willing to pay far less than sellers are demanding, citing high and rising default rates and the potential for steep losses in the coming year. Those who are forced to sell, by contrast, say investors are being irrational, pointing to financial models that predict that most bondholders will be repaid.
307 2007-11-13 Stock markets moved into the black after four days of declines, as investors cheered reassuring reports on two recent trouble spots, consumer spending and the credit market.

The Dow Jones industrials surged 2.5 percent, closing at 13,307.09, a gain of 319.54 points, while the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 2.9 percent, or nearly 42 points. The Nasdaq composite gained 3.5 percent as technology stocks began to recover from their worst week in five years.

Today’s rally still leaves stock markets far below the all-time high on Oct. 9. The Dow remains down 2.6 percent for the last week. But the increase was welcomed by investors shaken by last week’s painful slides.

The trading day began on a positive note after Wal-Mart, the big-box retailer, reported a favorable sales forecast and a better-than-expected third-quarter earnings. Investors have been increasingly anxious about the business outlook for the coming months, as economists predict a slowdown in consumer spending under pressure from rising oil prices and the housing downturn. Wal-Mart stock leaped 6.1 percent, to close at $45.97.

Home Depot, in a separate report, lowered its annual earnings prediction in the face of he ailing housing market, a disappointing report more in line with investors’ expectations about housing-related business activity.

But the good news out of Wal-Mart was enough to ease fears that consumers have become more reluctant to spend. Crude oil prices also dropped sharply, down more than $3 a barrel, to $91.17, contributing to the sense that inflation risks and pricing pressures in the fourth quarter might not be as bad as some analysts predict. Even Home Depot shares moved up, rising 2.3 percent, to $29.12.

Financial stocks also recovered today after taking a beating last week as several major banks announced additional write-downs related to assets backed by subprime home loans. Bank of America joined those ranks today, saying it will write down $3 billion in collateralized debt obligations in the fourth quarter. Top executives at Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase said today that they were confident their companies would emerge unscathed from the subprime mess.
308 2007-11-13 PARIS, Nov. 13 — A bold effort by the European Union to impose caps on aircraft emissions received a lift today when legislators voted to raise the costs for airlines and to include international flights sooner than expected.

The measures, approved by the European Parliament, are fiercely opposed by the United States and the airline industry, which say the rules could cost companies billions of dollars and lead to sharp price increases for passengers. On the opposing side, some environmental groups criticized the proposed measure, which still must be approved by individual countries, as far too timid.

But members of the European Parliament said that regulating aircraft pollution would set an important precedent and could be emulated by other countries.

“We want a worldwide system as soon as possible,” said Peter Liese, a German member of Parliament who helped guide the legislation through the assembly, which met in Strasbourg, France. “There must be an end to the status quo that nothing is done in the aviation sector and which has predominated for many years now.”

Mr. Liese added that two-thirds of all aircraft emissions are from intercontinental flights.

Under the draft measures approved today, all flights arriving or departing from Europe would be included under the European system from 2011 rather than from 2012, the date originally proposed by E.U. officials.
309 2007-11-13 BEIJING, Tuesday, Nov. 13 (AP) — China’s consumer prices rose sharply in October, tying a decade-high monthly inflation rate of 6.5 percent, the government reported on Tuesday, adding to pressure for measures to cool a surge in food prices.

Food prices jumped 17.6 percent in October over the same month a year ago, while the price of pork, a staple in China, soared 54.9 percent, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.

The overall October inflation rate was higher than the 6.2 percent in September and matched August’s 6.5 percent, the highest in 11 years. Inflation has jumped because of double-digit increases in food prices attributed to shortages of pork and other items.

Inflation for nonfood items in October was just 1.1 percent, the statistics bureau said.

Beijing froze prices of cooking oil and other basics in September, and is pressing farmers to raise more pigs, promising aid.

Economists say price pressure should ease when a new grain crop is harvested and more pigs come to market.

The food price spike is especially sensitive for the government, because China’s poor majority spend as much as a third of their incomes on food.
310 2007-11-13 Oklahoma State linebacker Chris Collins was permanently dismissed from the team yesterday, six days after he pleaded guilty to felony aggravated sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl in Texas. Collins had been suspended for the remainder of the season Thursday, after entering his plea last week on a charge resulting from an assault in May 2004, when Collins was a junior in high school.Collins, one of four men charged in the assault, will be formally sentenced Dec. 10. He will be permitted to keep his scholarship.
311 2007-11-13 “I.B.M. had nothing in this area,” said Colleen Graham, research director at Gartner, a technology consulting firm. “I.B.M. had to do something. But because it didn’t move fast enough, it paid a premium.”

The acquisition of Cognos will present I.B.M. with some unusual integration issues. Business intelligence software has traditionally been intended to be compatible with a variety of computer applications from a wide number of software companies.

Doing that requires cooperation from those other companies on technical issues. But Sanju K. Bansal, the chief operating officer of MicroStrategy, a relatively small maker of business intelligence software, anticipates Cognos may find those companies less helpful after it becomes part of I.B.M.

“Those vendors don’t want to cooperate with I.B.M. because they compete with I.B.M. every day,” he said.

There may also be conflicts with companies like Accenture that include Cognos software when they sell large data systems to corporations. Those firms are also direct competitors to I.B.M. in many areas.

But Bob Djurdjevic, president of Annex Research, a consulting firm, said Cognos would find it relatively easy to recover any lost business once it is part of I.B.M.

“Cognos will have a distribution system it could only have dreamed of,” Mr. Djurdjevic said.

In a conference call with reporters, Rob Ashe, the president and chief executive of Cognos, said he would continue to run the company from Ottawa. While I.B.M. intends to maintain the Cognos brand name, the company will be an I.B.M. unit rather than a stand-alone entity.

Like most business intelligence companies, Cognos software has a following among many retailers including Home Depot, Amazon.com, American Eagle Outfitters and 7-Eleven. Harrah’s, the casino operator, similarly uses loyalty programs and Cognos software to tailor incentives for gamblers.

Ms. Graham at Gartner said that the stricter financial reporting requirements imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act were having the unintended side effect of increasing interest in business intelligence software.

Meeting the new regulatory requirements has forced many companies to clean up their computer systems and databases, a process that often involves purchasing large packages of programs from companies like SAP, Oracle and I.B.M.

“When they go through all that effort, many of them consider adding B.I. software to see if they can get some additional cost benefits from the process,” Ms. Graham said.
312 2007-11-13 TOKYO, Tuesday, Nov. 13 (Reuters) — Japan’s economy grew more than expected in the third quarter, as exports and capital spending helped avert a recession, and quieted some concerns about the economy.

Financial markets, focusing more on the global economic outlook and recent tumbles in American stock markets, showed limited initial reaction to the stronger-than-expected 0.6 percent quarterly growth in Japan’s economy, the world’s second largest.

The G.D.P. figures, issued a few hours before the Bank of Japan announces its latest interest rate decision, topped a consensus market forecast of a 0.4 percent expansion, despite a sharp fall in housing investment.

The rebound in growth means that Japan avoided a recession, which is often defined as two consecutive quarters of contraction, after the economy shrank 0.4 percent in April-June.

“The data showed the economy bounced back from negative growth in April-June, and prices are seen rising gradually,” said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at the Norinchukin Research Institute.

Japan’s economy grew 2.6 percent annualized, compared with annualized growth of 3.9 percent in the United States in the same quarter.
313 2007-11-13 MGM Mirage and Pansy Ho, daughter of the billionaire Stanley Ho, will open their joint venture’s first casino in Macao on Dec. 18. The casino, the MGM Grand Macau, will have 600 rooms, suites and villas and 375 gambling tables and cost about $1.25 billion, said MGM, the gambling company based in Las Vegas.
314 2007-11-13 EASY GROWTH One relatively simple way to increase revenue is by trying to sell more to existing customers.

Writing on About.com, Susan Ward, who with a partner runs Cypress Technologies, a technology consulting firm, offers some ways to do just that. These are among them:

¶ “Upsell” — that is offer related products or services. A company that sells consumer electronics may offer an extended services contract. A house cleaning company may offer a discount if you have them clean your windows as well.

¶ Share. Let your best customers know when new merchandise will be coming in or going on sale. Odds are they will buy more and probably tell others.

¶ Reward your customers. “How can you expect customer loyalty if all customers are treated as ‘someone off the street,’ ” Ms. Ward asks. “There are all kinds of ways that you can show your regular customers that you value them, from small things such as greeting them by name through larger benefits such as giving regulars extended credit or discounts.”

ARE YOU COMMITTED? Entrepreneur suggests that you “rate yourself with this checklist based on questions developed by General Electric’s Six Sigma black belts.” Answering no to any of them, it says, may mean it is “time to reassess parts of your company’s growth strategy.”

1. Your company has “a defined process to tackle and fix problems” raised by customers.

2. “We constantly identify waste in our financial, production, time and materials processes and get rid of it.”

3. “We balance capital efficiently between today’s needs and long-term growth.”

4. There is a defined process for creating, launching and developing new products or services.

5. “We’ve come up with clear growth goals, and we invest in the staff and processes needed to meet these goals.”

FROM THE BOOKSHELF Robert H. Bloom, the former chairman in the United States and chief executive of the advertising agency Publicis Worldwide, is convinced that “every enterprise has at least one underutilized existing strength that can be the centerpiece of a powerful growth strategy.”

To find it, he argues in his book “The Inside Advantage” (written with Dave Conti, McGraw Hill, 2007), you need to follow this four-step process:

First you need to ask who is your core customer, the person “most likely to buy your product or service in the quantity required for optimal profit.”

Second, you need to decide what is the “uncommon offering your business will own and leverage?”

Knowing that, the question becomes how will you convince your core customer that your uncommon offering is better than anything else available?

And finally, how will you “own” this advantage in the minds of the customer?

Mr. Bloom suggests that you can figure all this out in a one-day brainstorming session. That may be overly ambitious. But clearly determining what makes you unique in the minds of your customers is the first step in creating a profitable growth strategy.

LAST CALL For an alternative take on growth, consider Emma McCreary’s column “Grow Consciously So Your Business Doesn’t Eat You Alive.”

Ms. McCreary describes herself as a “an entrepreneur, Web designer, and a happiness advocate.” This is her message: “Don’t assume that bigger is better unless bigger is what you really want. Take some time to design your business as it grows.”
315 2007-11-13 Book rage has now been added to the list of neurotic human behaviors. So far confined to Canada, it is characterized by angry outbursts in bookstores and, more specifically, by the hurling of books, The Globe and Mail of Toronto reported. The causes: the declining United States dollar, the rising Canadian dollar and dust jackets imprinted with prices making books more costly for Canadians. For more than 30 years the value of the Canadian dollar has lagged that of its American cousin; five years ago it was worth 62 American cents. As a result, book jackets customarily show a United States price and a higher Canadian price. But last week the Canadian dollar hit $1.10 against the United States dollar; yesterday it stood at $1.03. Thus book rage and widespread reports of unhappiness among buyers expected to pay the higher price. Some Canadian booksellers, including Wal-Mart Canada, have begun to offer their wares at United States prices; others are giving discounts on the Canadian price, rebates or simply marking down the books.
316 2007-11-13 Amid much fanfare this year, the federal Fish and Wildlife Service declared the western Great Lakes gray wolf successfully recovered from an encounter with extinction and officially removed it from the endangered species list. Under the protection of the Endangered Species Act, the wolf boomed in population to 4,000 in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin today, up from just several hundred in northern Minnesota in 1974.

But the victory celebration was premature, according to two evolutionary biologists, Jennifer A. Leonard of Uppsala University in Sweden and Robert K. Wayne of the University of California, Los Angeles. The historic Great Lakes wolf did not return intact from the edge of oblivion. Instead, the scientists report in the online edition of the journal Biology Letters, it hybridized with gray wolves moving in from Canada, coyotes from the south and west and the hybrids born of that mixing.

Wolf eradication programs and habitat destruction, followed by protection of the remaining wolves and habitat, created conditions for producing the hybrid animals, Dr. Leonard said. These animals should remain protected, she added, while researchers determine the full extent of hybridization with coyotes, whether it is continuing and whether it threatens to swamp the genetic heritage of the native wolf.

Rolf O. Peterson, a wolf ecologist at Michigan Technological University and the leader of the Fish and Wildlife Service’s Eastern Gray Wolf Recovery Team, said it had been known for some time that hybridization between gray wolves and coyotes was happening in the region.

“What’s new in this paper,” he said, “is that they found no evidence of hybridization with coyotes in the historic samples — and no pure historic wolves in the current samples.”
317 2007-11-13 Children who do not get enough sleep may increase their risk for obesity, a new study has found.

The researchers recorded sleep times and body mass index of 785 children in third grade and then again in sixth. Children slept an average of 9.45 hours a night in third grade and 8.78 in sixth.

After controlling for sex, race, maternal education, sleep problems like nightmares and other variables, the authors found that for every hour that sleep time declined over the three years, children were about 40 percent more likely to be overweight. The protective effect came mostly from earlier bedtimes rather than later wake times.

The authors concede that some unmeasured variables could have affected the results. For example, they write, parents may use food to pacify irritable sleep-deprived children, or sleep-deprived children may request and receive food more often.

The reason for the association is unclear, but parents are apparently not to blame. “We examined lax parenting,” said Dr. Julie C. Lumeng, the lead author of the study, which appeared in the Nov. 5 issue of Pediatrics, “and lax parenting is not the explanation.”

Instead Dr. Lumeng, an assistant professor of pediatrics at the University of Michigan, suggested three other possibilities.

“First, children who are grumpy may be more likely to ask for food,” she said. “Second, children who don’t get enough sleep are more likely to be tired the next day and less likely to exercise.” A third possibility is the hormone leptin, which is associated with fat metabolism and released in the body in relation to the sleep cycle.
318 2007-11-13 SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 12 — A judge in Australia dismissed a case against a terrorism suspect, Izhar ul-Haque, on Monday, and accused the Australian Security Intelligence Organization of false imprisonment and kidnapping.

Mr. ul-Haque, a student, had been accused of attending a terrorist training camp run by the Army of the Pure, a militant group in Pakistan, in early 2003. He was detained by officers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization as he was returning home from his university one evening in November 2003.

The judge, Michael Adams, said that although the officers had only a search warrant, they bundled Mr. ul-Haque into a car and drove him to a park, where they threatened him with serious consequences unless he cooperated.

He was then taken home and held in a bedroom until after midnight before being interrogated and finally released. “This is reminiscent of Kafka,” Judge Adams said Monday in the New South Wales state Supreme Court in Sydney. “It was a gross interference by the agents of the state with the accused’s legal rights as a citizen, rights he still has whether he be suspected of criminal conduct or not and whether he is Muslim or not.”

Judge Adams went on to accuse intelligence agents, identified only as B15 and B16, of breaking the law. “I am satisfied that B15 and B16 committed the criminal offenses of false imprisonment and kidnapping,” he said.
319 2007-11-13 A widely forwarded e-mail message and a recent study have revived fears that some brands of red lipstick contain potentially harmful levels of lead, a well-known neurotoxin.

The e-mail claim has been circulating for some time, but it gained traction last month when a consumer advocacy group published a small independent study of 33 red lipsticks from various brands. The group, the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, said tests showed that one-third of the samples contained lead levels greater than 0.1 parts per million — the federal limit for candy.

The group said it chose that comparison because there is no federal standard for lead in cosmetics. But critics of the study say the comparison is misleading, because unlike candy, lipstick is generally not ingested, and any trace amounts ingested accidentally would be harmless.

Stephanie Kwisnek, a spokeswoman for the Food and Drug Administration, said in an interview that the agency had conducted its own analyses based on past reports and found that such concerns about lipstick were unfounded. She said the agency was currently conducting a review of the latest report.

The list of products that were tested in the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics Study, along with the full report, are available online at www.safecosmetics.org.

Studies have found that lead in lipstick is not a cause for concern, but research is continuing.
320 2007-11-13 Dynastic succession, cutthroat competition, brand reinforcement: these were a few of the items on Jay-Z’s agenda at the Hammerstein Ballroom on Sunday night. Of course he covered this ground with exultant style, surrounding himself with constituents, protégés and even a notable rival. Fittingly for any hip-hop mogul, and especially for this one, the show felt scrappy as well as spectacular.

Last week Jay-Z released “American Gangster” (Roc-a-Fella/Island Def Jam), inspired by the identically titled new Ridley Scott film. The film closes the cognitive distance between corporate culture and gangster culture, in a way that Jay-Z, the president and chief executive of Def Jam, clearly recognizes. The show began like the album, with a recording of Denzel Washington in character as a legendary drug lord; while it played, Jay-Z took the stage behind a scrim, casting a larger-than-life silhouette.

The scrim lifted to reveal an appropriately elaborate setup: four-piece rhythm section, three horns, three backup singers and a D. J., Green Lantern, along with some large-scale video screens. And Jay-Z wasted no time. “Mind state of a gangster from the ’40s/Meets the business mind of Motown’s Berry Gordy,” he rapped as he began a number called “Pray.” He looked and sounded energized by his new material, and judging by the response to “No Hook,” the next tune up, he wasn’t the only one.

Of course the subject matter isn’t new: Jay-Z has been slinging similar boasts throughout his career. But fairly recently, he seemed unsure about how to reconcile past struggles with present circumstances. He retired (sort of) and returned (sort of), shakily reclaiming dominance. The new album has strengthened his position, mainly by refocusing his message. “I ain’t talkin’ about it, I’m livin’ it,” he snarled in a new refrain, a dozen songs into the show.

That assertion might have felt more pointed because of what had preceded it: a surprise appearance by Lil Wayne, the New Orleans upstart who has billed himself as the “best rapper alive.” (Fighting words, at least in these parts.) Lil Wayne charged onstage for a reprise of his guest turn on “Hello Brooklyn 2.0,” a bass-throbbing highlight of “American Gangster” that establishes some unlikely common ground.

Jay-Z was magnanimous as a host, allowing an excerpt of “Duffle Bag Boy,” a single that Lil Wayne has made one of his calling cards. This courtesy was matched, and then some. “The best rapper alive,” Lil Wayne proclaimed, pointing to Jay-Z. Then, indicating himself: “The next rapper in line.” It was a clearly symbolic gesture, suggesting both deference and a claim to inheritance.
321 2007-11-13 Noticing that response, union officials checked the two lists they had — the 139 players who at that point had filed for free agency and the dozens of players Mitchell had invited to meet with his investigators — and found that only 11 names matched.

From the union’s point of view, this was good news, because 11 names out of a far larger group of free agents did not seem likely to have an inhibiting effect on the free-agent market. That was the message they conveyed to the agents at the Wednesday meeting.

But not all agents are Rhodes scholars, and two left the meeting with a garbled message. Good luck to their clients this winter.

By the time the accurate story got out, the inaccurate story had gained widespread circulation.

Even in more accurate reports, emphasis was placed on the idea that 11 players could be named, not that the number was probably too small to have an impact on the free-agent market. Which is the sexier story? The names, of course.

In recent months, players have been named as having received shipments of performance-enhancing substances from a group of clinics and pharmacies that have been the subject of an investigation by the Albany County district attorney.

Not all of the substances were banned by baseball when the players were said to have received them, but they are now.

The names of these players have emerged in a curious manner, the way water drips from a leaky faucet, mostly one at a time, mostly to different news outlets and often at times that made the names bigger news than they might have been at other times.

Paul Byrd, a Cleveland pitcher, was named in a newspaper report on the day of Game 7 of the American League Championship Series against Boston. Rick Ankiel of St. Louis was named at the height of his, and the Cardinals’, remarkable comebacks. Ankiel was hitting better than .350, and the Cardinals were only a game out of first.

The way the names have been leaked would suggest that no news outlet has all of the names on the district attorney’s list. Rather, it appears that someone, or more than one person, with access to the list has leaked them selectively to embarrass the players.

In no steroids investigation have players been the targets. The Balco investigation by the United States attorney in San Francisco centered on steroids distributors, not players. Barry Bonds — remember him? — has been singled out not for steroids use but for the possibility that he perjured himself in his grand jury testimony about steroid use.

One theory that would explain the leaks of the names linked to the pharmacy and clinic shipments is that one or more persons involved in the investigation are not satisfied that the players aren’t targets and want to make sure the public and baseball become aware of their suspected involvement.

But whatever the motivation, it’s all about the names. Anyone leaking the names knows the news media live for the names.

When Mitchell issues his report, he could make reporters’ jobs easier by listing all of the names he includes in an index at the front of the book, giving page numbers for each. He could list them alphabetically, he could group them by teams, he could group them by positions.

That way no one would have to spend — waste — time wading through the report to dig out all of the names. The aim of the game, after all, is to get the names, right?
322 2007-11-13 WASHINGTON, Nov. 12 — Senator John McCain asked his donors on Monday not to send money to independent groups that circumvent campaign finance regulations as they seek to assist his presidential campaign.

The request came after a group calling itself the Foundation for a Secure and Prosperous America began running television advertisements in South Carolina late last week that featured a glowing reference to Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican.

The group, which is acting independently of Mr. McCain’s campaign, is set up under the tax code as a 501 (c)(4) nonprofit corporation, which allows it to collect unlimited sums without naming its donors. It is the sort of “soft money” operation that Mr. McCain has fought against much of his career. The group was financed by some of Mr. McCain’s supporters and put together by Rick Reed, a former McCain media strategist.

Rick Davis, Mr. McCain’s campaign manager, wrote on Monday to donors to Mr. McCain’s presidential campaign, saying: “I hope you will refrain from involving yourself with the Foundation for a Secure and Prosperous America. While not illegal, this group’s efforts certainly violate the spirit of reform and disclosure for which John McCain has fought over the past decade.”

Mr. Davis added, “The best way to support John McCain’s campaign for president remains a financial contribution directly to his presidential campaign.”
323 2007-11-13 Q: Rates of C.O.P.D. are increasing both in the United States and worldwide. Why is that?

A: Cigarette smoking. The most common cause of C.O.P.D. is smoke. Now, there are two kinds of smoke. There's cigarette smoke. And then in third-world countries, there's smoke from biomass fuels -- open fires or flames used for cooking which may be more common than cigarettes.

Q: Here in the United States, are there risk factors for C.O.P.D. besides smoking?

A: Well, that's so far and away the largest cause that anything else will pale by comparison. It is felt that somewhere around 85 percent of C.O.P.D. is caused by cigarette smoking.

Q: Can cigar and pipe smoking cause C.O.P.D.?

A: Cigars and pipes don't cause as much of a problem, probably because people don't inhale as much. It's usually not studied as much, either, because you want to study the people with the highest exposure.

A: That's probably the next in line. The most common things are related to exposures to particulates -- people who are miners, for example. All dusts probably don't cause C.O.P.D., although not all have been studied as well as silica in mines.

A: We don't know that air pollution causes C.O.P.D., but it can certainly exacerbate it. That's why it's so important that the Environmental Protection Agency sets the outdoor air quality standards. In some states or cities, if they exceed certain levels, then they have to be more strict in terms of cars and trucks and exhaust and fumes. So the E.P.A. always comes up with modifications, and I think readers should know that it's important to support them when they come out.

Q: What about short-term exposures to toxins, such as New York City residents exposed to smoke from 9/11? Can that cause C.O.P.D.?

A: It is a syndrome that in some respects looks like C.O.P.D, but we don't really have good names for it. So it causes respiratory symptoms -- a picture that is like C.O.P.D. but is not exactly C.O.P.D.

It depends how you define C.O.P.D., which is in general smoking-related lung disease. Now, there are people who get "C.O.P.D." who are not smokers, and from a strictly medical-research perspective, that's not the same thing.

If you really want to understand the disease, you want to separate out those people who have cigarette smoke as the cause, versus toxins, which is a totally different exposure -- totally different kinds of mechanisms about what's happening in the lungs to cause the problem -- and asthma, which is even something else. And if you see a patient with C.O.P.D. who is a nonsmoker, that always calls for identifying what the issues really are and what led to it to make sure you're not missing another disease.

Q: Is the recent increase in C.O.P.D. then mainly a consequence of the swell in smoking rates from the 1950s to the 1980s?

A: Yes. If people started smoking thirty years ago, it takes that long for the disease to become clinically evident.

A: More women die of C.O.P.D. than men. If you think about when women started smoking, they started smoking later than men, and it really was sort of in the last 30 years, with the women's movement. That's one issue.

The second gender issue is that women may be more susceptible to cigarettes. It may have something to do simply with the size of their lungs, although we're not sure. Their airways are smaller to begin with, so they don't have to narrow as much. So there are issues that are probably unique to women in terms of size, but there may well be other ones.

Q: Are there people for whom quitting smoking actually won't change the risk of getting C.O.P.D.?

A: You need continued exposure to cigarette smoke to develop C.O.P.D. But some of our more recent thinking is that in some patients -- it may be more in patients with some kinds of disease than others, because C.O.P.D. is a wide variety of different kinds of diseases -- but it may be that in some people, once you start smoking, the damage just continues to progress whether or not you continue to smoke. In other people, you may need that continued smoking to get the disease to develop or progress. It's related to the genes and the pathophysiology and the causes -- which, unfortunately, we don't understand.

Q: Is it true that after you've smoked for a certain number of years, quitting won't make a difference?

A: No. Quitting helps at any time, and it helps several different kinds of things, not just lung disease. If you quit almost at any time, it decreases your chance of dying. And the same is true of lung function. We think that stopping smoking at any time is helpful in terms of preventing disease progression. People often say, "Well, I'm so far advanced that it won't make any difference," but that really isn't true.

Q: How can people recognize signs of C.O.P.D. at an early stage?

A: If they have any respiratory symptoms -- cough, phlegm, shortness of breath, wheezing -- they should see a physician. But the most important thing the physician needs to do is perform a lung function test called spirometry. That's the only way you can really decide if somebody has C.O.P.D.

So, for example, if you have a patient who has a lot of cough and phlegm but their lung function is normal, we don't say that patient has C.O.P.D. Cough and phlegm are not normal; we might call that a patient who's a smoker and has chronic bronchitis. But they don't have C.O.P.D., because they don't have abnormal lung function. The reason we focus on lung function is because we know that it's associated not only with symptoms, but with mortality, with hospitalization, etc.

A: People focus on things we can do something about, and that is viral and bacterial infections. But that may only occur in about half of exacerbations. The others may just be worsening of the disease because of air pollution or cigarettes or some other irritant. And there are obvious things like other diseases, such as if you have a heart attack.

Q: Are there things one can do to protect against poor air quality?

A: Things you can do personally to protect against poor air quality don't really do very much. There are those little ozone things that you can carry around your neck and HEPA filters, and all that stuff is helpful if you have some conditions like asthma. But for preventing C.O.P.D., they're not effective. We don't recommend wearing a face mask, either, because if you have shortness of breath, a mask will make it even more difficult to breathe.

Q: How important is pulmonary rehabilitation for the patient with C.O.P.D.?

A: Very important; it's probably as good as any medication. The single most important aspect, but not the only one, is exercise. Physicians for a long time have said to patients with C.O.P.D., "Well, we know you get more short of breath when you exercise, so don't exercise." And that's the wrong thing to do, because the more you exercise, the more you take the strain off your lungs and the better you'll feel.

Part of the systemic component of C.O.P.D. is muscle weakness and fatigue, and when your muscles are less fit, then you have to breathe more for a certain level of exercise. It's the same thing if your heart's not fit: for a certain level of exercise, you need to breathe more. If your muscles and your heart are working efficiently, you don't have to breathe as much.

Q: Should patients with C.O.P.D. consider lung-reduction surgery?

A: Lung-volume reduction surgery is definitely effective; it's one of the things that can improve survival. The problem with that surgery is it's only effective for very selective individuals; the criteria have been narrowed based on who we found, in a 2002 N.I.H. study, benefits and who doesn't benefit. So to decide who's a candidate for surgery, a CAT scan is necessary, because you have to have a certain amount of emphysema and a distribution of emphysema; and then you need breathing tests and exercise tests. Those are the big three.

Q: What kinds of new treatments are being studied?

A: The current generation of C.O.P.D. treatments are often applied both to patients with asthma and C.O.P.D., and they tend to open up air passages and let people breathe easier. The next generation of things that are on the horizon -- they're not close yet -- are things that will get to what the actual underlying cause is and try to reverse that and reduce the inflammation, which is associated with the ongoing destruction.

Q: Why is it so difficult to raise money for C.O.P.D. research and awareness of the disease?

A: I think there has been a longstanding feeling, which still exists, that people with C.O.P.D. did it to themselves because they smoked. But people are certainly not aware of the disease. The National Institutes of Health's C.O.P.D. awareness campaign -- the Web site is learnaboutCOPD.org -- has rolled out nationally. N.I.H. recognizes that people don't even know what the term C.O.P.D. is. So the major part of the awareness campaign is to tell people what it is, tell them that it's the fourth leading cause of death and get them to see their physician to get a diagnosis.
324 2007-11-13 WAL-MART IMPROVES COVERAGE Wal-Mart, the nation's largest private employer, is revamping its health plans by stepping up coverage for more workers -- a unexpected shift that has pleased some of the company's most ardent critics. Wal-Mart's chief e...
325 2007-11-13 A state supreme court judge in Sydney dismissed a case against a terrorism suspect, Izhar ul-Haque. Mr. Haque had been accused of attending a terrorist training camp run in Pakistan in early 2003. But the judge said he had been detained and threat...
326 2007-11-14 Governor Spitzer, sounding contrite and chastened, acknowledged that he had underestimated the depth of public opposition but vowed to press for comprehensive federal immigration reform....
327 2007-11-14 Will tolls be going up soon to cross the Hudson River? Recalling the days when all that was needed to get back and forth between New York and New Jersey was just a little coin....
328 2007-11-14 A bus driver stormed off an M.T.A. bus in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, and fought with a cabdriver, the police said. Both men were charged with assault....
329 2007-11-14 If you pick your presidential candidate by issue, there's a new tool in the online toolbox for you....
330 2007-11-14 From the abstract of a "study" by the Bonkers Institute for Nearly Genuine Research: This report discusses two cases in which complete symptomatic relief was achieved following the administration of large sums of money to the patients ... Based on...
331 2007-11-14 John McCain goes interactive on his campaign site, but some are not pleased....
332 2007-11-14 John Thain. Robert E. Rubin. Henry M. Paulson. With the impending appointment of Mr. Thain as the new chief executive of Merrill Lynch, one fact becomes more and more apparent: Goldman Sachs is increasingly inescapable. What is it about the invest...
333 2007-11-14 A Warhol goes for $21 million plus commission. A Damien Hirst is up for $2....
334 2007-11-14 John A. Thain, the chairman and chief executive of NYSE Euronext and a former co-president of Goldman Sachs, has been selected to be the next chief executive of Merrill Lynch, a person briefed on the situation told The New York Times. The move, wh...
335 2007-11-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
336 2007-11-14 Pardus Capital Management, a New York hedge fund, has sent a letter to the management of Delta Air Lines asking it to seek a merger with UAL, the parent of United Airlines, in a deal that would create the world's largest airline and could prompt s...
337 2007-11-14 A new New York Times/CBS News poll shows voters in early primary states Iowa and New Hampshire are divided on which issues matter most -- and how much issues even matter compared to electability....
338 2007-11-14 In July, billionaire investor Nelson Peltz thought Wendy's International could be worth as much as $3.6 billion. But, after cracking the hamburger chain's books, he's apparently had second thoughts. On Monday, Mr. Peltz, who through his hedge fund...
339 2007-11-14 Federal prosecutors expect a former registered representative at Bear Stearns to plead guilty "shortly" to criminal charges, according to a court filing made public on Tuesday. Ken Okada was among 13 people criminally charged in February in what a...
340 2007-11-14 Roche's $3 billion bid to acquire Ventana Medical Systems seemed to take a friendlier turn on Tuesday when the two sides struck a confidentiality agreement. The Arizona-based diagnostics company said it continued to believe the Swiss healthcare gr...
341 2007-11-14 Last week Don Shula, the legendary coach whose 1972 Miami Dolphins were the last team to finish a season undefeated, suggested that if the New England Patriots finish the season unbeaten, the feat would be tainted because the team videotaped the signals of an opposing team. Do you agree with the Hall of Fame coach?
342 2007-11-14 United and Delta shares rose steeply this afternoon after The Associated Press reported that the two carriers “have been discussing a combination” and that those talks had gone as far as settling on merging under the United name and on making United’s home, Chicago, the headquarters city for a combined airline.

Delta issued a statement denying that it had held merger discussions with United. “There have been no talks with United regarding any type of consolidation transaction and there are no such ongoing discussions,” Mr. Anderson said in the statement.

United’s spokeswoman, Jean Medina, said: "We do not respond to wholly inaccurate statements made by people who claim to have knowledge when they clearly do not."

The shares of the two companies then edged down closer to where they had begun the day. UAL, United’s parent, closed at $44.17, a gain of 67 cents, or 1.5 percent, after reaching a peak of $49.48. Delta ended the day at $19.56, up 81 cents, or 4.3 percent, but down from its daily peak of $21.10.

The Pardus proposal comes one year after a bid for Delta by US Airways that ultimately failed. That offer raised hopes among investors that airlines, long reluctant to merge because of expected labor problems and other factors, would finally consolidate and make the industry more efficient.

The US Airways bid also, however, attracted opposition from Delta workers, who feared widespread job losses, and from some who expected that the deal would reduce air service in some cities both airlines served.

The recent rise in oil prices, pushing jet fuel to record levels, threatens to end the airline industry’s nascent recovery and send carriers back into the red. That has led to increased speculation in recent weeks that mergers would again be seriously discussed.

Most airlines remain heavily in debt and highly vulnerable to fuel prices or any economic downturn.

Karim Samii, president of Pardus, and Shane Larson, a principal, said in the letter to Delta’s top executives and its chairman that “we believe it is imperative that you seek to enter into a merged transaction with another carrier given the rapid rise in fuel prices and the increased risk to the business as a stand-alone entity.”

Estimates of Delta having $1.5 billion in free cash flow for 2007 suggest, with higher fuel prices, that cash flow “would be more than eliminated if fuel prices remain at current levels for full year 2008,” the letter said.

The letter goes on to evaluate potential merger candidates for Delta, including Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines, but concludes that United is the best fit.

Pardus said in the letter that it had written to Delta management on Sept. 7 recommending a merger but at that time had not named a particular partner.

Since then, the hedge fund consulted with Mr. Bethune, the former Continental chief, and with consultants at Simat, Helliesen & Eichner.

It concluded that United and Delta together would offer the broadest network of routes to business travelers, and substantial savings.

A combination with Northwest would offer more savings — $1.5 billion a year, mostly from combining smaller hubs — but would not create as expansive a network, Pardus concluded. Northwest has a hub in Detroit, and Delta has one in Cincinnati; Northwest has a hub in Memphis; and Delta a giant one in Atlanta.

A combination with Continental would deliver no savings, actually raising the costs for the combined airlines by $171 million a year, and also present difficult management succession issues, the hedge fund concluded.

Pardus recommended that Delta acquire United in a stock merger with no premium. Based on recent trading prices, Delta could swap 2.395 of its shares for each United share, Pardus said. Pardus said it would back Mr. Anderson, Delta’s chief executive, to run the combined airline, with Glenn F. Tilton, United’s chief executive, sticking around as chairman “for the next year or two to help facilitate integration.”

Though Delta might get a better exchange rate by waiting and hoping its stock rises, Pardus recommended seeking a merger immediately. Fuel prices are one factor. And the regulatory climate — the Bush administration may be considerably more tolerant of big mergers than a potential Democratic White House — is another.

“We appreciate receiving Pardus’s views on the best course for Delta’s future,” Mr. Anderson said in the statement. “We have been consistent in our public statements that Delta believes that the right consolidation transaction could generate significant value for our shareholders and employees.”

He added, “With oil at over $90 a barrel, this analysis takes on a heightened importance.”

Ms. Medina, the United spokeswoman, said: “We have said for the last four years that we believe consolidation is necessary for the industry, and others independently are reaching the same conclusion. We make decisions in the best interest of United, and we don’t comment on the opinion of one shareholder, or the actions or hypothetical transactions proposed by others.”Delta and United each have a market capitalization of about $5 billion. That would suggest owners of the two carriers, if they combined, would split the company roughly in half. Pardus recommends a stock-for-stock exchange with no premium for United shareholders.

Mr. Tilton has publicly advocated industry consolidation, and is known to have engaged in discussions with Continental Airlines about a combination. Continental has said it prefers to remain independent but that, should the industry begin to consolidate, it would not stand idly by.

At Delta, Mr. Anderson has also spoken in favor of consolidation in recent months. A former chief executive of Northwest Airlines, who then took a job at UnitedHealth Group for a few years before being hired at Delta, he was the choice of Delta’s creditors committee, a group that wanted the carrier’s management open to the potential of a merger.

If fuel prices remain as high as they are today, there will be tremendous pressure on airlines to merge and cut their costs. Delta and United, having just recently emerged from bankruptcy, where workers took a beating on wages and benefits, have little opportunity to further reduce labor costs or increase productivity.

In fact, United faces an angry work force that, seeing the carrier profitable and Mr. Tilton receiving a big paycheck, wants to reopen contract talks early and extract a raise.

And raising fares to remain profitable — something airlines are trying mightily to do these days — is difficult, too. Low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines, AirTran and JetBlue Airways, which operate across much of the networks of Delta and United, help keep fares lower. And consumers resist, too, shopping diligently online for low fares and making it difficult for airlines to increase their revenue.
343 2007-11-14 Spending is slowing — but so is inflation, offering the Federal Reserve more room to stimulate the economy by lowering interest rates next month, if it wants.

Retail sales softened in October, rising 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent gain in September, the Commerce Department said today. The report underscored analysts’ expectations that consumers will be more reluctant to spend freely over the holiday season. It was the smallest sales gain since a 0.1 percent rise in August.

“The overall picture is weak,” said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at the research firm MFR. “The consumer is notching it back quite a bit.”

A beleaguered housing market and rising energy prices threaten to slow economic activity in the fourth quarter, as consumers find their pocketbooks strained by expensive necessities like gasoline and heating oil.

Department stores were hit hard in October, as warmer-than-normal weather hurt sales of winter clothing. Furniture sales continue to slow, showing their third straight month of declines. Electronics, apparel, and sporting goods all sold at a middling pace.
344 2007-11-14 SEOUL, Nov. 14 — Meeting for the first time in 15 years, the prime ministers of North and South Korea today discussed turning their disputed western sea border, the site of naval skirmishes as recent as five years ago, into a “peace and cooperation zone” for joint fishing and manufacturing.

The South Korean initiative was at the top of the agenda as North Korean Prime Minister Kim Yong Il and his South Korean counterpart, Han Duck Soo, began three days of talks in Seoul, hoping to extend the detente fostered by the summit meeting in October and the North’s recent move to disable its nuclear weapons facilities.

Kim Yong Il, a transportation expert, was promoted to prime minister in April, with a directive from the North Korean leader Kim Jong Il to revive the North’s moribund economy. Kim Yong Il’s trip to Seoul followed a rare visit late last month to Vietnam, which has normalized ties with Washington and began rebuilding its economy with outside investment. The South Korea hopes that the North will follow Vietnam’s course soared when Kim Jong Il reportedly told the visiting Vietnamese leader, Communist Party secretary-general Nong Duc Manh, in mid-October that he wanted to emulate its policy of economic reform.

Today, Mr. Manh met South Korean President Roh Moo Hyun in Seoul. South Korea fought alongside American troops in Vietnam but is now the largest foreign investor there.

Mr. Roh was expected to ask Mr. Manh to help persuade Kim Jong Il to follow Vietnam’s example. “The whole nation is eager to see the Oct. 4 declaration implemented at an early date,” Kim Yong Il said after arriving in Seoul on a direct flight from Pyongyang. He was referring to a broadly worded summit agreement between the Kim Jong Il and Mr. Roh. Most members of Mr. Kim’s 43-strong delegation were economic officials.
345 2007-11-14 Nike is recalling about 235,000 helmet chin straps after the company received 18 reports of the chin straps breaking, including some that resulted in concussions and facial lacerations, a government safety group announced. Nike has received two reports of concussions, two reports of facial lacerations requiring stitches, and a report of a broken nose. The chin straps, made in China, were sold at sporting-goods stores nationwide and on Nike’s Web site from April 2006 through October 2007.
346 2007-11-14 The Swiss yacht club that won the last two America’s Cup is asking an American rival to withdraw its lawsuit by Friday to ensure the 2009 competition will be raced on schedule. The Societe Nautique de Geneve, the home of the Cup champion Alinghi, is being sued by the United States syndicate BMW Oracle Racing’s Golden Gate Yacht Club because it says the Spanish boat Desafío Español — which helped establish the 33rd edition’s format — is an “invalid challenger.” If Golden Gate continues with its lawsuit in New York state and wins, it would be able to renegotiate the race format with Alinghi, probably pushing the event into 2010.
347 2007-11-14 Khieu Samphan, the former Khmer Rouge head of state whose arrest by a United Nations-backed genocide tribunal has been widely anticipated, suffered a stroke, his daughter and a neighbor said. Mr. Khieu Samphan’s daughter, Khieu Rattana, said he was stricken just a day after two of his colleagues in the Khmer Rouge, which ruled in the 1970s, were arrested by the tribunal. Those colleagues, Ieng Sary, the group’s foreign minister, and his wife, Ieng Thirith, the social affairs minister, were both charged with crimes against humanity. The Khmer Rouge were blamed for the deaths of some 1.7 million people from starvation, disease, overwork and execution between 1975 and 1979. None of the group’s leaders has faced trial.
348 2007-11-14 Crude oil prices also dropped sharply, down $3.45 a barrel to settle at $91.17. Oil has retreated from what once looked to many analysts like an inevitable march toward the $100 mark. It remained near its nominal record, but yesterday’s dip encouraged some traders to predict that potential price pressures from rising energy costs might ease.

“The drop in oil prices could be the start of some relief on energy costs for consumers going into the winter months,” said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor’s.

Financial shares recovered after taking a beating last week, when several major banks announced new write-downs related to subprime home loans.

Investors were buoyed by comforting words from top executives at Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, who said they were confident their companies would emerge relatively unscathed from the subprime mess. Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman’s president, said his bank would not take more write-downs on mortgage-backed securities, sending the bank’s stock up 8.5 percent to $233.04 a share. Shares in JPMorgan rose 6.3 percent.

Shares of Citigroup, which said it would restructure its investment banking divisions after billions of dollars in write-downs last quarter, rose 6.9 percent, to $35.90 a share.

The market loathes uncertainty, and surprise write-downs by brokerage firms have shaken investors who fear a collapse in the credit market. Bank of America said yesterday that it would write down $3 billion in collateralized debt obligations in the fourth quarter, but the stock rose 5.2 percent anyway as investors hoped the company, the nation’s biggest consumer bank, had disclosed the last of its losses.

Technology stocks also began to recover from their worst week in five years. Apple may begin marketing its popular iPhone mobile device in China next year, exciting investors who sent the company’s stock up more than 10 percent, but even after the big gain it was still down 11 percent for the last five trading days.

The technology-heavy Nasdaq index gained 3.5 percent, its strongest performance of the year.

So with all the good news yesterday, why isn’t the market breathing easier?

“The jury’s out on all of this,” said Mr. Yardeni, normally a bull. He noted that much of Wal-Mart’s increase in earnings came from cutting costs and reducing prices, suggesting that consumers may be more interested in bargains than spending freely and that many other retailers may not be able to match its performance.

Indeed, Home Depot lowered its annual earnings prediction in the face of the ailing housing market, a disappointing outlook that was more in line with investors’ expectations about housing-related business activity.

Analysts are looking to this week’s inflation data for a clearer picture of how problems in the credit and housing market are affecting the economy. The Consumer Price Index for October, an important measure of inflation, will be released tomorrow. Analysts expect core prices — which exclude energy and food costs and are considered a more reliable measure of underlying inflation — to hold steady at a mild 0.2 percent.

And as long as prices remain under control, the Federal Reserve would be in a position to cut interest rates to stimulate lagging growth without worrying about a resurgence of inflation.

“We know the economy is slowing,” Mr. Stovall said. “But we’re looking beyond that, because we know the Fed is the cavalry, coming over the ridge.”

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auction of 3- and 6-month bills:
349 2007-11-14 But private equity firms buy private companies (or take public companies private), trying to fix them and resell them at a higher price — a process that can take years. Hedge funds generally focus on trading in public markets (though many do private market investing as well).

Both groups have gained the attention of pension funds and endowments looking for higher returns, and both have had reduced returns in recent months.

But a sharp difference is how the two perform in turbulent markets. Hedge funds can profit from chaos, while private equity in many instances is sidelined. Private equity needs cheap money for deals, and banks — the source of that financing — are busy trying to determine multibillion-dollar write-downs from subprime mortgages.

Private equity firms also need markets conducive to getting out of their investments — selling companies to the public, to strategic buyers or to each other. All of that has evaporated with the implosion of credit markets and structured finance.

Tony James, president of Blackstone, told investors in a conference call Monday, “In the short term, the credit dislocation and weak equity market make it hard to set up big new deals right now and don’t make it an optimal time to be harvesting our assets either, particularly, so we are in a little bit of a hiatus there.”

Yet some hedge funds seem to be having their moment in the sun. Volatile markets have enabled their managers to make big bets and the lower returns of the broader markets finally offer a low benchmark. Already, GLG is trading at a multiple higher than Blackstone or Fortress.

The landscape for funds trying to monetize their businesses has shifted, bankers and lawyers focused on hedge funds say. After Blackstone’s offering, hedge funds and private equity raced to explore stock offerings. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, which filed to go public in July, updated its offering prospectus for the second time yesterday, though it seems intent on waiting for kinder markets. Others are choosing to sell a minority stake or are exploring private markets.

Och-Ziff opted to continue. The $30.1 billion hedge fund was started by Daniel Och, a former Goldman Sachs trader, in 1994. Assets under management soared to $30.1 billion in September from $5.8 billion in December 2002. The fund performed well in the toxic markets of 2000 and 2001, investors say. Last month, Och-Ziff sold a roughly 10 percent stake to Dubai Capital for $1.3 billion, mimicking Blackstone’s sale of a stake to the investment arm of the Chinese government before its I.P.O.

The fund is expected to go public at a much lower multiple than the one Blackstone sold to investors (10 to 12 times compared with more than 30 times for Blackstone, which is now trading at a multiple of about 13).

Och-Ziff has a record of returns that seem mediocre but that cater to the needs of institutional investors: stable and without the same level of risk as the market.

The funds have annualized one-year returns of 13.4 percent, three-year returns of 12.5 percent and five-year returns of 13.9 percent. Comparable numbers for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index are 16.4 percent, 13.1 percent and 15.5 percent. The funds have about one-half to one-third less volatility than the market

Like the Blackstone offering, the Och-Ziff one will create billionaires. Mr. Och will receive $1.1 billion and David Windreich, an executive managing director, will receive $245.2 million, all of which will be reinvested in a global special investment fund. The shares will be locked up for five years. Mr. Och’s 48.5 percent stake at $32 a share will be worth $4.7 billion on paper.

This week’s earnings announcements by Blackstone and Fortress make it hard to predict how Och-Ziff will fare. For Blackstone, buyout activity proved less lucrative than hedge funds: the former showed a 42 percent rise in earnings, but the latter jumped 88 percent.

Fortress, known more for its hedge fund operations, had much different results. Growth in that business was relatively anemic — its hybrid hedge fund business collected $43 million in revenue in the third quarter, a 20 percent drop from last year — while its private equity revenue surged.
350 2007-11-14 WASHINGTON, Nov. 13 — Augustus F. Hawkins, who was California’s first black representative in Congress, serving 14 terms in the House, and who had a hand in important civil rights legislation, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964, died on Saturday in Bethesda, Md. He was 100 and had lived in Washington since retiring from Congress in January 1991.

His death, at a Bethesda hospital, was announced by his niece, Susan Jefferson, The Associated Press reported.

Mr. Hawkins, who was known as Gus, represented south-central Los Angeles, including Watts. When he was first elected in 1962, he became one of only six black members of the House. After the elections in 1970, he helped found the Congressional Black Caucus, the influential organizing body for black lawmakers.

He was elected to the California State Assembly in Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s first term as president, and served there from 1934 until 1962. Through his career in government, Mr. Hawkins championed civil rights legislation and the liberal ideals of big government. He supported the New Deal and the Great Society programs of President Lyndon B. Johnson.

But as he prepared to retire from the House, at the age of 82, he expressed some disillusionment with Congress and with his fellow black lawmakers, who he said often pursued individual interests instead of working as a cohesive group. “You could get frustrated by staying here,” he said in an interview in 1990.
351 2007-11-14 But Mr. Naimi quickly ruled out an imminent policy decision by the oil cartel as Saudi Arabia plays host to the summit meeting of OPEC heads of states this weekend. The leaders are expected to discuss the security of global oil supplies.

The prospect of oil at $100 a barrel seems to have receded, for the moment.

The drop in prices was welcomed in Riyadh, where the issue threatened to overshadow the summit meeting. But the question of oil prices remains a particularly sensitive one, especially for Saudi Arabia, the top oil exporter. The kingdom holds a quarter of the world’s proven oil reserves.

During a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Naimi carefully avoided drawing any conclusions linking the current high prices and a potential slowdown in consumption. He stressed several times that he believed that oil prices were set by free markets, not oil producers. Typically, he would not be drawn into talking about specific price levels.

“We are not really interested in prices that negatively impact economic growth or cause less prosperity,” Mr. Naimi said. “The price needs to be fair to many players. That’s the difficult formula, to say what the price will be.”

He added, “The fundamentals have nothing to do with prices.”

After his earlier comments helped deflate the market, Mr. Naimi said OPEC’s oil ministers would not discuss production levels this week. But he left the door open to a new increase in OPEC’s cumulative output when the group meets in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates, on Dec. 5.

After its last meeting, in September, OPEC decided to increase oil production by 500,000 barrels a day, a modest increase of 2 percent in the group’s total output. The measure, which became effective Nov. 1, did not curb prices.

The stunning rise in energy prices, spurred by an increasingly volatile and unpredictable market, has happened despite warnings about the health of the American economy. Last week, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the United States was headed for slower growth because of oil prices, among other things. The message prompted a sell-off on Wall Street and stoked new fears of a possible recession.

Asked whether he was concerned that a slowdown could reduce demand for oil in the United States, Mr. Naimi said: “We do not wish any country to go into a recession, particularly the biggest consumer in the world. We hope it doesn’t happen, and we’re not planning on that happening.”

Mr. Naimi said Saudi Arabia was pumping 9 million barrels a day and had increased its production capacity to 11.3 million barrels. He expects another 500,000 barrels of additional capacity within the next three months. Saudi Arabia, he said, is on track to raise its total production capacity to 12.5 million barrels a day by 2009.

The OPEC summit meeting, which will include the leaders of Iran, Venezuela and Nigeria, will be held here on Saturday and Sunday. It will be preceded by a two-day conference on energy and environmental challenges for OPEC.

Saudi Arabia and other oil producers have invested tens of billions of dollars to improve their ability to pump more oil on the assumption that demand will keep rising, especially in Asia.

But at current prices, consumers are feeling the pinch and governments are becoming concerned about the weight of energy costs on economic growth, according to the energy agency. Over time, prices are changing the attitudes of consumers in developed countries.

“The cumulative $70 rise in price since 2002 is, we believe, having a cumulative effect,” the report said. “Ultimately, whether $100 oil proves a turning point in consumer and government thinking toward energy efficiency is more significant than its direct impact on oil demand growth.”
352 2007-11-14 Whether the cat was feral is the crucial point in this case. Mr. Stevenson was indicted under a state law that prohibited killing a cat “belonging to another.” Prompted by this case, the law was changed on Sept. 1 to include all cats, regardless of ownership.

Ms. Santell argued that because Mr. Newland had named, fed and given the cat bedding and toys, the cat belonged to him and was not feral.

Mr. Stevenson’s lawyer, Tad Nelson, admitted in his opening statement that his client went to the San Luis Pass toll bridge with “an intent to kill.” but that he had planned to kill a wild animal that was preying on endangered piping plovers. “This man has dedicated his whole life to birds,” Mr. Nelson said, pointing at Mr. Stevenson.

The case has prompted emotional commentary on the Internet. Cat enthusiast blogs have called Mr. Stevenson a “murderous fascist” and a “diabolical monster.” Birding blogs have defended his right to dispense with a “terrible menace” and have set up funds to help pay for his defense.

In an interview in a courthouse elevator during a break in the trial, Mr. Stevenson said heatedly that cat fanciers who have condemned him and sent him hateful correspondence “think birds are nothing but sticks.” “This is about wild species disappearing from your planet,” he said, adding, “I did what I had to do.”

Testimony followed from police officers and the veterinarian who performed the autopsy on Mama Cat, a white and gray tabby mix. The jurors were shown several photographs of the bloodied cat, reminiscent of an episode of “CSI: Miami.”

Pictures of the crime scene showed trays of cat food, blankets and cat toys hanging from strings under the bridge. The .22-caliber rifle Mr. Stevenson used to kill the cat along with his magazine full of Remington hollow-point bullets were also on display.

The prosecution and defense wrangled repeatedly about whether witnesses could accurately assess the cat’s state of mind.

“He’s not qualified to know what the cat was feeling,” said Mr. Nelson, when a police officer, John P. Bertolino Sr., testified that the cat was in terrible pain when he arrived at the crime scene. The cat died en route to a Humane Society facility.

The trial, which is expected to take a week, had few spectators save a handful of bird lovers and cat lovers who sat on opposite sides of the courtroom. One side nodded emphatically at Ms. Santell’s arguments, and the other nodded whenever Mr. Nelson objected.

“How people feel about the trial depends on who you talk to,” said Victor Lang, a local historian, adding that bird-watchers and cat fanciers obviously had the strongest views.

Though others may argue passionately about whether Mr. Stevenson should be punished, Mr. Lang said he did not have strong feelings about the case.

“But you see, I’m a dog person,” he said. “If he had shot a dog, then I’d be more upset.”
353 2007-11-14 Citigroup’s embattled capital markets unit will be regrouping under a new leader.

In a memorandum sent out yesterday, James A. Forese, the new head of capital markets, announced another round of changes that would organize the division to be more like its investment banking rivals.

The heads of underwriting and sales will oversee fixed-income and equities functions; previously, the debt and equities functions had been run separately.

The reorganization is the first major step that Mr. Forese has made since he took over last month for Thomas G. Maheras, who left after Citigroup announced big losses under his watch.

According to reports at the time, Mr. Maheras took a change in the reporting structure as a demotion. Under the change, Mr. Maheras was to report to Vikram S. Pandit, a former Morgan Stanley investment banker who was elevated to lead both the investment bank and alternative investments group.

The changes also come after the ouster of the chairman and chief executive, Charles O. Prince III, and news that the bank would take an additional $8 billion to $11 billion write-down related to subprime mortgages, on top of the $5.9 billion reported earlier.
354 2007-11-14 Apple’s shares rose more than they had in over a year after China Mobile, the world’s biggest wireless operator, said it was in talks to sell the iPhone.

Apple, rebounding after three days of declines, advanced as much as 11 percent, the most since July 2006. An agreement would give Apple access to a market with 523 million subscribers, more than the combined population of the European Union.

Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., added $16.20 to close at $169.96 in Nasdaq trading.

The iPhone, which came out in the United States in June, blends the iPod media player with a mobile phone. China Mobile already has an agreement to sell BlackBerry handsets from Research in Motion.

“Our customers like this kind of fashionable product,” China Mobil’s chairman, Wang Jianzhou, said at a conference in Macao yesterday, referring to the $399 iPhone handset made by Apple. “The biggest issue is the business model.”

Jill Tan, an Apple spokeswoman in Hong Kong, declined to comment.

Apple has tied the device to partnerships with mobile-phone companies in the United States, Britain, Germany and France. Apple gets an undisclosed cut of the monthly fees the carriers charge, and in return they have exclusive rights to sell iPhone service contracts.

Analysts have estimated that AT&T pays Apple $10 to $20 a month for each subscriber. AT&T’s monthly fees are $60 to $220, and the company said last month that it had activated 1.1 million of the 1.4 million iPhones sold since June.
355 2007-11-14 “I remember coming to New York when I was 10 or 11 and seeing the production of ‘Gypsy’ that Tyne Daly was in,” she said. “In my bedroom, I had a huge poster of the skyline of New York.”

In 2005 Ms. Wilson, who majored in English literature as an undergraduate at the University of California, Los Angeles, moved to New York. She now lives in the West Village with a roommate who is a social worker and a fat black cat named Johnny. In October 2006, after numerous, and fruitless, auditions, she says, she auditioned in New York for the role of Lizette Sarnoff, the wife of David Sarnoff, a media mogul.

Instead she landed a different role. “My agent called and said, ‘You’re playing Pem Farnsworth’” (the inventor Philo T. Farnsworth’s wife), Ms. Wilson said. “I said: ‘You’ve got to be kidding me. Are you sure?’”

It wasn’t a mistake. “She came into the audition and just knocked us out,” Mr. Sorkin said. “She got the role over a lot of actresses with a lot more experience. She’s got a lot of gravitas. She’s very soulful.”

“Alex represented the first time in my experience that someone’s played a scene differently than I imagined it but with spectacular results,” he added. “She plays Pem as a tough cookie, and she’s one of the emotional centers of the play. Believe me, you haven’t heard the last of her.”

Ms. Wilson opened in the role during a workshop production at the La Jolla Playhouse in San Diego early this year. Fast forward to September for rehearsals in Midtown Manhattan and then to Oct. 15 for previews at the Music Box Theater on West 45th Street.

The play has been one of the most-anticipated shows of the season, signifying, as it does, the return of the celebrated Mr. Sorkin to Broadway after he sparkled there in 1989 with his first play, “A Few Good Men.” Mr. Sorkin went on to write for film and television and is now perhaps best known as the creator of “The West Wing” series on NBC. “The Farnsworth Invention” is a plus-size show, budgeted at $4 million, with 19 actors playing more than 60 roles and spanning much of the first half of the 20th century.

Directed by the Tony Award winner Des McAnuff, the play is about the battle over patent rights to the television set, which pitted the inventor Farnsworth against Sarnoff, who ran the Radio Corporation of America. Hank Azaria is Sarnoff. Jimmi Simpson is Farnsworth, who grew up on an Idaho potato farm and was in high school when he found the technological solution that made the electronic transmission of live images possible.

“She’s great,” Ms. Wilson said of her character. “I’m totally in love with her. Not to sound like a cliché, but she’s the woman behind the man. In real life they were like 18 and 19 years old when they got married. She actually passed away only a year ago, and Aaron Sorkin met her. She made it her life’s work to get Philo’s story out there, to get the credit he deserved.”

But for the moment, the production is in what Mr. McAnuff calls “suspended animation.”

“On Saturday Aaron Sorkin took everyone out to lunch,” Ms. Wilson said. “Saturday felt like a snow day, but now it just feels weird.”

Melissa Smith, the director of the American Conservatory Theater and one of Ms. Wilson’s mentors, said Ms. Wilson was “a tough cookie” who would weather this storm just fine. She recalled Ms. Wilson as an actress whose intelligence and dry sense of humor always come through.

“It’s a big break, early,” Ms. Smith said. “There’s a sense now of sitting in stalled traffic, but in time it’ll be one of those stories she’ll dine out on.”

For the moment, Ms. Wilson has the short black dress she’d planned to wear to the opening-night party hanging in her closet. At least Johnny, her cat, is happy about the strike, Ms. Wilson said.

“He likes it that I am around a little bit more,” she said with a smile. “Whatever’s going to happen is going to happen. I’ll keep my shoes shined for opening night.”
356 2007-11-14 A first edition of the Emily Brontë novel “Wuthering Heights,” published in 1847 under the pseudonym Ellis Bell because the author feared she faced prejudice as a female writer, sold at an auction in London yesterday for $236,000. It had been expected to fetch $62,000 to $103,000. A spokeswoman for Bonhams, the auction house, said the book had been bought by a private client and would remain in Britain. The book’s previous owner, Anne Reid, who is studying at the London Art Academy, received the book as a gift from her grandfather when she was a child. It had been in her family for four generations.
357 2007-11-14 Following calls from the administration, Congress authorized the Department of Homeland Security to regulate high-risk chemical facilities. The department issued a regulation requiring covered facilities to implement security plans, followed by government audits and compliance inspections.

Unlike state chemical security regimes, violations carry severe penalties including hefty fines, even shutdown. Chalk one up for public safety.

Your criticisms boil down to faulting D.H.S. for implementing the law as Congress wrote it. Wisely, Congress instructed D.H.S. to set risk-based performance security standards and not to cookie-cutter regulate every facility. We should spend our limited security dollars where they’ll do most, and recognize the work that industry has already done. This avoids the inefficiency of starting from scratch, and the arrogance of thinking that Washington has a monopoly on the best answers.

If that’s a point for industry, it’s certainly another two for public safety.

Unfortunately, you continue to overlook the significant strides being made to secure facilities that use chemicals.

It’s time for a wake-up call. In lieu of regulations, our members stepped up and invested nearly $5 billion since 9/11 to enhance security at their facilities. And now, after years of debate in Congress, strong federal chemical security regulations are in place that will regulate thousands of facilities and shut down those that fail to comply.

The new regulations represent a victory for all Americans. As Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, points out, the new regulations are “good news” and a major step forward to protecting the nation from a potential terrorist attack.
358 2007-11-14 China’s leaders are clearly concerned. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao visited the needy in a district of Beijing on Monday and promised to stabilize prices, according to the official news agency Xinhua.

“Prices have been on the rise these days, and I’m aware that even a one-yuan increase in prices will affect people’s lives,” said Mr. Wen, referring to a sum of Chinese currency equal to about 13 cents.

Inflation accelerated in October even though the government issued a ban on Sept. 19 on all price increases for a long list of regulated industries, from airlines to electric utilities to energy companies. The main culprit in October was rising food prices, while nonfood prices climbed just 1.1 percent.

But prices will probably go considerably higher in November. The price controls prevented refiners from passing on high world crude oil prices in October, so many refiners cut back their output of gasoline and diesel, resulting in long lines at service stations. The government quickly gave in, announcing an increase of nearly 10 percent in the regulated price of gasoline and diesel that took effect on Nov. 1.

Truckers at a rest stop here in Guangzhou in southeastern China said that the price increase had not been enough to erase the shortages and that they were still being forced to wait hours to buy as little as five gallons of diesel.

Not only energy prices may be higher in November. Mr. Wen also urged employers on Monday to be more generous in giving raises to employees and to be especially careful to follow minimum wage laws. If his appeals are heeded, that could push up manufacturing wages and prices.

At a market early this afternoon in Shenzhen in southeastern China, clerks and customers complained about rising prices for everything from pork to Chinese cabbage — although egg prices had fallen slightly in the last month. But prices remain low in dollar terms, with some vegetables selling for as little as 12 cents a pound.

That low price in dollar terms is a result of a very low exchange rate for China’s currency, known as the yuan or the renminbi. China’s central bank has been buying foreign currency, mainly dollars, at a pace of $1 billion a day so as to slow the rise of its currency.

American companies buying from China face a double blow: not only are prices rising in terms of China’s currency but China has also quietly begun allowing the yuan to rise at a faster pace against the dollar. The annualized pace of appreciation of the yuan has climbed to 6 percent in the last week.

This will make it a little cheaper in yuan terms for Chinese companies to import raw materials, which tend to be priced in dollars. But it is still slower than many members of Congress have sought.

China’s competitiveness has not diminished yet, either. On Monday, China posted another record monthly trade surplus: $27 billion in October.

China now exports more to the European Union than to the United States, and exports to Europe have been growing strongly. The yuan has actually been losing value against the euro because China has set the appreciation rate of the yuan in terms of the dollar, which has been falling steeply.

Many manufacturers, as well as retailers of manufactured goods, have not yet raised prices, hoping to hold on to market share even as China’s production capacity keeps growing.

Pan Xishen, a business development manager at Tayohya, a home decoration chain with 370 franchised stores across China, said the company had resisted raising prices even though raw material costs had climbed 5 to 8 percent in the last year.

“It’s reducing the margin” of profits, he said on Tuesday at the Global Sources Franchising China trade show here. “We’re controlling the price to the consumer.”
359 2007-11-14 You don’t want to give up control. First, divide the business into voting and nonvoting shares, even if you must recapitalize the company, said Richard L. Dees, a lawyer with McDermott Will & Emery in Chicago. Ideally, voting stock should make up no more than 10 percent of the total company shares, he said.

After that, you can give away partial interests in the business. You can make these gifts to family members directly, but it is better to use an irrevocable trust, which protects the assets from creditors, said Steven B. Gorin, a lawyer with Thompson Coburn in St. Louis.

Since gift recipients lack control, and the shares are considered unmarketable, you can value both the gift and the interest you retain at a discount of 35 to 45 percent, lawyers said. The discount on what you give away enables you to pack more into your annual limit, or into the $1 million overall limit on what you can exclude over a lifetime. (A 45 percent levy kicks in on anything over $1 million.)

Giving away too much in business assets could incur the gift tax. In that case don’t give them away — sell them in exchange for a promissory note with interest, said John D. Dadakis, a lawyer with Schiff Hardin in New York. With this strategy, you can also apply discounts and avoid tax on future appreciation. Here, too, it is preferable to use a trust, rather than dealing with family members directly.

A liquidity event, like a sale or initial public offering, is on the horizon. You can transfer the appreciation at little or no gift-tax cost with a grantor retained annuity trust. Here you put company shares into a short-term irrevocable trust and retain the right to receive an annual income stream equal to the value of what you contribute plus interest at a rate set each month by the Internal Revenue Service (the Section 7520 rate). If you survive the trust term — a condition for this tool to work — any appreciation in the trust when the annual payments end passes to your family.

On the other hand, if the appreciation never occurs, the business owner is no worse off, said Charles A. Redd, a lawyer with Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal in St. Louis. In this case, the trust would satisfy its payout obligations by returning some of the stock to the owner.

As you near retirement, cash flow can be a concern. Consider a charitable cash bailout, said David T. Leibell, a lawyer with Wiggin and Dana in Stamford, Conn. Here, the owner, who has already transferred some shares to children, puts others into a charitable remainder trust, and the company buys them back for cash at fair market value. The trust uses the cash to supply an income stream to the owner, with the rest going to charity after the owner dies. Meanwhile, the company retires the shares it has bought back, increasing the value of what the children retain. This transaction avoids income tax, gift tax and estate tax, Mr. Leibell said.

Whether you choose just one of these strategies or use them in combination, it is best to start with the least complicated approach that will achieve your goals. Lawyers’ fees for these transactions can range from less than $10,000 to many multiples of that sum, depending on the details. And any time you give away shares of a business, you must get an appraisal, which can easily cost $5,000 or more. You will want to be sure that what you spend to use various estate-planning tools is less than your heirs would pay the tax man.
360 2007-11-14 When presidential candidates appear at public forums, passions about the field are often on vivid display. Monday, Senator John McCain received a question from a woman in Hilton Head Island, S.C., that was blunt and harsh.

“How do we beat the bitch?” the woman asked.

Mr. McCain was obviously uncomfortable, trying to deflect the vitriol with humor and offering to give a translation. But he did not condemn the questioner, instead calling it an “excellent question.”

He then addressed the question without any apparent doubt as to whom it referred.

“There was a poll yesterday,” he said, “that shows me three points ahead of Senator Clinton in a head-to-head matchup. I respect Mrs. Clinton.”

The clip was first shown on the Web site, TPM Election Central, and later on Salon and other sites, with bloggers asking why Mr. McCain had not taken the questioner to task.

A spokesman for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton declined to comment on Mr. McCain’s response. But some of her advisers said they were surprised that he had not defused the moment more artfully, given the possibility that it might stir sympathy or outrage on Mrs. Clinton’s behalf in some quarters.

Some of her allies have accused her male Democratic opponents of ganging up on her in their last televised debate.
361 2007-11-14 1. In large saucepan, heat oil over medium heat. Add onion and sauté until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes. Add garlic, ginger, garam masala, curry powder and jalapeño. Cook, stirring, for 1 minute.

2. Stir in 4 cups broth, sweet potatoes, lentils and bay leaf. Increase heat to high and bring to a boil; reduce heat to medium, partially cover, and simmer for 25 minutes. (If lentils seem dry, add up to 1 cup stock, as needed.) Stir in chard and salt and pepper, and continue cooking until lentils are tender and chard is cooked, about 30 to 45 minutes total.

3. Just before serving, stir in cilantro, lime zest and juice. Spoon into a large, shallow serving dish. Garnish with almonds if desired and scallions.
362 2007-11-14 Mr. Romney is running relatively strongly in New Hampshire, but many of his supporters say they are open to changing their mind. In Iowa, where Mr. Romney has built a big network of supporters and invested heavily in advertisements, he appears to be in a tight race with Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas.

The polls found a wide disparity between Republicans and Democrats on two critical issues that are confronting the candidates as they travel in Iowa and New Hampshire and the rest of the country: illegal immigration and how to deal with the possibility of a nuclear-armed Iran.

Just 4 percent of Democrats in Iowa and New Hampshire would favor a candidate who advocates using military action soon to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons; 38 percent of New Hampshire Republicans and 31 percent of Iowa Republicans would support such a candidate.

In Iowa, 86 percent of Republicans described immigration as a very or somewhat serious problem facing the country; 59 percent of Democrats said the same thing. In both states, immigration rivals the war in Iraq as the issue Republicans want the candidates to discuss. Republicans in Iowa view Mr. Romney as the candidate who most closely shares their views about immigration. Senator John McCain of Arizona has repeatedly pointed to his identification with legislation that included some provisions that would allow immigrants to gain legal status as a main cause of his decline in Iowa.

More broadly, the survey suggests the extent to which Republicans are struggling to balance ideological and pragmatic considerations as they face an election in which many are fearful of losing the White House.

Large majorities of Republicans in New Hampshire and Iowa said they wanted the next president to be as conservative or more conservative than President Bush. But New Hampshire voters who said they intended to vote in the Republican primary are prepared to vote for a candidate who is not as conservative as they are, if they judge the candidate to have a good chance of winning the presidency (independents can vote in either party primary in New Hampshire). Two-thirds of New Hampshire Republicans and one-half of Iowa Republicans said they were open to voting for candidates who did not share their view on issues like abortion and same-sex marriage, which augurs well for Mr. Giuliani, who supports abortion rights and gay rights.

By contrast, 50 percent of New Hampshire Democrats said they would not be prepared to vote for a candidate who wanted to keep troops in Iraq “longer than you would like,” even if they thought the Democrat had a good chance of victory in November.

The poll for Iowa was conducted by telephone from Nov. 2 through Nov. 11, and involved 793 Democratic caucusgoers and 480 Republican caucusgoers. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points for Democrats and five percentage points for Republicans.

The New Hampshire telephone poll was conducted Nov. 9-12 with 417 Democratic and 302 Republican primary voters. Undeclared voters were asked which primary they planned to participate in. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus five percentage points for Democrats and six percentage points for Republicans.

Iowa polls this early are notoriously unreliable in terms of predicting the outcome; that said, this poll suggested volatility on the Republican side, with evidence that Mr. Huckabee is well-positioned to present an intense last-minute challenge to Mr. Romney, who has worked for a year to assure himself a solid victory in Iowa on Jan. 3.

Among Republican caucusgoers, 27 percent said they would support Mr. Romney, while 21 percent said they would support Mr. Huckabee and 15 percent said they would support Mr. Giuliani. But two-thirds of Mr. Romney’s backers said they could change their mind, a strikingly large number; by contrast, half of Mr. Huckabee’s supporters said they could change their mind. And nearly every one of Mr. Huckabee’s poll measures in Iowa, where he has focused most of his resources, was encouraging: 50 percent of respondents had a favorable view of him, compared with 7 percent who said they viewed him unfavorably

None of the Democrats has a statistically significant lead in Iowa: Mrs. Clinton has the support of 25 percent of respondents, Mr. Edwards 23 percent and Mr. Obama 22 percent. Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who has waged a spirited campaign in the state, was named by 12 percent of Democratic caucusgoers.

In New Hampshire, Mrs. Clinton leads with 37 percent, compared with 22 percent for Mr. Obama and 9 percent for Mr. Edwards. Among Republicans, Mr. Romney has the support of 34 percent of respondents, while Mr. Giuliani and Mr. McCain — who won the state in 2000, and has always described it as a warm environment for him — each have the support of 16 percent.

The findings underlined the challenge Mrs. Clinton faces in fighting criticism that she is politically calculating rather than principled, which appears particularly prevalent in Iowa.

Forty-seven percent of Iowa caucusgoers said Mrs. Clinton said what she believed, compared with 48 percent who said she told voters what they wanted to hear. In New Hampshire, where the Clintons have been a strong force in Democratic politics since 1992, 54 percent said Mrs. Clinton said what she believed, while 38 percent said she said what people wanted to hear.

Voters have clearly rallied around one central part of Mr. Obama’s message: 37 percent of respondents in Iowa described him as the candidate most likely to bring change to Washington. But Mrs. Clinton’s effort to present herself as having the experience to be president has clearly taken hold: 80 percent of Iowa voters described her as prepared to be president, compared with 68 percent who said that of Mr. Edwards and just 42 percent who said that of Mr. Obama.

If Mrs. Clinton has trouble in Iowa, the poll suggests that New Hampshire is heading toward the voting with a more positive view of her. There, 34 percent of respondents said Mrs. Clinton was the candidate who best understood the needs and problems of people in their state; in Iowa, 18 percent of respondents said that.

On the Republican side, the poll suggests that Mr. Giuliani’s rivals might not have as easy a time as they once thought in derailing his candidacy by attacking him for his stand on social issues. A majority of Republicans in Iowa and New Hampshire said they were aware that Mr. Giuliani supported abortion rights, suggesting that they had already incorporated that fact into their voting calculations.
363 2007-11-14 John A. Thain, the chairman and chief executive of NYSE Euronext and a former co-president of Goldman Sachs, has been selected to be the next chief executive of Merrill Lynch, according to a person briefed on the situation.

The move, which was first reported by The New York Post, is a surprise to many inside and outside of Merrill Lynch who were expecting that Laurence D. Fink would be tapped for the role. Mr. Thain was considered a top candidate for running Citigroup or Merrill, both of whom have seen their chief executives resign after large losses related to subprime mortgages.

At Merrill, Mr. Thain will take over a post vacated by E. Stanley O’Neal, who was ousted two weeks ago after a $2.3 billion loss, an $8.4 billion write-down and an unauthorized merger approach to a rival bank, Wachovia.

Mr. Thain has successfully rebuilt the stock exchange, converting it from a beleaguered nonprofit organization into a publicly traded company that went on do to a deal with Euronext and become one of the most significant global trading platforms. He earned a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from M.I.T. and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.

In effect, this will be the second time that Mr. Thain will step in at a troubled company. In January 2004, Mr. Thain took over as chief executive of the stock exchange, where Richard A. Grasso had resigned a few months earlier amid a scandal over the size of his pay package.

The NYSE-Euronext is expected to hold a board meeting later today.

According to the person briefed on the situation, the stock exchange is expected to name Duncan Niederauer, its co-chief operating officer and president, as chief executive.
364 2007-11-14 MEDIA OWNERSHIP RULES   The head of the Federal Communications Commission, Kevin J. Martin, announced  details of his plan to relax the longstanding rule that had prevented a company from owning both a newspaper and a radio or television station i...
365 2007-11-15 Emerging markets are not known for their transparent business practices. How American and European investment banks navigate such risky waters is the topic of a recent story on The Deal.com. Dan Slater reports that many banks have accepted that "m...
366 2007-11-15 It was a national news story recently when a University of Florida student was tasered by police at an appearance by John Kerry - and uttered his now-famous phrase, "Don't tase me bro." But there is a lot of abusive conduct by the authorities that...
367 2007-11-15 Something to keep in mind when you're a media conglomerate going up against comedy writers: They have funny ways of making their point:...
368 2007-11-15 Last week Don Shula, the legendary coach whose 1972 Miami Dolphins were the last team to finish a season undefeated, suggested that if the New England Patriots finish the season unbeaten, the feat would be tainted because the team videotaped the s...
369 2007-11-15 Meet our new virtual roundtable of voters, who have questions they would like the presidential candidates to answer....
370 2007-11-15 3M said Thursday that it will acquire Aearo Technologies, a maker of personal protection like hearing and eye protectors, from British buyout firm Permira for $1.2 billion in cash. The deal will be financed by a combination of cash on hand and deb...
371 2007-11-15 Fatdoor, a social network for neighbors, on Wednesday said it picked up $5.5 million in a first round of funding and former Yahoo veteran Jennifer Dulski as its chief executive. Menlo Park, Calif.-based Fatdoor wants to connect users with their re...
372 2007-11-15 Long-simmering talk of an inevitable round of airline industry mergers heated up again Wednesday. But by the end of the day, after a spike in their share prices, the central players in any merger talks, dismissed the rumors as just that. Proponent...
373 2007-11-15 McCormick agreed Wednesday to buy the Lawry's business from Unilever Group for $605 million in cash, adding wet marinades to its selection of dry spices. Lawry's sells a variety of marinades and seasoning blends under the Lawry's and Adolph's bran...
374 2007-11-15 WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 (AP) — Government investigators smuggled liquid explosives and detonators through airport checkpoints, exposing dangerous vulnerabilities in security efforts, according to a report made public Wednesday.

The investigators learned on the Internet how to make an improvised incendiary device and bought the parts for less than $150 at local stores, according to the report, by the Government Accountability Office. They studied published guidelines for screening to determine how to conceal the prohibited items at checkpoints, the report said, concluding that terrorists could do the same.

The covert tests were conducted at Transportation Security Administration checkpoints at 19 airports in March, May and June of this year. The report did not identify the airports.

In August 2006, the transportation agency changed its screening policies after officials foiled a plot to use liquid explosives to blow up commercial airlines bound for the United States.

A spokesman for the agency, Ellen Howe, said Wednesday that the accountability office tested only one of the agency’s 19 layers of security and therefore did not mean that the overall system was unsafe. The report made the same point.

"While people think about us in terms of the checkpoints and they see us as the checkpoints, there’s a lot more layers of security,” Ms. Howe said.
375 2007-11-15 Adam Habib, a South African Muslim academic, has been told by the State Department that he was barred from entering the United States because of engaging in terrorist activities, prompting the American Civil Liberties Union to revise an earlier lawsuit. The suit, filed in Federal District Court in Boston in September by the A.C.L.U. for various groups that had invited Mr. Habib to speak, had sought to force the government to issue Mr. Habib a visa on free-speech grounds. Now that the reason for the denial has been stated,the A.C.L.U. wants to force the government to produce evidence, said Melissa Goodman, an A.C.L.U. lawyer.
376 2007-11-15 Amaranth, the hedge fund that collapsed last year amid $6 billion in losses, has sued JPMorgan Chase for at least $1 billion, accusing the bank of fraudulently taking advantage of the firm during its crisis in September 2006.

Amaranth, which once had assets of $9.2 billion, charged in the suit, filed Tuesday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, that bank executives spread lies about the value of its energy-trading assets in a successful effort to buy them cheaply.

“Absent JPMorgan’s actions, the fund’s losses, though significant, would have been survivable and far less dramatic,” a letter to investors signed by Amaranth’s founder, Nicholas Maounis, said.

The bank called the suit “an effort to rewrite history, and to blame JPMorgan for losses that were the result of Amaranth’s disastrous trading.”

Amaranth, once a highflying hedge fund, imploded over bad trades in natural gas.
377 2007-11-15 Victims of Colombia’s civil conflict sued the banana importer Chiquita Brands International yesterday, accusing it of making payments to a paramilitary group responsible for thousands of killings.

The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, accused Chiquita of complicity in hundreds of deaths because of its financial support of the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, also known by its Spanish initials, A.U.C.

The plaintiffs include relatives of 387 people thought to have been killed by the group, which was responsible for some of the worst massacres in Colombia’s long-running conflict and was designated a terrorist group by the United States government in 2001.

The families are seeking $7.86 billion in damages from Chiquita, which they accuse of abetting atrocities including terrorism, war crimes and crimes against humanity.

A spokesman said Chiquita, which is based in Cincinnati, would fight the civil lawsuit, one of several filed recently by Colombian citizens and human rights groups.
378 2007-11-15 And so the death of a legendary street-ball mentor became for a brief time intertwined with the drama of the Knicks and their star point guard. The guard, Mr. Marbury, has been out of favor with his current coach, Isiah Thomas, but rejoined the team last night in Los Angeles. Mr. Marbury was one of the scores of Mr. Williams’s former players who showed up on the basketball court in Coney Island known in street basketball circles as the Garden.

“This is the Garden, Mr. Lou was the gardener, and we were all his flowers,” said Rodney Brown, who played for Mr. Williams and stood by the court with his father, Ray Brown.

Mr. Williams’s memorial services tomorrow in Coney Island promise to be part all-star reunion, part neighborhood gathering. Four of Mr. Marbury’s brothers played under Mr. Williams’s tutelage. Don was a leading scorer for Texas A & M. Eric teamed with the future N.B.A. star Dominique Wilkins at Georgia in the early 1980s. Norman played at St. Francis College in Brooklyn. And Zack Marbury played at the University of Rhode Island.

But there were other great players: Quincy Douby, who played at Rutgers and is now with the Sacramento Kings: Chris Taft, who played for the University of Pittsburgh and then briefly for the Golden State Warriors; and Jamel Thomas, who played at Providence College and is now with a professional team in Italy. Last month, Mr. Thomas flew Mr. Williams and his wife, Sophia, to Italy to watch him play.

The Garden was all but adjacent to Mr. Williams’s building — in which his apartment, 11-F, was a virtual locker room for his many teams, and their dozens of championship trophies. At the modest basketball court outside, groups of residents and others would cling to the chain link fence on hot summer nights to watch some of the best street ball in the city.

Last night, candles were placed on the court at mid-court, the three-point line, and the foul line.

“He was the backbone of this whole community,” said Rodney Brown. “With talented kids, he taught them how not to be bought. With lesser players, he took them under his wing. And with kids who didn’t have money, he reached into his own pocket to buy them sneakers.”

Ray Brown said he grew up with Mr. Williams, whose nickname derived from a childhood sobriquet Lulu Boy, and who ran an annual tournament held in the memory of a local man shot years back by police officers.

“Some of us went to college, some went to jail and some wound up dead; Mr. Lou stayed here with the kids,” said Ray Brown.

Some of them were allowed up to Mr. Williams apartment to view his lifeless body laid out on his bed. One of them was Mr. Marbury.

Earl Smith, one of Mr. Williams’s former players who is now a personal assistant to Spike Lee, said Mr. Marbury was in the Williams apartment “crying like a baby.”

“We lost a coach, a mentor and a grandfather — Mr. Lou was all of those things,” he said.

Mr. Morton, who has won five city titles as a head coach at Lincoln, was aware of Mr. Marbury’s delicate situation with the Knicks but was not surprised that he would show his loyalty to his neighborhood and its pillars.

“How could you not show up to say one last goodbye?” he asked.
379 2007-11-15 The shares of the hedge fund Och-Ziff Capital Management Group fell 4.2 percent yesterday during its first day as a public company.

Och-Ziff, which raised $1.15 billion with its initial public offering of stock late on Tuesday, ended the day down $1.35 a share, closing at $30.65.

The $30 billion hedge fund, based in New York, was founded in 1994 by the former Goldman Sachs trader Daniel Och and the Ziff publishing family.

Concurrent to the offering, Dubai International Capital and a subsidiary, DIC Sahir, are buying a 9.9 percent stake in Och-Ziff for $1.1 billion.

The company disclosed that its annualized performance since inception returned 16.6 percent, but noted that it has underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index in recent years.
380 2007-11-15 Dr. Feldman sometimes said that it sounded “blasphemous” to study business matters underlying the Holocaust, but that full understanding required it.

Dr. Feldman held the Jane K. Sather chair at Berkeley. He wrote 12 books, edited 15 and wrote 130 scholarly articles, according to H-German, a Web site run by and intended for historians of Germany. H-Net called Dr. Feldman “one of the most respected and influential historians of his generation.”

He held prestigious fellowships, including a Guggenheim and a Woodrow Wilson, and was named a Berlin Prize Fellow in 1998-99. He wrote books and articles in both English and German, many of which were translated to the other language. He advised the Presidential Commission on Holocaust Assets in the United States.

Gerald Donald Feldman was born on April 24, 1937, in the Bronx and grew up there. He graduated magna cum laude from Columbia and earned his doctorate at Harvard in 1964. He went to Berkeley as an assistant professor in 1963.

Although he had no formal economics training, he gravitated to financial and business topics. His first book, “Army, Industry and Labor in Germany, 1914-1918” (1966), explored how heavy industry and socialist labor had collaborated to exploit opportunities provided by World War I.

His book “The Great Disorder: Politics, Economics and Society in the German Inflation, 1914-1924” (1993) analyzed the stupendous inflation that followed World War I. In 1918, immediately after the war, seven German marks purchased one dollar; by the end of 1923, a dollar in Berlin bought 4.2 trillion marks.

Dr. Feldman asked how a state and its financial institutions could “effectively defraud” citizens through this protracted inflation, then bring about their acceptance of a new currency based on paper notes rather than gold. Part of his answer was not kind: “character deficiency.”

The Journal of Military History called this book “essential reading for anyone who truly wishes to understand what happened to Germany in the first third of the 20th century.”

Dr. Feldman said he had turned to studying the Holocaust at age 60 partly because he was Jewish. But he wanted his conclusions to emerge from objective scholarship, not emotion, he said. As an example, Lloyd’s List, a British newspaper specializing in insurance and other economic areas, said his Allianz book suggested that the company and its senior officers had “never really had their hearts” in collaborating with Hitler.

Dr. Feldman received what he called full cooperation from Allianz, as did the teams that investigated Deutsche Bank and other companies.

“In a sense, they’re disappointed if we don’t come up with something nasty about them,” he said in an interview with Newsweek in 1999. “They don’t want someone else finding something we missed.”

In the mid-1980s, Dr. Feldman was involved in a bitter dispute among historians over whether David Abraham, a young Princeton historian, had fabricated part of his book “The Collapse of the Weimar Republic.” After praising the book before it was published, Dr. Feldman wrote a 40-page indictment of the final product for Central European History, a scholarly journal.

Others joined in, and Dr. Abraham, though he defended his work, saying errors were common in any historical work, ended up leaving the history profession, going to law school and becoming a professor of immigration law at the University of Miami.

Dr. Feldman also occasionally wrote for the press. In 1994, when some wanted Germans to be represented at the 50th anniversary of D-Day, he argued against it in an article in The Los Angeles Times. He said perpetrators must be treated differently from victims.

Dr. Feldman was divorced from his first wife, Philippa Blume, in 1982. He is survived by his wife, Norma von Ragenfeld-Feldman, and two children from his first marriage, Aaron J. Feldman and Deborah Eve Feldman.

The professor’s passion was Wagnerian operas. The Institute of European Studies said in a newsletter in 2006 that a love of prolonged musical spectacle seemed appropriate for an author whose books routinely exceeded 1,000 pages.
381 2007-11-15 “A prime example is the intentional taking of innocent human life, as in abortion,” the document says.

Abortion is among a few evils greater than others, the document asserts. But it also concedes that Catholics face difficult decisions when voting and in some cases might be able to vote for those who support abortion rights or stem cell research. “There may be times when a Catholic who rejects a candidate’s unacceptable position may decide to vote for that candidate for other morally grave reasons,” the document says.

The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has been issuing reflections on how the church’s moral teachings should shape Catholics’ political decisions since 1976. But this was the first time that an open discussion was held on the document and that the 300 or so bishops had the chance to vote for it.

Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio of Brooklyn, chairman of the bishops’ domestic policy committee, which pulled together this document, said it was not aimed at candidates themselves.

Rather, it is “a summary of Catholic teaching,” Bishop DiMarzio said. “It offers a basic moral framework on what it means to be a Catholic and American, a believer and a voter in this coming election year.”

The set of principles will be issued as an insert that priests can put into a Sunday bulletin, but its dissemination is not mandatory, Bishop DiMarzio said.

The document could be an important factor in the political decisions of many Catholics, said Alexia Kelley, the executive director of Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good.

The document seemed to offer something for everyone. The Rev. Frank Pavone of the anti-abortion group Priests for Life said he was pleased with it. Catholics for whom abortion may not be the sole issue when voting have also been given room to maneuver.

“Can a Catholic in good conscience vote for a candidate who is pro-choice?” said the Rev. Thomas J. Reese, a fellow at the Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown University. “What they are saying is, ‘Yes.’”

Approval of the document capped a three-day meeting in which the bishops elected Cardinal Francis George of Chicago as their new president. Cardinal George succeeds Bishop William Skylstad of Spokane, Wash.

Cardinal George has close ties to the Vatican and will be host to Pope Benedict XVI on his trip to the United States in April. But the cardinal has recently come under fire because of two cases of sexual abuse of minors by priests that occurred during his tenure. Victims’ rights groups have asserted that Cardinal George failed to act quickly enough to remove the priests once accusations surfaced.
382 2007-11-15 Sotheby’s had predicted that the canvas would go for about $35 million, although it did not provide an official sales estimate in the catalog.

Bidding was just as intense for a 1969 Bacon self-portrait in which the artist rendered his face in a swirling mix of bone and sinew, with haunting deep-set eyes. Like “Bullfight,” that painting did not carry a printed estimate, although experts said that they expected the self-portrait to bring $15 million to $20 million.

Three telephone bidders ended up competing with one another until Oliver Barker, a Sotheby’s expert, bought the painting for $33 million. (All that was revealed about the buyer was his paddle number, L0010.)

“Hanging Heart (Magenta/Gold)” a monumental bright red sculpture by Jeff Koons that adorned the cover of Sotheby’s auction catalog, went for $23.5 million.

One of five versions by the artist, each in a different color, it was being sold by the Manhattan collector Adam Lindemann. Sotheby’s had estimated it would bring $15 million to $20 million; the hammer price without premium was $21 million.

The Manhattan dealer Larry Gagosian beat four other contenders, paying $23.5 million with Sotheby’s commission and breaking the record price for the artist, set the previous evening.

Mr. Gagosian represents Mr. Koons, and on Tuesday night at Christie’s, he bought Mr. Koons’s giant sculpture “Blue Diamond” for $11.8 million. It was not known whether he was acting for a client or buying for his own gallery stock in either purchase.

One of the evening’s biggest consigners was Helyn D. Goldenberg, a Chicago representative for Sotheby’s, and her husband, Ralph. Among the most prominent works offered by the couple was Warhol’s “Self-Portrait (Green Camouflage),” a 1986 painting in which the artist’s face is glimpsed behind a gray, green and yellow pattern.

Three bidders competed for the painting, which went to a telephone bidder for $11 million, or $12.3 million including Sotheby’s premium, after an estimate of $9 million to $12 million.

Some paintings by Rothko have brought healthy prices this week. Last night, a gray-and-black canvas by Rothko sold for $10.7 million, against its estimate of $12 million to $18 million. (The price with premium was $12 million.) The sellers were the Iowa collectors John and Mary Pappajohn, who had bought the canvas at Christie’s for $800,000 in 1996.

Sotheby’s essentially won a Rothko duel: on Tuesday night, Christie’s offered a very similar 1969 gray-and-black painting by Rothko of similar dimensions. (Both measured 60 by 68 inches.) Christie’s sold for just $9.5 million, or $10.6 million including premium.

This was also a good week for the sculptor John Chamberlain. Last night “Big E,” a twisted amalgam of painted and chromium-plated steel automobile parts from 1962, was a hot commodity. Three bidders wanted the piece, and the dealer Robert Mnuchin landed it for $4.1 million ($4.6 million with premium), well above its $3 million high estimate and a record price for the artist at auction.

Basquiats have commanded strong prices recently, too. Last night, six people went for “Untitled (Electric Chair),” a large canvas (66 by 96 1/4 inches) from 1982 of graffiti and a cartoonish figure in an executioner’s chair against a bright yellow background. Estimated at $8 million to $10 million, it was snapped up by a telephone bidder for $10.5 million, or $11.8 million with premium. An untitled Basquiat from 1981 that was being sold by Peter Brant, the Greenwich, Conn., publisher, was estimated at $7 million to $9 million. A telephone bidder bought it for $6.9 million, or $7.7 million including Sotheby’s commissions.

Ellsworth Kelly’s work only occasionally comes to auction, and last night his “Spectrum VI,” a group of 13 single-color canvases arranged in a horizontal row, was on offer. Three people went after it, and it sold for $4.6 million, or $5.1 million with commission, marginally above its low estimate. Still, it was a record price for the artist.

This season, Chinese artists have made their way into the huge contemporary art auctions rather than being ghettoized in Asian art sales. Many fetched record prices last night. Zhang Xiaogang’s “Family Portrait,” a figurative work from his “Bloodline Series” inspired by 1920s photographs, brought $4.4 million ($4.9 million including premium), well above its $2.5 million to $3.5 million estimate.

After the sale, Sotheby’s staff members could not conceal their euphoria, especially after a poor showing at its Impressionist and modern art sale last week and a plunge in its stock price.

Looking relieved, Tobias Meyer, the evening’s auctioneer and director of its contemporary art department worldwide, said, “There was high-quality hunger from a global community.”
383 2007-11-15 In a world where fancy graphics exist on a device as small as a mobile phone, the radio receivers offered by Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio have remained pretty much stuck in the 1990s, often sporting single-line monochrome text displays. Which is why the new XpressRC after-market receiver offered by XM is such a welcome addition to its lineup.

The XpressRC is a successor to XM’s black-and-white XpressR. It features improved graphics and a few TiVo-like features for about $130.

In the eye-candy department, the XpressRC offers a bright and sharp full-color display. In addition to listing the current channel, the unit can be configured to show what is simultaneously playing on as many as three other stations. Listeners can program the unit to alert them when a favorite artist or song is playing, or when a favorite sports team is on; access to team statistics is available at any time.

As with a DVR, the XpressRC stores the past 60 minutes of playing time, allowing listeners to pause and replay programming.

All of which ensures that you never need to worry about missing that favorite Barry Manilow tune.
384 2007-11-15 WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 (AP) — Chevron has agreed to pay $30 million to settle charges that it had made illegal kickbacks to Iraq for oil purchased in 2001 and 2002 under the United Nations’ oil-for-food program.

The Securities and Exchange Commission said Wednesday that Chevron had agreed to the settlement under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act without admitting or denying the charges. But the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York said Chevron could still be prosecuted for criminal tax violations.

Chevron, based in San Ramon, Calif., agreed to remit $25 million in profits and pay a $3 million civil penalty. The company will also pay $2 million to the Office of Foreign Asset Controls of the Treasury Department.

Of the $25 million, Chevron will forfeit $20 million under an agreement with the United States attorney’s office in New York and pay $5 million under an agreement with the district attorney’s office in Manhattan.

The S.E.C. said in its complaint that Chevron found out in 2001 that the Iraqi State Oil Marketing Organization was demanding surcharges and that the company adopted a policy prohibiting payment.
385 2007-11-15 Leonard Nimoy said he was not sympathetic to William Shatner’s complaints about being left out of the new “Star Trek” movie. “I know he’s upset,” Mr. Nimoy, 76, said after an appearance on Tuesday at the Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts in Manhattan, where he promoted his new book of photographs, “The Full Body Project.” “But his character died three movies ago, so it would have been very difficult to get him into this one.” Mr. Shatner, 76, above, who originated the role of Capt. James T. Kirk on “Star Trek,” told The Associated Press last month that because of his popularity, he thought it was a bad business decision to leave him out of the new movie, the 11th in the series based on the television show. Mr. Nimoy appears briefly in the new “Star Trek,” set for a December 2008 release and featuring Kirk and Mr. Nimoy’s Spock before the era chronicled in the original “Star Trek.”
386 2007-11-15 Although I, too, respect his experience as a P.O.W., his failure to speak honestly about President Bush’s disastrous policies for the last seven years convinces me only that he is a self-serving politician like any other.

David Brooks lauds Senator John McCain’s character. Since when is it a virtue to compromise one’s principles for political gain, but to do it so badly that it backfired? What a sad commentary on the Republican field that Mr. Brooks presents Senator McCain as “among the finest of men”!

Although I disagree with Senator McCain on the issues, I used to respect him — until he began to compromise his principles by kowtowing to President Bush and the ultraright faction of his party.

His continued denial of the morass of the Iraq war and insistence that the Vietnam War “could have been won” I attributed to psychological factors — that is, an inability to recognize that his substantial sacrifices were for naught.

His championship of President Bush, knowing of the incompetent leadership that he has provided, cannot be excused. Marian Lubinsky

I am a Democrat and no great fan of John McCain, even though I agreed with much of David Brooks’s column about the senator’s straightforwardness and integrity.

One additional point that Mr. Brooks might have made: Senator McCain proudly accepted the endorsement of Republicans for Environmental Protection last month. He is willing to be an environmentalist while the rest of his party is running for the exits and away from the party’s rich conservation legacy, from Teddy Roosevelt to Richard M. Nixon (when it pretty much stopped).

John McCain hasn’t bought the ideological line that protecting the environment is bad for business and bad for his party. He deserves some credit for that. Ned Farquhar

David Brooks says that John McCain is unique. I do not see Senator McCain as any sort of paragon. If he had refused to endorse President Bush in 2004, he would have shown that he cared more about America than about his future in the Republican Party, and ironically, he might well have attained the presidency by doing so.

The only real distinction left to this man, who was once a true hero, is that his life is worthy of dramatization as a tragic play or opera. Steven Tiger
387 2007-11-15 Bob Herbert (“Righting Reagan’s Wrongs?,” column, Nov. 13) could not be more correct in writing that “Reagan apologists ... have no right to change the meaning” of his appearance at the Neshoba County Fair to kick off his 1980 campaign. If anyone doubts this, simply get out a map and find Philadelphia, Miss.

One does not simply fly in and out of that town as if it were New York. One must truly go out of one’s way, in both a physical as well as a psychological sense, to arrive there. Ronald Reagan knew exactly what he was doing, and to view it as anything other than an appeal to racism one must be told, “There you go again.” Larry Barkan

The racial appeal in Ronald Reagan’s visit to the Neshoba County Fair in 1980 is unambiguous. It was part of a Republican strategy to win white Democratic converts. Consider a letter that Michael Retzer, the Mississippi national committeeman, wrote in December 1979 to the Republican National Committee.

The national committee was polling state leaders for venues where the Republican nominee might speak, and Mr. Retzer pointed to the Neshoba County Fair as ideal for winning what he called “George Wallace-inclined voters.”

This was not just a Southern strategy. Throughout his career, Mr. Reagan benefited from divisive appeals to whites who resented efforts to reverse historic patterns of racial discrimination.

He did it in 1966 when he campaigned for the California governorship by denouncing open housing laws. He did it in 1976 by attacking welfare in subtly racist terms. And he clearly did it in Neshoba County in 1980. Joseph Crespino

The writer teaches history at Emory University and is the author of “In Search of Another Country: Mississippi and the Conservative Counterrevolution.”
388 2007-11-15 IZMIR, Turkey, Nov 14 — The United States has begun to share real-time intelligence with Turkey to assist in its efforts to track down separatist Kurdish rebels hiding in northern Iraq, Ali Babacan, the Turkish foreign minister said on Wednesday.

President Bush, in his meeting with the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan early this month, agreed to share intelligence for surgical strikes in combat against the Kurdistan Worker’s Party, or PKK, in order to avoid a larger-scale invasion by Turkey.

“Following the authorization of President Bush, all units started to act in accordance with a new approach and ordering,” Mr. Babacan said, speaking to semiofficial Anatolian Agency.

Speaking of Turkey’s past struggles with a lack of real-time intelligence, Mr. Babacan added, “Orders are given to prevent such recurrences. Implementation is important, we will see how implementation goes in the period ahead.”

The PKK, seeking autonomy in Turkey’s predominantly Kurdish southeast, has recently escalated attacks. Turkey’s Parliament responded to these raids in October by approving permission for cross-border operations into Iraq to eliminate the rebels’ hideouts.

The United States and Iraq oppose a major Turkish military movement in the region and strongly suggest diplomatic ways to resolve the conflict, while Turkey has been demanding immediate tangible steps by both countries to neutralize the PKK.
389 2007-11-15 Rodriguez confirmed yesterday on his Web site that he had spoken directly with the Steinbrenner family, saying in a statement that he believed he “had to respond to certain Yankees concerns.”

“Prior to entering into serious negotiations with other clubs, I wanted the opportunity to share my thoughts directly with Yankees’ ownership,” the statement said. “We know there are other opportunities for us, but Cynthia and I have a foundation with the club that has brought us comfort, stability and happiness.”

Rodriguez, who held the meeting without Boras, added that he expected the dialogue with the Yankees to continue over the next few days. Boras is said to be advising Rodriguez, but he is not dealing personally with the Yankees.

“That’s completely up to the player,” Steinbrenner said. “He’s a free citizen and he can do what he wants. I, at no time, told Boras he can’t be there. The bottom line is, I’m going to go as far as I want to go, regardless of who’s in the room. It’s no different than bidding on a racehorse at an auction. ”

The Yankees had hoped to meet with Rodriguez before he opted out. When he did, the team insisted it would not chase him as a free agent, while believing all along that Rodriguez could not possibly find a better offer than the one they would have made.

Within a week of his decision, Rodriguez began telling friends that he was dismayed at the public fallout and was considering giving the Yankees a discount to return. That feeling has only grown stronger, and Rodriguez is now willing to make up for the $21.3 million subsidy the Yankees lost from the Texas Rangers when he opted out.

“Nothing’s agreed until it’s done — at least with me, that’s the way it is,” Hank Steinbrenner said. “But he reached out to us and he’s sincere, and he is willing to address the situation with the Texas money. And if it happens, there’s not a lot of difference between what happens and what the deal would have been before, with the Texas money. He understood the problem.”

Steinbrenner said he spoke with Rodriguez by telephone shortly after Rodriguez opted out. In that conversation, which Rodriguez initiated, Steinbrenner said he told him about sitting next to Joe DiMaggio at the 1978 World Series.

“I asked Mr. DiMaggio, ‘Is there really a difference in winning a World Series ring as a Yankee and winning it with any other team?’” Steinbrenner said. “He said, ‘Of course there is.’ He said he could have won the same number of rings for another team, and it wouldn’t have meant a quarter of what it meant to win them as a Yankee.

“That’s all Alex had to wake up to. Does he want to win a Yankee ring or get another team’s World Series ring? There’s a big difference. I just wanted to make sure Alex understood that, because it appeared that he was going in the wrong direction.”

Steinbrenner added: “He’s seen the talent we have. He’s worked with some of the talent — Canó and Cabrera — and he’s seen the young pitchers. He knows what direction we’re going in. We’re going in the direction of the World Series. Nothing’s changed.”

Rodriguez is free to negotiate with other teams, but only the Los Angeles Angels have seemed serious about pursuing him. No team has seemed willing to give him a raise over the $32 million he could have made in 2009 and 2010 under his original Rangers deal.

The lukewarm market was one of the reasons Rodriguez came back to the Yankees, and another was his business empire. Rodriguez has a real-estate business, a Mercedes-Benz dealership and endorsement contracts, and he believes he can maximize those assets by staying a Yankee.

Boras, who did not return a telephone call, has been adamant that Rodriguez deserves a raise over the $32 million, though the Yankees are unwilling to go that high.

Last month — in the offer Boras and Rodriguez would not let the Yankees make — the team was prepared to add five years and about $150 million to the existing three years and $81 million on his deal. Through negotiation, the Yankees would probably have stretched the extension to seven years, through 2017.

In that situation, though, the Rangers would have paid $21.3 million of the $81 million covering 2008 through 2010. Because the Yankees want that money back from Rodriguez, they would probably re-sign him now for 10 years and about $270 million. The deal would eclipse Rodriguez’s 10-year, $252 million contract given by the Rangers’ Tom Hicks in 2000.

Boras has argued that Rodriguez deserves far more, given the increased revenues in the major leagues. But most people in baseball consider the Hicks contract to be drastically overpriced; in the seven years since, no player has topped an average salary of even $20 million on a multiyear deal.

If he agreed with the Yankees for 10 years and about $270 million, Rodriguez and Boras could save face by setting a new salary record. Also, by living up to his words and returning to the Yankees, the image-conscious Rodriguez may be able to erase some of the stain on his legacy.

The Yankees are still waiting for Mariano Rivera’s response to their three-year, $45 million contract offer. Rivera has attended a religion-themed baseball clinic in the Dominican Republic this week, and the Yankees will give him the time he needs to decide. “There’s no hurry,” Hank Steinbrenner said. ... Yankees left fielder Hideki Matsui had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee in New York yesterday and is expected to be ready for the start of spring training.
390 2007-11-15 With the purchase of Archipelago Holdings in 2005, he brought the New York Stock Exchange, then 213 years old, into the modern era of electronic trading. He also started an ambitious plan to process trades using a hybrid of computer models and specialists on the stock exchange floor. And this year he led the company’s expansion overseas and gave it a toehold in derivatives trading and international equities with the purchase of Euronext, a consortium of European stock exchanges.

Now, it is up to Mr. Niederauer to get it all to work at a time when the London Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq, which can process trades faster, are taking market share. Technology has turned the trading floor into a sideshow, leaving trading floor specialists at the exchange anxious that they will become mere extras on CNBC.

“Deal-making is important, but it takes a back seat to stopping the bleeding,” said Benn Steil, an expert on stock exchanges at the Council on Foreign Relations, a research organization. “The advantage Duncan brings to the table is that he really knows the exchange business from the trading side.”

Mr. Niederauer, who was not made available to comment, will decide the course of the exchange’s expansion into derivatives trading. He will also have to finish merging the operations of Euronext.

Most important, he must improve the efficiency of the company’s trading technology while contending with the exchange’s outspoken specialists, whose clout has diminished as they now handle only a small fraction of trades.

At stake is the future of the hybrid trading model introduced by Mr. Thain — and the future of humans on the exchange floor.

“Duncan can sit across the table from a specialist and can sit across from the table from a head of trading at a mutual fund or hedge fund and understand their issues,” said Douglas Atkin, a longtime electronic trading executive who now runs Majestic Research, an independent financial research company in New York.

“He is a very pragmatic guy,” he added. “He doesn’t have a religious view of getting rid of the specialist or keeping the specialists.”

While Mr. Thain earned the respect of Wall Street investors, his relationship with floor traders grew contentious over the years. Where Mr. Thain was seen as a shrewd but aloof politician, so far Mr. Niederauer has impressed some floor workers with his outgoing personality and straight-shooting style.

“He accepts challenges in dealing with the problems,” said James Maguire Sr., a longtime floor trader. “He reaches out and is readily available. When you have a concern, he says, ‘Give me a call.’”

Mr. Niederauer is also respected for his knowledge of trading operations. Since earning a bachelor’s degree from Colgate University and an M.B.A. at Emory University, he has spent more than two decades working with stock markets.

He joined Goldman Sachs in 1985 and rose to the top of its equities trading division, moving it aggressively into electronic transactions. Then, after Goldman bought the floor trading firm Spear, Leads & Kellogg in 2000, he was put in charge of Goldman’s global trade-clearing operations, giving him a taste of the trading floor.

At the same time, he took an active role in shaping the business strategy as a board member at Archipelago Holdings, which NYSE bought two years ago and in which Goldman held a big stake as a minority investor. In April, he joined NYSE Euronext as its president and one of its chief operating officers, putting him in line for NYSE’s top job.
391 2007-11-15 SOMETIMES when I walk through the East Village, I feel a gust of nostalgia for 1993, when I first moved to New York and lived with my artsy friend Jill in a two-bedroom on 12th Street. It was a carefree, de-gorgeous era, when I often wore girl’s-size thermals printed with snowflakes or flowers and $3 thrift store bell-bottoms. I even knotted my hair in Bjork buns. I suppose we can all get lost in our nostalgia, no matter how dumb we looked.

Den, a tiny boutique on 11th Street between First and Second Avenues, is slightly larger than my bedroom back then. But for the next few weeks it contains clothes by the rising star Tim Hamilton, whose designs are far more versatile, expensive and meticulously folded than the wacky poly-blend wardrobe of my callow youth.

Den is an outgrowth of Odin, the intensely popular men’s clothing store next door. Odin carries Rag & Bone, Trovata, Oliver Spencer, Engineered Garments and other labels that offer casual clothes for today’s dapper man: the kind of guy who meets you for brunch wearing nice shoes, a wool Ivy cap and a tweed jacket with elbow patches.

I’m not sure where those guys were before 2004, but around then Paul Birardi and Eddy Chai opened Odin and gave them a place to shop. The two friends noticed that men in the city had few options. If you didn’t want to go to Banana Republic, you went to some place like Gucci and went into debt. Now the Odin store, along with a larger outpost on Lafayette Street, has become a nerve center for the soaring popularity of men’s fashion in our Dressy Decade.

In July, Messrs. Birardi and Chai took over the Chinese massage parlor next door on 11th Street and created Den to give a designer or label they feature at Odin a temporary space to present more of their creations, including women’s clothing or pieces previously unavailable in the United States. Since August, they have featured the Swedish line Cheap Monday and Rag & Bone. Tim Hamilton, now occupying the space, was nominated by the Council of Fashion Designers of America for a men’s wear award this year.

I entered Den, a crisply lighted room, and walked up to a table of lightweight cardigans in gray and navy blue ($449). They were so delicately paper-thin that I refrained from picking up one for fear of snagging it with my heathen, cash-poor claws. I did caress an oxford-style shirt in a blue-green check with white buttons as thick as aspirin ($249).
392 2007-11-15 Merrill directors personally wooed Mr. Thain at his home in Rye, N.Y. At 5 p.m. Sunday, Ann N. Reese, a Merrill director who lives nearby, stopped by his house for a cup of English tea.

For two hours, she and Alberto Cribiore, the firm’s interim nonexecutive chairman, encouraged Mr. Thain to join the firm. Mr. Thain had also met with members of a search committee seeking to fill the top job at Citigroup, whose chief executive, Charles O. Prince III, resigned in the wake of multibillion-dollar write-downs related to subprime mortgages.

Fixing Merrill’s problems will take some time, Mr. Thain said yesterday, because the issues troubling the overall mortgage market are likely to continue for another 6 to 12 months. “We have not seen the bottom,” he said.

Mr. Thain went to the NYSE in 2004 and is widely credited with modernizing and expanding the 215-year-old exchange. He stepped into turmoil there, including a scandal over the $187.5 million pay package of Richard A. Grasso, the former chairman, and a federal investigation into trading practices.

Slightly more than a year after he arrived, he executed a deal to merge with Archipelago, an all-electronic platform, converting the nonprofit institution into a public one. He then took on the Deutsche Börse to win Euronext, a pan-European exchange, which ultimately merged with the New York Exchange.

“The exchange was in flux and he resuscitated the place with the acquisition of Archipelago and the merger with Euronext,” said John R. Jakobson, a former member and a current shareholder. “It was on life support then, and it’s in first-rate condition today.”

The exchange went public in March 2006 at $67 a share; it closed yesterday at $86.74.

While Mr. Thain boasts an impressive résumé, he is known more as an analytical technocrat. While he was not popular on the exchange’s floor, analysts say he was respected. For example, the Archipelago deal was criticized when announced, but he ultimately got traders to vote for it.

“He’s articulate and can consensus-build,” Richard H. Repetto, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill, said. “He had to deal with members as they saw their jobs become extinct.”

Mr. Thain started his career at Goldman as an investment banker and went on to work in mortgage securities, ultimately running the desk in the late 1980s.

In 1994 he was promoted to chief financial officer and head of operations, technology and finance. In 2003, he became co-president and co-chief operating officer with John Thornton. He was considered a candidate to run Goldman Sachs after Henry M. Paulson Jr., now the Treasury secretary.

But Mr. Thornton left Goldman and Lloyd C. Blankfein, then the head of the firm’s powerful fixed- income group, was on the ascent. Mr. Thain, when he was contacted by John S. Reed, opted for the chance to run the exchange. (Mr. Blankfein now runs Goldman.)

Mr. Thain now faces a formidable task at Merrill. Under Mr. O’Neal, the bank aggressively entered into new and riskier businesses, including underwriting collateralized debt obligations, originating subprime loans and expanding its proprietary trading operations.

Mr. O’Neal also reached out to G. Kennedy Thompson, the chief executive of Wachovia to explore a merger, an approach that might have been acceptable if the board had not been reeling from the magnitude of the loss. After the merger approach became known, Mr. O’Neal was forced to resign.

Although Merrill did not disclose what Mr. Thain would be paid, it is expected to be more than what Mr. O’Neal received. Mr. O’Neal earned $70 million in the last five years, and took home an additional $161.5 million in stock he had deferred and in retirement benefits.

Mr. Thain took a pay cut to go to the exchange in early 2004: he made more than $20 million at Goldman in 2003 but agreed to a starting salary and bonus of $4 million at the exchange. He will leave with $820,000 of deferred compensation, $3.6 million in restricted stock and options on top of the $14.9 million he made at the exchange, according to Equilar and James F. Reda & Associates.

Some challenges that Mr. Thain will face will seem familiar: rebuilding risk management and continuing to build the investment bank. But managing a huge brokerage business — Merrill’s is the largest in the United States — will be new. And he will have to learn that portion of the business at a time when the subprime mortgage crisis continues to cause Wall Street to reel.

When asked if he was nervous about joining a company whose board oversaw the mess it is in, he said: “It was a very important question for me to understand, and I got comfortable with their answer.”

Perhaps most important, he will have to focus on Merrill’s culture, one that has been through iterations of “Mother Merrill” — the happy, back-slapping but bloated days of the past and the highly political, aggressive reign of Mr. O’Neal.

The decision to pick Mr. Thain came as a surprise to many. While the search committee, led by Mr. Cribiore, made it clear to Mr. Fink that he was a top, if not leading candidate, the board, from the outset saw Mr. Thain as the best choice, people briefed on the board’s deliberations said. While that decision had much to do with Mr. Thain’s mix of risk experience at Goldman and his time at the exchange, it was also influenced by a sense that the board wanted to keep Mr. Fink at BlackRock.

Merrill has a 49 percent stake in the firm, and BlackRock under Mr. Fink has presided over a sharp revival in the performance of Merrill’s equity funds, which BlackRock now manages.

Mr. Fink has an outgoing, garrulous personality and a network of personal relationships that reaches into virtually every corner of Wall Street. And as the board’s courtship of him continued, he talked freely about the pros of leading Merrill compared with the cons of leaving BlackRock. At a BlackRock board meeting last week, Mr. Fink told directors that the Merrill search committee had expressed an interest in him and while he was intrigued about the possibility, the thought of leaving BlackRock, was giving him pause.

But, while the logic of his coming to Merrill might have looked good on paper, no board likes to be pushed into picking a chief executive. And the public presumption that Mr. Fink would simply be offered the job rubbed directors the wrong way, according to a person briefed on the board’s deliberations.

“None of the media speculation weighed into the board’s decision-making,” a Merrill spokesman, Jason Wright, said.

Despite a week of intense discussions, Mr. Fink had little sense that the board’s top choice was Mr. Thain, according to people briefed on the talks. And when the news broke early yesterday afternoon that Mr. Thain had taken the job, Mr. Fink was as surprised as anyone, having not received a call ahead of time, people who were briefed on the talks said.

Merrill directors voted unanimously yesterday morning to offer Mr. Thain the job. While he does not start until Dec. 3, he came over to meet members of the operating committee and even stopped by an event on the 33rd floor with private clients last night.

Mr. Thain will now compete against Goldman Sachs, his alma mater, and a firm he praises. “I love Goldman Sachs and I love the people, but I think Merrill will be a great competitor.”
393 2007-11-15 MERRILL NAMES A NEW CHIEF John A. Thain, who won plaudits by revitalizing the embattled New York Stock Exchange, was named chairman and chief executive of Merrill Lynch, the once-proud Wall Street firm battered by losses from the mortgage debacle....
394 2007-11-15 Over the past 20 years, Jim Oliveira, a Manhattan artist, has developed a technique for creating paintings he calls ''color piles.'' He mixes clear acrylic with inks and pigments, and pours it onto plastic-lined worktables, as if it were pancake b...
395 2007-11-16 A lawsuit is dismissed over procedural grounds, and the state’s highest court does not address the privacy issues....
396 2007-11-16 Major League Soccer Commissioner Don Garber sat down with The New York Times for a wide-ranging interview to discuss the status of the league. Excerpts from the 45-minute interview appear in the "Saturday Interview" in the Business section. The fu...
397 2007-11-16 Rosa Brooks of Georgetown Law School, left, and Jonah Goldberg of the National Review discuss how terrorism is reshaping conservatism.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
398 2007-11-16 It doesn't take much to rekindle speculation about a tie-up between Microsoft and Yahoo. Analysts, investors and bloggers have long discussed the pros and cons of this as yet strictly hypothetical pairing. So when a Microsoft executive went on the...
399 2007-11-16 Our voters offer their assessment of the Democratic debate....
400 2007-11-16 CSX's board on Friday publicly backed management and rebutted criticisms by a hedge fund that the railroad operator has overspent and failed to improve its stock's performance. In an unusually detailed letter to The Children's Investment Fund, kno...
401 2007-11-16 Investment banks, hammered by massive write-downs and trading losses since the summer, are radically shifting business plans of their mortgage-backed securities departments – and it's leaving hedge funds out in the cold, according to The New Yor...
402 2007-11-16 London investor 3i Group added new meaning to the term "private equity" with an agreement announced Thursday to acquire luxury lingerie retailer Agent Provocateur. The price was not disclosed but, according to The Deal.com, the deal valued the com...
403 2007-11-16 When the Shaw Group, an industrial engineering company, became mired in a contract dispute over its construction work on an electricity plant in Texas, it filed a lawsuit against its client, the AES Corporation. But Shaw, of Baton Rouge, La., had ...
404 2007-11-16 Years ago, Japan rose to economic prominence by taking apart American products like cars and television sets to learn how to make them better. Now, as Japan's focus on manufacturing wanes, economic planners in Tokyo are trying to reverse engineer ...
405 2007-11-16 China will introduce a program allowing individuals to invest directly in Hong Kong equities in the second quarter of next year, HSBC Holdings said. Chinese investors will pour $27 billion into Hong Kong stocks by the end of 2008, said Steven Sun,...
406 2007-11-16 Microsoft is building an online service that will be the back end for all sorts of communication and entertainment, linking XBox games, Zune music, video and cellphones....
407 2007-11-16 Other marketers, however, prefer to seek ideas from multiple agencies with different parents, on the theory that limiting interaction to a sole corporate source may prevent the best ideas from emerging. For example, General Motors, which had long worked mostly with Interpublic agencies, has also hired agencies owned by the Publicis Groupe along with independent agencies.

The first result of the decision by Bank of America, Ms. Finucane said, is that the company will soon place in review the media planning and buying duties for its account, which are now handled by an Omnicom media agency, Prometheus Media Services in Chicago.

The review, to be managed by a consultant, will be open to agencies owned by holding companies like Omnicom and Interpublic as well as to independent media agencies.

After that, Ms. Finucane said, she will ask BBDO Worldwide in New York, the Omnicom agency that is creating the current “Bank of Opportunity” consumer campaign, to take a role as the company’s lead creative agency and then coordinate the assignments for other kinds of work rather than have the integration done by Omnicom.

Under that plan, Ms. Finucane said, BBDO could continue to work with sibling Omnicom agencies — like Rapp Collins, for direct marketing; Organic, for online marketing; and TPN, for promotions — or with agencies that are not part of Omnicom.

The decision by Bank of America to abandon the holding-company model came after several assignments were awarded to agencies outside Omnicom like iCrossing, an independent digital shop, and two agencies owned by Interpublic.

One is Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston, which worked for Fleet Bank before it was acquired by Bank of America, and the other is Octagon, a sports-marketing agency.

Bank of America plans to further expand its relationship with Hill, Holliday, Ms. Finucane said, by awarding the agency a project for a corporate social-responsibility campaign.

The decision by Bank of America also came after another agency owned by Omnicom, TBWA/Chiat/Day, became the creative agency for Washington Mutual, a competitor of Bank of America’s.

Holding companies like Omnicom own multiple agencies to avoid conflicts, keeping walls between, say, accounts for competing car companies. But some marketers in competitive fields like fast food and financial services prefer their holding companies follow a rule of category exclusivity across all agencies.

Ms. Finucane worked at Hill, Holliday before joining Fleet in Boston and then became a Bank of America executive after the acquisition.

Asked if that influenced her decision to end the holding-company relationship with Omnicom, she replied, “I evaluate an agency’s value based on the work they do,” rather than on ties to an agency that, she added, she left “more than a decade ago.”

A spokeswoman for Omnicom, Pat Sloan, and a spokesman for BBDO, Roy Elvove, referred inquiries to Bank of America.
408 2007-11-16 At the same time, Saudi officials were relieved to see oil fall back from its intraday record of $98 a barrel last week. No one here wanted to see prices reach the politically charged figure of $100 a barrel just as OPEC leaders were meeting in Riyadh. Oil futures, which have grown fourfold over the last four years, closed at $95.10 a barrel today, up $1.67.

It is only the third time in OPEC’s 47-year history for such a high-level meeting of OPEC heads of state. The first was in Algiers, in 1975, at the height of OPEC’s nationalist period; in 2000, the oil cartel met in Caracas, Venezuela, to come up with a strategy to increase oil prices after they had collapsed to about $10 a barrel in the late 1990s.

This time, the two-day summit will focus on longer-term issues like security of supplies and environmental policy. OPEC is eager to show it is both a reliable oil supplier that has not failed its customers and that is attuned to the current concerns about the environment, especially ahead of a United Nations meeting on climate change in Bali next month. The group wants to start an environmental initiative for producers and consumers to finance carbon capture programs.

“We do not like policies that discriminate against petroleum or fossil fuels in general,” Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said at a news conference on Tuesday. “It behooves us to find a technological process that will make the continued use of fossil fuels possible.”

OPEC’s 12 members, an eclectic group that includes Libya, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the latest member, Angola, account for about 40 percent of the world’s oil exports and 80 percent of its proven reserves.

With political and financial backing from Venezuela, Ecuador is set to rejoin the group this weekend after dropping out of OPEC in the 1990s for failing to pay its membership dues.

Among King Abdullah’s guests will be Iran’s president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, José Eduardo dos Santos of Angola and Hugo Chávez, the president of Venezuela.

In recent years, OPEC has been particularly successful at managing the market, largely thanks to Saudi leadership of the group. Saudi Arabia, the world’s top oil exporter, has insisted that OPEC act like a businesslike organization and shuns politics.

But President Chávez is becoming increasingly vocal in his calls for OPEC to revert to its more militant position of the 1970s. Earlier this week, Mr. Chávez proposed that OPEC come up with a plan to sell oil to poor countries at much lower prices while charging more from wealthier nations. The cartel, he said, should “raise its level of political action.”

Such language does not sit well with Saudi officials, who are worried about Mr. Chávez’s presence here. During an OPEC meeting in Caracas early last year, Mr. Chávez spoke for two and a half hours, and his off-the-cuff remarks included a mention of his “friend,” Ilich Ramírez Sánchez, the international terrorist better-known as Carlos the Jackal, who hijacked an OPEC gathering in 1975.

There were unconfirmed reports here that Mr. Chávez plans to broadcast his weekly show “Aló Presidente” live from Riyadh. After the meeting is over here, he is scheduled to fly to Tehran to meet with Mr. Ahmadinejad.

Hossein Adeli, the chairman of the Tehran-based Ravand Institute for Economic and International Studies, said there would always be such a temptation to bring politics into OPEC. “Oil and gas are the most political commodities in the world,” he said.

Unlike Mr. Chávez, most members of the cartel are particularly annoyed by their inability to rein in a runaway oil market largely dominated by financial operators, like hedge funds and pension funds. Members like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates have said prices are too high and have translated into higher costs, rising inflation and, paradoxically, lower purchasing power.

“We are so perplexed and so frustrated with the idea we have anything to do with these prices,” said Prince Abdel Aziz bin Salman, the deputy petroleum minister of Saudi Arabia.

To be sure, OPEC countries have benefited immensely from oil’s surge. The 12 members are expected to receive $658 billion in revenue this year, up from $605 billion last year, according to a recent estimate by the Energy Information Administration. Next year, their revenue could rise to $762 billion, according to the energy agency.

At the same time, the price of everything from drilling rigs to multibillion-dollar processing plants for oil or natural gas has double or tripled and caused project delays or cancellations. In Kuwait, a planned new refinery was shelved after its expected construction cost doubled to $14 billion.

“The rise in prices has been a nightmare for producers,” said Abdullah bin Hawad al-Attiyah, Qatar’s energy minister. He said construction costs in the oil and gas industry had more than tripled since 2004.

“Over all, the job for OPEC is much more difficult,” Raad Alkadiri, an energy analyst at PFC Energy, said during a panel presentation here today. “You have a new environment and the bottom-line is that OPEC faces new challenges.”

Oil producers have also been hard hit by the sharp drop in the value of the dollar over the last five years. Because oil is priced in dollars, declines in the value of the American currency reduce the purchasing power of oil producers.

In recent days, representatives from Nigeria, Angola, and Iraq said they were considering diversifying their foreign reserves away from the dollar.

The dollar’s weakness has proven divisive here. Some delegates here expect leaders to talk about it during the summit, but OPEC officials dismissed suggestions they wanted to price oil in any other currency than the dollar.

The issue has already created a small frictions between members of the group. Iran, with the backing of Venezuela, sought to include a statement about the falling dollar in a draft of the summit’s common declaration. But Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, quickly rejected the proposal, saying it could backfire on OPEC.

“This is a sensitive issue,” Prince Saud told Manouchehr Mottaki, his Iranian counterpart, during a closed-door meeting of foreign, finance and oil ministers this afternoon. “It will cause the dollar to drop further, thus complicating the problems we are facing from the dollar’s fall.”

“There will be journalists who will seize on this point, and we don’t want the dollar to collapse instead of doing something good for OPEC,” Prince Saud said.

His remarks during the closed session were mistakenly broadcast on an internal television circuit and quickly turned off.
409 2007-11-16 NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J., Nov. 15 (AP) — The health care products maker Johnson & Johnson, faced with lagging sales of some products, said Thursday that it would create three units to increase prospects.

The company said it would create an office of strategy and growth to identify new opportunities. It recently reported a decline in profit and began cost-cutting measures.

Johnson & Johnson said it would also form a surgical care group to focus on technology and services to improve patient care, and a comprehensive care group aimed at treatments for chronic and pervasive conditions.

“We have the know-how across our pharmaceutical, biologics, devices, diagnostics and consumer businesses to bring completely new solutions to market,” the chief executive, William C. Weldon, said in a statement.

The strategy and growth office will be led by Nicholas J. Valeriani, the current worldwide chairman for medical devices and diagnostics. The new office is to identify growth in areas that are not currently being pursued.

Sherilyn S. McCoy, the group chairwoman for Ethicon, will be worldwide chairwoman of surgical care and will become a member of the executive committee.
410 2007-11-16 State officials, from Gov. Haley Barbour on down, insist that the state does not discriminate by race or income when it hands out aid to storm victims.

“We feel like we have programs in place to address all walks of life,” said Gray Swoope, executive director of the Mississippi Development Authority, which administers the federally financed grant programs.

Any delays in spending money on low-income projects have been caused by the complexity of creating the projects, said Donna Sanford, director of the disaster recovery program for the development authority. The state, Ms. Sanford said, “has done everything that we can to keep it on track and moving as fast as possible to meet the needs of everyone.”

Nonetheless, resentment at being left out of Mississippi’s economic recovery has been stirring in poor communities along the coast, and nowhere more so than in this city, hit hard by Hurricane Katrina’s storm surge, where the state plans to spend $600 million of the federal money to repair and improve its shipping port.

Though the expansion will increase employment here, historically very few port jobs have gone to low-income residents.

Some critics contend that the main interest of state leaders in spending community development dollars is to help big businesses like shipbuilders and casinos and the port.

The state’s spending plan “moves business to the forefront and forgets about the people on the ground,” said Anthony Thompson, pastor at Tabernacle of Faith Ministries, whose spotless church (rebuilt by volunteers) is next to a moldering subsidized housing project that he says has not been touched since the storm.

In his mostly black neighborhood in west Gulfport, Mr. Thompson said, “I see a lot of people waiting on help; I see a lot of houses still damaged.”

State officials say that programs not limited to lower-income residents help them nevertheless.

The aid to utilities helped everyone on the coast, including renters, officials say. And almost a third of the families who got money from the state’s main housing compensation program were low-income, which in Gulfport would mean an annual income of less than $39,000 a year for a family of four.

The nature of that program helps explain the unhappiness in some neighborhoods. It provided grants of up to $150,000 to homeowners who lived outside of the federally defined flood plain and so did not have flood insurance to cover their losses when their houses were swamped by the storm surge.

To be eligible, families had to have carried regular homeowners’ insurance, so that, as the governor said when he was selling the plan to Congress, “we’re not bailing out irresponsible people.”

But advocates for the poor said that requirement barred many of the least affluent, especially retirees and the disabled, who live on fixed incomes. “The fact is, people who have no money choose food and medicine, and not insurance,” said Ashley Tsongas, a policy adviser for the aid group Oxfam America. “That moral superiority doesn’t recognize the reality people face.”

Renters were also excluded from the program, as they were in Louisiana, and homeowners who had wind damage were also not covered. Some federal officials have said Louisiana’s decision to help cover wind losses is one reason its program almost ran out of money.

Two-thirds of Mississippi’s block grants have not yet been spent. In fact, few of the coastal states have spent much of their grant money, with the exception of Louisiana, which has already used almost half of its original allotment and just received an additional $3 billion for its home-rebuilding program.

Because fewer applicants than expected applied for Mississippi’s assistance program, the state still has almost $2 billion left, some of which it plans to use for community development projects and for the port expansion.

The port, at the foot of Gulfport’s main street, flies a Chiquita banner under its American flag; fruit imports remain down but are bouncing back, though exports of frozen poultry have stopped since the storm destroyed the port’s refrigerated warehouses. The state says that the expansion will add about 1,000 jobs over the next five years, and that many of those will be reserved for low-income residents.

But some community advocates are dubious, noting that before the storm only 10 percent of the port jobs went to low-income residents. They also think the cost per job will be too high.

And they note that the port’s own master plan envisions a new tourist and casino development. “It’s not all about bananas,” said Reilly Morse, a lawyer for the Mississippi Center for Justice.

Mr. Morse and many others who oppose the port plan say the state should first ensure that all the families now living in more than 10,000 government trailers have a permanent place to live, that rental housing gets built and that all homeowners can repair their houses.

“I don’t have any problem with economic development and expanding the port, but not at the cost of people,” said James W. Crowell, president of the N.A.A.C.P. branch in Biloxi, just down the beach from Gulfport.

Brent Warr, who became Gulfport’s mayor just months before the storm, called the port expansion “an incredible opportunity for the city,” and said he had been assured that the new facilities would be devoted to maritime use, not to gambling and cruise ships. “We don’t have to make this community about neon and chrome,” he said.

Asked about the frustrations some residents have about the lack of aid in their communities, Mr. Warr said it would take time, because the development authority has to create programs all at once while making sure the money is well spent. “It’s like taking a funnel and packing it so full of money that nothing can come out,” he said.

Dorothy J. McClendon fears that none of that money will reach her east Gulfport neighborhood, Soria City, where she leads a civic group with the modest motto, “Moving Toward a Drug-Free Community.”

Because it is north of the railroad tracks which serve as a sort of levee, the neighborhood did not flood, so residents cannot get state grants, Ms. McClendon said. Few had insurance to cover their wind-damaged roofs; she is sleeping on a couch in her living room because she fears that the water-damaged ceiling in her bedroom is going to fall.

Repairs to public works and economic development projects appear to happening elsewhere; Soria City’s main business is a tiny shop selling sodas and snacks and 25-cent cigarettes. Even the program to help small landlords does not apply to this neighborhood, Ms. McClendon said, because while there are plenty of properties that could be fixed up and rented out, few were occupied right before the storm, as the program requires.

“But we’re here, we’re hurting,” she said. “We need help, too.”
411 2007-11-16 Democrats are largely opposed to torture, and while the Bush administration has said it does not engage in torture, it had previously reserved the right to use aggressive interrogation techniques in questioning terrorism suspects. And the leading Republican candidates, with the exception of Mr. McCain, are refusing to rule out certain techniques that others would deem as torture.

“I want to tell you. Rudy Giuliani, Fred Thompson and Mitt Romney all think it is O.K.,” Mr. McCain told the diners in Boone. “They have one thing in common. They don’t understand the military and the culture of this nation. If they did, they could never condone such behavior.”

The issue has taken on particular resonance over the last few weeks as lawmakers argued over the nomination of Michael B. Mukasey for attorney general, with Democrats angered over his refusal to call waterboarding torture and therefore illegal. And it has led to some of the most pointed exchanges of the Republican campaign so far. When Mr. McCain faulted his Republican opponents’ lack of wartime experience, Mr. Giuliani shot back against his old political ally, Mr. McCain, saying he “has never run a city, never run a state, never run a government.”

From public forums in Iowa to the living rooms of New Hampshire and the military towns in South Carolina, Mr. McCain’s message is simple: what America does to its enemies defines America itself.

Sometimes, he does not even have to say anything himself, leaving the task to those who introduce him.

At a Veterans Day ceremony at Beaufort National Cemetery in South Carolina, Mayor William Rauch of Beaufort introduced Mr. McCain by recalling how as a prisoner, Mr. McCain had once refused to be filmed for propaganda purposes, “uplifting his center finger” when the guard entered his cell and uttering “the oath that is commonly associated with that gesture.”

The act of defiance, Mr. Rauch said, led to another month or so of beatings.

At many events, the campaign often shows grainy black-and-white film of a young Mr. McCain soon after his capture in North Vietnam, obviously in pain and confined to a bed, telling his captors his name and rank as he smokes a cigarette.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, will often point to Mr. McCain’s opposition to torture to support her own stance. All of the leading Democratic candidates have made it clear that if the Republican nominee is not Mr. McCain, they will make torture a subject of any general election campaign.

While Mr. McCain refrains from discussing his own experiences, he lets others address the issue. At a celebration Saturday of the 232nd birthday of the Marine Corps, in Bedford, N.H., as veterans from five wars over the last century looked on, Mr. McCain said that any candidate who joked about sleep deprivation, as Mr. Giuliani had done several days earlier, should talk to his fellow prisoner of war and supporter, Orson G. Swindle.

Mr. McCain described how Mr. Swindle was “chained to a stool for 10 days, then let off that stool for one day, and then chained to that stool again for 10 more days.”

Mr. McCain believes that the United States’ war on terrorism has been defined for much of the world by its failure to forthrightly reject torture, as well as its continuing the practice of rendition, in which terrorism suspects are spirited off to countries that may engage in torture, and the continued detention of prisoners at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, without trials. He portrays his Republican opponents’ position on the torture issue as reflective of “macho” or “tough-guy” poses.

After a public forum at a restaurant in Allison, Iowa, where he once again took on his Republican opponents by name, Mr. McCain told reporters that, because of his efforts in the Senate, he was confident that the United States was no longer engaging in cruel and inhumane treatment.

“After we passed the Detainee Treatment Act, the Military Commissions Act, then obviously anybody who violated any law of the United States would have to be held responsible,” he said.

A few days later, in New Hampshire, Mr. McCain was asked about reports that Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, was made to give up vital information only after being waterboarded.

Mr. McCain said he did not believe that to be the case. While the C.I.A. might have left that impression, he said, the F.B.I. disagreed.

It has also been reported that Mr. Mohammed “confessed” to plotting to kill former Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter as well as Pope John Paul II, leading interrogators to believe he was telling them whatever he thought they wanted to hear.

Mr. McCain said he had no idea how the issue of torture would affect the primaries and caucuses. As he traveled across Iowa one day last week, he reviewed a new CNN poll that found 69 percent of Americans believed waterboarding was torture. But only 58 percent thought it should not be used on terrorism suspects.

Aware that many people might not even know what the technique involves, Mr. McCain often outlines its details.

“You incline someone’s head and stuff a rag in their mouth and pour water and give one the total sensation of drowning,” he told the breakfast diners in Boone. “It was invented in the Spanish inquisition and was used by Pol Pot. It is now being used on Burmese monks by this military junta in Burma.”

“I know how evil this enemy is,” Mr. McCain told the Boone audience. But the issue is about more than one technique, he said. “This is really fundamentally about what kind of nation the United States of America is.”

But Milt Mattson, standing outside the cafe after Mr. McCain left, said he thought the United States needed to take any measure it deemed necessary.

“This is a war for our life,” Mr. Mattson said. “These are people that chop heads off. I don’t care what we have to do to stop them.”
412 2007-11-16 Starbucks, the world’s largest chain of coffee shops, lowered its profit and sales forecasts yesterday after reporting its first decline in customer visits.

The shares fell more than 7 percent in after-hours trading.

The forecast revisions suggested that Starbucks was losing customers to McDonald’s and Dunkin’ Donuts, where a cup of coffee may cost $1 less.

“Starbucks is saying what the rest of the U.S. is saying, that the consumer is getting hit,” said James Walsh, who helps invest $1.1 billion at Coldstream Capital Management in Bellevue, Wash. “They’re not immune.”

Starbucks posted a quarterly profit that was up 35 percent on higher prices. But it lowered its sales and earnings forecasts after customer visits fell.

The company said yesterday that earnings next year would be $1.02 to $1.05 a share, a gain of at most 21 percent but less than its previous forecast of a 22 percent increase. Analysts had been anticipating a profit of $1.05 a share.
413 2007-11-16 CBS filed a motion yesterday seeking the dismissal of a lawsuit by Dan Rather, who says that the network violated his contract by giving him too little to do after it forced him off the evening news in 2005 and that its investigation of the news segment about President Bush’s National Guard service was politically biased.

“This lawsuit is a regrettable attempt by plaintiff Dan Rather to remain in the public eye, and to settle old scores and perceived slights, based on an array of far-fetched allegations,” the network said in a 30-page brief filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The papers represented the network’s first response to the suit Mr. Rather filed on Sept. 19.

Referring specifically to Mr. Rather’s assertion that CBS and its senior executives had sought to do the White House’s bidding in commissioning an incomplete investigation of the National Guard segment, the network said: “CBS and its executives are not now, and never have been, out to get Dan Rather.”

Mr. Rather agreed to step down from the “CBS Evening News” in March 2005, a year earlier than he had planned, after the network said it could not authenticate documents that had been used as evidence in the segment about Mr. Bush’s time in the Air National Guard.

In response to arguments that CBS gave Mr. Rather insufficient airtime after he left the “CBS Evening News” — first on the weeknight edition of “60 Minutes” and later on the flagship Sunday edition — the network cited a “pay or play” clause in his contract. “As long as Rather was paid the specified compensation, CBS had no obligation to give him any on-air exposure,” the network said.

In an accompanying statement, the network called Mr. Rather “one of the most important figures in the history of journalism” and said it was “mystified and saddened” by the suit.
414 2007-11-16 Charles H. Ramsey, left, a former police chief in Washington, D.C., will become the police commissioner in Philadelphia in January, taking over a department trying to stem a rise in killings. Mayor-elect Michael Nutter chose Mr. Ramsey, who will replace the current commissioner, Sylvester M. Johnson. Mr. Johnson had previously announced that he would retire at the end of the year. Mr. Ramsey is a Chicago native, and he oversaw the Washington’s 3,800-member force from April 1998 until he was replaced last year by a new mayor.
415 2007-11-16 Tufts University said it fired an administrator after finding that $300,000 generated by student-run events and businesses was missing. The official, Jodie Nealley, had been student activities director for the university in Medford, Mass., since 1997, and was fired Nov. 9, university officials said. The university referred the matter to the Middlesex County district attorney. While Kim Thurler, a Tufts spokeswoman, said Ms. Nealley was fired, a lawyer representing the former official described the end of her employment as “mutual.”
416 2007-11-16 LOS ANGELES, Nov. 15 — David D’Orsa, who last week passed his days among the stars, says he may soon be serving up lattes. Leonard Dick told his children they need to get better at turning out the lights. Meredith Buyrucu will go to San Diego this weekend to eat in her mother’s kitchen, “which is kind of embarrassing,” she said, “since I’m 40 years old.”

When the Hollywood writers’ strike pulled back the curtain on the world of television, what Americans saw was not a cashmere-wrapped actress alighting from her Escalade, but rather a bunch of middle-aged writers in ill-fitting red T-shirts standing on a picket line on Pico Boulevard.

With the strike deep into Week 2, thousands of union writers are unemployed until further notice, and dozens of assistants, food stylists, electricians, makeup artists, landscapers and thousands of other “below the line” workers in the industry are finding that their work is drying up, too, punching a psychic wound through large swaths of Los Angeles.

“It is a major topic around town,” said Beth Holley, the office administrator at Global Effects Inc., a prop shop in North Hollywood. “I don’t think there are very many people who have not been affected directly or know someone affected.”

The city’s most defining industry, representing roughly 7 percent of its economy, has always operated with ample doses of smoke and mirrors. Elaborate marketing campaigns promote shows everyone knows will be canceled after a few episodes; unaffordable BMWs are leased by junior agents to save face at the Grill; actresses with eating disorders are given malteds to carry around on sets for waiting paparazzi. Much of what is said and done in Hollywood is meant to give the impression of solidity.

But in reality, one tug on a card can make an entire production implode, rendering scores of people instantly unemployed. Many are middle-class laborers who populate the San Fernando Valley and other neighborhoods outside the glamorous canyons that most Americans associate with show business.
417 2007-11-16 The plan comes as Japan’s $4.5 trillion economy is on the rebound. In the most recent quarter, it grew at a solid annual pace of 2.6 percent.

But for many years, the Japanese, rather than investing more at home, have been putting their money overseas because of the low returns from domestic stocks and bonds. Some of that flow of money abroad now appears to be slowing, a move reflected in a stronger Japanese yen. That gives resonance to the Japanese hopes of creating a financial district in Tokyo that can lure foreign investment and Western professionals.

But some of the proposals from the Financial Services Agency read more like excerpts from a real estate brochure than a manifesto for financial ascendance. There are proposals for building more spacious apartments, earthquake-resistant offices and plusher sports clubs.

One idea is to add restaurants that serve Western fare like spaghetti and stay open after midnight to accommodate the financial industry’s grueling work hours. Drafts of the plan also call for adding English-speaking hospitals and schools, more English street signs and a faster train link to Narita, the main international airport, a 90-minute trip from downtown.

Less evident are the sorts of changes that might actually draw foreign professionals and companies: lower taxes, a larger English-speaking talent pool, and greater transparency and restraint in market oversight by the agency itself.

“The agency’s plan does not solve the core issues,” said Naoko Nemoto, a banking analyst at Standard & Poor’s here, who was on an agency committee that made early recommendations for the plan. “Tokyo will lose out if it doesn’t make bigger changes.”

Critics said the lack of more substantial measures reflect bureaucratic resistance by the Financial Services Agency, which fears losing its power. An even bigger hurdle, many say, is a deep-seated aversion in Japan to finance, which is regarded here as a dirty game.

This has made many politicians and economists reluctant to promote the finance industries instead of manufacturing, which Japanese celebrate as honest work from the sweat of the brow.

Many Japanese businessmen and economists agree that such attitudes must change if Tokyo is to compete in a crowded field of current and would-be world financial centers — including the ascent of Hong Kong as financier and alternate marketplace for a fast-growing China.

Singapore has rolled out the red carpet to foreign investors, with low taxes and spare regulation. Contenders like Shanghai, Mumbai and Dubai, on the Persian Gulf, have emerged as investment centers, including the money from Middle East oil wealth.

To make a comeback, Tokyo must reverse more than a decade of decline. The Tokyo Stock Exchange has fallen from being the largest stock market in the world at 1990 market capitalization to No. 2, behind the New York Stock Exchange. During that time, the value of all shares traded on the Tokyo exchange rose less than 60 percent, to about $4.6 trillion at the end of last year.

By contrast, the value of the New York exchange increased fivefold. Hong Kong’s main exchange rose by a factor of 21, though it is still half the size of Tokyo. In London, already the global center for trading in currency, the main stock market has grown fourfold since 1990 and could soon overtake Tokyo.

In recent years, the Tokyo Stock Exchange has become even less attractive for foreign companies because of high costs and language barriers. There are now 26 foreign companies listed on the exchange, down from 127 in 1991, the market said.

And while Japan remains Asia’s largest and most advanced economy, many here are alarmed by the rise of China as an industrial powerhouse. Proponents of the financial-capital plan hope it will help Japan shift from a goods-producing nation into more of a soft power like the United States, which creates, designs and finances goods and services while doing less manufacturing itself.

“The United States and England were both economically ill for a time, but succeeded in finding new growth in their financial industries,” said Yuji Yamamoto, a former financial services minister who is a chief architect of the plan. “We need to emulate that success.”

Mr. Yamamoto visited New York, Washington and London in January, when he was still the minister. During the trip, he asked officials like Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, what was wrong with Tokyo. They told him that if Japan did not open its markets, “it will just be a small Asian country,” he said.

But the most memorable moment, he said, was walking around Wall Street and seeing the offices of financial companies from around the world. London also made a deep impression because so many of the firms were from developing regions, like India, South America and the Middle East. This contrasted with Tokyo, where the vast majority of companies are Japanese.

“That is when I realized the secret of Wall Street and the City success was their ability to attract money and talent from all over the world,” Mr. Yamamoto declared.

He decided that the way to emulate such success was to turn Tokyo’s financial district, Kabutocho, into a more international environment where foreign bankers and investors could feel comfortable living and doing business.

Most outsiders agree that Tokyo has enormous potential as a hub for foreign companies, not only because of Japan’s wealth but also because the city is widely regarded as one of the safest and cleanest in Asia. But there are concerns that the plan will do little more than create a ghetto for well-heeled foreigners.

The proposals also fail to get at the complaints of foreign investors and bankers over high taxes and onerous regulations.

The biggest sore point is the Financial Services Agency itself, which is widely criticized as having enormous discretion in setting rules and enforcing them. Japanese bureaucrats have long wielded murky powers over private business. Many foreign investors and financial professionals point to the agency’s shutting down Citigroup’s Japanese private banking unit three years ago as an instance of heavy-handedness toward foreign companies.

Tokyo “is a wonderful city to live in,” said Robert Feldman, an economist in the Tokyo office of Morgan Stanley. “But unless it changes its regulatory environment, no one will come here.”
418 2007-11-16 Jake Peavy, the San Diego Padres’ ace, was the unanimous winner of the National League Cy Young award yesterday after leading the league in victories, earned run average and strikeouts.

“It was just one of those seasons where kind of everything came together,” he said on a conference call.

Peavy received the 32 first-place votes and finished with 160 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. Arizona’s Brandon Webb, last year’s winner, was a distant runner-up with 94 points. Brad Penny of the Los Angeles Dodgers was third.

Peavy went 19-6 while topping the majors in E.R.A. (2.54) and strikeouts (240) for the Padres, who came within one victory of their third consecutive playoff berth. He and Roger Clemens (2001 and 2004) are the only starting pitchers to win a Cy Young Award without tossing a complete game.

It was the 12th time an N.L. pitcher has been a unanimous choice, and the first since Arizona’s Randy Johnson in 2002. Peavy, 26, became the fourth San Diego pitcher to win the award, joining reliever Mark Davis (1989), Gaylord Perry (1978) and Randy Jones (1976).

Peavy started the wild-card tie breaker Oct. 1 at Colorado. But he was ineffective, giving up 6 runs and 10 hits in six and a third innings, and the Padres lost, 9-8, in 13 innings.
419 2007-11-16 For associate attorney general, the No. 3 post, the White House chose Kevin J. O’Connor, the United States attorney in Connecticut since 2002 who served for several months this year as chief of staff to Mr. Gonzales.

The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, who had opposed Mr. Mukasey’s nomination because of his uncertain definition of torture, offered no timetable Thursday for the consideration of the nominations.

Mr. Leahy did say he was aware that “the exodus of many top officials has left the Justice Department rudderless for many months” and that the jobs needed to be “filled with nominees who are committed to restoring the independence and mission of the Justice Department.”

Three of the five nominees have worked in the department in the Bush administration and are likely to be subjected to extensive questioning by Senate Democrats about their ties to Mr. Gonzales and to some of the administration’s most controversial legal policies.

The nominee for assistant attorney general to run the department’s civil division, Gregory G. Katsas, is now the acting associate attorney general. Earlier, as an appellate lawyer for the administration, Mr. Katsas had argued for the government in trying to deny basic legal rights to terrorism suspects imprisoned at the Guantánamo Bay naval base.

The nominee for assistant attorney general to run the civil rights division, Grace Chung Becker, already works in the division, which has been accused by civil rights groups of abandoning civil rights enforcement during the administration.

The other nominee announced Thursday was Nathan Hockman, who was chosen to be assistant attorney general for the tax division. A former federal prosecutor, Mr. Hockman is a specialist in public corruption and fraud cases. He is a partner in a private law firm in Los Angeles.

Looking over the list of nominees, Nan Aron, president of the Alliance for Justice, a liberal legal affairs group in Washington, said that “this is hardly the fresh start that Americans had expected from Michael Mukasey — it has all the signs of the perpetuation of the politicization of the department.”

If confirmed, Judge Filip would replace Paul J. McNulty, who resigned as deputy attorney general in July after he became entangled in a public dispute with Mr. Gonzales over the circumstances of the ousters of several United States attorneys for what appeared to be political reasons.

Judge Filip, a former assistant United States attorney in Chicago who was a law clerk to Justice Antonin Scalia, is widely admired in Chicago legal circles and, since his appointment to the bench in 2004, has not had a case overturned on appeal. Still, he is likely to be questioned closely in the Democratic-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee about his ties to the Republican Party, including his work on its behalf in Florida during the 2000 voter recount that ended with Mr. Bush’s being declared president.

While in law school at Harvard, Judge Filip was listed as vice president of the school’s chapter of the Federalist Society, an influential group of conservative lawyers whose members have been tapped for many prominent jobs in the Bush administration.

Federal election records show that Judge Filip donated $2,000 to President Bush’s re-election campaign after he was nominated to the bench but before he was confirmed.
420 2007-11-16 WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 — Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq has approved the trial of two Shiite former officials who are accused of killing and kidnapping hundreds of Sunnis, according to American advisers to the Iraqi judicial system.

The case, which could come to trial as early as this month, would be the first that involved bringing to trial such high-ranking Shiites for sectarian crimes.

An Iraqi judge ruled last month that there was sufficient evidence to try the two former officials, who held senior positions in the Health Ministry. But there had been concern that the ministry might try to block the case by invoking a section of the Iraqi criminal law that proscribes the prosecution of officials who are executing their official duties.

The approval to hold a trial was provided in a memo issued earlier this week by the acting health minister. Mr. Maliki has formally endorsed the decision, American officials said.

The case has emerged as a major test of the ability of Iraq’s judicial system to take on difficult cases, particularly those in which the accused are prominent Shiites.
421 2007-11-16 “I want to tell you, Rudy Giuliani, Fred Thompson and Mitt Romney all think it is O.K.,” Mr. McCain told the diners in Boone. “They have one thing in common. They don’t understand the military and the culture of this nation. If they did they could never condone such behavior.”

The issue has taken on particular resonance over the last few weeks as lawmakers argued over the nomination of Michael B. Mukasey for attorney general, with Democrats angered over his refusal to call waterboarding torture and therefore illegal. And it has led to some of the most pointed exchanges of the Republican campaign so far: when Mr. McCain faulted his Republican opponents’ lack of wartime experience, Mr. Giuliani shot back against his old political ally, Mr. McCain, saying “has never run a city, never run a state, never run a government.”

From public forums in Iowa to the living rooms of New Hampshire and the military towns in South Carolina, Mr. McCain’s message is simple: what America does to its enemies defines America itself.

Sometimes, he does not even have to say anything himself, leaving the task to those who introduce him.

At a Veteran’s Day ceremony at the Beaufort National Cemetery in South Carolina, Mayor William Rauch of Beaufort introduced Mr. McCain by recalling how as a prisoner, Mr. McCain had once refused to be filmed for propaganda purposes, “uplifting his center finger” when the guard entered his cell and uttering “the oath that is commonly associated with that gesture.”

The act of defiance, Mr. Rauch said, led to another month or so of beatings.

At many events, the campaign often shows grainy black-and-white film of a young Mr. McCain soon after his capture in North Vietnam, obviously in pain and confined to a bed, telling his captors his name and rank as he smokes a cigarette.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, will often point to Mr. McCain’s opposition to torture to support her own stance. All of the leading Democratic presidential candidates have made it clear that if the Republican nominee is not Mr. McCain, they will make torture a subject of any general election campaign.

While Mr. McCain refrains from discussing his own experiences, he lets others address the issue. At a celebration Saturday of the 232nd birthday of the Marine Corps in Bedford, N.H., as veterans from five wars over the last century looked on, Mr. McCain said that any candidate who joked about sleep deprivation, as Mr. Giuliani had done several days earlier, should talk to his fellow prisoner of war and supporter, Orson G. Swindle.

Mr. McCain described how Mr. Swindle was “chained to a stool for 10 days, then let off that stool for one day, and then chained to that stool again for 10 more days.”

Mr. McCain believes that America’s war on terrorism has been defined for much of the world by the nation’s failure to forthrightly reject torture, as well as continuing the practice of rendition, in which terrorism suspects are sent off to countries that may engage in torture, and the continued detention of prisoners at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, without trials. He portrays his Republican opponents’ position on the torture issue as reflective of “macho” or “tough-guy” poses.

After a public forum at a restaurant in Allison, Iowa, where he once again took on his Republican opponents by name, Mr. McCain told reporters that because of his efforts in the Senate, he was confident that the United States was no longer engaging in cruel and inhumane treatment because of his efforts in the Senate.

“After we passed the Detainee Treatment Act, the Military Commissions Act, then obviously anybody who violated any law of the United States would have to be held responsible,” he said.

A few days later, in New Hampshire, Mr. McCain was asked about reports that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, was made to give up vital information only after being waterboarded.

Mr. McCain said he did not believe that to be the case. While the C.I.A. might have left that impression, he said the F.B.I. disagreed.

It has also been reported that Mr. Mohammed “confessed” to plotting to kill former Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter as well as Pope John Paul II, leading interrogators to believe he was telling them whatever he thought they wanted to hear.

Mr. McCain said he had no idea how the issue of torture would affect the primaries and caucuses, if at all. As he traveled across Iowa one day last week, he reviewed a new CNN poll that found 69 percent of Americans believed waterboarding was torture. But only 58 percent thought it should not be used on terrorism suspects.

Aware that many people might not even know what the technique involves, Mr. McCain often outlines its details.

“You incline someone’s head and stuff a rag in their mouth and pour water and give one the total sensation of drowning,” he told the breakfast diners in Boone. “It was invented in the Spanish inquisition and was used by Pol Pot. It is now being used on Burmese monks by this military junta in Burma.”

“I know how evil this enemy is,” Mr. McCain told the Boone audience. But the issue is about more than one technique, he said. “This is really fundamentally about what kind of nation the United States of America is.”

But Milt Mattson, standing outside the cafe after Mr. McCain left, said he thought the United States needed to take any measure it deemed necessary.

“This is a war for our life,” Mr. Mattson said. “These are people that chop heads off. I don’t care what we have to do to stop them.”
422 2007-11-16 Seventy-five years old and forever young, “The Radio City Christmas Spectacular” came flying into that Midtown Art Deco cathedral of entertainment on Tuesday night and went out a Superspectacular.

For its diamond-anniversary incarnation, presented while most of Broadway was dark because of the stagehands’ strike, the grand old show has been made over, from terpsichore to technology, kicking and singing into the 21st century while retaining and refining the glories of the 20th.

These include the magnificent Rockettes, more versatile and saucy than ever; the breathtaking precision and suspense of “The Parade of the Wooden Soldiers”; and, of course, Santa Claus, individually (the hearty Charles Edward Hall) and in vast numbers in the “Here Comes Santa Claus” routine that fills the huge stage with hordes of hoofing Kriss Kringles.

But fittingly for this age, the updated 90-minute intermissionless show, with its fireworks, falling snow, flying ribbons, film clips and imaginative projections and lighting of everything from Christmas decorations to mid-Manhattan, seems to move at warp speed, while, as always, accompanied by carols, hymns and seasonal songs played by a live orchestra that occasionally rises magically from below the stage.

The nips, tucks and revisions still result in a warm and thoughtful embrace of everything from the introductory 3-D flight of Santa to New York (special glasses are provided, attached to the program) to the truncated “Nutcracker” and a reimagined “New York at Christmas,” which puts the Rockettes in snowy white (with touches of red and green) aboard a double-decker sightseeing bus. The bus takes them and the audience on a singing, dancing tour of mid-Manhattan that includes Central Park and ice skaters.

The visit to the North Pole that is the “Magic Is There” number, which has the Rockettes dressed as rag dolls extending seasonal greetings, has been wisely shortened and restaged to include a Santa-cynical New York teenager. And the sparklingly new “Let Christmas Shine,” an anniversary routine, has the Rockettes in glittering crystal costumes.
423 2007-11-16 Your Nov. 9 editorial “An Overdue Step for Equal Justice” justifies the stripping out of protections for transgender people from the Employment Non-Discrimination Act by saying civil rights in this country have always been achieved in incremental steps and pointing to protections against race-based discrimination in public accommodations being followed by voting rights protections.

That’s true, and that’s the model the gay rights movement has used since the beginning: winning individual rights one at a time. But in this case, House leaders discarded an entire class of people, not an incremental right. No other minority has been asked to leave a part of it behind when fighting for civil rights, and that is the true insult in what happened with the bill.

The reason we and a coalition of 360 lesbian, gay, transgender and other civil rights groups opposed passage of the stripped-down version of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act that passed the House is that the bill does not merely exclude protection for transgender Americans who face a high risk of employment discrimination. It strips out protection from discrimination based on gender expression.

As our own cases make clear, discrimination on the basis of gender expression happens not just to transgender people, but also to lesbians and gay men who have little recourse in the face of such discrimination.

Khadijah Farmer, for example, whose case was covered in the pages of this newspaper just last month, is a lesbian who was thrown out of a restroom and restaurant because she looked too masculine. This type of gender-based discrimination, were it to occur in the employment context, simply isn’t addressed by the version of the bill that passed the House.

While you are correct that civil rights have been achieved incrementally, they’ve never been achieved this way. Here we have legislation designed to protect lesbian and gay Americans that in fact leaves those most vulnerable to discrimination — gender non-conforming lesbians and gay men — without recourse.

That type of incremental action covering only the most palatable parts of a community while ignoring those who present the greatest challenge to society’s prejudices has never before been the path to civil rights.
424 2007-11-16 Are the Beatles ready to go online? Paul McCartney, left, says the band's catalog will probably turn up on the Internet next year, Reuters reported, citing Billboard.com. The Beatles have been among the most famous holdouts in the march to the Int...
425 2007-11-16 After a series of killings and other violence in prison, a federal magistrate approved an agreement yesterday that requires Mississippi officials to improve conditions for 1,000 inmates locked in the super-maximum-security unit of the state penite...
426 2007-11-16 FUEL STANDARDS STRUCK DOWN A federal appeals court rejected the Bush administration's year-old fuel economy standards for light trucks and sport utility vehicles. The three-judge panel told the government to produce new rules taking into account t...
427 2007-11-17 The hedge fund said in a statement Friday: “The failure of the CSX board to address in any way the dramatic financial and operational performance of CSX versus its peers reveals a disturbing complacency that should be of serious concern to all CSX shareholders.”

Last month, the fund said that it had unsuccessfully tried to meet with CSX’s board and management over the last year. But in its letter, CSX’s board said the company had “dozens” of phone calls, e-mail messages and meetings with the fund. A T.C.I. partner, Snehal Amin, also met with company executives earlier this year, the board said.

But T.C.I. previously said that meeting was with CSX’s chief financial officer, Oscar Munoz, who was there in “listen-only” mode. A person close to the fund said the previous exchanges with CSX were with its investor relations staff.

At issue is CSX’s performance under its chairman and chief executive, Michael J. Ward. CSX’s stock has risen more than 26 percent this year. Last month, it reported third-quarter profit of $407 million, up from $328 million in the period a year ago.

In its letter, directors said CSX had shown gains in several measurements like operating income. Personal injuries and train accidents also declined during Mr. Ward’s tenure.

But the hedge fund argues that CSX overspends on operations relative to its peers and that its gains have been impressive because it is recovering from years of poor management.

Several analysts did not dispute that CSX was improving after years of mistakes, including flawed investments and mismanagement of the acquisition of half of Conrail, a rival. The company has indeed made gains under Mr. Ward, the analysts said.

Anthony B. Hatch, an independent railroad analyst, said that under Mr. Ward, the company had finally stuck with a single strategy, called the One Plan, instead of trying different tactics.

But T.C.I. argues that the company could do more to speed that strategy. It also criticized Mr. Ward’s pay as excessive; he earned $13.8 million last year. It urged the railroad to be more receptive to shareholder concerns and split the positions of chairman and chief executive.

CSX’s board defended Mr. Ward’s compensation as fair and appropriately tied to company performance. It also noted that shareholders last year rejected a proposal to split the chairman and chief executive positions.
428 2007-11-17 Although Mr. Ban has no power to enforce members of the United Nations to act, his statements on Saturday increased the pressure on the United States and China, participants here said.

Members of the panel said their review of the data led them to conclude as a group and individually that reductions in greenhouse gases had to start immediately to avert a global climate disaster, which could leave island states submerged and abandoned, African crop yields down by 50 percent, and cause a 5 percent decrease in global gross domestic product.

The panel, which was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last month, said the world would have to reverse the growth of greenhouse gas emissions by 2015 to avert those problems and others.

“If there’s no action before 2012, that’s too late,” said Rajendra Pachauri, a scientist and economist who heads the IPCC. “What we do in the next two to three years will determine our future. This is the defining moment.”

He said that since the IPCC began its work five years ago, scientists have recorded “much stronger trends in climate change,” such as a recent melting of polar ice that had not been predicted. “That means you better start with intervention much earlier.”

The panel’s fourth and final report summarized and integrated the most significant findings of three sections of the panel’s exhaustive climate-science review that were released between January and April.

The first covered climate trends; the second, the world’s ability to adapt to a warming planet; the third, strategies for reducing carbon emissions. With their mission now concluded, the hundreds of IPCC scientists spoke more freely than they had previously.

“The sense of urgency when you put these pieces together is new and striking,” said Martin Parry, a British climate expert, who co-chaired the delegation that wrote the second report. “I’ve come out of this process more pessimistic about the possibilities than I thought I would do.”

Saturday’s synthesis report was more explicit than the earlier reports, which were ratified by governments that had insisted on changes that diluted their impact. The fourth report had to be reviewed and approved by delegates from 130 nations gathered here this week, but this time, both scientists and environmental groups said there had been no major dilution of the data.

For example, this report’s summary was the first to acknowledge that the melting of the Greenland ice sheet from rising temperatures could result in a substantive sea-level rise over centuries rather than millennia.

“Many of my colleagues would consider that kind of melt a catastrophe” so rapid that mankind would not be able to adapt, said Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist at Princeton University who contributed to the IPCC.

“It’s extremely clear and is very explicit that the cost of inaction will be huge compared to the cost of action,” said Jeffrey D. Sachs, head of Columbia University’s Earth Institute. “We can’t afford to wait for some perfect accord to replace Kyoto, for some grand agreement. We can afford to spend year bickering about it. We need to start acting now.”

He said that delegates in Bali should take action immediately where they do agree, for example, by public funding for demonstration projects on new technologies like “carbon capture,” a “promising but not proved” system that pumps emission underground instead of releasing them into the sky. He said the energy ministers should start a global fund to help poor countries avoid deforestation, which causes emissions to increase because growing plants absorb carbon in the atmosphere.

United Nations officials pointed out that strong policies were needed, such as increasing the energy efficiency of cars and setting up carbon markets, a market-based system that effectively forces companies and countries to pay for the cost of the greenhouse gasses they emit.

The European Union already has such a carbon trading system in place for many industries, and is fighting to bring airlines into the scheme.

“Stabilization of emissions can be achieved by deployment of a portfolio of technologies that exist or are already under development,” said Achim Steiner, head of the United Nations Environment Program.

But he noted that developed countries would have to help poorer ones in implementing such plans, which are often expensive.

Mr. Steiner emphasized that the report sent a message to individuals as well as world leaders: “What we need is a new ethic in which every person — changes lifestyle, attitude and behavior.”

Meanwhile, the Bush administration’s reaction to the report was muted. At a news conference Friday night after the report was approved, James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the president’s council on environmental quality, said President Bush had agreed with leaders of the other major industrialized nations that “the issue warrants urgent action and we need to bring forward in a more accelerated way the technologies that will make a lasting solution possible.”

He declined to say how much warming the administration considered acceptable, saying, “We don’t have a view on that.”

Mr. Connaughton acknowledged that the United States, like other nations, had tried to make some changes to the draft. Dr. Sharon Hays, the leader of the American delegation here, said the goal was not political but “to make sure the final report matches the science.”

Stephanie Tunmore, a member of Greenpeace International who had observer status as the countries debated the text, questioned that explanation.

She said, for example, that the United States had tried to remove a section of the report titled “Reasons for Concern,” which listed a litany of consequences of climate change, that are either likely or possible. One was the melting of ice sheets, which the panel said could take place more rapidly than previously thought.

The Americans argued there was no reason to include the section, because all of it was contained somewhere in the previous IPCC technical documents, she said. But the section remained in the report.
429 2007-11-17 Washington could join select company on Sunday because kick coverage has been Pittsburgh’s Achilles’ heel. The Steelers rank 27th in yards allowed on kick returns. In last week’s victory against the Browns, the Steelers gave up a 100-yard return for a touchdown by Joshua Cribbs and a 90-yard runback by Cribbs that set up another touchdown.

Washington was chosen in the fourth round of the 2006 draft with the pick the Jets received as compensation when Coach Herman Edwards went to Kansas City. He has the requisite speed and quickness for the job, but what sets him apart is his ability to exploit the holes opened by his main wedge blockers — Brad Smith, David Bowens and Matt Chatham — and to improvise.

Washington displayed those improvisational skills on a game-opening 86-yard scoring return against the Washington Redskins on Nov. 4.

“They kicked the ball right and we had a play designed to go right,” Bowens said. “Leon just read their coverage and took it to the left. That was totally Leon. I blocked my man, then I heard the crowd respond and I looked up at the big screen and he was racing down the sideline. Then I looked around for flags and didn’t see any, and I knew it was time to celebrate.”

Thanks to Washington’s prowess, Jets fans may have reason to cheer before halftime when the team honors Curtis Martin, the halfback who retired as the fourth-leading rusher in N.F.L. history (14,101 yards). Washington had a 98-yard kick return for a score against the Giants on Oct. 7. And in the team’s only victory, Sept. 23 against Miami, he scored on a 98-yard return in the second quarter that put the Jets ahead to stay.

In 2006, Washington was Miller’s lead blocker on kick returns, a role that he said prepared him for this year’s star turn.

“Basically, I learned how to trust my guys to make their blocks, and read off their blocks and hit the hole fast like a running back,” Washington said.

That is exactly what Mike Westhoff, the Jets special-teams coach, wants from his return unit. The Jets have a league-high 10 kick returns for touchdowns since Westhoff arrived in 2001.

But Washington has given the unit an added dimension. He is the only player in Florida State history to score touchdowns in five different ways (kick return, punt return, rushing, receiving, fumble recovery).

Now, he is on the cusp of earning a trip to the Pro Bowl.

“I don’t want to jinx myself, but if I break that record and make the Pro Bowl, I’d like to take the whole kick-return squad with me to Hawaii,” Washington said.”

Upon hearing that, Bowens grinned and said: “When they announce it, I’ll definitely tap Leon on the shoulder and remind him. I’d like to go, too.”
430 2007-11-17 The Air Force has opened an investigation after a pilot reportedly landed a search-and-rescue helicopter in western Kanchanaburi to pick mushrooms for his mother, a spokesman said. “It’s obviously wrong to leave the plane unattended for one hour,” the spokesman said.
431 2007-11-17 The police said one of the thieves would distract the broker while the other gathered the goods, but they have not indicated how the items are taken out of the apartment buildings.

On Monday, Douglas Heddings, senior vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, a real estate company, posted news of the thefts on his blog, www.truegotham.com. Mr. Heddings said in an interview yesterday that one of his assistants, a broker in the Heddings Property Group who was the host for the open house at the Broadway apartment, caught the couple rifling through the owner’s belongings.

“They panicked and left behind a jewelry box from another apartment and prescription drugs” with the name of someone other than the owner of the Broadway apartment, Mr. Heddings said.

The couple did manage to steal a diamond engagement ring and an heirloom ring given to the seller by her grandmother, Mr. Heddings said. Yesterday, he promised to reimburse the apartment owner for those items.

Mr. Heddings also posted tips for brokers to prevent thefts, including making sure that cellphones are charged to alert the police immediately and considering showing the apartments to one person or one couple at a time.

“I’ve been doing this for 16 years, and this is the first time this has happened,” he said. On his blog, he noted on Monday that colleagues had told him of eight other instances of thefts at open houses in the past two to three weeks.

The thefts prompted Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board of New York, to remind board members by e-mail on Thursday that “the more vigilant we are, the less these incidents will occur.”

Yesterday, after news of the thefts appeared in local media outlets, brokers said they would remind sellers that merely hiding valuables was not enough.

“Remove them or lock them up,” said Brian Lewis, senior vice president of Halstead Property, who said he had held hundreds of open houses in his eight years as a broker. “If it’s a duplex, two brokers are better.” One broker could escort potential buyers from the lobby to the apartment while the other one remains inside the apartment, he said.

As of last evening, no arrests had been made.

In addition to tales of would-be buyers posting names like “Mickey Mouse” on the open house log, Mr. Lewis said brokers sometimes have to put up with couples loudly fighting or other shenanigans, like having sex, at open houses. His agents have resorted to asking buyers to sign in via computer in the hope that it will encourage better behavior, he said. He stressed that thefts and other unpleasantness were rarities at open houses, but acknowledged that the risk was always there.

“Yes, I’ve seen and heard about naughty behavior occurring,” Mr. Lewis said, “but let’s face it: you’re opening the place up to the public, and that’s everyone out there.”
432 2007-11-17 The recreational gambler dubbed Old Man was at an adjoining poker table when three masked men broke in from Fifth Avenue, bagged $100,000 and — in what looked like a grotesque accident — shot an innocent player to death. “One of these crazies dropped his shotgun and, boom!” said Old Man. He was still shaken days later as the police sought the thieves who got the drop on private guards and fleeced 150 players in one of the many illegal poker dens that usually operate in quietude at night across the city’s high-rise skyline.

“It was Frankie, a good guy,” said Old Man, referring to the victim he described as a poker-loving family man and hard-working citizen from the Jersey suburbs. “Very sad. This shouldn’t happen.”

The death scene sounded like a flashing passage in a Coen brothers movie. “I was at the geriatric table, as we laughingly call it, playing Texas Hold ’Em, and all of a sudden we’re all on the floor, with me helping Annie, a 75-year-old player,” Old Man said.

Screaming instructions and warnings at the prone gamblers, the bandits swept money into garbage bags, and — boom! “We all screamed together from the floor,” said Old Man. The thieves fled. Someone shouted: “Is there a doctor?”

A doctor needed at a poker game, of all places, a sweet respite from life’s routine? Old Man can’t believe Frankie’s fate at one of their beloved card games. It was always an innocent pastime as the sub rosa city goes. It’s legal to play cards for money in New York. But it’s illegal to charge anyone for the recreation, as the den operators did in gathering enough self-imagined high rollers to make it so attractive to gunmen.

“Everybody finally ran out the same stairs as the robbers,” said Old Man, incredulous that death should close out a poker hand. It had been a good night as usual — some players ahead, some behind. “And boom! I can close me eyes and still see it all.”
433 2007-11-17 “Those claims have to be scientific and they have to be provable,” said Andrea Rosen, acting deputy commissioner of the bureau. “The onus is on the advertiser, not the government, to prove that the tests are adequate prior to making the claims.”

Lululemon, which is based in Vancouver, issued a statement last night saying that it would change its product tags everywhere its products are sold. The company has stores in Australia, Japan and the United States. The company did not say it would remove the health claims entirely in stores outside Canada or that it would remove the claims from advertising and store signs in other countries.

The Canadian bureau did not fine Lululemon but could sue the company if it breaks the agreement. Ms. Rosen said the store would immediately start placing stickers over the health claims.

The action in Canada raises the possibility that the Federal Trade Commission will make a similar move in the United States, said Mozelle W. Thompson, a technology consultant who was a commissioner at the agency until 2004. The F.T.C. might require Lululemon to fully remove the claims. “The F.T.C. prohibits companies from making claims that are false, deceptive or unsubstantiated,” Mr. Thompson said. F.T.C. officials could not be reached for comment.

Lululemon has stated on product tags, in financial filings and on its Web site that its VitaSea material released amino acids, minerals and vitamins “into the skin” when the fabric is wet.

The Canadian agency was concerned about Lululemon’s claims that VitaSea keeps skin smooth and firm, enhances blood supply to the skin and reduces stress, Ms. Rosen said.

The Times paid a lab to test a VitaSea shirt against a cotton shirt and found that the minerals and amino acids in them were not significantly different.

When told earlier this week about the Times’s test, Dennis Wilson, the founder, chairman and chief product designer, said: “If you actually put it on and wear it, it is different from cotton. That’s my only test of it.”

On Wednesday, Lululemon began telling analysts and reporters that the company had tested VitaSea. Its stock had fallen 9 percent, but then recovered. On Thursday, the company said a test by the SGS Group in June and one on Wednesday confirmed that the fabric contained “lyocell fibers.”
434 2007-11-17 Two former federal prosecutors, Tony West and Walt Brown, speculated that Schools might have wanted to issue the indictment before he was replaced by someone unfamiliar with the case.

Less than four hours after the indictment was announced Thursday, the White House nominated Joseph Russoniello to replace Schools, a career prosecutor who has served as interim head of the office since Kevin Ryan was fired in January.

The White House spokeswoman Emily Lawrimore said the timing of the announcement was “completely coincidental.” She said the announcement contained 15 other nominations. She said she could not predict how long the Senate would take to confirm the 66-year-old Russoniello, who was the United States attorney in San Francisco from 1982 to 1990 and is now a defense attorney there.

West, a defense attorney in San Francisco and a former federal prosecutor there, said, “It’s a logical way to think about it, that you don’t have to get another U.S. attorney up to speed on it.” West said he was otherwise perplexed why Bonds would have been indicted Thursday on evidence the government seemed to have collected months ago.

Assistant United States attorneys in the office pushed to indict Bonds in the summer of 2006, but Ryan wanted to get testimony from Greg Anderson, Bonds’s trainer.

Anderson was jailed for contempt for refusing to testify for the last year, and he has been steadfast in his refusal to appear before the grand jury — another reason the government may have decided not to wait any longer, West said.

Anderson was released from jail shortly after the indictment against Bonds was announced. He may still be called to testify at the trial. If he is given immunity and refuses, he could be charged with criminal contempt.

Brown, a former federal prosecutor in Los Angeles and now a defense lawyer in San Francisco, also said the coming change in United States attorneys might have been a factor. “You can’t help but notice the timing,” he said.

But Brown said the prosecutors might have also waited to charge Bonds until after the baseball season to avoid complaints that they had interfered with Bonds’s pursuit of Hank Aaron’s home run record.

Rains said Bonds would plead not guilty when he makes his first appearance in court on Dec. 7.

The maximum penalty for each of the four perjury charges is five years in prison, and 10 years for the obstruction charge.

A more likely sentence under federal guidelines would be 15 to 30 months in jail if Bonds is convicted, West said, or less than that if he pleads guilty. The guidelines allow a reduction if a defendant pleads early in the case and accepts responsibility. West said the reduction could result in a sentence of less than 12 months and could involve probation or home detention.

One new wrinkle in the indictment was the assertion that the government had obtained a positive test for steroids and other performance-enhancing substances for Bonds.

Details related to the test were sketchy. It seemed to relate to a test from 2000 that was seized during a raid of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative in 2003.

According to a partial transcript of grand jury testimony released Thursday, a prosecutor questioning Bonds said the test was “associated on a document with your name, and corresponding to Barry B. on the other document.” Victor Conte Jr., who founded Balco and served four months in prison for illegally distributing steroids and money laundering, said he did not believe the test result would be a problem for Bonds. He said it would be difficult for the government to prove that the test actually belonged to Bonds because of gaps in the chain of custody. Further, he said, many legal hormone treatments in 2000 contained ingredients that could cause elevation of steroid levels in the blood.

“I was aware of this all along, so to see this now, what they say is their smoking gun, I don’t see it,” Conte said in a telephone interview.

The perjury charge requires proving Bonds knowingly gave false testimony under oath, and such knowledge would most likely have to be proved circumstantially, West said.

Steve Hoskins, Bonds’s former best friend and partner in memorabilia sales, and Kimberly Bell, his former longtime companion and mistress, were among those who testified to the grand jury.

The government could also have some surprise witnesses. “It’s traditional that prosecutors don’t show all their cards in the indictment,” West said.
435 2007-11-17 Mr. Thain was named Merrill Lynch’s chief executive on Wednesday after the departure of Mr. O’Neal, who was ousted after making an unauthorized overture to Wachovia and announcing an $8.4 billion write-down. Mr. O’Neal received a severance package worth over $161.5 million, on top of more than $70 million over the last four years.

Mr. Thain’s pay package, by contrast, is similarly lucrative but through stock options is largely tied to increasing Merrill’s share price. Merrill shares have fallen 23 percent since August.

“If there is a dramatic increase in the stock price,” Merrill said in a statement, “shareholders will see an increase in value of tens of billions of dollars and as a result, he also will benefit.”

Mr. Thain will receive starting compensation worth about $50 million, according to an analysis by Brian Foley, an independent compensation consultant in White Plains. He will receive an additional $19 million to make up for stock awards and a $15 million bonus he left behind at NYSE Euronext, bringing this year’s total to around $70 million, at a minimum.

Mr. Thain also owned more than 3.3 million shares of Goldman Sachs stock that was put into a blind trust before he became chief executive of NYSE Euronext. Assuming no shares were sold, that stake is worth over $743.3 million today. For Mr. Thain to have such a stake in a Merrill rival may raise questions of a conflict of interest.

A Merrill spokesman, William Halldin, declined to comment on any possible conflict.

Mr. Thain’s initial pay includes a salary of $750,000 and an unspecified bonus; restricted stock worth $28 million at current market values; and a three-tier grant of 1.8 million stock options worth about $20 million, by conservative valuation assumptions.

The big option grant is intended to encourage him to bolster Merrill’s share price, while shielding him from the risk that the job is a bad fit. When he takes over in December, his first allotment — of 600,000 stock options — will vest over two years. The second portion vests only if Merrill’s share price rises $20 from its price on his start date. The third set of options vests if Merrill stock climbs $40 a share.

Though it will be a formidable challenge to realize all three tiers, Mr. Thain could be paid as much as $120 million if he hits all the performance targets.

“There is a lot of upside if you can weather this storm,” said Mark M. Reilly, a compensation consultant at 3C Consulting in Chicago. “Merrill was trading at about 80 this summer and now is in the mid-50s. If he can just get it back up to where to it was, he can make a fortune.”

Mr. Thain will not be entitled to any retirement benefits or cash severance. But if he is terminated without cause, his employment agreement will allow him to keep the entire restricted stock award and all vested options. It is unclear how long he would have to cash out remaining stock options.

The $50 million pay package is an enormous raise. Mr. Thain, who made more than $20 million a year as one of Goldman Sachs’s top executives, took a substantial pay cut when he went to the stock exchange in 2004. At the time, the New York Exchange was under scrutiny for the pay package — $187.5 million — its board had awarded to Richard A. Grasso, who had been the chairman. Mr. Thain agreed to a starting salary and bonus of $4 million in 2004, though he was paid slightly more over the last few years.

Duncan L. Niederauer, the new chief executive of NYSE Euronext, will receive about $6 million in salary and a bonus.

Mr. Niederauer, who will assume the post Dec. 1, will be paid $1 million along with a cash-and-stock bonus of about $5 million, NYSE Euronext said in a regulatory filing. He succeeded John A. Thain. the new head of Merrill Lynch.
436 2007-11-17 “We are pleased with the court’s decision,” said Brian Roehrkasse, spokesman for the Justice Department, “since the Ninth Circuit upheld the government’s position that release of this information would ‘undermine the government’s intelligence capabilities and compromise national security.’ ”

But lawyers for Al-Haramain and other groups suing over the wiretapping program were heartened by some elements of the ruling. While throwing out the disputed F.B.I. evidence, the appeals court kept alive the charity’s claim that the government’s alleged violation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act — which requires warrants for national security wiretaps on Americans — trumps any “state secrets” claim. The appeals court sent that issue back to the district court.

“Our lawsuit is still alive,” said Jon Eisenberg, a lawyer for the charity, “and every day our lawsuit is still alive, we consider to be a good day.”

Perhaps more important, the appeals court spent most of its 25-page ruling explaining why the mere existence of the N.S.A. program could no longer be considered a “state secret.” The Justice Department has made that claim repeatedly in arguing that any lawsuits over the program should be thrown out of court.

But the appeals court said that administration officials, including President Bush, former Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales and the C.I.A. director, Michael V. Hayden, had provided “a cascade of acknowledgments and information” about what they call the Terrorist Surveillance Program, or T.S.P., since it was first disclosed in December 2005 by The New York Times.

“In light of extensive government disclosures about the T.S.P., the government is hard-pressed to sustain its claim that the very subject matter of the litigation is a state secret,” the court said in its ruling. “Unlike a truly secret or ‘black box’ program that remains in the shadows of public knowledge, the government has moved affirmatively to engage in public discourse about the T.S.P.”

The appeals court also split off from the Haramain case a separate group of 40 lawsuits brought against AT&T, Verizon and other telecommunications companies over the N.S.A. program. The appeals court had heard oral arguments on the two sets of cases together, but it said Friday that the facts in the cases were “distinct.” The court is expected to issue a separate ruling later on the AT&T case.

Lawyers for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, one of the private groups leading the lawsuit against the telecommunications companies, said they were encouraged by Friday’s ruling. For the appeals court to acknowledge that the existence of the N.S.A. program should not be considered a state secret is “a great victory,” said Kevin Bankston, a staff lawyer for the electronic privacy group.

Congress, at the urging of the White House, is debating whether to give retroactive immunity to phone carriers that participated in the N.S.A. program. If immunity were granted, it would cripple and perhaps kill the lawsuits pending against the companies. That prospect, Mr. Bankston said, is “a clear and present danger to the litigation, but that won’t stop us from continuing to press our rights in court.”
437 2007-11-17 A judge in Avignon, France, fined a woman 1,500 euros ($2,200) for leaving a lipstick kiss mark on a pure white canvas by the American artist Cy Twombly, Agence France-Presse reported yesterday. The judge also told the woman, Rindy Sam, 30, above, to pay a symbolic one euro in damages to the 79-year-old artist. Ms. Sam, an artist herself, was arrested in July after she planted the kiss on a panel of Mr. Twombly’s triptych Phaedrus, in the Museum of Contemporary Art in Avignon. The painting is valued at $2.8 million. At her trial last month, Ms. Sam said: “It was an act of love, when I kissed it, I wasn’t thinking. I thought the artist would understand.” But Agnes Tricoire, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, said, “For me love requires the consent of both sides.”
438 2007-11-17 “Don’t people realize that this is an extraordinary bird?” asked Mary Beyerbach, a member of the New York Bird Club, who noted the heroics of Cher Ami, a homing pigeon who is credited with saving 194 American lives in France during World War I, earning him the Croix de Guerre. “A pigeon has never attacked a person,” she said. “A rat has.”

Unlike some animal rights groups, which favor humane methods of reducing the pigeon population, these activists are opposed to any governmental intervention into the lives of what they say are unjustly maligned creatures.

Ms. Dove called Mr. Felder’s plan “more scapegoating of pigeons,” with the intention of eliminating them from the city altogether. Colin Jerolmack, who was also at the meeting, characterized the idea as another attempt to “criminalize behavior in the public space.” Mr. Streit noted that the pigeon had few defenders. “Is there a reason to control this species?” he said. “The answer is no.”

In a report released this week, Councilman Felder, beyond seeking to ban pigeon feeding, called for the introduction of pigeon-scaring hawks and falcons, an increase in the frequency of litter pickup in enclosed trash cans, use of pigeon birth control methods and the appointment of a pigeon czar who would coordinate the city’s response to the abundant pigeon population.

The report said that an excess of pigeons created an excess of pigeon excrement, which some people blame for damaging infrastructure and carrying communicable diseases.

But pigeon advocates scoffed at the suggestion that pigeon excrement was sickening humans or harming bridges and roads. In fact, Mr. Felder’s report concedes that “cases of civilians contracting diseases from pigeons or pigeon droppings are rare and the threat is often exaggerated.” And the report quotes a pigeon-control expert who called reports of infrastructure damage caused by pigeons “widely exaggerated.”

Another expert, Andrew D. Blechman, author of “Pigeons: The Fascinating Saga of the World’s Most Revered and Reviled Bird,” said, “Pigeons don’t carry any more disease than you or I do.”

Still, groups like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals recognize the need to curb the pigeon population, which according to some estimates now tops one million in New York City.

Michael McGraw, a spokesman for PETA, said that the organization would support a feeding ban if it included a controlled-feeding program that would administer a contraceptive called OvoControl, which is one of Mr. Felder’s recommendations. PETA has supported a similar program in Los Angeles.

The A.S.P.C.A., which also supports administering pigeon birth control, is in favor of a ban on pigeon feeding, said Stephen Musso, the A.S.P.C.A.’s chief of operations. “There’s no reason to feed these birds, because they are quite resourceful,” he said.

Councilman Felder denied harboring any antipigeon animus. “I think people are pretty smart,” he said. “People in New York are pretty shrewd. They know what’s a problem and what’s not a problem. And if there is something we can do, even to improve it somewhat, that is a good thing.” He said that he had received “overwhelming support” from fellow council members.

Mr. Felder said he expected his proposal, which he plans to introduce next month, to include a feeding ban punishable by a $1,000 fine. In the meantime, ardent pigeon advocates are preparing to take their message to the public. They are organizing a demonstration on the steps of City Hall on Nov. 30.

During the meeting at Starbucks, the group discussed what to say in a planned informational flier, wondered how much it would cost to produce a banner and debated the best way to sway the public. Toward the end of the meeting, Ms. Dove asked the group, “How about having someone dress up in a pigeon costume?”
439 2007-11-17 As tragic as it was, Michael Vick’s case afforded an opportunity to raise awareness about the countless other dogs (hundreds of whom PETA’s field officers help directly each year) that are suffering at the hands of dogfighters, as well as to urge policy makers and law enforcement officers to treat all cases of dogfighting and cruelty seriously.

Our supporters’ generosity launched our “Bite Back” program, offering rewards of up to $5,000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of dogfighters. We also spent nearly $100,000 running our anti-dogfighting public service announcement on TV stations across the country.

These efforts, as well as PETA’s successful demonstrations outside N.F.L. headquarters and the Atlanta Falcons’ training camp, have sent a critical message to dogfighters and to young people: If you abuse animals, you will not only go to jail but also lose everything that is important to you.

The writer is senior vice president for development, the PETA Foundation.
440 2007-11-17 In Washington on Friday, Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman, said, “It is extremely unfortunate that the Russian government put up all these obstacles to the O.S.C.E. sending a monitoring mission to Russia.”

Russia’s Central Election Committee, the agency overseeing the polling, contested the assessment. It placed blame for the dispute on O.S.C.E. mishandling of Russian visa paperwork.

A spokesman, Igor B. Borisov, said in a telephone interview that the dispute stemmed from observers’ being late in submitting applications to visit Russia. “The Central Election Commission did all possible so that the representatives of O.D.I.H.R. could be present and observe the election,” he said.

Russia’s invitation remained open if the group reconsidered, Mr. Borisov said.

Also, a separate mission under the auspices of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, made up of parliamentarians from the member countries, is still considering attending the Russian elections for the 450-seat Duma, the lower house of Parliament.

The Dec. 2 election is the first since Mr. Putin forced through a measure in 2004 that gave him the power to replace popular elections of governors with Kremlin appointments and prohibited candidates from running for Parliament independent of a political party. Mr. Putin’s government has broken up street protests, outlawed nongovernmental organizations, harassed opposition political parties and used election law to prevent opponents from organizing.

His party, United Russia, is expected to win an overwhelming majority in the Dec. 2 vote.

Konstantin I. Kosachev, the head of the international affairs committee in Russia’s Parliament and a member of United Russia, said Friday it would not be “so tragic” to be rid of the observers. “It’s obvious these so-called experts did not find any serious basis to fault our legislation and our elections for parliament,” Mr. Kosachev said, according to the Russian news agency Regnum. “They tried to raise a fuss without cause. In my opinion, the scandal has failed. What of it if these observers do not come to our country? Don’t be so tragic about it.”

The O.S.C.E. sends long-term and short-term observation teams, often numbering in the hundreds of people, to elections throughout the former Soviet Union. Its reports are weighty in the politics of the region, cited by the United States and the European Union in assessing democratic development in former Eastern Bloc nations.

In the last Duma election in Russia, in 2003, Russia invited 400 or so observers from the office three months in advance. This fall, Russia told the group only 70 observers were welcome. The O.S.C.E. has monitored elections in Russia since 1993. The O.S.C.E. first worked with the team of parliamentarians and then with a professional monitoring mission run by the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights.

O.S.C.E. statements drawing attention to rigged elections in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan became catalysts for protests that overthrew entrenched autocratic governments in the so-called “color revolutions” of 2003 through 2005. The Kremlin has characterized these movements as a threat to regional stability and its own power.
441 2007-11-17 “This document goes further than any of the previous efforts,” said Hans Verolme, director of the World Wildlife Fund’s Global Climate Change Program. “The pressure has been palpable — people know they are delivering a document that will be cited for years to come and will define policy.”

The previous three sections, released between February and April, focused on one issue at a time: the first on science, the second on how the world could adapt to warming and the third about how countries could “mitigate,” or reduce the greenhouse gases produced.

This fourth and final assessment — the so-called synthesis report — seeks to combine lessons from all three. Its conclusions are culled from data contained in the thousands of pages that were essentially technical supplements to the panel’s previous publications. How that data is summarized and presented to the world is a powerful guide to what the scientists consider of utmost importance at the end of a five-year process, offering concrete guidelines for policy makers.

“You look to a synthesis report to provide clarity, to clarify what was obscure in previous reports,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist at Princeton University. “Now, how can we take these findings and formulate a policy response that’s quick enough and big enough?”

While drafts of the panel’s reports are written by panels of scientists, the language is reviewed and often altered by delegates from 130 governments who meet before their final approval and release. Those negotiations took place here this week, and were often contentious, with the United States, China and India raising many objections, said scientists who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not allowed to publicly refer to any countries by name.

The scientists and country representatives who had flocked here this week to participate in negotiations on the final wording applauded as the panel’s chairman, Rajendra Pachauri, declared the panel’s years of work concluded, just after 10:30 p.m. on Friday.

Even though the synthesis report is more alarming than its predecessors, some researchers believe that it still understates the trajectory of global warming and its impact. The I.P.C.C.’s scientific process, which takes five years of study and writing from start to finish, cannot take into account the very latest data on climate change or economic trends, which show larger than predicted development and energy use in China.

“The world is already at or above the worst case scenarios in terms of emissions,” said Gernot Klepper, of the Kiel Institute for World Economy in Kiel, Germany. “In terms of emissions, we are moving past the most pessimistic estimates of the I.P.C.C., and by some estimates we are above that red line.”

The panel presents several scenarios for the trajectory of emissions and climate change. In 2006, 8.4 gigatons of carbon were put into the atmosphere from fossil fuels, according to a study in the proceedings of the National Academy of Science, which was co-written by Dr. Klepper. That is almost identical to the panel’s worst case prediction for that year.

While the United States, Saudi Arabia and China tried to change the text in order to play down the consequences of global warming, developing nations — which will bear the initial brunt of climate change — were much more forceful than at previous meetings in opposing these efforts, one scientist who was in the negotiating room said.

"I suspect that will continue,” he said. “As they feel more and more threatened by the sea and the storms they will insist that, as one of them put it, ‘We do not want this report to be warm and fuzzy when the reality is cold and risky,’ or something like that,” he said.

One novel aspect of the report is a specific list of “Reasons for Concern.” It includes items that are thought to be very likely outgrowths of climate change that had been mentioned in previous reports, like an increase in extreme weather events.

But it for the first time includes less likely but more alarming possibilities, like the relatively rapid melting of polar ice. Previous reports focused more on changes the scientists felt were “highly likely.”

“This time, they take a step back and look at the totality,” Dr. Verolme said. “Saying it is less likely to occur, but if it does we are fried.”

One such area is the future melting of ice sheets in Greenland and western Antarctica. In earlier reports, the panel’s scientists acknowledged that their computer models were poor at such predictions, and did not reflect the rapid melting that scientists have recently observed. If these areas melt entirely, seas would rise 40 feet, scientists said. While scientists are certain that the sheets will melt over millennia, producing sea-level rises, there is now evidence to suggest that it could happen much faster than this, perhaps over centuries.

“In my view that would make it not just difficult, but impossible to adapt successfully, some of my colleagues would say catastrophic,” said Dr. Oppenheimer. “If they say that it’s possible that melting could occur in centuries leading to meters of change, that’s a headline.”

This final report also puts more emphasis on the ripple effect of small degrees of temperature change, some of which are already being seen, such as species extinctions and loss of biodiversity.

“A relatively modest degree of warming — one to three degrees — spells a lot of trouble and I think that was not clear in the previous report,” Dr. Oppenheimer said. He said part of the reason for the lack of clarity was that governments had “messed around” with the language and structure of the report during the approval process.

This time around, the consequences of different degrees of climate change will be better laid out so that the ministers who meet in Bali next month will understand the options and the consequences of inaction. “This should light a fire under policy makers,” Dr. Oppenheimer said.
442 2007-11-17 At the same time, Saudi officials were relieved to see oil fall from its record close of $96.70 a barrel, set last week. No one here wanted to see prices reach the politically charged figure of $100 just as OPEC leaders were meeting in Riyadh. Oil futures, which have more than tripled in price in four years, closed at $95.10 a barrel in New York on Friday.

The two-day meeting will focus on such issues as security of supplies and environmental policy. OPEC is eager to show it is both a reliable oil supplier that has not failed its customers and that it is attuned to concerns about the environment, especially ahead of a United Nations meeting on climate change next month in Bali. The group wants to begin an environmental initiative focusing on ways to capture and store the carbon dioxide that results from burning fossil fuels, instead of releasing it into the atmosphere.

“We do not like policies that discriminate against petroleum or fossil fuels in general,” Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said during a news conference on Tuesday. “It behooves us to find a technological process that will make the continued use of fossil fuels possible.”

OPEC’s 12 members, an eclectic group that includes Libya, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the latest member, Angola, account for about 40 percent of the world’s oil exports and 80 percent of its proven reserves. Ecuador is set to rejoin the group this weekend after dropping out of OPEC in the 1990s.

President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela is becoming increasingly vocal in his calls for OPEC to revert to its more militant position of the 1970s. This week, Mr. Chávez proposed that OPEC devise a plan to sell oil to poor countries at much lower prices while charging wealthy nations more. The cartel, he said, should “raise its level of political action.” Such language does not go over well with Saudi officials, who are worried about Mr. Chávez’s presence here.

Hossein Adeli, the chairman of the Ravand Institute for Economic and International Studies, in Tehran, said there would always be a temptation to bring politics into OPEC. “Oil and gas are the most political commodities in the world,” he said.

Unlike Mr. Chávez, most members of the cartel are annoyed by their inability to rein in an oil market heavily influenced by financial operators, like hedge funds and pension funds.

“We are so perplexed and so frustrated with the idea we have anything to do with these prices,” said Prince Abdel Aziz bin Salman, the deputy petroleum minister of Saudi Arabia.

OPEC countries have indeed benefited immensely from the surge in oil prices. The 12 members are expected to receive $658 billion in revenue this year, up from $605 billion last year, according to a recent estimate by the Energy Information Administration. Next year, their revenue could rise to $762 billion, according to the energy agency.

At the same time, the price of everything from drilling rigs to multibillion-dollar processing plants for oil or natural gas has double or tripled, and caused project delays or cancellations. In Kuwait, a plan for a new refinery was shelved after the expected construction cost jumped to $14 billion from $7 billion.

“The rise in prices has been a nightmare for producers,” said Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah, Qatar’s energy minister.
443 2007-11-17 Sitting at the bar, an elegant bald man, who had ordered the veal, raised his fork and agreed.

Mr. Allen’s understanding of the situation is that years ago, when Broadway was “smoking,” the producers cut a deal with the stagehands’ union to pad the payroll and thus avoid a strike. Then, in recent years, a younger generation of producer came along, one who no longer wished to tolerate the union man who will sometimes sit, as it is said, on a beach chair in the back of a truck.

“I saw them picketing the other day on 44th Street and thought to myself, ‘That’s the hardest they’ve worked in years,’” Mr. Allen said.

The scene was somewhat different at Smith’s, on Eighth Avenue at West 44th Street, which has an atmosphere of steam-table snacks and dollar beers.

Most nights, the place would be filled with members of Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, the stagehands’ union. On Thursday night, it was filled instead with men from the electricians’ union who were doing the wave and drinking cheaply on what a sign called “Construction Worker Appreciation Day.”

Kevin O’Lunney, who owns the Kevin St. James bar up the block on Eighth Avenue, said the stagehands just weren’t drinking these days, being short of money and standing in the cold on picket lines all day. Strikes are not conducive to a festive mood.

“It’s not a party — it’s serious,” he said.

At Smith’s, however, the party itself was serious and seemed to include pestering the barmaids, insulting politicians and laughing at uncharitable ethnic jokes. A large man with a mustache, who claimed to be a chef, not a stagehand, had unkind words for a presidential candidate who reminded him of a certain aging talk-show host who, in turn, reminded him of “something eating corn through a fence.”

One block east, at Angus McIndoe on 44th Street, the bottled beers were $5 each. (They were $7 at Joe Allen’s and a cut-rate $4 at Smith’s, not including the construction worker special.) Sitting at the bar, you could see the strikers picketing the Majestic Theater across the street.

Angus McIndoe is known as an “actors’ bar,” but the only actors in sight were seen through the windows. Even the two men standing at the bar who looked like actors were not (though when pressed, they confessed to having “actorlike hair”).

Sam Ellis is a technical supervisor who has worked on several dozen Broadway shows. As the man in charge of a production’s lighting, scenery, sound and wardrobe, he stands between the union and the management, represented by the League of American Theaters and Producers.

Mr. Ellis very kindly interrupted his birthday dinner at Angus McIndoe to speak about the strike with uninvited guests.

“What they’re banging their heads against is rules no one even knows why they exist anymore,” he said.

His dessert, its candle extinguished, remained half-eaten on the table.

“This is a great business to be in, though, a very good business,” he said. “At least they say it’s a business. Really, it’s just entertainment.”
444 2007-11-17 cisco increases buyback Cisco Systems, the world's biggest maker of networking equipment, increased its stock buyback by as much as $10 billion after a disappointing sales forecast this month. The amount would allow Cisco to repurchase about 6 per...
445 2007-11-18 Baylor has fired Coach Guy Morriss. The question becomes, who will take over at this most difficult of jobs?...
446 2007-11-18 The era of low interest rates ushered in by a series of Federal Reserve rate cuts in the aftermath of the technology bust and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, created ideal conditions for financial companies to prosper. The easy availability of money and new financial products intended to disperse risk led to a boom in mortgage lending and private equity acquisitions.

“The macroeconomic conditions were very conducive to them posting very high profit margins,” said Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer for Bessemer Trust. “And now investors realize those margins won’t last.”

In the third quarter, the operating profits of financial companies fell more than 33 percent, a drastic reversal from a 13 percent growth rate in the second quarter, according to an analysis by Howard Silverblatt, Standard & Poor’s chief index analyst. The sector, which has been accounting for more than a fourth of profits in the S.&P., helped drag overall profit down for the index by 8.5 percent. (Excluding financial services, operating earnings were up 1.6 percent in the quarter.)

Tim Scholefield, the head of equities at Baring Asset Management, said his firm had lowered the allocation of investments to American stocks because of the continued uncertainty surrounding the financial sector. He, like many others, expects more write-downs related to complex debt securities like collateralized debt obligations. Financial institutions will also struggle to replace the billions of dollars that they had earned by structuring acquisitions for private equity firms and by trading mortgage bonds.

“There is a risk of more to come,” said Mr. Scholefield, who prefers investing in developing economies because he thinks they have better growth prospects and lower debt levels.

Still, few investors and analysts expect financial stocks to suffer a collapse akin to the crash in technology and telecommunications stocks, which went from a commanding 42 percent weighting in the S.&P. 500 to 20 percent today. They note that, for better or for worse, financial services make up a much bigger share of the economy today than they did 10 or 20 years ago, when manufacturing, materials and energy were more dominant.

“I don’t think this is a bubble headed for a crash,” said Robert D. Arnott, chairman of Research Affiliates, a company that creates stock indexes based on a company’s share of the economy. “I do think the financial services are an enormous part of the economy and will remain so.”

But Mr. Arnott also says the sector could continue to be a drain on the market. He expects the earnings of financial companies to bottom out in 2009 or 2010, an outlook much grimmer than the consensus expectation on Wall Street that the bottom will come next year.

Credit losses from the mortgage market alone could total as much as $400 billion, according to Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs. In a report last week, he noted that if half those losses were borne by financial institutions, lending could be reduced going forward by about $2 trillion, or about 7 percent of all nonfinancial debt in the American economy. That would not only hurt the financial sector; it could lead to a recession.

Mr. Hatzius cautions that the estimates assume all else is equal across the economy. Some losses in the financial sector could well be made up by growth in other areas like exports, which have been rising rapidly as the dollar has fallen against the euro and other currencies. Profits remain strong at technology and industrial companies, which benefit the most from the export boom.

James T. Swanson, chief investment strategist at the Boston mutual fund company MFS Investment Management, said the American stock market remained attractive because nonfinancial corporate America is in fine health, with low levels of debt and strong profits, particularly in their foreign operations. “We are slowing down for sure in the U.S., but outside of the U.S., profits are continuing to grow,” he said.

For the stock market, the crucial question is whether that will be enough to overcome the drag from the financial sector.
447 2007-11-18 Among government officials and antidoping authorities, Mr. Novitzky is heralded as a pioneer. They credit him with helping to change how the illegal distribution of performance-enhancing drugs is prosecuted. They describe him as a tenacious and methodical investigator whose work has always held up in court.

Mr. Novitzky’s work has cost the sprinter Marion Jones five Olympic medals and has helped obtain federal convictions of her and six others. He has persuaded many of the people who inhabit that world to save themselves by helping him — without ever raising his voice.

He urged the former Mets clubhouse worker Kirk Radomski, said to be the biggest supplier of steroids to Major League Baseball players until 2005, to become a government informant and wear a listening device as he went about his work for 16 months. Mr. Novitzky secured his cooperation after leading a surprise raid at Mr. Radomski’s home on Long Island.

George J. Mitchell, the former senator, is relying on information based on Mr. Novitzky’s legwork to provide details and evidence for his coming report on steroids in baseball.

Mr. Novitzky’s detractors, mainly the defendants and their lawyers, say he is biased and unfair. They say he has a vendetta against Mr. Bonds, is seeking fame and financial gain from the case, and puts words into suspects’ mouths. They say he has lied in sworn reports, including on the initial search warrant affidavit that kick-started the investigation of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative and its many famous clients.

Since May, Mr. Bonds’s lawyer, Michael Rains, has accused Mr. Novitzky of lying in the court documents used to obtain much of the evidence gathered against Mr. Bonds, according to letters obtained by The New York Times. Mr. Novitzky’s credibility, motives and methods have been the subject of correspondence between Mr. Rains and the United States attorney’s office in San Francisco.

“Cheating to win — the athletes did it; the government did it, too,” Victor Conte Jr., Balco’s founder and president, said in an interview. Mr. Conte spent four months in jail based on evidence Mr. Novitzky gathered.

Mr. Novitzky declined to be interviewed for this article or to respond specifically to assertions of his misconduct by Mr. Rains. He asked that his photograph not be published, explaining in an e-mail message, “The possibility of greatly diminishing my ability to investigate this case and others arises any time my picture and name are publicized.”

Growing up in Burlingame, Calif., Mr. Novitzky, the 6-foot-6 son of a high school basketball coach, starred in basketball and track at Mills High School, once clearing 7 feet in the high jump. But his collegiate career — at three universities over five years — was washed out by knee and back injuries.

“He was very clean-cut, yes-sir, no-sir, always there on time, hustle, and do everything you asked him to do,” Stan Morrison, the former San Jose State University basketball coach, said in an interview. “He was absolutely an Eagle Scout.”

Mr. Novitzky joined the I.R.S. in 1993. For nine years, he worked low-profile cases in the Bay Area as he and his wife, Stacy, a nurse, started their family. They have three daughters, ages 10, 8 and 2. Mr. Novitzky drives a Chevrolet Monte Carlo, coaches girls’ sports and plays fantasy football in a league with his high school buddies.

He lives around the corner from his parents, and his father said he would rather remain an agent to stay near home than be promoted and be subject to transfers. The I.R.S. refuses to say how much Mr. Novitzky makes, but the top salary for a special agent in San Jose is $145,400 a year.

The Balco case started in August 2002. At the time, using steroids without a prescription was a crime largely ignored by the authorities. The F.B.I. mostly stopped doing drug cases after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and the Drug Enforcement Administration focused primarily on the biggest ones, involving heroin or cocaine. Rusty Payne, a D.E.A. spokesman, said the Bay Area steroids case was “from a D.E.A. standpoint, small potatoes.”

Mr. Novitzky lives less than a mile from Mr. Conte’s Balco office and the World Gym where Mr. Bonds pumped himself up during his home run spree in 2001, when he hit a record 73.

Assigned to the case after a tip, Mr. Novitzky started going through the Balco trash in September 2002. The reasons for the investigation are unclear. Collecting drug samples and financial records weekly, Mr. Novitzky identified more than a dozen famous clients.

“Most federal investigations are built on cooperating witnesses,” said Nanci L. Clarence, a San Francisco defense lawyer for athletes summoned to the grand jury. “More rarely do you see Dumpster diving.”

Mr. Novitzky also joined Mr. Bonds’s gym. Back in his office in San Jose, he teamed with Jeff Nedrow, an assistant United States attorney, and enlisted Don H. Catlin, then director of the U.C.L.A. Olympic Analytical Laboratory, as his drug tutor.

Dr. Catlin recalled that Mr. Novitzky could not even pronounce erythropoietin, a hormone, when they first spoke. Years later, some people thought Mr. Novitzky had medical training, so commanding was his knowledge of performance-enhancing drugs.

But lawyers defending athletes are suspicious of Mr. Novitzky’s motives and describe him as out of control. They point to the many charges that have been dropped, the light sentences for those who have been convicted and the sluggish pace of the investigation. Of the seven people convicted in the Balco case, a lawyer who leaked grand jury testimony received the toughest sentence, two and a half years.

Mr. Novitzky made some tactical mistakes. He took Balco trash home to examine, then put the resealed bags in a trash container behind a building near his old high school that had no connection to the case. The owner of that building complained to Balco.

It was then, Mr. Conte said, that he knew someone was going through his trash. He also said he learned his mail was being opened and copied, and he said he once spotted somebody following him. Joyce Valente, a Balco employee, filed a police report about the “stolen” trash in August 2002, and the local weekly paper published an item about it. Three weeks later, forced to act quickly, Mr. Novitzky led 20 agents on the raid of Balco.

“They came in before they were ready to,” Mr. Conte said. “They’d blown their cover.”

Mr. Novitzky does not tape his interviews but writes detailed reports. Mr. Conte; Greg Anderson, Mr. Bonds’s personal trainer; James Valente, Balco’s former vice president; and the former pitcher Jason Grimsley are among those who have complained that Mr. Novitzky misstated some of what they said or attributed to them information he had collected elsewhere. Mr. Conte has filed sworn statements saying he had not even met 3 of the 27 athletes to whom Mr. Novitzky said he had admitted giving steroids.

Mr. Conte said Mr. Novitzky’s mistakes led the government to drop 40 of 42 charges against him. The prosecutors said that his was a fair outcome and that Mr. Novitzky had not erred.

In letters to Scott N. Schools, the interim United States attorney in San Francisco, Mr. Rains argued that the government should walk away from its investigation because of Mr. Novitzky’s “vendetta” against Mr. Bonds.

But Dwight Sparlin, a retired I.R.S. manager who led the San Francisco office when the Balco case started, said the original focus was on Mr. Conte.

“He wasn’t even looking at Barry Bonds,” Mr. Sparlin said in an interview. “What appears to be a small money-laundering case, you never know where it will go.”

Mr. Rains accused Mr. Novitzky of perjury in two sworn statements at the heart of the Balco case. Mr. Rains wrote that all evidence obtained from Balco and Mr. Anderson’s home against all defendants should be thrown out because Mr. Novitzky put a false statement in the original search warrant affidavit about the reliability of an informant.

Mr. Rains also said two members of the San Mateo narcotics task force, who worked with Mr. Novitzky early in the case, met with Mr. Nedrow, the assistant United States attorney, to express their concerns about what they said were the false statements by Mr. Novitzky. Mr. Rains wrote that Mr. Nedrow replied that he would deal with the problems later but never did. One member of the task force did not respond to specific questions by e-mail, and the other could not be identified.

In early 2003, Mr. Novitzky had a state narcotics agent go undercover in a gym to try to befriend Mr. Anderson. The agent, Iran White, later told Playboy magazine that Mr. Novitzky was obsessed with Mr. Bonds and talked about writing a book. One of the task force agents corroborated Mr. White’s account, according to Mr. Rains’s letters to Mr. Schools.

Mr. Novitzky signed a sworn statement in 2004 denying he had ever discussed a book deal. A response to Mr. Rains from Mr. Schools did not address the specific contentions about Mr. Novitzky, but said the government would continue the case against Mr. Bonds because it had “significant evidence that contradicts your client’s grand jury testimony.”

Mr. Conte said the government gave favorable sentences to the Balco defendants in plea negotiations after postponing a court hearing that was going to focus on Mr. Novitzky’s conduct.

“We were going to nail him, big time,” Mr. Conte said, a threat now being repeated by Mr. Rains.

Kevin V. Ryan, the United States attorney in San Francisco until earlier this year, said none of the complaints had merit.

“He has taken a lot of unfair shots,” Mr. Ryan said of Mr. Novitzky in a telephone interview. “Most of the criticism, if not all, has been false or hyperbole or an effort to distract people’s attention from what is going on. There has not been a motion to suppress that has held up. Those that have been granted were reversed. Everything he has done has held up.”

Some antidoping advocates gush when they speak of Mr. Novitzky’s effect on sports.

“Agent Novitzky has been one of the pioneers in trying to rid an issue that is cancerlike in the world of sports,” Peter V. Ueberroth, the chairman of the United States Olympic Committee and former baseball commissioner, said in a phone interview.

Mr. Ryan put his work in even grander terms: “He has changed the face of sports.”

Last month, Mr. Novitzky induced Ms. Jones, once the world’s most famous female athlete, to admit to steroid use after seven years of public denial. To extract her confession, he used the leverage of a more serious charge from an unrelated check-fraud scheme. No positive test result was needed. Ms. Jones pleaded guilty to lying to federal agents.

The world-class sprinters Tim Montgomery and Justin Gatlin were swayed by Mr. Novitzky to be informants. Their former coach, Trevor Graham, is also facing trial for lying to Mr. Novitzky, a charge Mr. Graham denies. Lawyers for Mr. Graham say Mr. Novitzky has been unfair, but lawyers for Mr. Montgomery and Mr. Gatlin praised him.

“Even in the range of federal law enforcement, his ability is high.” said Timothy J. Heaphy, a former federal prosecutor who is Montgomery’s lawyer. Mr. Heaphy described him as “respectful, polite and prepared.”

Mr. Novitzky confronted Mr. Gatlin with the evidence he had against him, and persuaded him to make more than a dozen undercover telephone calls, starting the day they met. Later, Mr. Novitzky testified for Mr. Gatlin at a track federation hearing.

Mr. Novitzky has “a very physical, imposing presence,” Ms. Clarence, the lawyer for athletes, said, adding that he is “good at putting the thumb on people, pressuring them to cooperate.”

His work has spawned inquiries beyond Balco. The D.E.A. is making major cases in part because Congress, influenced by the Balco case, enhanced the penalties for steroid distribution. More steroid cases are being prosecuted under state laws, too. The Albany County district attorney’s office in New York is pursuing Internet pharmacies in four states. That case has also made news for implicating professional athletes as customers.

Next month, Mr. Bonds will make his first appearance in federal court. Mr. Radomski is expected to be sentenced. The Mitchell report is due soon. Ms. Jones is to be sentenced Jan. 11.

After she pleaded guilty last month in White Plains, she admitted to cheating and lying about steroid use, sobbing on the courthouse steps.

Standing alone, away from the crowd, was the tall, bald I.R.S. agent waiting for a car to take him to the airport.
448 2007-11-18 Complicating the matter even more, the campaigns of Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico and Senators Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware and Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut also have the potential to sway the race. If candidates do not reach a 15 percent threshold in each of the 1,784 precinct caucuses on Jan. 3, their supporters make a second choice, a procedure that Mrs. Clinton’s aides fear could favor Mr. Edwards or Mr. Obama.

In the final seven weeks of the race, all campaigns are increasing their efforts here, placing new advertisements and investing more resources. To fight the new push by the Clinton campaign, rivals are also planning to spend nearly all their time in Iowa in December, hoping to raise doubts about her candidacy. While the Obama and Edwards campaigns have been gradually building for months toward this moment, the Clinton campaign has bolstered its activity here in recent weeks, hiring 100 new workers to concentrate on a person-to-person drive to explain the quirky process of the caucuses, with a goal of having 50,000 in-home visits by Christmas.

More than 60 percent of those who have identified themselves as Clinton supporters, senior strategists say, have never participated in the Iowa caucuses. It is a far higher share than the campaign had been anticipating, which suggests that many of the reliable rank-and-file Democrats have chosen another candidate. So the Clinton campaign is working to expand its universe of supporters to women who have never participated.

“No one is going to give Hillary Clinton this nomination,” said Terry McAuliffe, the national chairman of her campaign, who has traveled to Iowa nearly once a week for months. “She’s going to have to earn it.”

By this week, the Clinton campaign had completed opening 34 offices across the state, arriving in many cities more than two months behind the local operatives for Mr. Obama or Mr. Edwards. Last week, the Clinton campaign’s national headquarters sent a top communications operative to Iowa and hired eight deputies charged solely with drumming up media coverage in smaller cities across the state.

The campaign also began running radio advertisements and significantly increased its television commercials, spending $360,000 last week compared with $260,000 two weeks ago.

At the same time, Mr. Clinton is playing an increasingly larger role in Iowa. After never competing in the Iowa caucuses during his own presidential races, Mr. Clinton has sought to learn the nuts and bolts of the system and has studied regions where he believes his appearances could be most helpful.

Mr. Clinton was sent last week to the western Iowa towns of Onawa and Glenwood, where he created a stir and drew a large crowd of local Democrats.

“Clearly they weren’t all there because they support Hillary,” said Kenneth Mertes, the Democratic chairman in Monona County. “But he is a very persuasive speaker and can sway the voters who come to see him just out of curiosity.”

A New York Times/CBS News poll this month found that 38 percent of Iowa voters who are likely to participate in the caucuses said the former president’s involvement in the race would make them more likely to support Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. But 55 percent said it would make no difference in deciding which Democrat to support.

Mr. Clinton is expected to concentrate on rural areas and smaller cities, where campaign aides believe that Mrs. Clinton needs a boost. (A sign on the office door of Teresa Vilmain, the state director of the Clinton campaign, says: “Hillary is needed in rural Iowa.”) Already, Mr. Clinton has helped recruit precinct captains and has worked to persuade small clutches of undecided voters, but aides say his involvement will increase significantly after Thanksgiving.

With new anxieties about Iowa and a sense of heightened importance in the vote’s outcome, the Clinton campaign sent several senior strategists here, including Karen Hicks, who is known as one of the party’s top get-out-the-vote specialists. To compete with the strong organizations of Mr. Edwards and Mr. Obama, the Clinton campaign held a job fair in Washington to recruit many of the 100 new workers, but it remains an open question whether the late influx of young aides will be able to build the relationships with Iowa voters that other campaigns have been working on for months.

The Clinton campaign’s efforts to bolster its organization here come in the wake of a challenging period in the state; aides conceded to planting questions in Iowa audiences and struggled to explain whether a tip was left for a waitress who served Mrs. Clinton during a recent visit. Three weeks ago, Patti Solis Doyle, the national campaign manager, traveled here to appraise Mrs. Clinton’s efforts. A strategy was devised to have the Clintons — and many high-profile surrogates — blanket the state in December.

Former Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska is expected to endorse her candidacy and travel through the state on her behalf in the coming weeks. Former Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, a presidential candidate four years ago, is also scheduled to spend time in Iowa and urge his former supporters to sign on with Mrs. Clinton.

And when Mrs. Clinton returns Monday to Iowa, aides said, she will begin concentrating on smaller audiences and intimate sessions with voters in outlying areas of the state. One stop on the itinerary, for example, is Tama, population 2,700.

“At the beginning, she didn’t understand the whole notion of relationship building,” said Mr. Vilsack, the former Iowa governor, who often travels the state with Mrs. Clinton and introduces her to voters. “She now gets it. She now understands the psyche of this process.”
449 2007-11-18 CHICAGO, Nov. 17 (AP) — A woman in her 30s who was one of four organ transplant patients infected with H.I.V. and hepatitis was not told that the infected donor was high risk, and had previously rejected another donor “because of his lifestyle,” her lawyer said.

The lawyer, Thomas Demetrio, filed a petition on Thursday in Cook County Circuit Court on behalf of the woman, asking officials to keep a hospital and an organ procurement center from destroying or altering records involving the donation.

“She’s really a mess right now,” Mr. Demetrio said of the woman. “She’s still in shock.”

The patient, identified in court documents as Jane Doe, received a kidney transplant at the University of Chicago Medical Center on Jan. 9, Mr. Demetrio said.

Gift of Hope Organ and Tissue Donor Network in Elmhurst and the University of Chicago both knew the kidney donor was high risk but did not inform the patient, Mr. Demetrio said.

A spokesman for the University of Chicago, John Easton, responded in an e-mail message: “We believe we follow guidelines, and of course with the patient’s consent we will provide necessary records and documents, as is consistent with our open process.”
450 2007-11-18 But in 2001 Mr. Phillips was declared mentally incompetent — a result of an investigation that some believe was politically motivated — and a series of court-appointed guardians took over his affairs. For years, according to accusations in court by the current guardian, they siphoned off his fortune and failed to pay his taxes.

Now, the old man is basically broke, living in an assisted-living facility in Park Slope, Brooklyn, a world away from his old neighborhood. Selling the theater and what is left of his other real estate holdings seems the only option. Some people are reluctant to see that happen.

“The Slave Theater is definitely a community treasure,” said Brenda Fryson, chairwoman of Community Board 3 in Brooklyn, which is trying to get landmark status for the theater. “It goes back some years, and people remember going to that theater as little kids. It really is a great part of our history in this neighborhood.”

Mr. Phillips amassed a fortune of roughly $10 million by buying property in Bedford-Stuyvesant when others were scared to walk its streets. A maverick lawyer and World War II veteran, he was twice elected Civil Court judge without the support of Brooklyn’s powerful Democratic machine. A 10th-degree black belt, he called himself “the kung fu judge.”

James P. McCall, a Republican lawyer who ran unsuccessfully for Civil Court judge in Brooklyn this year, said he tried his first jury trial before Judge Phillips in 1985.

“Whenever you were in his presence you knew he was there; he was not a wallflower, he was very big,” Mr. McCall said.

Mr. Phillips, who first served in the Civil Court in Brooklyn in 1977 and retired in 1994, got into the movie theater business in the early 1980s. A few years earlier he had written, produced and directed a movie after failing to get a major studio interested in the project. The film was “Hands Across Two Continents,” a tale of taboo interracial love set in 1970s Brooklyn.

When no one wanted to produce the film, he paid for it himself.

When no one wanted to distribute the film, he bought two movie theaters in his neighborhood, Bedford-Stuyvesant, and showed it himself.

The first theater was the century-old Regent Theater at 1215 Fulton Street. He renamed it the Slave No. 1 Theater “so that no one would ever forget our struggles,” he said recently, “or what we, as black people, have gone through.”

The second, at 750 Nostrand Avenue, he called the Black Lady, or the Slave No. 2.

Mr. Phillips turned the inside of the Regent into an homage to African-American history. The walls are lined with portraits of Malcolm X, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Marcus Garvey and Kwame Nkrumah, the founder of Ghana.

The Rev. Al Sharpton, who grew up in Brownsville and Bedford-Stuyvesant and attended church not far from the Regent, said that as a youngster he and his friends often “played hooky from choir rehearsal” to catch whatever films were playing there.

Years later, in the late 1980s, Mr. Sharpton returned to the theater. By then its name had been changed, and New York City itself had become the stage for heated racial drama.

In the days after the racially charged killings of Michael Griffith in Howard Beach, Queens, in 1986 and then, three years later, of Yusuf K. Hawkins in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, the Slave Theater played host to rallies and press conferences. The theater became a grand soapbox where the social and political careers of many black activists began, including Mr. Sharpton’s.

“It became the centerpiece of the movement,” Mr. Sharpton said recently. “What became so interesting about it was the mix of church people and business people and hard-core black nationalists and militants.”

Mr. Phillips drew the ire of many local black politicians in 1989 when he backed Rudolph W. Giuliani in the mayoral race against David N. Dinkins, the Democratic candidate. He told The New York Times that black voters should support Mr. Giuliani because of his experience fighting crime.

“I’m 6 feet 1,” Mr. Phillips was quoted as saying then. “I can kill you with my hands faster than you can believe, and I carry a gun. But I’m scared to walk the streets at night. How do you think black women feel?”

In 1997, Mr. Phillips, who had left the bench in 1994 after having reached the mandatory retirement age of 70, was back in court, arrested for gun possession and resisting arrest after a pair of plainclothes police officers saw him with a holstered gun. The charges were later dropped.

In the years since then, his health and might have faded. He has high blood pressure, and Alzheimer’s has crept in more recently, friends and relatives said.

Back at the theater, which closed in 1998, Mr. Phillips stepped into the aisle and took in the humbled place as if it were as perfect as the day he opened it.

“A lot of people were shocked by the name, Slave Theater, but I had a reason,” he said. “I named it after me. I got a slave name, my ancestors were slaves, a whole race of people were slaves. Women were raped and men were lynched, all kinds of murders and no one was ever prosecuted. I say it’s the worst crime known to mankind. This is a reminder of that.”

In some ways, the judge’s life began to unravel in 2001, after he announced that he planned to run for Brooklyn district attorney against the four-time incumbent, Charles J. Hynes.

About that time, Mr. Hynes’s office began investigating allegations that Mr. Phillips had been swindled out of real estate holdings. Prosecutors said the investigation was aimed at protecting Mr. Phillips, but he and his supporters believe it was a way of removing him from the race.

No one was arrested, but in the course of the inquiry, a judge determined that Mr. Phillips was mentally incompetent, knocking him off the ballot and removing his control of his own affairs.

Mr. Phillips, who had never married or had children, became a ward of Kings County’s guardianship system. It placed him and his estimated $10 million in assets, including 10 mostly residential properties and the two movie theaters, in the hands of court-appointed guardians.

His current guardian, James Cahill Jr., asserts in papers in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn that a string of guardians sold off or mismanaged Mr. Phillips’s property in the years that followed. Thousands of dollars placed in escrow simply disappeared, according to the papers.

Mr. Cahill said the previous guardians took hundreds of thousands of dollars for themselves without going through the courts, while others made big cash payments to mystery contractors. Most never filed proper or timely accountings of what was spent out of Mr. Phillips’s account, the papers say. And for six years none of the guardians, all of whom are lawyers, paid taxes on behalf of Mr. Phillips’s estate, according to the reports Mr. Cahill filed with the court.

Now, according those reports, Mr. Phillips owes upward of $2 million in taxes, interest and penalties to the I.R.S.

In September, John Kennedy O’Hara, a disbarred lawyer and longtime friend of Mr. Phillips’s, filed a complaint with the I.R.S. accusing four former court-appointed guardians — Harvey L. Greenberg, Frank J. Livoti, Ray Jones and Emani P. Taylor — and State Supreme Court Justice Michael L. Pesce of violating tax law while overseeing Mr. Phillips’s guardianship case.

Mr. Greenberg said he served as guardian only for a few months, “long enough for a cup of coffee,” and that when he saw that Mr. Phillips’s friends and associates — his “own people, excuse the racist expression” — had “robbed him dumb, deaf and blind,” he did not want any part. He said he stepped down without accepting any fees.

Mr. Livoti and Mr. Jones, the next guardians, declined to comment for this article. Justice Pesce did not respond last week to a request for comment.

Ms. Taylor, the most immediate prior guardian, has acknowledged paying herself hundreds of thousands of dollars from Mr. Phillips’s accounts, and also paying family and friends. She said that the previous guardians left the estate a complete mess, and that she was simply repaying herself for expenses and services rendered.

Guardians would typically submit orders to the court detailing their expenses and fees and seeking approval for payments.

Ms. Taylor said she believed she did nothing wrong by taking payments without court approval.

The district attorney’s office declined to press charges against Ms. Taylor but referred the matter to a lawyers’ disciplinary committee for a review. Separately, a court is to decide whether Ms. Taylor took money improperly.

The district attorney did prosecute one person, Maria Leyna Albertina, in 2005 on charges that she defrauded a number of people out of property, including Mr. Phillips, who owned a parking lot that she sold for $175,000.

Ms. Albertina pleaded guilty to two counts of grand larceny, according to the district attorney’s office; the length of her prison term will depend on her ability to pay $2 million in restitution.

Meanwhile, a couple weeks ago, Mr. Cahill filed an application in State Supreme Court to sell the Slave Theater, the lot behind it and the Black Lady Theater.

For some, it seems an injustice Mr. Phillips, at 83, should not have to bear.

“He has been through a lot,” said Dee Woodburne, a former paralegal and head of the Committee to Free Judge Phillips and Restore His Estate. “My concern is whose hands are those theaters going to go into. What has to happen is for this man to get a real investigation. People need to be held accountable, regardless of who they are.”

Mr. Cahill said the sale of the theaters was a last resort to satisfy Mr. Phillips’s tax obligations.

Back in the theater, Mr. Hardy tried to explain all this, as he saw it, to Mr. Phillips. “They’re trying to do the best they can to take it from you, sir.”

“They want to do what, Hardy?” Mr. Phillips asked, as he stood in a dusty and dim aisle in the theater. “No, no. We can’t lose this here. We need to think about opening up again. Hardy, what do you say? I imagine once we open up you won’t be able to get in here, all the people that will be coming in. Won’t be any room.”

“Sir, I’m with you 100 percent,” Mr. Hardy said.
451 2007-11-18 DENVER, Nov. 16 — A proposed amendment to the Colorado Constitution that would give legal rights to fertilized human eggs may be headed for the ballot next year, raising the prospect of a heated local debate over abortion at the same time that Democrats are gathering here for their national convention.

The ballot measure, which passed a legal hurdle this week when the Colorado Supreme Court upheld an administrative panel’s ruling about its wording, would give Colorado perhaps the most sweeping language in the nation about the rights of the unborn, legal experts said.

The proposal must go through several other steps between now and Election Day 2008, including gathering of enough signatures to qualify for the ballot.

But both sides agreed that the measure, if it passed, would have immense ripple effects. The measure, just one paragraph long, would ask voters whether inalienable rights, due process rights and equality of justice rights as defined in the state Constitution should be extended to “any human being from the moment of fertilization.”

The deputy director of Naral Pro-Choice Colorado, Toni Panetta, said state courts could be swamped by suits claiming specific rights for a fertilized egg that the broad language of the ballot measure did not clarify.
452 2007-11-18 RED BULL TO GO IT ALONE The tenuous marriage between Red Bull and the Anschutz Entertainment Group to develop and build a new stadium for the Red Bulls in Harrison, N.J., was dissolved Friday when the team, which is owned by the Austria-based Red Bull bought out AEG’s 50 percent share. The two companies, which have differing corporate cultures and different visions for the stadium, agreed to be partners when Red Bull purchased the MetroStars from AEG before the 2006 season.

The Red Bulls have said they plan to start construction as soon as next week and will move heaven and (tons of) earth to complete the project during the 2009 season, contrary to published reports that the stadium would not be completed until 2010.

The club plans to unveil a new design for Red Bull Park early next week and said it would cost $180 million to $200 million. Legal problems and construction delays prompted the Red Bulls to consider scuttling the project. The club met with officials from the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority last summer and was offered a tract of land near Continental Arena (now the Izod Center), but decided to push ahead in Harrison.

NO TRANSFER FOR ALTIDORE Striker Jozy Altidore, who made his debut for the United States national team Saturday in a friendly against South Africa, is not leaving the Red Bulls.

The Spanish newspaper AS reported Friday that Real Madrid was interested in Altidore, an 18-year-old Florida native whose parents are from Haiti.

“We haven’t heard from Real Madrid, but they would only be the latest team to contact us about Jozy,” Marc de Grandpre, the team’s managing director, said. “We just told the commissioner, Don Garber, and the other owners that we will not agree to any transfer involving Jozy. He’s under contract, and we’re going to keep him.”

De Grandpre acknowledged that the team may alter Altidore’s contract, in which he earned a base salary of $85,000 this year.

EXPANSION During his state of the league address on Friday, Don Garber said that St. Louis had moved to the head of a list that includes Philadelphia and Atlanta to become the league’s 16th team. Seattle was announced as the 15th last week; the two new teams would begin play in 2009. Garber, for the first time, confirmed that the Wilpon family, owners of the Mets, are seeking a second team for the New York metropolitan area; and that Arthur Blank, the owner of the Atlanta Falcons, is interested in a team. M.L.S. could add two more teams for 2010.
453 2007-11-18 “Defensive guys are the crazy guys — they like to joke and have fun,” safety Kerry Rhodes said. “We’re not going to let ourselves get down. If you do, we’re going to be in for a real, real, real long season.”

The Jets play host to the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday. The Steelers are not only 7-2, but they also have the second-best rushing attack in the league and are the best at converting third downs. Pittsburgh running back Willie Parker is good at finding space.

“Curtis describes that as ‘water’ — it always finds its way to a crack,” Jets Coach Eric Mangini said Thursday, referring to the former Jets running back Curtis Martin, who will be honored at Sunday’s game.

A defensive tackle for his first three years in the league, Robertson became a nose tackle when Mangini installed a three-man defensive front in 2006, his first year as the Jets’ head coach. The 3-4 defense seemed to work better last year than it has this season.

In nine games, the Jets have given up nearly 14 football fields in rushing yardage, 1,370 yards. Washington pounded them for 296 yards rushing in their last game, a 23-20 overtime victory for the Redskins in which the Jets, not surprisingly, lost a 14-point lead.

Mangini has talked about his defense maintaining its “gap integrity” — maintaining responsibility while plugging holes. But he also says that his defense is capable of tackling more effectively. Tackling drills can accomplish only so much.

“The biggest thing with stopping the run is taking the mind-set of wanting to stop the run,” Rhodes said. “We can practice it all we want. It’s just finding the want-to. Players can be more physical in stopping the run.”

That effort often starts with Robertson. Although he is considered a lightweight by nose tackle standards, he had more tackles last year than in any of his first three years as a defensive tackle. He is on pace to match his tackle total of last year, 62.

“He’s a rarity,” the veteran outside linebacker David Bowens said. “He’s one of those guys who can take on a double-team, but he’s athletic enough to get off the blocks to make plays.”

But tackling is not on the top line of Robertson’s job description. He is asked to keep a center or a guard, or sometimes both, at bay so the Jets’ linebackers can swoop in to make a tackle. It is exhausting work, and he does not receive many accolades.

“It’s cool,” the 26-year-old Robertson said. “I like playing it. It’s not that bad.”

How about on Mondays or Tuesdays, when the soreness has settled into every muscle?

Robertson smiled again, then said: “Football’s football. You’re going to get sore regardless.”

Because of a season-ending knee injury to inside linebacker Jonathan Vilma, the Jets happen to be breaking in a rookie on the fly, the second-round draft choice David Harris. He has been a pleasant surprise, with 34 tackles in two starts.

Harris said he doubted that he would have made such an immediate impact had Robertson not been around to joust with opposing blockers. Robertson has also made 16 tackles in the Jets’ last two games.

“He’s so versatile, so quick — quick off the ball,” Harris said of Robertson. “He can shoot gaps, and that helps things out for me.”

Harris has yet to face the Steelers. “Everybody knows Pittsburgh is known as a running team, and they’ve been a running team since way back when,” Harris said. “The thing we have to do is play sound, physical defense.”

Mangini spoke as if assembling a defense that is technically precise yet can level a blow was still a work in progress. The Jets are still giving up too many yards after a running back rams into them; 4-yard gains turn into 8-yard gains.

“It all comes down to determination and heart in bringing the person down,” cornerback Hank Poteat said.

Robertson vowed to tie up traffic to enable the Jets to stop the Steelers and end a six-game losing streak that the Jets are tired of talking about. All he has to do is battle center Sean Mahan and guards Alan Faneca and Kendall Simmons to a standstill.

Their combined weight is about 925 pounds.

“We just have to do a better job at what we’re doing,” Robertson said.
454 2007-11-18 Re “Bush and Relatives of Fallen Lean on Each Other” (front page, Nov. 10): President Bush cites the emotional devastation of families who lost loved ones in Iraq as an influence on his decisions about the war. It is easy to understand a mother’s need to believe that her son did not die in vain. The president should offer comfort and assistance to the bereaved families — and not just to those who offer him comfort in return.

But it seems that our president is determined to make national policy based on his own need to believe that he has not sent men and women to die in vain in Iraq. His need, too, is understandable, but as a premise for continuing this war, it is unconscionable.
455 2007-11-18 Sam Habib, whose first name is short for Essam, arrived in New York in 1982 with only the change he had in his pocket. He sold his return ticket home to pay rent and went to work in the kitchens of Brooklyn restaurants.

Cindy Gluck (her real name is Hindy) grew up in Hasidic Williamsburg, in a family that she says were so poor, they often couldn’t afford to eat. At 20, she was married off to a man of her parents’ choosing; four children later, she went into real estate to try to make some money.

“I had never met a Muslim before,” Ms. Gluck said the other day, sitting with her partner in the small office at the back of the Church Avenue store, a space heavy with the aroma of baking croissants. “The first thing I wanted to know was: ‘What kind of Muslim are you?’”

Mr. Habib chimed in with a laugh: “All her friends told her that she should be careful that her crazy terrorist Arab partner doesn’t put bombs in her packages.”

Under the ground rules the pair worked out before making their partnership official, Ms. Gluck takes off Saturdays to celebrate the Sabbath, and Mr. Habib worships at the mosque every Friday. The doughnuts come from a kosher bakery in Borough Park. On Jewish holidays, Mr. Habib technically owns the entire business because Ms. Gluck is not allowed to earn money on those days.

And there is one edict they both obey. “Neither of us is allowed to enjoy the profits of the pork,” Ms. Gluck said. Any money the business makes on the sale of bacon, sausage or ham — foods that are forbidden in both their religions — is split and given away, hers to her synagogue and to Israel, his to the workers as bonuses.

The pair’s hard work has paid off; last year they opened a second franchise, on Flatbush and Sixth Avenues in Park Slope.

Both partners are married and have four children of exactly the same ages: 5, 8, 10 and 12. Mr. Habib has taught Ms. Gluck a few words of Arabic, and she has taught him how to say “good night” in Hebrew.

Mr. Habib often says a business partnership is like a marriage, and he acts accordingly; when he travels home to Egypt, he brings Ms. Gluck little gifts.

“You brought me that Muslim dress,” she recalled.

“It wasn’t a Muslim dress,” he replied with exasperation. “It was, I don’t know, a Nefertiti style or something. Ask my wife.”

Because of a contract dispute, Mr. Habib and Ms. Gluck are in the process of selling the stores back to Dunkin’ Donuts, but they will operate both for the next few months. And when their doughnut days are done, they plan to continue working together.

“She’s Jewish and I’m Muslim,” Mr. Habib said. “That doesn’t stop us from creating a business.”
456 2007-11-18 Elizabeth Frances Gallagher, a daughter of Martha Wang Gallagher and William Gallagher of Ardsley, N.Y., was married yesterday to William Laws McCabe, the son of Louise B. McCabe and James L. McCabe of Bryn Mawr, Pa. Msgr. Thomas P. Leonard performed the ceremony at Holy Trinity Roman Catholic Church in New York.

The bride and bridegroom, both 28, met on their first day at Yale, from which they graduated.

Mrs. McCabe, who is known as Lisa, is a law clerk for Judge Charles L. Brieant of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Until August, she was an associate in the litigation department of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, a New York law firm. She received her law degree cum laude from Fordham, where she was editor in chief of the Law Review.

Her father is a senior manager and research staff member at the I.B.M. Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. Her mother teaches Chinese as an associate professor in the foreign languages department at the Military Academy at West Point, N.Y.

Mr. McCabe is a computer systems analyst in the electrical engineering department at Columbia University. His mother, who is retired, was an adjunct professor of Italian at Penn State, at its campus in Media, Pa. His father is president of McCabe Capital Managers, an investment advisory firm in King of Prussia, Pa.
457 2007-11-18 The Tundra got the top pick designation even though its stability control system doesn’t work when four-wheel-drive is engaged. That has drawn criticism from Consumer Reports.

“It’s troubling to me that the one time you would really need E.S.C. — in the snow — that there is no E.S.C. available,” said David Champion, senior director of auto testing for Consumer Reports.

Of course, stability control can still be valuable when a vehicle is in two-wheel drive on dry pavement, especially in a pickup with a high center of gravity, Mr. Champion said. If a driver loses control, a stability system can help prevent a slide and keep the truck from rolling over.

Mr. Champion noted that pickups like the Silverado and Dodge Ram had stability control systems that continued to work in four-wheel drive.

Toyota said its stability control would not work in four-wheel drive because the company chose a particularly rugged design that does not incorporate a center differential. In most four-wheel-drive vehicles, the differentials deliver power to all the wheels. Toyota said that a heavy-duty truck like the Tundra wouldn’t benefit from having a center differential because that’s just one more weak part that can break.

The insurance institute was unaware that Toyota’s system did not work when four-wheel drive was engaged, a spokesman, Russ Rader, said. But “the Tundra has electronic stability control and it gets the award.”

The Tundra is one of 11 new winners for 2008, joining 23 previous Top Safety Picks. Other winners for 2008 include the Audi A3 and Honda Accord in the midsize-car category and the Subaru Impreza in the small-car category, but only those models that are equipped with optional stability control. With the addition of the Honda Odyssey minivan and the Honda Element to the list, Honda and its luxury division, Acura, now have a total of 7 of the 34 Top Safety Picks. Ford and its Volvo subsidiary have eight vehicles on the list.

Several midsize S.U.V.’s have been added, including the BMW X3 and X5 and the Toyota Highlander. Also named were Hyundai Veracruz models built after August 2007, when changes were made to the head restraints, and Saturn Vue models that will be built after December because of changes being made to a side- curtain air bag that didn’t deploy properly. Information on when a car was built can be found on the frame of the driver’s door.

Another 23 vehicles would have made the Top Safety Pick list if they had better seat and head restraint designs. Those 23 earned good ratings in front and side crash tests, but not in the rear impact test, which evaluates seats and head restraints for whiplash protection.

The institute tested three other full-size pickup trucks: the Nissan Titan, Ford F-150 and Dodge Ram. The Titan and Ram have stability control as an option; the F-150 does not. None of these, however, qualified as a top pick because none received a rating of good for rear impact, meaning their head restraints did not provide what the institute considered good protection in a rear-end collision. Other full-size pickups will be tested in 2008, the institute said.

The institute said that front and side impacts were the most common fatal crashes, killing nearly 25,000 of the 31,000 vehicle occupants who died in 2005, the latest numbers available. Rear-end crashes are usually not fatal, but they result in a large proportion of injuries. About 60 percent of insurance injury claims in 2002 reported minor neck sprains and strains, a common complaint of people involved in rear crashes.

Information about the Top Safety Picks is on the institute’s Web site, www.iihs.org.
458 2007-11-18 If there is one central political truth to emerge from the Nov. 6 election returns, it is this: New Jersey voters want fiscal sanity restored, even if it means sacrificing programs they would normally support.

The evidence lay in the surprising defeat of a ballot proposal that would have allowed New Jersey to borrow $450 million for stem cell research. The money from the bond issue would have paid salaries and other operating expenses over a 10-year period at five new research centers authorized by the Legislature in 2006.

Numerous polls had showed that a solid majority of New Jerseyans supported stem cell research, although everyone knew that anti-abortion forces could and would muster significant opposition. What the pundits did not foresee was that fiscal conservatives and many others who were deeply concerned about Trenton’s growing deficit would vote “no” in such large numbers.

Interestingly, voters approved a separate ballot proposal to raise $200 million for open space acquisition. Since open space is disappearing from New Jersey at a rapid clip, this proposal had an immediacy that stem cell research did not. The main argument for the stem cell proposal was that President Bush’s reluctance to embrace federal investment in embryonic stem cell research imposes an obligation on states like New Jersey to do anything they can to support such work.

The defeat, though disappointing, should impress upon Trenton’s politicians the necessity of making the tough decisions required to restore fiscal sanity. Deserving programs may have to be cut, and new sources of revenue found. The state faces unmet pension obligations alone that are estimated at $50 billion, and Gov. Jon Corzine says it may face an unrelated budget gap of $3.5 billion next year.

At a recent demonstration, a handful of newly emboldened abortion opponents and antitax conservatives demanded that the Legislature rescind last year’s $270 million authorization for the stem cell facilities. We urge the Legislature not to act precipitously and to await the details of Mr. Corzine’s plan to rescue the state from its fiscal woes.
459 2007-11-18 Melissa Elizabeth Dittmar, a daughter of Zenaida M. Dittmar of San Marino, Calif., and the late William H. Dittmar, was married yesterday to Stephen Douglas Bruno, a son of Karen R. Jacobson of Blue Bell, Pa., and Dr. Leonard A. Bruno of Philadelphia. The Rev. J. P. Reynolds, a nondenominational minister, officiated at the Ritz-Carlton, Huntington Hotel & Spa in Pasadena, Calif.

Mrs. Bruno, 30, is the senior publicist for children’s books at HarperCollins in New York. She graduated from Vanderbilt.

Her father retired as the international negotiations manager for Atlantic Richfield, an oil company in Los Angeles.

Mr. Bruno, 28, is the senior director of marketing for the Weinstein Company, the film studio based in New York. He graduated cum laude from Boston University.

His mother is a psychotherapist and his father is a neurosurgeon, both in Philadelphia. The bridegroom is a stepson of Lori G. Bruno.
460 2007-11-18 Billed as a showcase of contemporary art by women addressing feminist issues, “The Feminine Mystique: Contemporary Artists Respond” is little of the sort. The more than two dozen artists in the show are women, but much of the work is insubstantial.

Still, the exhibition, now at the Jersey City Museum, does at least start us thinking about certain themes and subthemes within contemporary art, relating more to ideas about femininity, sex and popular culture than to feminism per se.

The works here include digital photographs of glamorous young women that are superimposed on decorative backgrounds; needlepoint works of figures in graphic poses; and all kinds of kitsch: cake-frosting paintings, crocheted toys, a video of a woman putting on nail polish sloppily and a filigree sculpture made of wire and synthetic hair. If anything, they reflect the vaguely naughty mind-set of some young female contemporary artists.

Many of the artists are young, with a bunch born in the mid- to late 1970s. They are drawn from an impressive diversity of cultural backgrounds — one of the show’s strengths — with an emphasis on artists of Asian or Hispanic heritage. A lot of them are from New Jersey.

In the absence of a coherent statement or position, visitors are obliged to seek out individual works of substance or merit. Among them is a piece by Sandra Bermúdez, who was born in Colombia. It is a die-cut brass and aluminum wall sculpture spelling the word “wife,” written in a funky font and resembling the gold charms worn on chains. But it is also a label of sorts, and it invites us to think about roles for women beyond that of wife and mother.

One of the few displays to address the exhibition’s theme directly is a pair of pencil drawings by the Japanese-born artist Ayakoh Furukawa. Depicting young, stylish, independent women, they were created with the minute repetition of words from Betty Friedan’s 1963 book “The Feminine Mystique,” from which the show gets its title. The art is an homage of sorts, with the artist’s incorporation of text suggesting that the idea of the modern woman owes much to Ms. Friedan’s pioneering efforts.
461 2007-11-18 More than two years have passed since that heartbreaking interview, and yet the memory of Lieutenant Murphy has stayed with me.

His parents’ description of Lieutenant Murphy’s zeal for life and his joy to serve left an unbreakable cord. It was the first time I really made a personal connection with a family who had lost a loved one in war.

I’ve covered hundreds of stories over many years, but the wallet-sized photograph Daniel and Maureen Murphy gave me that day of their son in military uniform remains squeezed between the wooden wedges of my dresser’s mirror. I see his face looking straight at mine every day, and in the privacy of my bedroom, I salute him.

The Intimate Story of an Apple Tree

English and creative writing teachers across Connecticut should make “In a Father’s Honor, One Perfect Macoun,” by Lary Bloom (Generations column, Nov. 11), required reading.

Mr. Bloom gives a vivid and intimate picture of three generations of his family — his perfectionist father, Mr. Bloom’s own marriages and his grandchildren.

He offers an accounting of life’s successes and failures, wrapped into the progress of an apple tree, all this without being maudlin or turning into apple sauce.

Why Raise Buffalo Just to Kill Them?

“Here, the Buffalo Roam” (Nov. 4) describes the farmers in Connecticut, New Jersey, Long Island and upstate New York who are raising small herds of buffalo, hoping to make “these icons of the American West into a big-food business of the American East.”

We have to wonder:

Now that a great many people who know how “food animals” suffer are deciding to stop eating the bodies of the docile, gentle animals we know as cows, why would we decide to start eating the bodies of other docile, gentle animals like buffalo?

It seems to us that the people who are raising these innocents for slaughter don’t realize that more and more people are just not eating the flesh of animals.

Why would anyone start a business raising animals to kill for food when this kind of abuse is on its way out?
462 2007-11-18 There is little question on that point. The developers have filed plans months ahead of the deadline established in their agreement with Nassau County, which owns the site and would provide a 99-year lease. And RexCorp Realty, the development firm of which Mr. Rechler is chairman, announced on Monday that it would start a $40 million renovation of the 11-story Marriott Hotel next to the coliseum in December.

A 2006 county report on its transportation requirements analyzed current traffic conditions but did not take into account the Lighthouse project, said Patricia Bourne, the county planning department commissioner.

The report recommended connecting a future transportation system between the coliseum site and the Mineola train station. It could be either light rail (passenger cars running on a simple rail); buses with signals that give them right of way at intersections; or a monorail like the AirTrain from Jamaica station to Kennedy International Airport, Ms. Bourne said.

Since then, the Federal Transit Administration has given Nassau a $20 million grant for a more detailed traffic study to include the Lighthouse project. Ms. Bourne said that such an analysis would begin next year but declined to say how long it would take.

Mr. Lewis and others say that without the results, residents and town officials will have a hard time assessing the impact of the project on the vicinity.

“This information is needed in order for the public to see how this large project integrates into our transportation system,” said Eric Alexander, executive director of Vision Long Island, a nonprofit organization that advocates what it calls smart growth.

Mr. Alexander is one of dozens of planning advocates, civic leaders, government officials and others whom Mr. Wang and Mr. Rechler appointed to an advisory committee to look at these and other issues. Mr. Rechler said they also had hired a traffic engineering firm and a parking consultant.

But without a county traffic study, efforts to gain approvals for the development as proposed could be hindered.

“There are people who would support a higher-density project if there were a transit plan connected to it,” Mr. Alexander said.

Mr. Wang, the founder of Computer Associates, owns the New York Islanders hockey team and the New York Dragons arena football team, both based at the coliseum. Speaking at Islanders headquarters in Plainview a week before filing their plans, he and Mr. Rechler described what they envision.

Mr. Rechler talked about smart growth development and the pedestrian-friendly design of the project they want to build. Both lauded its “grand canal,” which in renderings looks like a modernized Venetian waterway flowing under pedestrian bridges.

THE canal, bordered on each side by wide sidewalks and retail shops, is the project’s Main Street, leading to a plaza outside the coliseum.

The coliseum would be gutted, renovated and expanded to nearly twice its current 435,000 square feet. The new sports center would have four ice rinks, several basketball courts and a two-level concourse with shops, restaurants and additional sports facilities, Mr. Wang said. The arena would seat 20,000 for concerts and basketball games and 17,500 for hockey games.

The roughly triangular piece of real estate adjoins 75 acres owned by Mr. Rechler. Across Hempstead Turnpike is RexCorp Plaza, an office complex with two glassy oval-shaped towers. On the north side is Omni, another office building. The area is also flanked by Hofstra University, itself undergoing change as it prepares to expand with a medical school, and by Nassau Community College.

The development would add parking underneath all housing and retail developments. Pedestrian bridges would span the major highways that sports fans now scamper across, aided only by traffic lights, when they park in lots at the office towers. A trolley to circle the development is proposed, as well as a people mover for the circular bridge over Hempstead Turnpike.

The developers said little about what kind of housing would be built — only that there would be 2,000 units, some would be priced below market rates, and many would be luxury condominiums.

In addition to preparing traffic studies, the developers will be required to assess the project’s economic impact and its effect on water quality and sewage flows. The developers have committed $50 million for road improvements, Mr. Rechler said.

Mr. Rechler and Mr. Wang will have to come up with details about transportation and housing during the approval process. And that is where many will find out where the conceptual model ends and the real project begins.

“A lot of civic groups and residents are realizing that this is a multiyear process,” Kate Murray, the Hempstead supervisor, said, “and they’re just like the Town of Hempstead, waiting to see what the details of the plan are.”
463 2007-11-18 I’ve been baking what I call Jean Hewitt’s version of the cake since 1973, when, as a junior in college, I read the recipe in The Times Magazine (Amanda Hesser, Nov. 4). The cake is delicious, easy to make and affordable — and thus proved useful to me as a college student, graduate student, young professional and working mother. The serving of this cake (at dinner parties, potluck suppers, fund-raisers at my children’s schools) always elicits requests for the recipe, which I have amended over the years to include some brown sugar, a bit of whole-wheat flour, lots of vanilla, more cinnamon, nutmeg, a variety of raisins and about twice as many apples. Tart are best, as you note. The cake also freezes well, but that rarely happens. Years ago, a roommate wrote on the recipe I clipped from the magazine — “Let cool before inhaling the entire cake.”
464 2007-11-18 The hayrides into the apple orchards of March Farm, in rural Bethlehem, ended a few weeks ago, but you can still enjoy the pretty panorama of farmland and surrounding hills by gathering apples yourself.

Operated by the Marchukaitis family since 1915, the farm grows 16 varieties of apples, with Honeycrisp, Ginger Gold, Paula Red, Mutsu, Macoun and Fuji among the more unusual types. Still ripe for picking are Granny Smiths (95 cents a pound), a variety that will probably remain on the trees until the end of the month. Other late-autumn offerings include pumpkins, gourds and butternut and acorn squashes. The sweet corn is long gone, but five acres of cornrows have been set aside for a corn maze that will remain open until the first snowfall.

Apples feature in a number of preserved products, too, like apple jelly, apple salsa, apple butter and Dutch apple jam ($2.40 to S3.75 for 10- to 12-ounce jars). Then there are the house-made jellies and jams, which run the gamut from elderberry to quince to boysenberry ($2.50 to $3.65 for a 10-ounce jar), and just about every fruit in between. The commercial kitchen that is part of the establishment turns out fresh-baked pies (apple, pumpkin, peach praline, strawberry rhubarb and cherry) at $13 each; apple cider doughnuts; and oatmeal, peanut butter and chocolate chip cookies. And to help wash down the latter, you can take home some farm-fresh raw milk ($5.50 a half gallon).

March Farm, 160 Munger Lane, Bethlehem; (203) 266-7721, or www.marchfarms.com. Open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., seven days a week until the week before Christmas. (It reopens in April.) No credit cards accepted.
465 2007-11-18 IN the last months before the American-led invasion of Iraq, as we now know all too well, the administration of President George W. Bush showed a fine disregard for truth or consequences. This manifested itself in many ways, from insinuations about Saddam Hussein’s ephemeral Qaeda connections to the Pentagon’s willful refusal to address the human and economic costs of occupation. Bookstore shelves now groan with wide-ranging accounts struggling to chronicle the pathological hubris that drove the United States onward to Baghdad.

The Los Angeles Times national security correspondent Bob Drogin has taken a more focused approach. In “Curveball: Spies, Lies, and the Con Man Who Caused a War,” he concentrates on a central question: How was it, precisely, that the administration convinced itself and the American public that there was proof Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction? Of course the hawks pushing for invasion believed this almost as a matter of faith, but their theology wasn’t going to be enough to mobilize hundreds of thousands of soldiers and hundreds of billions of dollars. So the W.M.D. threat became the most important of the many reasons given for going to war: “Simply stated,” as Vice President Dick Cheney put it, “there is no doubt that Saddam Hussein now has weapons of mass destruction.” This is a story of willful blindness masquerading as secret intelligence that is worthy of Somerset Maugham or Graham Greene, and Drogin rises to the occasion.

His narrative of bureaucracy and treachery weaves the stories of Cheney; Bush; George Tenet, then the director of central intelligence; and assorted spies around a shadowy character who lurks golem-like at the middle of the intelligence swamp: an Iraqi asylum-seeker in Germany who said he had firsthand knowledge of Hussein’s biological weapons program and offered copious details to support his claims.

The man in question was often described in public pronouncements as “the defector.” When Colin Powell, then the secretary of state, presented the case for war to the United Nations in February 2003, he called him “an eyewitness, an Iraqi chemical engineer who supervised” one of the biological weapons sites. According to Powell, the defector “actually was present during the biological agent production runs. He was also at the site when an accident occurred in 1998. Twelve technicians died from exposure to biological agents.” Having suggested this amazing source was one of those “who have risked their lives to let the world know what Saddam Hussein is really up to,” Powell now told the hushed United Nations Security Council, and the world, “This defector is currently hiding in another country with the certain knowledge that Saddam Hussein will kill him if he finds him.”

A better word for the defector, in fact, was “fabricator.” With marvelous chutzpah, the source had made it all up. He had landed in Munich in November 1999 looking for asylum and wound up in the grim Zirndorf holding center. He wanted an immigrant visa and money. So, drawing on bits and pieces of his personal experience and a lot of reading on the Internet, he persuaded the German Federal Intelligence Service that he had information it coveted. The United States Defense Intelligence Agency, which got summaries of the German reports but no transcripts, code-named the source “Curve Ball.” The Germans warned the Americans he might be unreliable but would not let any American intelligence officer interview him. After 9/11, as the Bush administration focused its “war on terror” against Saddam Hussein as well as Osama bin Laden, and despite all the warning signals, the Central Intelligence Agency bought into Curveball sight unseen. Its experts in weapons of mass destruction endorsed his deception as truth. The skeptics within the agency were ignored.

How could this be? Today, the Bush administration’s conviction that Hussein had W.M.D. seems grimly risible. But that wasn’t the case in 2001. Hussein had had an arsenal of poisonous gases and used them in his wars against Iran and the Kurds in the 1980s. During the same period, he had developed a sophisticated nuclear program that might eventually have produced a bomb. He had experimented extensively with biological weapons. Yes, Hussein’s defeat in 1991 by the American-led coalition in Operation Desert Storm forced him to open up to United Nations weapons inspection teams, and they eventually searched out and destroyed just about every bit of W.M.D. in Iraq. But in 1998 the inspectors withdrew so the Americans could lead a brief but extensive air assault on the regime, and then, when those bombings failed to achieve their goals, the inspectors were not allowed to return.
466 2007-11-18 How sizable are the monthly patterns? Consider a hypothetical portfolio that each month owned the 10 percent of stocks that performed the best in the same month a year earlier, and simultaneously sold short the 10 percent of issues that had the lowest returns a year earlier. Before transaction costs, according to the professors’ calculations, this portfolio would have produced an average annual return of more than 13 percent a year over the four decades they studied. What’s particularly impressive is that the portfolio was market-neutral: it made no market-timing bet on the direction of the overall market.

Professor Heston said he distrusted his findings at first, suspecting that the monthly patterns were caused by a programming error. He would have expected an astrologer, not a rigorous econometrician, to claim that stocks show distinct monthly rhythms, he said, but he began to believe they were genuine after Professor Sadka, his co-author, independently reached the same result.

Professor Heston says it is important not to confuse the monthly patterns with what Wall Street calls the momentum effect. According to this better-known pattern, a stock that has performed well in one year tends to continue doing well over the next year or so. By contrast, he said, the pattern that he and his co-researcher have documented focuses on what happened during just one month of the previous 12 and ignores the intervening 11.

Why do stocks adhere to monthly rhythms? It is tempting to attribute them to varying cycles of good and bad times that different industries follow during the year. Retailers, for example, tend to shine around the holidays, just as heating oil companies fare best in winter and refineries in summer. But the professors dismissed this possibility after finding that, on average, stocks within an industry showed as wide a variation in monthly patterns as stocks of different industries.

Might the patterns be caused by the different months when companies report their earnings? The professors dismissed that idea, too. The monthly patterns they detected were not related to companies’ earnings cycles.

In fact, the professors came up empty in trying to explain why stocks show these strong monthly patterns. Statisticians might normally view this lack of explanation as a warning flag that the pattern isn’t real. But pointing to its long-term persistence, and its confirmation by various academic referees, Professor Heston says he is “completely confident that the pattern is genuine.”

Could a short-term trader beat the market by pursuing a strategy that each month owned the best stocks from that month in previous years, while simultaneously shorting the worst performers? Professor Heston thinks this would be hard to accomplish. He noted that the holding period for this portfolio would be just one month, and that transaction costs for turning over the portfolio 12 times a year would most likely be higher than the 13 percent annualized return that the portfolio achieved before transaction costs.

PROFESSOR HESTON said traders nevertheless could exploit the results of this research, provided they were about to buy or sell stocks anyway, for other reasons, and would therefore not incur added transaction costs by paying attention to monthly rhythms. Before buying stocks, for example, they should first see how the stocks on their buy lists performed in the same calendar month in previous years. Other things being equal, Professor Heston said, “it would not be a bad idea” for such investors to buy a stock sooner rather than later if it was a particularly good performer in the same calendar months of prior years, while waiting a month if it performed very poorly.

The reverse would be the case when selling stocks, he said. Investors would immediately sell particularly bad performers from the same month of previous years, while waiting to sell those that did well.
467 2007-11-18 BACK when I was managing other people’s money, I had a client, a doctor, who enjoyed giving away money to his daughters. He was lucky, because an extended bull market was under way with only minor interruptions. The more he gave away, the more the market replaced what he had parted with. As generosity appeared to be a cost-free form of recreation, he considered the whole thing a riskless enterprise.

Whenever I saw my client, he immediately thanked me for making him whole after his most recent spate of giving. I always had to remind him that his gratitude was misplaced. Don’t thank me, I warned him. Thank all those nice people who are willing to pay higher prices today for the stocks you bought earlier at lower prices.

This client, who assumed that the steady multiplication of his money would continue indefinitely, without risk, keeps popping up in my memory. Although this episode happened back in the 1950s, it contains a deep truth worth exploring now, because his experience gets to the roots of what investment risk is all about.

A naïve approach to risk might have been appropriate in an era when economic activity was almost totally agricultural. For most of human history, in fact, the main source of economic risk was the weather. But nobody can do anything about the weather. Risk management in those days was therefore a matter of religion, incantation or superstition. Rain dances in one area were matched by novenas in another. Appeals to God’s will or the fates seemed to be the only way to deal with the risks that weather could wreak.

That model of risk management changed radically during the Industrial Revolution. As more and different kinds of goods and services came to market, a wide variety of risks replaced the longstanding and single-minded concerns about the weather. What will our suppliers charge? Will customers pay the prices we set? Will they want the new products we are developing? Will our competitors beat us to the punch? Will they start a price war? Should we raise our employees’ wages, and, if so, by how much? Can the engineers rearrange our production to be more efficient? Will our bankers smile or frown when we seek credit? Will our interest rates rise or fall?

Today, risk has shifted from a bet on what nature will provide to an intricate series of bets on what other players in the economy will decide — and how each will respond to the others’ decisions. Instead of a throw of the dice, economic activity has become an intense interchange among companies, employees, suppliers, customers, owners, borrowers, lenders and financiers. The interaction has become more complex over time, so the answers to the above questions will in turn provoke new questions, answers and decisions among these groups.
468 2007-11-18 “We were willing to risk whatever it took to get them into a Broadway show,” Mr. Miller said.

All over the United States and beyond, tourists have been rethinking their holiday trips to New York or rushing to rearrange them since the stagehands walked out on Nov. 10, shutting down all but eight Broadway shows.

Yesterday, the stagehands’ union and Broadway producers met for the first time since the beginning of the walkout to try to reach agreement on matters including minimum staffing levels.

Paul F. Davis, 37, of Orlando, Fla., an author of self-help books, intended to take his wife to see “The Phantom of the Opera” and “Les Miserables,” but canceled the trip at the start of the strike. Instead, they are taking a Caribbean cruise, and Mr. Davis says he will catch the next musical that comes through Orlando.

Philip Clapick, 66, of Los Angeles planned to see “Spamalot” with some friends. To find an alternative, he looked over some reviews and decided to take a chance on “Altar Boyz,” an Off Broadway show.

Glen A. Waggoner, 66, of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, was looking forward to taking his grandchildren, visiting from Alabama, to “Dr. Seuss’ How the Grinch Stole Christmas!” They are still coming, but Mr. Waggoner said he was disappointed by the likely alternative, a Disney movie.

On the receiving end of Mr. Miller’s panicked calls was Stephanie Lee, 36, a co-owner of the Group Sales Box Office, a ticketing agency. For Ms. Lee, the past week was a shell game of moving clients and tickets around. In her office, she said, 290 group orders were affected, or about 12,000 tickets, totaling about a million dollars in sales, with her company losing commissions because of cancellations and refunds. More clients walked into the office last week than normally do in an entire year, Ms. Lee said, some of them expressing disappointment and others in “absolute hysteria.”

“We not only had to find out availability in order to switch groups, but in order to secure the tickets the box office needed payment right away,” Ms. Lee said. And her competitors were in the same position. “While my company is on the phone with them to find out availability,” she said, “so is the other company.”

To manage the surge, she expanded her staff to 28 from 25, and increased the number of hours the office was open, but the atmosphere remained hectic. “‘I got 2,’ ‘I got 2,’ ‘I got 46,’” said Ms. Lee, recounting a typical moment. “It’s like the floor of the Stock Exchange.”

One tourist planning a visit, Sharyn Stein, 43, a middle school teacher from Reston, Va., said she was disappointed but far from distraught. She planned to come anyway.

“It’s New York. If you can’t find something to do and be happy, why are you there?” Ms. Stein said. “If you can’t get to a show, go watch the windows at Barneys or generate your own show.”
469 2007-11-18 WHEN it comes to buying and renovating Manhattan town houses, the whole is often greater — millions of dollars greater — than the sum of its parts.

Two years ago, David L. Jasper, a trader at Goldman Sachs, and his wife, Elizabeth Turner, bought a 21-foot-wide four-family brownstone on West 75th Street, just off Central Park, for $5.3 million and set about the laborious process of converting it into a single-family house.

Earlier this month, with the work nearly done, property records show, they sold it for $14.1 million, one of the highest prices ever paid for a town house on the Upper West Side.

Mike Sieger, a broker at Fenwick Keats Goodstein, said that the couple bought the house to live in it. “They decided to sell after I told them how much I could get for it,” Mr. Sieger said. He listed the house for $16 million, figuring the allure of a freshly renovated house, and 9,000 square feet of space (including a recreation room in the cellar), would be irresistible.

In 2004, the couple bought a narrower house, at 18 feet wide, on West 88th Street, one block farther away from the park, for $3.1 million, but they sold it four months later, for $4.2 million, or a 34 percent gain.

The buyer of the house on 75th Street is Alston Gardner, a venture capitalist who was the founder and chief executive of OnTarget, a sales training and consulting company. OnTarget was sold in 1999 for $259 million to Siebel Systems, which, in turn, was sold to the Oracle Corporation in 2005.
470 2007-11-18 THE Astor Suite was designed to be the most expensive condominium in the conversion of the storied Plaza Hotel on Fifth Avenue. In its previous life as a three-bedroom hotel suite, the Astor was layered in crystal and gold and with brocade in pink, cream and rose, with a dining room that seated 10 and a master bedroom that had a king-size canopy bed.

There were three nonworking fireplaces and a bathroom with ornamental columns, gold fixtures, a swan-shaped faucet and murals of a little angel floating in a blue and white sky.

Jürgen Friedrich, the founder of the European operations of Esprit, the clothing company, wanted to buy the Astor Suite so much that, according to people who were briefed on the deal, he was the first person to sign a contract at the Plaza, in December 2005. Last week, he closed on the purchase of the Astor Suite, along with an adjacent one-bedroom apartment, totaling more than 5,000 square feet of space, for around $27 million.

“It was luxury, luxury, luxury at its best,” said Patricia Burnham, Mr. Friedrich’s broker, who would not discuss the details of the transaction. “It was the largest unit in the most famous landmark in the world.”

Alas, since Mr. Friedrich signed the contract, other buyers have combined other smaller units to create larger and more expensive residences.
471 2007-11-18 Geneva has long been known for its influence in banking and world affairs — but not exactly for its sense of style. Now, however, chefs, designers and artisans in the Italianate quarter of Carouge are lending the city a little boho cool.

1. Autour du Bain Roxanne Ferren and Corinne Plouviez Resentera’s whitewashed emporium is stocked with soaps, bath gels and candles in exotic scents like Moroccan rose. 12, rue Saint Joseph; 011-41-22-300-5273.

2. Café des Négociants This brasserie is popular with neighborhood habitués for its inventive menus, which feature dishes like a trio of tartares and duck breast marinated in walnut oil. 29, rue de la Filature; 011-41-22-300-3130; www.negociants.ch; entrees $18 to $26.

3. Chris Murner This 40-something designer makes playful bags using materials ranging from tweed to plastic. 43, rue Ancienne; 011-41-22-342-7225; www.chrismurner.ch.

4. Les Insolites Nina Mathez-Loïc’s jewelry shop specializes in chunky rings, necklaces, earrings and brooches. She has gained a reputation among the cognoscenti for creating bespoke jewels that sell for thousands. 22, rue Ancienne; 011-41-22-300-3438.

5. On Stage Stocking elusive European labels like Holland’s Pauw and Italy’s Maria Calderara, this shop also has a collection of beautiful silk- and metal-stitched froissés. 11, rue Saint Victor; 011-41-22-343-0293; www.onstage-createurs.ch.
472 2007-11-18 Occupancy at the Sokha resort is nearly twice what it was last year, its general manager, Pierre Bernard, says, and scouts from Four Seasons have reportedly come looking for a beach to develop. The old Independence Hotel, Sihanoukville's premier resort in the 1960s, recently completed its own makeover and now rivals the Sokha as the town's most luxurious beachfront digs. “This place is going nuts. It's really booming,” Fred Tittle, the founder of EcoSea Dive, told me one night over a dinner of fresh steamed grouper at the seaside restaurant Treasure Island. “Thailand, everybody's been there and done that,” he said. “There's no buzz about it anymore. Here people can go back home and say, ‘Yeah, southern Cambodia. I've been there. It's cool.' ”

Given Cambodia's modern history, Sihanoukville's resurgence is remarkable. In the 1960s, the government decided to develop the half-dozen gorgeous white-sand beaches that surrounded the port of Kompong Som, which was renamed Sihanoukville after Norodom Sihanouk, the prince at the time. The wealthy built houses along the sea, and magnificent hotels went up. Then came the Vietnam War — its last battle was fought off Sihanoukville on the island of Koh Tang, in 1975 — and the rise of the Khmer Rouge, which murdered most of the coast's elite along with almost everyone in the country with an education: 1.7 million in all. The Khmer Rouge renamed Sihanoukville Kompong Som once again, and it soon fell into ruin.

The faded remains of war and genocide are still evident. Bullet-pocked facades of once-grand houses surrounded by frail iron fences are scattered among the new hotels and guesthouses; some of these are being renovated and restored. But on diving trips to Koh Tang and the other gulf islands with hidden coves and untouched first-growth forests, there's no sign of battle. The water is calm and clear and teeming with life, and you have only small fishing boats to compete with in the open water. At least for now: the government has begun opening these 61 coastal islands to development, much to the chagrin of environmentalists.

One is already being razed to make way for a big Russian-financed hotel.

For the moment, despite the two luxe resorts, most of Sihanoukville's foreign visitors are backpackers who stay in $20-a-night guesthouses and hang out at beachfront seafood shacks where the grilled squid on skewers is fresh and beers cost 50 cents. At night they head to the popular open-air club Utopia, to drink beer, smoke ganja and sway to house music. Just after midnight, a 25-year-old Bostonian, Bing Lyons, who had logged a number of consecutive nights at Utopia, shouted above the music to me. “The life here is so awesome I don't know whether I'm going to go crazy from it or be better from it,” he said. “The weather is really warm, the sand is really soft, the people are really great, it's amazing. It's one big party. You know, Thailand, like, 10 years ago?”

Cambodia, like, 80 years ago is just a couple of hours' drive along the coast in Kep, where the French colonialists established a beach retreat during their rule here in the first half of the 20th century. They built mansions on the hillsides to catch the gulf breezes, and as in Sihanoukville, the villas' skeletal remains and shot-up facades are an eerie reminder of the past. Those houses are now being turned into luxury residences and hotels, and new compounds like the colonial La Villa de Monsieur Thomas and the modernist Knai Bang Chatt demonstrate what the future of high-end tourism on the Cambodian coast might look like.

Although the beach in Kep is less spectacular than those around Sihanoukville, the town has a particularly appealing, slow-paced charm. There's not a lot to do but relax, go down to the waterfront to eat the famed local crab (grown exceptionally tasty by their life spans in the nearby mangrove swamps) and explore the abandoned old villa of Sihanouk, on a promontory overlooking the town, which has been left to mischievous monkeys.

From Kep you can also take a day trip slightly inland to the town of Kampot — with its own yellow-and-white French colonial buildings and riverside cafes — and the Bokor Hill Station. Built by the French in 1922 at 3,200 feet, Bokor has a Catholic church, a casino, a school and other buildings, all completely abandoned since 1972. Rangers from a small station patrol the area, which is a national park, trying to keep ahead of poachers chasing the mountain's tigers, deer and other unique wildlife, including 230 species of birds. (The last tiger was spotted in 2004.) “Keep quiet,” urges a sign at the park's entrance, “and you will hear the sound of a beautiful bird chorus, flurries of a colorful wing.” There's talk of restoring the casino or creating an eco-tourism refuge here, but for now, the pitted and long, unpaved road keeps it mostly unexplored.

Of course, development will come to Bokor eventually, and all along the coast. Sihanoukville's airport runway is currently being extended 1,300 feet to accommodate jets, and there are plans for a further extension to allow international jumbos. A few more beachfront luxury hotels are on the drawing board, and leases for five of the offshore islands have already been signed. There's even the possibility of a major oil find in the Gulf, which could take things in an entirely different direction. “They have big plans for 10 years down the road,” Pierre Bernard of the Sokha told me, speaking of the Cambodian government's ideas for the coast. “I hope we are going to develop it in a decent manner. If we have the possibility to do it right from the beginning, we should do it.”

Getting There And Around: 

From Phnom Penh, it's roughly three and a half hours to the southern coast. You can pick up a bus in the capital at the central market (about $4 each way) or have your hotel hire you a private taxi ($40 to $55). To venture around on the coast, your resort can arrange a motorbike rental ($5 a day) or you can engage a taxi; avoid the moto-taxis, which tend to fleece tourists.

Hotels:

Independence Hotel The top beachfront choice in Sihanoukville in the 1960s has been given a stylish redo. 011-855-34-943-300; www.independencehotel.net; doubles from $110. Sokha Beach Resort Sihanoukville's high-end standard-bearer, on a lovely stretch of beach. 011-855-34-935-999; www.sokhahotels.com; doubles from $200. The Beach House Small guesthouse overlooking Kep beach. 011-855-12-240-090; www.thebeachhousekep.com; doubles from $30. Knai Bang Chatt Three luxe modernist villas, on Kep beach. 011-855-12-879-486; www.knaibangchatt.com; doubles from $350. La Villa de Monsieur Thomas Restored colonial villa with bungalows in Kep. 011-855-12-170-2648; doubles from $30. Veranda Natural Resort Sixteen bungalows on the hillside overlooking Kep. 011-855-12-888-619; www.veranda-resort.com; doubles from $20.

Restaurants:

 Sihanoukville has restaurants for every taste; among the best is the seafood place Treasure Island (Koh Pos Beach; 011-855-12-755-335; entrees $6 to $8). In Kep, don't miss the Crab Market by the water, for fresh seafood cooked on the spot for a dollar or two.
473 2007-11-18 Many markets serve some of the deep sea's most tantalizing treasures like the briny barnacles — percebes — at La Boqueria in Barcelona, also the spot to taste Jabugo ham, the world's best air-cured pork. Budapest's Central Market Hall offers de facto crash courses in the wonders of paprika, peppered pork and the soothing biscuits called pogasca.

But such practical pleasures may be the least of the lures. Attending this living theater, one can assess the local economy by noting the quality and variety of foods available and compare prices to our own. One can observe how locals treat one another. Are sellers and buyers polite and trusting as they deal under intense pressure — the first to sell out highly perishable merchandise, the second to get the best value for family, shop or restaurant?

Is there much bargaining, as in the vociferous 700-year-old Vucciria and even older Ballarò markets of Palermo where giant swordfish heads are displayed swords up on fish counters, or in the seductively fragrant spice markets like the exotic 17th-century Misir Carsisi (Egyptian Bazaar) in Istanbul, or in Khan el-Khalili in Cairo or the Levinksy in Tel Aviv, where oiled, claylike paprika is sculptured into towering cones that defy both breezes and the exuberant hand-waving of haggling buyers and sellers? (Theoretically passé, bargaining endures, an entertaining game few habitués would relinquish.)

Or might the mores dictate truly one-price-only with no fear of heavy thumbs on scales, as at Helsinki's romantic morning harbor market, where you can find tiny almond-flavored potatoes, golden cloudberries, varieties of fresh herring, and smoked reindeer tongue, depending on the season. Or in Munich's outdoor Viktualienmarkt. Bordered by shops selling meat, fresh, smoked and pickled fish, this is a nosher's haven with many a schnell imbiss, or quick snack stand, for the hot liver pâté, leberkäse and morning weisswurst washed down with potent, lemon-sparked Munich weissbier.

In my experience, the world's most spectacular market is in Tokyo, the Central Wholesale Market, a k a Tsukiji, or, more accurately perhaps, Fish City. This cavernous sprawl, indoors and out, is on the banks of the Sumidagawa River, and is curtained with mist as action begins at about 3 a.m. Raining or not (and it often is) boots and slickers are in order, for if the morning dew doesn't dampen you, the hoses that continuously keep concrete floors and counters airily fresh surely will. At outdoor entrance stands, small live mollusks and crustaceans bubble and sizzle in running aerated water, and piles of gnarled octopus look like so much amethyst quartz.

Among the staggering aquarium array of brain food — some five million pounds daily — the star is tuna. The less flavorful varieties from such warm waters as the Indian Ocean are frozen whole and laid out like snowy fighter planes on an airfield. Tails are sliced off so potential buyers can examine cut ends to judge the quality mark of fat, all suggesting piscatorial proctologists diligently at work. Bluefin tuna is the prize at the auction, held around 5 a.m. The lightning-fast, voiceless bidding relies on rock-paper-scissors sort of hand movements.

ABOUT 15 years ago I witnessed a 500-pound bluefin flown in from Montauk fetch $50,000 wholesale and watched it being cut with a lengthy sabrelike steel blade into tapering vertical quarters. Generously, I was offered bits of the meat clinging to the frame, a sort of lagniappe for good customers — and no wonder! Still warm at the center, the moistly roseate flesh tasted like the most sublime, sweetly meaty filet mignon. Then there was the no-frills Daiwa sushi bar right in the market, where prices for the unadorned sushi of the pearliest fresh fish and live “dancing” shrimp were one-third of those in town.

Anyone who doubts that meat can be so visually, viscerally stunning as fish, need only step into the butcher's hall in the Agora, Athens's central market. Prepare to be a bit unhinged at the vista of dripping, hacked cuts of all sorts and garlands of innards and organs. This wholesale and retail center just might be a warehouse for those who have committed bloody mayhem or, less violently, for a Rembrandt or a Soutine, painters who were intrigued by the brutal beauty of freshly slaughtered animals. Walk down row after row across the wide aisles and end at a steamy crowded cafe featuring tripe soups and stews.

Among markets that sell all sorts of comestibles to both the trade and the public, one of the most diverse and captivating is Borough Market in London. Said to be the city's oldest food market, established on the south bank of the Thames when the Romans built the first London Bridge, the Borough Market has been on its present site for 250 years. On Friday and Saturday its gates open to the retail public, and what a festive cornucopia it is. Not only are the stands overflowing with temptations, but there are also innumerable spots for snacking on free or paid samples.

Travelers might best skip imports in favor of such British specialties as various cockles, mussels and icy North Sea oysters, then compare Keen's and Quickes earthily complex Cheddar cheeses. There are Cornish pasties, jams, buns and biscuits galore, and crunchily fried fish (snowy thick cod and haddock are best) and chips, at the open stand called fish! Join the walking eating, or squat on chairs spotted around or, better yet, decamp to benches just five minutes across the road in the garden of Southwark Cathedral, a charmer of mixed architectural styles dating back to the 13th century.

In Mexico City, La Merced is a vast fiesta of a central market, with several huge buildings. Stepping into each is a shock no matter how many times this rabid food lover does it. There are chilies, of course, in every shade of purple-black, green, orange, yellow and red, with fiery flavors from hot to inflammable. Piles of the nopales (cactus leaves) and prickly cactus pears, with or without needles, rainbows of corn and fragrantly inviting tacos, quesadillas and tamales are just a few of the enticements.

My own pet sight here is the huge hanging sheets of chicharrones or pork cracklings, these made of whole pig skins opened flat and fried to resemble thick sheets of hammered gold leaf.

In the United States, few if any farmer's markets can compare to the truly epic Green Dragon Market held every Friday in Ephrata, Pa. Nested in the peaceful, abundant farmlands of the Amish and the Mennonites, the seven main halls spread around 30 acres, hold all sorts of local provender with distinct Pennsylvania Dutch overtones. Scrapple, German-style sausages and cured pork, sauerkraut and glass jars of pickled hard-boiled eggs reddened with beet juice are featured at butcher stands. Bakery cases display Moravian cookies and pies called moon, Sunday, schnitz, love and the molasses-rich wet-bottom shoofly. Outside in good weather, funnel cakes are deep-fried in giant vats before being sprinkled with powdered sugar. Books, household goods, junk and antiques are on hand, but don't be sidetracked from the Mennonite celery.

Having never imagined I could get excited about that banal salad vegetable, I was surprised to find upon tasting these tender, pale ivory stalks that I felt no need for salt — a first and, perhaps, a last unless I can find that celery again.

In addition to food for people, the Green Dragon has feed for animals. Each Friday in a separate part of the field, open-back trucks packed with bales of hay, clover, alfalfa and grass line up so bearded, straw-hatted Amish farmers can inspect for mold or damp rot before rat-a-tat bidding tobacco-auction style.

Most alluring now because they are so little known are the food markets of sub-Saharan Africa, most especially the Merkato in Addis Ababa, one of the largest food markets on the continent described most alluringly by Marcus Samuelsson in his cookbook “The Soul of a New Cuisine: A Discovery of the Foods and Flavors of Africa” (Wiley, 2006). Others on an African agenda should include the orderly, prosperous, covered Nairobi City Market in Kenya and, for contrast, the teeming, poorer wholesale Saidiyeh market in Zanzibar, Tanzania, where bright fruits and rooty vegetables are scattered on the cloth-covered ground.

And, at this time of year, how could any market buff bypass a glorious Christkindlmarkt, held from the first Advent Sunday (this year, Dec. 2) until midday on Christmas Eve. A festive event throughout Austria, Germany, parts of Switzerland and Alsace, these daily fairs offer all sorts of gifts, ornaments and crèche figures, along with dazzlements of food. Sputtering holiday sausages and silken goose liver, Christmas confections in marzipan, chestnuts and quince paste, St. Nicholas figures of wired prunes, pungent gingerbreads and cookies, and steaming hot clove-scented mulled glühwein — all fortify body and spirit against the dry, frosty night air.
474 2007-11-18 To the Editor:     English and creative writing teachers across Connecticut should make ''In a Father's Honor, One Perfect Macoun,'' by Lary Bloom (Generations column, Nov. 11), required reading....
475 2007-11-18 GREENSTADT--Inez McCoy. We mourn the loss of our beloved wife and mother, Inez, who left us too soon. Mother of Amy; wife of William....
476 2007-11-18 A sweater with interior motives....
477 2007-11-18 To the Editor:     It is irritating that Ben Stein chose to close an otherwise fine essay about management problems in the financial industry with a complaint that the soldiers of our country deserve better (''It's Time to Act Like Grown-Ups,'' Ev...
478 2007-11-18 WEISS--Richard Howard, 87, died peacefully November 14, 2007, at the Vitas Hospice facility in Miami, FL. He is survived by his devoted and loving wife Dolly (Strongin), his children Richard, Wendy Clark, John, and Thomas, and their present and fo...
479 2007-11-19 The free Bryant Park rink has transformed the once-tepid gift fair into a bustling operation that moves more than $5 million in merchandise over six weeks....
480 2007-11-19 AT&T commercial where city names are "mashed up" to create amalgams.
481 2007-11-19 Bonobos seem to be the latest accidental beneficiary of decades of violence and despotism....
482 2007-11-19 Alison addresses some outstanding house issues....
483 2007-11-19 The Republican presidential candidate receives the backing of the co-chairman of the Sept. 11 commission, former Gov. Thomas Kean. It's a choice that sets Mr. McCain apart from Rudy Giuliani, who had tried to court Mr. Kean's support....
484 2007-11-19 Amazon’s new Kindle reader costs $399 and can download books, newspapers and blog posts wirelessly....
485 2007-11-19 Fox's animated comedy line-up ranked No. 1 in the ratings on Sunday in the much sought-after demographic of adults 18 to 49, as "The Simpsons" and "Family Guy" earned the night's top ratings in that age group. Both shows fared more modestly in ter...
486 2007-11-19 A spike in optimism from two officials in Baghdad....
487 2007-11-19 John McCain has long seemed at once troubled and a bit mystified by his trouble in winning over Iowans, particularly compared with New Hampshire....
488 2007-11-19 HONG KONG, Nov 20 (Reuters) - Asian stocks fell on Tuesday as investors dumped bank shares amid worries that the financial sector will be hit by further credit losses, while the drop in risk appetite helped lift the yen and government bonds.

The weak dollar kept oil buoyed near $95 a barrel, while gold steadied just below $780 an ounce after plumbing its lowest level in more than three weeks on Monday.

Worries about the financial sector flared up after Swiss Re, the world's biggest reinsurer, revealed a $1.07 billion writedown related to credit losses.

Goldman Sachs & Co then downgraded Citigroup to sell from neutral, saying the largest U.S. bank may have to write off $15 billion over the next two quarters as mortgage losses reduce earnings.

"The concern is that if there are unknown losses still to be recorded, the risk aversion that has been present in markets will remain," said Tony Brennan, equity strategist at Deutsche Bank.
489 2007-11-19 The first day in a new job is always a bit stressful. But consider the pressure cooker that Jorge A. Bermudez walked into Monday, as he took over as the chief risk officer for Citigroup, the troubled banking giant. Citi announced Mr. Bermudez's pr...
490 2007-11-19 Rudy Giuliani's campaign suffers a blow when his rival, Senator McCain, garners a 9/11-infused endorsement....
491 2007-11-19 I’m the conservative Republican with the best chance of defeating Senator Clinton, or whomever the Democrats nominate, and take on the challenges that confront us. I’m as committed today as I was when I first put on the uniform of our country to the cause that has been the work of my life: the interests and ideals of our country. I’m no more a perfect servant of my country than I am a perfect human being. But in my years of service, I hope I have proven myself worthy of your trust.

We face formidable challenges, but I’m not afraid of them. I’m prepared for them. I know how the military works, what it can do, what it can’t do, what it can do better, and what it should not do. I know how Congress works, how to make it work for the country and not just the re-election of its members. I know how the world works. I know the good and the evil in it. I know how to work with leaders who share our dreams of a freer, safer and more prosperous world, and how to stand up to those who don’t. I know how to fight and how to make peace.

If I’m your nominee and Senator Clinton is the nominee of the other party, the country will face as clear a choice as any in recent memory. That’s as it should be for such an important election. She will be a formidable candidate. And while our differences are many and profound, I intend this to be a respectful debate. She and I disagree over America’s direction, and it is a serious disagreement. But I don’t doubt her ability to lead this country where she thinks it should go.

On matters of war and peace, I offer Americans my experience, my personal familiarity with the tragedy of war, deep involvement in all of the national security issues of the last two decades, and steadfast conviction that America cannot afford to relinquish its leadership in the world, and the world can’t afford it either.

There comes a time when a president can no longer rely on briefing books and PowerPoints, when the experts and advisors have all weighed in, when the sum total of one’s life becomes the foundation from which he or she makes the decisions that determine the course of history. No other candidate has my experience or the judgment it informs.

I would never make a judgment about going to war based on whether it was a popular thing to do. I would only make that grave decision were I convinced America’s interests and ideals were so threatened that it required the greatest sacrifice our country can make.

And once I decided, I wouldn’t surrender when we can still succeed, and accept the terrible consequences that would ensue, because I feared the polls more than history’s judgment.

Senator Clinton told General Petraeus that his confidence in his new strategy and in the ability of the troops he has the honor to command required “a willing suspension of disbelief.” Now, it becomes clear that General Petraeus was right. For the time being, Senator Clinton has suspended her belief in the abundant evidence of success as her rivals and the fringe of her party pull her toward a position that she knows is irresponsible.

My friends, I was the only candidate in either party to say we were following a strategy in Iraq that was doomed to failure, and to call for the change that is working today. I took abuse from members of my own party — some of it pretty tough — for doing so. And I stuck by it knowing it could hurt my chances for the presidency. My friends, I did it for one reason: I would rather lose an election than stay silent and watch my country lose a war. I will always put America’s security before politics, always.

One the one hand, Senator Clinton says we can’t abandon Iraq to Al Qaeda and the influence of Iran. On the other, she wants a firm deadline for withdrawal that would do just that. Senator Clinton rejected unconditional talks with Iran, but now says she would negotiate with no preconditions.

As we deal with the threat of a nuclear armed Iran there are many things we can do short of war to prevent Iranians from making that fateful decision. We can strengthen our diplomacy, stand up to the Russians and Chinese, and organize our allies and Iran’s neighbors to impose tough, tough economic sanctions that could undermine Iran’s economy and unleash popular resentment of the regime that should cause them to reconsider their dangerous ambitions. We can make it very clear to Iran’s leaders that we will not allow them to obtain weapons that would destabilize the entire Middle East and threaten America’s most vital security interests. Senator Clinton would start with unconditional negotiations, despite Iran’s clear record of using negotiations to forestall sanctions and growing international opposition while they accelerate their nuclear program.

I will increase the size of the Army and Marine Corps. For too long we have asked too few to do too much. We have asked our servicemen and women to bid their loved ones goodbye for a third or fourth or fifth combat tour. We need to recruit more Americans willing to defend our country — and I know there are more if we only ask them — but for reasons I will never understand, the former secretary of defense refused to do so.

To rebuild our military as well as the capabilities of our intelligence and law enforcement agencies and the capacity of all branches of government to defend us will require some hard choices. We will have to stop the inexcusable growth of government in other areas. Senator Clinton promises to increase the size of the military as well, but she won’t make the tough decisions necessary to do it.

I am absolutely committed to reducing the size of government. I’ve fought against wasteful spending and big government solutions from my first day in Congress. Senator Clinton would preside over another massive increase in the size of government. She’ll have Washington assume more of your responsibilities, and raise your taxes to pay for it. She won’t address seriously the fiscal crisis of Social Security and Medicare or if she does she’ll let congressional Democrats convince her to raise your taxes.

I won’t ignore the problem and leave it to another unluckier generation of leaders and I won’t raise your taxes. I will work with Congress in an open and sincere way to address these problems, but my friends, if at the end of the day, Congress wants to play politics with the issue, I will go to them and the American people, and insist they vote up or down on my proposal. I won’t lack the courage to fix our toughest problems and let them become worse on someone else’s watch.

I’ll take on every special interest in town to finally reform our insanely complicated and punitive tax code. Senator Clinton won’t.

Senator Clinton will address the lack of health care insurance in this country by proposing another big government mandate. I’ll make health care more accessible by making it more affordable, without ruining the finest quality health care in the world.

Senator Clinton will appoint more judges who believe they should make the American people’s political decisions for them. I will appoint judges who take their oath to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States as seriously as I take mine.

My friends, these are some of the essential issues this election will decide. I offer one direction for America. Senator Clinton and her Democratic rivals offer another, a course I believe is absolutely wrong for America and wrong for the world. Now it is your turn, my friends, to decide who is right. It’s a huge responsibility. I know you will take it seriously.

I don’t expect you to take our promises on faith. I expect you to listen to us, as New Hampshire voters always do, and then examine our records to determine whether we can be trusted to keep our word to you.

I didn’t seek public office to go along to get along. I went to Washington to get something done for the people who sent me there. And since then, I know I’ve made some people angry.

I made defense contractors angry when I blew the whistle on a $30 billion boondoggle and the culprits were sent to jail.

I upset the special interests and Washington lobbyists when I fought for ethics reform and to stop union bosses and corporations from writing million dollar checks to political campaigns.

I made the Pentagon angry when I called for the resignation of Don Rumsfeld; said we needed a different strategy in Iraq; and a bigger military so that our sons and daughters didn’t have to serve four and five tours in combat zones.

I displeased a lot of the media when I said we couldn’t afford to fail in Iraq, and stood by the changes in our strategy that are now showing success.

I made some folks mad when I worked to cut harmful greenhouse emissions because I believe climate change is a real and needs to be addressed now.

I made politicians angry when I called for earmark reform and spending cuts; for government to do its job, not your job; and do it better and with less of your money. I said no to bridges to nowhere and 74 million dollars for peanut storage — peanut storage — in a defense spending bill.

Yes, I’ve made a lot of people angry. But I didn’t go to Washington to win the Mr. Congeniality award. I went there to serve my country.

I might not like the business as usual crowd in Washington, and they might not like me. But I love America. I love her enough to make some people angry.

I’m going to put the business as usual crowd out of business — and make them thank me when I do. I won’t only restore your trust. I’ll make you proud of your government again. I’m going to keep this country safe, prosperous and powerful. So help me God. And I respectfully ask for your vote to help me do it.
492 2007-11-19 John McCain told New Hampshirites that he's best equipped to beat Hillary Clinton in a general election, and that he'd do it by running a respectful campaign....
493 2007-11-19 The $650 billion Abu Dhabi Investment Authority is seeking to invest more in emerging markets to get higher returns than from its assets in Europe and the United States, a senior HSBC executive said on Sunday. The world's largest sovereign wealth ...
494 2007-11-19 a leveraged buyout lender, American Capital Strategies priced a $157 million share offering to raise more capital, as credit remains scarce and overall private equity mergers plummeted 72 percent in the third quarter. American Capital Strategies, ...
495 2007-11-19 The private equity giant Carlyle Group is facing challenges with its first hedge fund, Carlyle-Blue Wave Management Partners, a $700 million fund built as part of a diversification strategy, according to Reuters. Blue Wave, based in New York, is f...
496 2007-11-19 As the air came out of the technology and telecommunications bubble this decade, the stock market found a new champion in the financial sector. Now, as problems in the credit markets are cutting into profits at banks, brokerage firms and insurance...
497 2007-11-19 Swiss Life Holding, Switzerland's largest life insurer, agreed to sell its Dutch and Belgian units for as much as 1.54 billion euros ($2.3 billion) and said it would use the proceeds to buy back shares. SNS Reaal, a Dutch financial services compan...
498 2007-11-19 Stocks fell sharply today, led lower by the financial sector, with the Dow Jones industrial average declining more than 200 points and closing below 13,000. It was the Dow’s lowest close since the depth of the markets’ plunge in August.

The retreat started after Citigroup was downgraded to “sell” by a Goldman Sachs analyst, who warned that the company’s write-downs of assets tied to complex debt instruments could reach $15 billion by the end of next year’s first quarter. Citi has already announced $8 billion to $11 billion in fourth-quarter write-downs.

The analyst’s report hit a raw nerve among investors, reigniting fears of a credit squeeze as financial giants struggle to dig out from poor bets on securities tied to subprime home loans. Shares of all the top brokerage firms were down, keeping pace with a 17.6 percent plunge for financial companies for the year. Citi’s stock dipped 5.9 percent, to $32, near a four-year low.

Staggering financials dragged down the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, which dipped 1.8 percent to 1,433.27. The Dow closed down 218.35, or 1.7 percent, at 12,958.44.

The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.7 percent, to 2,593.38, as technology stocks continued to struggle after being battered in recent weeks.
499 2007-11-19 There was a particularly striking number contained in The New York Times/CBS News poll of Iowa caucus-goers last week and it told the story of the complicated — and cool— relationship that Senator John McCain has always had with Republicans in Iowa. The number was four— the percentage of Iowa Republicans who said they would support him. He is running fifth in the state.

Iowa is a late-deciding state, the Republican field appears as muddled as ever and polling in Iowa can be problematic. Yet for all those caveats, that finding suggested a sobering judgment by Iowa voters on Mr. McCain’s candidacy. It was hardly a surprise when Mr. McCain’s associates said Thursday he was not going to be spending much more time or energy in Iowa between now and the Jan. 3 caucus; the state now appears to be, for all intents and purposes, off the McCain map, as it was when he ran for president in 2000.

Mr. McCain has long seemed at once troubled and a bit mystified by his difficulties in winning over Iowans, particularly compared with New Hampshire, where he will spend most of the next month. The Times/CBS News Poll showed him drawing 16 percent of the vote in New Hampshire, tied for second.

His problems in Iowa do not stem from a lack of effort. Mr. McCain has spent 36 days campaigning in Iowa, according to figures compiled by the Iowa Democratic Party. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, spent 57 days in the state while Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, campaigned 58 days in Iowa. Mr. McCain’s initial decision to present himself as a more conservative candidate than he did in 2000 — and repairing his relationships with conservative leaders like Jerry Falwell — was in no small part aimed at winning Iowa this time.

Mr. McCain blames his problems in Iowa on illegal immigration. “It wasn’t our financial problems that caused our drop in the polls,” he said aboard his bus two weeks ago, in what could well turn out to be one of his final trips as a presidential candidate to Iowa. “It was immigration. At our town hall last night, there were elderly women who were literally shaking when they talked about it.”
500 2007-11-19 “If I’m your nominee and Senator Clinton is the nominee of the other party, the country will face as clear a choice as any in recent memory,” he told an overflow crowd at Franklin Pierce University. “She will be a formidable candidate. And while our differences are many and profound, I intend this to be a respectful debate. She and I disagree over America’s direction, and it is a serious disagreement. But I don’t doubt her ability to lead this country where she thinks it should go.”

For months, Mr. McCain has been rebuffing pressure from some of his supporters and aides to step up his criticism of Mrs. Clinton. He has worked closely with Mrs. Clinton in the Senate and has said repeatedly that he likes her personally.

In his speech tonight, Mr. McCain tried to focus on the question of experience, which he believes will set him apart not just from Mrs. Clinton, but also from his Republican rivals.

“There comes a time,” he said, “when a president can no longer rely on briefing books and PowerPoints, when the experts and advisers have all weighed in, when the sum total of one’s life becomes the foundation from which he or she makes the decisions that determine the course of history.

“No other candidate has my experience or the judgment it informs.”

Mr. McCain, who was a critic of the conduct of the war but has strongly supported the surge in troop strength, said Mrs. Clinton was inconsistent. “On the one hand, Senator Clinton says we can’t abandon Iraq to Al Qaeda and the influence of Iran,” he said. “On the other, she wants a firm deadline for withdrawal that would do just that.”

The McCain campaign points to national polls showing him besting his rivals in match-ups with Mrs. Clinton, but Sunday’s speech was the first time Mr. McCain focused so directly on her.

The setting was no coincidence. A poll last week by the University of New Hampshire of likely Republican primary voters found that 34 percent thought Mr. Giuliani had the best chance to defeat an unnamed Democratic nominee, 30 percent thought Mr. Romney was best positioned and 8 percent named Mr. McCain.

The campaign must persuade voters like Mary Katherine Flanigan, 21, who is deciding between Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani.

“I trust McCain,” she said after a Saturday night town hall meeting with Mr. McCain at Dartmouth. “He has the experience and, you know, he is telling you what he believes.”

“But I think Rudy may be more electable,” she added, saying Mr. Giuliani’s support of abortion rights made him more “middle of the road.”

Mr. McCain said he knew that attacking Mrs. Clinton would be an easy way to stir voters, but he disapproved of the tactics employed by Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani.

“I don’t think you should take shots at her, like imitating her voice,” Mr. McCain said during a discussion on his bus, referring to something Mr. Giuliani has done at campaign appearances. “I don’t know what you gain by doing that. I guess issuing inflammatory statements can be effective. But I can’t campaign that way.”

Mr. McCain, when asked after the speech why Mrs. Clinton inspired such a visceral reaction among conservatives, said it was fueled by a media environment that thrives on clashes between extremes.

“I surmise that it has to do with the whole Clinton era,” he said. “The impeachment. That she is associated with all of the very inflamed passions of that period of time.”

One questioner, after offering praise, added that he was concerned about whether Mr. McCain was a strong enough campaigner to beat Mrs. Clinton, contrasting him with Mr. Giuliani, who he said impressed him as “tough.”

“Do you think you can really be tough enough on Senator Clinton to win the general election?” he asked.

Mr. McCain said that one needed to look no further than his standing up and speaking out against the early strategy in Iraq while Mr. Giuliani remained silent because he did not have the experience and background to understand the situation.

As to his reluctance to attack Mrs. Clinton with the same relish as Mr. Giuliani, Mr. McCain said: “You can be tough, but you should never degrade or ridicule anyone who is seeking public office. But we see too much of it.”
501 2007-11-19 ATHENS, Nov. 18 — Greece and Turkey opened a $300 million pipeline on Sunday, creating an energy corridor that connects the rich natural gas fields in the Caspian Sea region to Europe, bypassing Russia and the volatile Middle East.

The 178-mile pipeline also solidifies improved ties between Greece and Turkey, linking the longtime Aegean rivals through a project that will give Caspian gas its first direct Western outlet and help ease Russia’s energy dominance as oil and gas prices soar.

“This project will bring significant benefits both for Greece and Turkey,” said Kostas Karamanlis, the Greek prime minister, who inaugurated the project with his Turkish counterpart, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It shows “we can live in harmony and both gain from it,” Mr. Karamanlis said, shaking hands with Mr. Erdogan in a symbolic meeting on a bridge over the Evros River, which divides the countries.

The pipeline, which will use natural gas pumped into Turkey from the Shah Deniz field in Azerbaijan, will initially carry 250 million cubic meters of gas a year to Komotini, in northeastern Greece, from Karacabey, in western Turkey. Its capacity is expected to triple by 2012, when Poseidon, a 132-mile undersea Greece-Italy pipeline begins operation, forming the Southern Europe Gas Ring project.

“The project is extremely significant — and fundamentally political,” said Julian Lee, a senior analyst with the Center for Global Energy Studies, a London-based research group. “It offers diversified supplies of energy to Europe without going through Russia — an objective encouraged by the United States.”

Signaling Washington’s support, Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman attended the inauguration ceremony near the Greek-Turkish border on Sunday. President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan also attended.
502 2007-11-19 Other Internet video services, including Joost, Blinkx and Babelgum, have started or are planning televisionlike offerings from a variety of sources. YouTube, the Google-owned company that popularized home movie clips, has been adding video material from established television providers, even as it tries to fend off allegations of copyright infringement from Viacom.

Social networking sites, which have some of the largest and fastest-growing audiences on the Internet, are also trying to get in the picture and make a grab for ad revenue. Bebo, a social network popular in Britain among teenagers and young adults, introduced a service last week that lets content partners show their videos, and ads, to Bebo users.

“The Internet is at an interesting stage — it’s getting both more and less interactive,” said John Barrett, research director at Parks Associates, a company in Dallas that studies the use of digital technology.

“At one end of the spectrum, you’ve got things like social networking. At the other end, there’s more video that people just click, download and watch,” Mr. Barrett said. “The passive end of the spectrum gets more like radio and TV every day, and that’s an environment that advertisers are comfortable with.”

But as with many media offerings on the Web, turning audiences into earnings is difficult. Internet users have come to expect online media to be free, so trying to charge for Web videos is probably futile, with the exception of live sports or high-profile movies. Instead, the predominant revenue producer for Web video will probably be advertising, experts say.

Many advertisers, particularly the makers of consumer goods that dominate television advertising, remain wary about the Internet, partly out of fear of undermining their brand image by associating with provocative Web fare.

While Procter & Gamble spends more than any other company on advertising offline, only about 1 percent of its ad budget was allocated to the Internet last year, according to eMarketer, a research firm.

And while many marketers have spent heavily on ads linked to searches on Google and other search engines, some mainstream brands have shied away from online display ads like banners. In the first half of 2007, the leading spenders on online display ads in the United States were Experian, the consumer credit reporting service, and NexTag, a comparison shopping site, according to Nielsen Online.

Could television-style video persuade more mainstream brands to embrace Internet advertising?

EMarketer estimates that by 2011 online video ads will generate $4.3 billion, or about 10 percent, of overall Internet ad revenue in the United States, up from $410 million, or 2.4 percent, last year.

Online video content and advertising will not necessarily grow at the same rates. On the Internet, unlike many traditional media, advertising formats can be mixed and matched.

While some advertisers are using television-style 15- or 30-second ads before, during or after a video program, such ads can also appear in the middle of a block of text. Joost, YouTube and other online video providers are using fixed advertising “overlays” that appear on part of a video screen from time to time, allowing users to click through to a marketer’s Web site or advertising video.

Web video services say some of their advertising formats are more effective than other kinds of Internet ads, like banners. Suranga Chandratillake, chief executive of Blinkx, said that about 5 percent of viewers typically clicked on a video overlay ad; with banners, advertisers are lucky to get 1 percent of viewers to click through.

Joanna Lyall, who helps marketers plan digital ad strategies at Mindshare, a media buying agency owned by WPP Group, said that paid televisionlike spots might not be as effective as other, less conventional forms of Internet marketing. Some of the most memorable online ads have been videos that were posted on social sharing sites like YouTube, at no cost, but spread virally because of their entertainment quality.

“The reason advertising works online at the moment is because it’s not like TV,” she said.

At the same time, with more and more people making their own clips and posting them on the Web, it is becoming harder for would-be virals to be noticed, said Caroline Slootweg, the head of new media at Unilever.

“The days of just putting something up there and hoping it goes are pretty much over,” she said.
503 2007-11-19 The era of low interest rates ushered in by a series of Federal Reserve rate cuts in the aftermath of the technology bust and the terrorist attacks of 2001 created ideal conditions for financial companies to prosper. The easy availability of money and new financial products intended to disperse risk led to a boom in mortgage lending and private equity acquisitions.

“The macroeconomic conditions were very conducive to them posting very high profit margins,” Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer for Bessemer Trust, said. “And now investors realize those margins won’t last.”

In the third quarter, the operating profits of financial companies fell more than 33 percent, a drastic reversal from a 13 percent growth rate in the second quarter, according to an analysis by Howard Silverblatt, Standard & Poor’s chief index analyst. The sector, which has been accounting for more than a fourth of profits in the S.& P., helped drag overall profit down for the index by 8.5 percent. (Excluding financial services, operating earnings were up 1.6 percent in the quarter.)

Tim Scholefield, the head of equities at Baring Asset Management, said his firm had lowered the allocation of investments to American stocks because of the continued uncertainty surrounding the financial sector. He, like many others, expects more write-downs related to complex debt securities like collateralized debt obligations. Financial institutions will also struggle to replace the billions they had earned by structuring acquisitions for private equity firms and by trading mortgage bonds.

“There is a risk of more to come,” said Mr. Scholefield, who prefers investing in developing economies because he thinks they have better growth prospects and lower debt levels.

Still, few investors and analysts expect financial stocks to suffer a collapse akin to the crash in technology and telecommunications stocks, which went from a commanding 42 percent weighting in the S.& P. 500 to 20 percent today. They note that, for better or for worse, financial services make up a much bigger share of the economy today than they did 10 or 20 years ago, when manufacturing, materials and energy were more dominant.

“I don’t think this is a bubble headed for a crash,” said Robert D. Arnott, chairman of Research Affiliates, a company that creates stock indexes based on a company’s share of the economy. “I do think the financial services are an enormous part of the economy and will remain so.”

But Mr. Arnott also says the sector could continue to be a drain on the market. He expects the earnings of financial companies to bottom out in 2009 or 2010, an outlook much grimmer than the consensus expectation on Wall Street that the bottom will come next year.

Credit losses from the mortgage market alone could total as much as $400 billion, according to Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs. In a report last week, he noted that if half those losses were borne by financial institutions, lending could be reduced going forward by about $2 trillion, or about 7 percent of all nonfinancial debt in the American economy. That would not only hurt the financial sector; it could lead to a recession.

Mr. Hatzius cautions that the estimates assume all else is equal across the economy. Some losses in the financial sector could well be made up by growth in other areas like exports, which have been rising rapidly as the dollar has fallen against the euro and other currencies. Profits remain strong at technology and industrial companies, which benefit the most from the export boom.

James T. Swanson, chief investment strategist at the Boston mutual fund company MFS Investment Management, said the American stock market remained attractive because nonfinancial corporate America is in fine health, with low levels of debt and strong profits, particularly in their foreign operations. “We are slowing down for sure in the U.S., but outside of the U.S., profits are continuing to grow,” he said.

For the stock market, the crucial question is whether that will be enough to overcome the drag from the financial sector.
504 2007-11-19 It wasn’t the first Internet appliance (that was probably the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory vending machine), but it gave anyone who surfed to it a little dose of vertigo, that sense that the future was arriving and the Internet was distributing it more evenly (to misparaphrase the science fiction author William Gibson).

Dial the clock forward 14 years to the arrival of the Chumby. The simplest way to describe the $180 Chumby is as an Internet-enabled alarm clock. It is a Linux-powered, Wi-Fi-connected computer with a touch screen in a palm-size bean bag that is intended to replace your alarm clock.

You connect the Chumby to your home’s wireless network and then select software widgets from the company’s Web site and organize them into channels that cycle endlessly on your Chumby’s 3.5-inch color L.C.D. screen.

The obvious widgets are weather, news, alarm clock and stocks. At the moment, there are more than 50 widgets, with more promised, and you can write your own.

The terms of use statement on the Chumby Web site reserves the right for the company to insert its own widgets (a k a advertisements) into the widget stream. Like everybody else in the Web 2.0 era, Chumby hopes to subsidize its business and the Chumby network by selling ads.

Ads on my alarm clock? Is this the cool site of the day or a step closer to “Minority Report?” JOHN MARKOFF

Ignore Google’s Orkut and OpenSocial initiative, and Yahoo Mash and Yahoo 360. Google and Yahoo have come up with new and very similar plans to respond to the challenge from MySpace and Facebook: They hope to turn their e-mail systems and personalized home page services — iGoogle and MyYahoo — into social networks.

Web-based e-mail systems already contain much of what Facebook calls the social graph — the connections between people. That is why the social networks offer to import the e-mail address books of new users to jump-start their list of friends. Yahoo and Google realize that they have this information and can use it to build their own services that connect people to their contacts.

Joe Kraus, who runs Google’s OpenSocial project, said, "We believe there are opportunities with iGoogle to make it more social,” adding that “it is much easier to extend an existing habit than to create a brand.”

Brad Garlinghouse, who runs the communication and community products for Yahoo, said Yahoo was working on what he called “Inbox 2.0.”

This has several features. The e-mail service displays messages more prominently from people who are more important to you.

“The inbox you have today is based on what people send you, not what you want to see,” Mr. Garlinghouse said. “The exciting part is that a lot of this information already exists on our network, but it’s dormant,” he said.

Running social networks is like starting nightclubs. You need music and beer, of course, and some hard-to-describe magic that draws people to the club. Yahoo and Google are so big that the most they might create is the online equivalent of a crowded bar at a train station.

The Motion Picture Association of America is calling for a federal law that would require colleges to help movie studios and record labels prevent trading in copyrighted works over their computer networks.

Dan Glickman, the association’s chairman and chief executive, said in a news release, “Illegal downloading doesn’t just hurt the motion picture and music industries, but it can also be harmful to universities, as it puts their systems at risk for security purposes, takes up bandwidth and slows systems that are designed for research and other educational purposes.”

That is not quite how universities see it. While they generally support a separate provision in the bill that would require them to disclose their policies on file-sharing and to inform students of what is and is not legal, they do not want to block certain online activities by their students.

“You have the federal government requiring a nonprofit educational institution to develop plans to help a for-profit industry to earn more revenue from their students,” said Matt Owens, assistant director of federal relations at the Association of American Universities. “It makes no sense. That’s not what we’re in the business of doing.”

Then there is the problem of whether efforts to block illegal file-sharing might also block legitimate use, said Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Stanford Law School and the founding director of its Center for Internet and Society.

“The consequence of enforcement of these restrictions is to interfere with people’s legitimate rights to use those technologies,” Professor Lessig said.
505 2007-11-19 With its mix of swagger and contrary thinking, it was just the kind of bet that has long defined Goldman’s hard-nosed, go-it-alone style.

Most of the firm’s competitors, meanwhile, with the exception of the more specialized Lehman Brothers, appeared to barrel headlong into the mortgage markets. They kept packaging and trading complex securities for high fees without protecting themselves against the positions they were buying.

Even Goldman, which saw the problems coming, continued to package risky mortgages to sell to investors. Some of those investors took losses on those securities, while Goldman’s hedges were profitable.

When the credit markets seized up in late July, Goldman was in the enviable position of having offloaded the toxic products that Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, UBS, Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley, among others, had kept buying.

“If you look at their profitability through a period of intense credit and mortgage market turmoil,” said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Merrill Lynch who covers the investment banks, “you’d have to give them an A-plus.”

This contrast in performance has been hard for competitors to swallow. The bank that seems to have a hand in so many deals and products and regions made more money in the boom and, at least so far, has managed to keep making money through the bust.

In turn, Goldman’s stock has significantly outperformed its peers. At the end of last week it was up about 13 percent for the year, compared with a drop of almost 14 percent for the XBD, the broker-dealer index that includes the leading Wall Street banks. Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns and Citigroup are down almost 40 percent this year.

Goldman’s secret sauce, say executives, analysts and historians, is high-octane business acumen, tempered with paranoia and institutionally encouraged — though not always observed — humility.

“There is no mystery, or secret handshake,” said Stephen Friedman, a former co-chairman and now a Goldman director. “We did a lot of work to build a culture here in the 1980s, and now people are playing on the balls of their feet. We just have a damn good talent pool.”

That pool has allowed Goldman to extend its reach across Wall Street and beyond.

Last week, John A. Thain, a former Goldman co-president, accepted the top position at Merrill Lynch, while a fellow Goldman alumnus, Duncan L. Niederauer, took Mr. Thain’s job running the New York Stock Exchange. Another fellow veteran trader, Daniel Och, took his $30 billion hedge fund public.

Meanwhile, two Goldman managing directors helped bring Alex Rodriguez back to the Yankees, a deal that could enhance the value of Goldman’s 40 percent stake in the YES cable network — which it is trying to sell — while also pleasing Yankee fans. The symmetry was perfect: like the Yankees, Goldman, more than any other bank on Wall Street, is both hated and revered.

Robert E. Rubin, a former Goldman head, is the new chairman of Citigroup. In Washington, another former chief, Henry M. Paulson Jr., is the Treasury secretary, having been recruited by Joshua B. Bolten, the White House chief of staff and yet another former Goldman executive.

The heads of the Canadian and Italian central banks are Goldman alumni. The World Bank president, Robert B. Zoellick, is another. Jon S. Corzine, once a co-chairman, is the governor of New Jersey. And in academia, Robert S. Kaplan, a former vice chairman, has just been picked as the interim head of Harvard University’s $35 billion endowment.

Since going public in 1999, Goldman has been the No. 1 mergers and acquisitions adviser, globally and in the United States, with two exceptions: in 2005 it came in second in the United States rankings, and in 2000 it lost the top spot globally. In both instances, Morgan Stanley took the lead, according to Dealogic.

Goldman, of course, has made its share of mistakes. It took among the most serious write-downs in the third quarter on loans that were made to private equity firms, totaling $1.5 billion. The firm runs one of the largest hedge fund operations in the world, but its flagship funds — funds whose investors include marquee Goldman clients and employees — have had two years of abysmal performance. Clients are expected to redeem billions of dollars of capital at the end of 2007.

But Goldman’s absence from the mortgage debacle and the strong performance of its other businesses made up for the write-down associated with the loans. The firm reported $2.85 billion in profit in the third quarter, up 79 percent. Mr. Moszkowski estimates that investment and commercial banks in the United States have taken $50 billion in write-downs related to mortgages, with more coming; Mr. Blankfein said at a conference last week that he expected to take none.

Goldman’s business is built on taking risks, both for itself and its clients. In recent years, Goldman has established the largest private equity and real estate fund complexes in the world. That has led to natural tensions with private equity clients who sometimes complain, but never publicly, about Goldman’s common insistence to team up with them for a piece of the deal.

“Goldman has done the best job of any firm in the U.S. or world competing with their clients but doing business with them,” said one client who asked not to be named because he does business with the firm. “They’ve managed to get their clients to live with it.”

Still, this bottom-line approach has turned off some Goldman veterans and clients. They see the firm’s desire to advise, finance and invest — a so-called triple play — as antithetical to Goldman’s stated No. 1 business principle of putting clients first.

And there is little question that its success in trading, investment banking and servicing hedge funds — many of the traders come right from Goldman — allows the firm a bird’s-eye view on trends and capital flows in the market.

Numerous Goldman investment bankers, former and current, voice the view that Mr. Blankfein’s approach — using Goldman’s investment banking business to develop principal investment opportunities for the firm — creates a brand intended to feed Goldman’s profits rather than relationships. But this harking back to the firm’s golden days as a pure advisory firm does not find much sympathy at Goldman these days.

“I have little patience for these people who talk of the last days of Camelot,” Mr. Friedman said. “Principal investing has been an important and useful business. If you want to be relevant you have to anticipate where the world is going.”

Mr. Blankfein, at the conference last week, echoed that sentiment. “While the integration of our investment banking operations with our merchant bank was somewhat controversial at the time, we felt these businesses were mutually reinforcing,” he said.

Money soothes a lot of concerns, of course, and Goldman has had plenty to spread around. Through the third quarter, Goldman’s $16.9 billion compensation pool — the money it sets aside to pay its employees — was significantly bigger than the entire $11.4 billion market capitalization of Bear Stearns.

Goldman executives and analysts assign much of their success to smart people and a relatively flat hierarchy that encourages executives to challenge one another. As a result, good ideas can get to the top.

But the differentiator that has become clearest recently is the firm’s ability to manage its risks, a tricky task for any bank. Checks and balances must be in place to turn off a business spigot even as it is still making a lot of money for a lot of people. In a world where power gravitates to the rainmakers, that means only management can empower the party crashers.

At Goldman, the controller’s office — the group responsible for valuing the firm’s huge positions — has 1,100 people, including 20 Ph.D.’s. If there is a dispute, the controller is always deemed right unless the trading desk can make a convincing case for an alternate valuation. The bank says risk managers swap jobs with traders and bankers over a career and can be paid the same multimillion-dollar salaries as investment bankers.

“The risk controllers are taken very seriously,” Mr. Moszkowski said. “They have a level of authority and power that is, on balance, equivalent to the people running the cash registers. It’s not as clear that that happens everywhere.”

For all its success on Wall Street, it is Goldman’s global reach and political heft that inspire a mix of envy and admiration. In the race for president, Goldman Sachs executives are the top contributors to Barack Obama and Mitt Romney, and the second highest contributor to Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mr. Blankfein has held a fund-raiser for Mrs. Clinton in his apartment and has come out publicly in her favor.

Another member of Goldman’s influential diaspora is Philip D. Murphy, a retired executive who is the chief fund-raiser for the Democratic National Committee.

All of which has made Goldman a favorite of conspiracy theorists, columnists and bloggers who see the firm as a Wall Street version of the Trilateral Commission.

One particular obsession is President Bush’s working group on the markets, an informal committee led by Mr. Paulson that includes Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve; Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and Walter Lukken, the acting chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

The group meets about once a quarter — privately, with no minutes taken — to ensure that government agencies are briefed on market conditions and issues. The group is currently examining the extent to which the packaging and distribution of mortgage loans contributed to the crisis. It also recently completed a study recommending that hedge funds not be subject to further regulation; the group’s fund committee was led by Eric Mindich, a former Goldman trader who now runs a successful hedge fund.

There is no evidence that the conduct of the group is anything but above board. But to some, the group’s existence adds more color to the view that Goldman is indeed everywhere — much as J. P. Morgan was in the early years of the 20th century.

“Goldman Sachs has as much influence now that the old J. P. Morgan had between 1895 and 1930,” said Charles R. Geisst, a Wall Street historian at Manhattan College. “But, like Morgan, they could be victimized by their own success.”

Mr. Blankfein of Goldman seems aware of all this. When asked at a conference how he hoped to take advantage of his competitors’ weakened position, he said Goldman was focused on making fewer mistakes. But he wryly observed that the firm would surely take it on the chin at some point, too.

“Everybody,” he said, “gets their turn.”
506 2007-11-19 Fifth Third Bancorp, Cincinnati, chose Olson, Minneapolis, to handle the Fifth Third Bank account, which had been at the Sunrise Agency, Cincinnati. Spending was estimated at $15 million to $20 million.

Three creative executives from Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, are joining the WPP Group. Tony Granger, who had been chief creative officer at Saatchi & Saatchi, becomes worldwide creative director at Y&R, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP, succeeding Michael Patti, who left in December 2006. Also, two executive creative directors who worked for Mr. Granger before leaving Saatchi & Saatchi last month, Jan Jacobs and Leo Premutico, are opening an agency in New York, Johannes Leonardo, with WPP as a minority partner.
507 2007-11-19 OPEC'S DIRECTION A summit meeting of OPEC heads of state, held amid the pomp and glitter of the Saudi royal court, revealed competing visions for the oil-producing group.      SPUTTERING ENGINE As problems in the credit markets cut into profits at...
508 2007-11-19 The iPhone? Microsoft Shrugs     A cynic would describe Microsoft's approach to the music player market as simple Apple envy. The iPod has the dominant market share and is helping Apple to increase its small share of the PC market. Are many in the...
509 2007-11-20 In New Hampshire, those independent-minded Granite Staters question the Republican candidate's predilection for dispensing with issues of the past....
510 2007-11-20 A series about a boy's varsity basketball team becomes more of a portrait of a small town.
511 2007-11-20 In Iowa, the Democratic candidate tries to address questions about how to heal a divided country....
512 2007-11-20 A hedge fund has filed a counter-claim against an insurer, Fairfax Financial Holdings, and its law firm for defamation and using private investigators to harass its employees. The Bank of New York's Institutional Credit Partners is alleging Fairfa...
513 2007-11-20 It has been a rough few months for America's vaunted financial institutions, which are under siege. Shares of many Wall Street bank and Wall Street investment houses have taken a beating amid losses related to the mortgage market meltdown and the ...
514 2007-11-20 Portus Alternative Asset Management's co-founder, Michael Mendelson, was sentenced Monday to two years in prison after pleading guilty to fraud related to the collapse of the company, a Canadian hedge-fund firm, in 2005. As part of the plea agreem...
515 2007-11-20 Calpine's chief executive, Robert May, can expect a $10.9 million stock incentive for guiding the struggling San Jose-based power producer out of the largest United States bankruptcy of 2005, according to papers filed in United States Bankruptcy C...
516 2007-11-20 In a mini-profile of a hedge fund manager, James Altucher, and his investment Web site Stockpickr.com, BusinessWeek reports that Mr. Altucher eschewed a tantalizing offer from a large hedge fund to bring his investment strategy - and that of Warre...
517 2007-11-20 Apple won dismissal Monday of a lawsuit claiming that company directors and managers, including the chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, lied to shareholders about the backdating of option awards. Judge Jeremy D. Fogel of Federal District Court in San...
518 2007-11-20 In books like “The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat” and “An Anthropologist on Mars,” the physician Oliver Sacks has given us some compelling and deeply moving portraits of patients in predicaments so odd, so vexing, so metaphysically curious that they read like something out of a tale by Borges or Calvino.

In his latest book, “Musicophilia,” Dr. Sacks focuses on people afflicted with strange musical disorders or powers — “musical misalignments” that affect their professional and daily lives. A composer of atonal music starts having musical hallucinations that are “tonal” and “corny”: irritating Christmas songs and lullabies that play endlessly in his head. A musical savant with a “phonographic” memory learns the melodies to hundreds of operas, as well as what every instrument plays and what every voice sings. A composer with synesthesia sees specific colors when he hears music in different musical keys: G minor, for instance, is not just “yellow” but “ocher”; D minor is “like flint, graphite”; and F minor is “earthy, ashy.” A virtuosic pianist who for many years bizarrely lost the use of his right hand, finds at the age of 36 that the fourth and fifth fingers of his right hand have started to curl uncontrollably under his palm when he plays.

Dr. Sacks writes not just as a doctor and a scientist but also as a humanist with a philosophical and literary bent, and he’s able in these pages to convey both the fathomless mysteries of the human brain and the equally profound mysteries of music: an art that is “completely abstract and profoundly emotional,” devoid of the power to “represent anything particular or external,” but endowed with the capacity to express powerful, inchoate moods and feelings.

He muses upon the unequal distribution of musical gifts among the human population: Che Guevara, he tells us, was “rhythm deaf,” capable of dancing a mambo while an orchestra was playing a tango, whereas Freud and Nabokov seemed incapable of receiving any pleasure from music at all. He writes about the “narrative or mnemonic power of music,” its ability to help a person follow intricate sequences or retain great volumes of information — a power that explains why music can help someone with autism perform procedures he or she might otherwise be incapable of.

And he writes about the power of rhythm to help coordinate and energize basic locomotive movement, a power that explains why music can help push athletes to new levels and why the right sort of music (generally, legato with a well-defined rhythm) can help liberate some parkinsonian patients from “their frozenness.”

Indeed, this volume makes a powerful case for the benefits of music therapy. In Dr. Sacks’ view, music can aid aphasics and patients with parkinsonism, and it can help orient and anchor patients with advanced dementia because “musical perception, musical sensibility, musical emotion and musical memory can survive long after other forms of memory have disappeared.”
519 2007-11-20 This is especially true, she said, for mentors. “One has to be cautious with mentors that they actually have expertise in the area you are starting a business in.”

Score is often a point of entry for would-be entrepreneurs and others seeking capital.

On a recent Tuesday afternoon in New York City, Mr. Lehman, dressed in a dapper business suit and tie, with cufflinks and a Score pin on his lapel, takes measure of a day’s work at the Score office in the Science, Industry and Business Library at 34th Street and Madison Avenue.

The morning appointments, handled by another Score volunteer, were packed. Mr. Lehman, who was a retailer and former business owner, has the afternoon shift. There are a few openings early but the evening seems busy.

The phone rings. Someone wants to start a flooring business. Mr. Lehman asks some questions and answers a few. (“Yes, we’ll help with your business plan. We won’t write it for you, but we’ll check your homework after you’re finished. S.B.A. loans? We’ll explain the loan guarantee program.”) The caller promises to call back after he talks to his business partner.

“This guy that just called — 90 percent of his questions I am sure I can answer: How do I get a loan? How do I write a business plan?” Mr. Lehman said. If the caller had more specific questions about the flooring industry, he added, Score would find a counselor with that experience to help.

“This guy sitting there doesn’t want to hear about how wonderful I am,” Mr. Lehman said. “He wants my help. So that’s one of the things you do: listen. You’re here to help him as best you can.”

Typically, Mr. Lehman works Monday, Tuesday and Thursday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Score office at 26 Federal Plaza, but he visits the library site from time to time.

At 5 p.m., Betty Corbett of Brooklyn walks in promptly, fills out the form Mr. Lehman gives her along with a Score pen (“That’s yours to keep,” he says.) and when she’s done, he asks, “How can I help you today?”

Ms. Corbett pulls out a business card advertising, “Parking Violation Consultants” and her name as president. She hands it to him, explaining that she is taking a college business class and needs to write a business plan for how she would get this idea off the ground.

He asks more about the idea and warms to it. “Do you really want to do this? It sounds like an interesting idea. I like the idea better than the class. Why don’t you take a shot at it?”

Ms. Corbett laughs, and says she is not ready. “It’ll be a few years after I retire,” she said. Mr. Lehman hands her a couple of forms and tells her to come back with the plan so he can provide feedback.

“I would register the name,” Mr. Lehman added, explaining that as a sole proprietor, using her own Social Security number, it would only cost $120. That way, when she retires, she can start up immediately.

For the moment, though, Ms. Corbett’s main concern is the class. “I hope I get an A,” she said as the session ends.

“Sometimes it takes 20 sessions to get the people going,” Mr. Lehman said. “It isn’t just one time. It goes on and on until you get them to the point where they get the key in the door. Occasionally, we will even walk them to the bank.”

One business owner who testifies for Score is Amy Scherber, owner of Amy’s Bread in Manhattan, who sought the organization’s help in the early 1990s. A counselor looked at her business plan and coached her on how to improve it and what she would need to open in New York City. “He was very encouraging and kind,” she said. “It was good, positive praise, to let me know that I wasn’t alone.”

Even so, Score was not able to help with startup money. A retail food establishment was considered too risky, Ms. Scherber was told. Instead, she turned to friends and family. The business opened in 1992 on Ninth Avenue and has expanded to a second location in Chelsea and several cafes, and the staff ballooned from five to over 100.

Today, Ms. Scherber says she encourages small business people to take advantage of Score. The counselors “have so much passion,” she said. “They really have a different perspective. They talk about the reality.”

Back at the library, Mr. Lehman offers a dose of reality to a walk-in business owner looking for $5,000 to buy computers and equipment for his business. A bank loan is unlikely. How about an investor? Mr. Lehman asks. The owner shakes his head no.

His best bet then, Mr. Lehman says, offering the same suggestion Ms. Scherber received 15 years ago, is a F.F.R. loan, as in Friends, Family and Relatives. The young man, who asks not to be identified for his confidential session, says he tried that already. He thanks Mr. Lehman for his time and leaves to continue the search for financing.
520 2007-11-20 The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 created a far-sighted partnership between the federal government and the states that agreed to remake often barbaric juvenile justice systems in exchange for federal aid. Unfortunately, those gains have been steadily rolled back since the 1990s when states began sending ever larger numbers of juveniles to adult jails — where they face a high risk of being battered, raped or pushed to suicide. The act is due to be reauthorized this year, and Congress needs to use that opportunity to reverse this destructive trend.

As incredible as it seems, many states regard a child as young as 10 as competent to stand trial in juvenile court. More than 40 states regard children as young as 14 as “of age” and old enough to stand trial in adult court. The scope of the problem is laid out in a new report entitled Jailing Juveniles from the Campaign for Youth Justice, an advocacy group based in Washington. Statistics are notoriously hard to get, but perhaps as many as 150,000 young people under the age of 18 are incarcerated in adult jails in any given year.

As many as half of the young people who are transferred to the adult system are never convicted as adults. Many are never convicted at all. By the time the process has run its course, however, one in five of these young people will have spent more than six months in adult jails.

Some jails try to protect young inmates by placing them in isolation, where they are locked in small cells for 23 hours a day. This worsens mental disorders. The study says that young people are 36 times more likely to commit suicide in an adult jail than in a juvenile facility. Young people who survive adult jail too often return home as damaged and dangerous people. Studies show that they are far more likely to commit violent crimes — and to end up back inside — than those who are handled through the juvenile courts.

The rush to criminalize children has set the country on a dangerous path. Congress must now reshape the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act so that it provides the states with the money and the expertise they need to develop more enlightened juvenile justice policies. For starters, it should rewrite the law to prohibit the confinement of children in adult jails.
521 2007-11-20 The student loan corporation in Pennsylvania improperly exploited a subsidy program to collect $34 million from the government, said a report released yesterday by the inspector general of the federal Education Department.

The audit called on the department to recover the payments to the corporation, the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency, a state-owned company that makes and guarantees student loans.

The chief executive of the agency, James Preston, defended its conduct.

In a statement, Mr. Preston said the agency had complied with department regulations and received the payments with the approval of the department. The report, he added, is based on “present-day interpretation of past department regulations,” “and ignores 10 years of our compliance with regulations.”

A spokeswoman for the department, Samara Yudof, said the report was under review.

The subsidy program was enacted in the 1980s, when interest rates were high, as an incentive to continue making the loans. It guaranteed lenders a 9.5 percent rate of return. Congress tried to rein in the program in 1993 as interest rates fell, but the loans ballooned as lenders exploited a loophole to keep receiving the subsidy.

The failure to crack down on the program has simmered in Congress. A former official in the department testified that he had urged the Bush administration to stop the subsidy.

The inspector general called on the department in January to recover $278 million in subsidies to Nelnet, a lender in Lincoln, Neb. The department suspended more than $800 million in future payments to Nelnet until an independent audit confirmed it was eligible and moved to curtail payments to all lenders except those proving eligibility with audits.

Education Secretary Margaret Spellings told Congress that she settled with Nelnet because she thought that her department’s subsidy history could put it in legal jeopardy if Nelnet sued.
522 2007-11-20 Citigroup’s shares dipped 5.8 percent to a four-year low. The stock has dropped more than 40 percent in the last year.

In his report, the Goldman analyst William F. Tanona wrote that Citigroup would “feel the pain of worsening consumer credit” in its retail and credit card businesses, adding to problems stemming from its exposure to troubled subprime investments.

He said the bank might be forced to sell assets, issue equity or cut its dividend to shore up precariously low capital levels.

“We do not expect there will be a ‘quick fix’ to some of Citi’s issues,” Mr. Tanona wrote. He also noted that the bank’s current lack of leadership could hurt its performance as it seeks a successor for Charles O. Prince III, who resigned as chairman and chief executive this month.

For market watchers, the report was one more sign that the bottom of the subprime crisis has not yet been reached. Investors have lost confidence in the financial companies, many of which had indicated that the worst was over only to announce new charges weeks later.

Swiss Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, was the latest example. The company said yesterday that it had taken a $1.07 billion write-down on the value of some derivatives backed by mortgage securities. The announcement came two weeks after the company said its exposure to problems in the American subprime mortgage market would be limited.

“It’s going to take time for investors to get their confidence back in the sector,” said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investors.

“There’s not one silver bullet that’s going to get the stocks moving,” Mr. Koesterich said. “I don’t see necessarily what the light is in the near term.”

Investors were also reminded yesterday that the housing market remains deeply troubled. Shares of Lowe’s, the home improvement retailer that competes with Home Depot, dropped 7.6 percent, to a three-year low, after the company announced a 10 percent drop in third-quarter profit and lowered its annual earnings forecast.

In a statement, Lowe’s chief executive, Robert A. Niblock, cited “an even steeper decline in housing turnover, falling home prices in many markets, and a near record inventory of homes for sale.”

His remarks echoed a separate report yesterday that showed record-low confidence among home builders. An index of builders’ sentiment measured by the National Association of Home Builders held steady at 19, on a scale where readings below 50 signal a poor outlook.

Profit-taking may also have played a role in the sell-off yesterday. Analysts said that investors might be selling to protect the annual return on their portfolios.

“A lot of people are nervous and are just looking to close their books,” said Brian Gendreau, an investment strategist at ING Investment Management. They “don’t want to lose it all in the last two months because of the funny stuff going on in the financial sector.”

The Dow has closed below 13,000 only three times since surpassing the mark in late April. Its lowest point came on Aug. 16, when it closed at 12,845.78. Markets have been extremely volatile in recent weeks, with the S.& P. hitting a record high in mid-October and then losing 7 percent of its value in November alone.

“During a volatile period, any nervousness means sell now, and ask questions later,” said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at The Hartford financial firm.

At least one analyst saw a seasonal explanation for the sell-off.

“There’s an old saying that the bears have Thanksgiving and the bulls have Christmas,” said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor’s. “This week could be a challenging one.”

At Citi, triage efforts were in full swing. On Friday, Citigroup announced that Jorge A. Bermudez would take over as Citigroup’s chief risk officer, succeeding David Bushnell.

Mr. Bermudez, 56, has lived in College Station, Tex., for the last several years where he has run Citigroup’s commercial banking unit. Mr. Bermudez intends to move to New York, but his lack of familiarity with Wall Street has fueled speculation that he will be an interim head rather than a permanent replacement.

The move will also leave Citigroup without a chief administrative officer after Mr. Bushnell leaves in December. Mr. Prince promoted Mr. Bushnell to that position in early September, just weeks before Citigroup announced billions of dollars in losses.

Christina Pretto, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said, “The interim management does not plan to appoint a C.A.O., and it will be the job of the new C.E.O. to determine the structure of the corporate office going forward.”

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
523 2007-11-20 A public-interest law firm in Washington filed a class-action lawsuit against the New York City Education Department yesterday, charging that a program created to increase the number of black and Hispanic students in the city’s elite specialized high schools violates the Constitution by excluding whites and Asians. The law firm, the Center for Individual Rights, filed the suit in Federal District Court in Brooklyn on behalf of three Chinese-American parents whose children were denied admission to the Specialized High School Institute, which prepares students for the test determining admission to schools like Stuyvesant and the Bronx High School of Science. Andrew Jacob, a spokesman for the Education Department, said it was “reviewing the program’s eligibility criteria” in light of a June decision by the Supreme Court that struck down two race-based school integration programs. Since the institute’s creation more than a decade ago, the proportion of black and Hispanic students at the city’s most elite high schools has actually decreased; last year, 2.2 percent of Stuyvesant students were black.
524 2007-11-20 Also, shoppers can see ads from three marketers — Dell, Sears and Wal-Mart — that all promote the idea of making holiday wishes come true.

For Dell, the thought is expressed with themes like “Wish for the holidays” and “Wish for anywhere.” For Sears, the themes include “This year, don’t just give a gift, grant a wish” and “Where wishes begin.” For Wal-Mart, there is a single wishful theme, “For every wish.”

The issue of what constitutes originality in ads — and what might instead be homage, borrowing, mimicry, copycatting or plagiarism — has been vexing industry professionals for decades. Generally, although an idea cannot be copyrighted, in some instances a specific expression of the idea may be protected.

The Internet has made it easier to find and widely publicize perceived similarities in campaigns. Now, even when ads appear thousands of miles apart, comments can be made about their apparent commonalities.

For instance, the blog Adfreak (adweek.blogs.com/adfreak/) noted recently that a billboard for an electric utility in South Africa was reminiscent of a billboard for a water utility in Denver. Each used a small portion of a big billboard for a visual pun: a message promoting conservation.

Adfreak, written by editors of the trade publication Adweek, is among scores of blogs devoted to advertising and marketing. Many of their authors devote posts to ads that they believe too closely resemble other ads. As the ranks of the ad detectives grow, the number of incidents may seem to proliferate.

A blog called FX Rant (fxrant.blogspot.com) even devotes a section, titled “Movie Marketing Is Hard,” to “illustrating the lack of creativity” among campaigns from film studios. The most recent post pointed out similarities between the campaigns for “Beowulf,” which opened on Friday, and the 2006 film “300.”

How did the Visa commercial come to use the same song and the same toy-shop setting as the trailer for “Mr. Magorium’s Wonder Emporium,” which opened on Friday?

Any coincidences between the spot and the movie “are just that, coincidences,” said Jeremy Miller, a spokesman for the Visa agency, TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

“This is not the first time Visa has highlighted a toy store in its advertising,” Mr. Miller said, and depicting a “busy toy store during the holiday period is completely in character for Visa as the fourth quarter is a very busy time with all retailers.”

The idea for the commercial was submitted last February, he added, before the movie trailer began to appear.

Speaking of the holiday, what could account for three campaigns all using variations of “wish”?“Wishing is something that’s pretty common at holiday time,” said David Clifton, director for global marketing communications at Dell, and as a result, he added, “I don’t see a problem” with the echo effect.

“One thing we looked at was how do we differentiate our campaign,” Mr. Clifton said, “so we added some texture to it” with a theme, “Yours is here,” that is also the address for a special Web site (yoursishere.com) featuring celebrities like Burt Reynolds. The campaign is created by the New York office of Mother.

At Sears, Roebuck, part of Sears Holdings, Richard Gerstein, chief marketing officer, said: “It would be tough to ‘own’ wishes. Wishes are part of the holiday.” The Sears campaign is created by the Chicago office of Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group.

Still, Sears has ties to wishing that go back further than Dell’s or Wal-Mart’s: The Wish Book was the name for the Sears holiday catalogs published from 1963 to 1993.

The onset of the holiday shopping season is also the likely reason for the simultaneous appearances of the stop-action Santas in the Alltel Wireless commercials, from Campbell-Ewald in Warren, Mich., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, and the Aflac commercial, from the Kaplan Thaler Group in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe. The spots pay affectionate tribute to holiday TV specials from the 1960s, like “Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer.”

Still, some marketers have a less laissez-faire attitude about similarities in campaigns than Mr. Gerstein at Sears and Mr. Clifton at Dell.

In September, as executives at RPA, the agency for the American Honda Motor Company, were completing a commercial for the Civic Hybrid using the theme from “The Odd Couple,” they learned that a Subway spot, finishing production at about the same, was using the same music.

“There was some concern,” said Britt McColl, a spokeswoman at RPA in Santa Monica, Calif., so “we pushed it a little quicker” and moved up the introductory date for the Civic spot to late September from early October. It beat the Subway commercial onto television by about a week.

Although “they’re different messages completely,” Ms. McColl said of the two commercials, “the music makes the spot.”

A spokesman for Subway Restaurants, Mack Bridenbaker, said his company noticed the Honda spot’s appearance before his company’s spot, by the MMB agency in Boston, which features the Subway spokesman, Jared Fogle, and the football player Reggie Bush as the odd couple.

“We were cool with it,” Mr. Bridenbaker said of the theme’s use in both commercials, “but we’d rather we be the only ones.”

That seems to characterize the feelings of the people behind the mash-up campaigns for AT&T and Riverbed Technology. The Riverbed campaign is composed of Web banner ads, which the company and its agency, Godfrey Q & Partners in San Francisco, said began running on April 29.

Each Riverbed banner ad mixes the names and landmarks of two cities, producing make-believe places like “San Franciscapore,” with the Golden Gate Bridge set against the Singapore skyline; “New Yorkyo”; and “Mumboston.”

The AT&T campaign, by BBDO Worldwide in New York, another Omnicom agency, is more extensive. Along with banner ads there are television commercials and posters; each combines the names and landmarks of two or more cities or states, yielding imaginary places like “Philawarepragucago”; “Japaridelphia”; and “New Sanfrakota.”

There is also a section of the AT&T Web site (att.com/wheredoyoulive) where visitors can smush together their own sets of city, state and country names.

The idea for the AT&T campaign “was first presented to the client in early April,” a spokesman for BBDO New York, Roy Elvove, wrote in an e-mail message.

The first outdoor ads appeared on June 1, he added, which meant production had to begin “well in advance” of that date “and therefore in advance of the April 29 launch date for the Riverbed campaign.”

“In addition — and not to be disrespectful — it is highly unlikely that the BBDO creative team was surfing the Web,” Mr. Elvove wrote, to visit sites “where they might have come across the Riverbed banner ads.”

The Riverbed campaign “continues to perform off the charts in terms of increasing awareness and driving demand for Riverbed’s products,” he wrote in an e-mail message.

“So whatever the origin of BBDO’s subsequent campaign,” he added, “we’ve exceeded what we set out to do.”
525 2007-11-20 BOSTON, Nov. 19 (Reuters) — The hedge fund company Eton Park Capital Management said Monday that it would take over R6 Capital Management in January, in one of the first prominent acquisitions in the $2 trillion hedge fund industry.

For the $10 billion Eton Park, R6 Capital, with $300 million in assets, proved attractive because of its expertise in distressed credit and asset-based financing. R6 has performed well but cannot raise the billions of dollars in capital needed to really flourish. Joining Eton Park will mean quick access to more money.

Eric Mindich, who set up Eton Park three years ago, and Ralph Rosenberg, who started R6 Capital last year, have known each other for more than a decade. Both worked earlier at Goldman Sachs.

The timing of the move may be ideal for some big investors. It coincides with an increasing appetite among hedge funds for stepping back into the wreckage of the credit market, which has left several large investment banks with huge losses but has damaged only a few hedge funds.

R6 Capital has gained roughly 5 percent since it was begun; Eton Park has returned about 30 percent this year.

Large investment banks and money managers have been buying hedge funds for some time, but among pure hedge funds, the Eton Park-R6 deal is the first prominent acquisition in the industry, analysts said.
526 2007-11-20 Dick Wilson, a British-born character actor who won American television fame as Mr. Whipple, the comically fussy star of two decades of Charmin toilet paper commercials, died on Monday at the Motion Picture & Television Fund Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 91 and had lived at the organization’s residence in Woodland Hills since 2002.

His death was confirmed by a spokeswoman for the hospital.

Mr. Wilson was in his late 40s and a veteran actor on American television when he was hired by Procter & Gamble to play a curmudgeonly grocer who nervously reprimanded customers with the line, “Please, don’t squeeze the Charmin.” In hundreds of maligned but effective television commercials, running from 1964 to 1985, the punch line was that Mr. Whipple himself secretly squeezed the product, seduced by what was billed as its squeezable softness.

“It is not an exaggeration to say that the Mr. Whipple character, which Dick Wilson portrayed for so many years, is one of the most recognizable faces in the history of American advertising,” Dennis Legault, Procter & Gamble’s brand manager for Charmin, said in a statement yesterday. He credited Mr. Wilson with much of the brand’s success.

Born in Preston, England, on July 30, 1916, Mr. Wilson grew up in Ontario, the son of a vaudeville entertainer and a singer. He soon followed his parents into show business. He worked for a local radio station as a teenager; was part of the Whiz Bang Revue, a local group that did shows for servicemen; and went on to work in both film and theater. During World War II he served in the Canadian Air Force.

In the 1950s and ’60s, he appeared on numerous American television series, including “Wagon Train,” “The Untouchables,” “My Favorite Martian” and “Hogan’s Heroes.” He had something of a recurring cameo on the sitcom “Bewitched,” appearing in about 18 episodes as a drunk man who sees the main character, played by Elizabeth Montgomery, perform some feat of witchcraft, and then immediately swears off alcohol.
527 2007-11-20 “The distribution system for the entertainment business is broken,” said Daniel H. Adler, Fanista’s founder. “We’re pioneering a new model.”

A newfangled Internet business pops up every few weeks in Hollywood and promises to revolutionize something or other. But movie studios and music labels are taking the upstart seriously.

Money is a reason: Alticor, the owner of Amway and Fanista’s sole financial backer, says it generates about $6 billion in annual revenue.

“Those are awfully deep pockets,” said the writer and entrepreneur Norman Lear, who helped connect Mr. Adler with the direct-sales giant.

Through his various business partners and friends in Hollywood, Mr. Lear knew that Mr. Adler was tinkering with a new Web-based distribution system and that Alticor was looking for a new angle, perhaps in entertainment.

More important, Mr. Adler, 44, is an entertainment insider. He formerly worked at the Creative Artists Agency, where he led the new-media division, and Walt Disney, where he was a creative developer, or “imagineer.”

Mr. Adler helped introduce LidRock, which created a stir in 2004 by distributing music on miniature CDs tucked inside the lids of movie theater soda cups.

“His Rolodex of relationships is what makes this different,” said Sherry Lansing, the former chairwoman of Paramount.

Mr. Adler aims to exploit the increasingly cynical view of consumers, particularly young ones, about the way Hollywood pushes its wares.

“Regardless of what the big marketing campaign says is hot, regardless of what the big-name critic says is good, people make entertainment purchases based on the recommendations of people they encounter directly,” he said. “That is the only authentic voice.”

The company arrives as Hollywood experiments with the Web to build a more direct relationship with consumers.

The rock band Radiohead last month allowed fans to set their own price for digital downloads, while Blockbuster recently signed a deal with Facebook to promote movie rentals. When members of the social network rent films from Blockbuster.com, they will be encouraged to have their movie choice broadcast to all their Facebook contacts.

Some Internet analysts say Fanista faces an uphill battle, however. “It’s certainly interesting, but I’m not completely sold on what they’re trying to do,” said David Card, a senior analyst at Jupiter Research who focuses on online media. “Historically, with the exception of Amazon and Wal-Mart, the shopping mall approach hasn’t worked online.”

Amway also suffers from an image problem because of lingering memories of its past legal troubles. Most prominently, the company pleaded guilty in 1983 to defrauding the Canadian government and paid $25 million in fines.

In recent years, India, China and Britain have investigated the company’s business practices.

Conscious of the negative connotation of multilevel marketing, Fanista coined a happier term. The site describes the sales model to users as “common interest commerce.” The site is currently being tested and operates independently of Alticor.

On Fanista, members create and customize profiles where they list favorite DVDs and CDs — preferably to Fanista, ones in its inventory of about 500,000 titles.

Mr. Adler, for instance, added the movie “Fletch” to his home page. Members are then asked to write reviews for each item.

“If you love good comedy, this is a must,” wrote Mr. Adler of the 1985 film, which stars Chevy Chase as a wisecracking reporter.

The next step is to invite friends to join. If they become members and identify you as the reason, you will always earn a 5 percent commission on any purchases they make on the site. Fanista has additional hooks, too.

If, for instance, your friends’ purchases within a year total $100, you get a 5 percent discount on any Fanista purchases.

The idea is that once people are brought inside the site they will make impulse purchases by reading reviews from their circle of friends or people who are passionate enough about items to write personal reviews.

“We think people want a richer and more intuitive shopping experience, and that’s what we really are trying to deliver,” Mr. Adler said.

Fanista, developed in secrecy over the last two years, plans to make noise in multiple ways, Mr. Adler said. Celebrities, attracted partly though Mr. Adler’s contacts in Hollywood, will be members, while the company also hopes to get exclusive access to certain new releases from studios and record labels.

Statistics about online shopping comfort Mr. Adler as he introduces Fanista to the public. More consumers shop online for books, DVDs and music than any other product, according to iCrossing. According to Nielsen SoundScan, about 12 percent of physical album purchases are made over the Internet.

And 75 percent of online shoppers seek consumer reviews to make purchase decisions, according to Jupiter Research.

Fanista’s multilevel marketing, also called affiliate marketing, has a bad reputation because it can be confused with illegal pyramid, or Ponzi, schemes.

Multilevel marketing companies — Amway, founded in 1959, is perhaps the best known but there are others, including Avon — sell products through part-time sales representatives who typically work from home.

Amway, which now generates most of its income overseas, primarily sells health and beauty products.

Multilevel marketing is legal if money is earned on sales of products. The technique becomes illegal if participants are paid primarily for recruiting new members, or if they are required to buy more product than they can sell.

Alticor decided to finance Mr. Adler’s idea because it sees entertainment as an expansion opportunity, according to Bill Payne, the chief marketing officer. “That world is a mystery to us in many ways,” he said. “We saw Dan’s vision as a chance to learn about the attractiveness of the segment.”

The company has dabbled in entertainment before. In the 1980s, Amway owned a large string of radio stations. And the billionaire co-founder of Amway, Richard DeVos, has contributed to Gospel Communications, which distributes evangelical films and operates a popular Christian Web site.

Mr. Payne declined to say how much money Amway was sinking into Fanista, as did Mr. Adler.

Building Fanista may be more expensive than the company thinks, according to Mr. Card of Jupiter Research. “They will need to spend some money getting in people’s faces,” he said. “The Internet is a viral medium, but that is a very risky way to build a media company.”

Another worry involves people who try to game the system. An online store built on the concept of “authentic voice” will crumble quickly if marketers pop up as members, said Mr. Card.

Mr. Adler acknowledges he has never been a person to whom “no” means a lot. He decided to pursue a career in entertainment after seeing a Bruce Springsteen concert in 1978.

“I weaseled myself backstage and asked him to autograph a dollar bill,” he said.

His arrival in Hollywood was equally brazen. He wrote Michael D. Eisner, who was a rising entertainment executive at the time, a letter about how he had worked at a Vermont summer camp that Mr. Eisner’s children attended.

Mr. Eisner pulled strings and Mr. Adler was soon an assistant to one of the industry’s most powerful figures, Michael S. Ovitz.

On a recent afternoon at his offices in Beverly Hills, Mr. Adler leaped up several flights of stairs — past a suite where Sylvester Stallone is putting the finishing touches on a new installment of “Rambo” — to a floor where Fanista engineers were working out bugs.

The red and gray Web site was suffering from an overeager welcome video. “Share your passions ...buy entertainment,” the welcome screen flashed over and over again as a rock song blared.

“That needs to be fixed,” Mr. Adler said. “We want to be inviting, not hard sell.”
528 2007-11-20 NORWALK, Conn., Nov. 19 (AP) — Xerox announced its first quarterly cash dividend in six years on Monday and predicted double-digit earnings growth in the coming years, citing new products and a stronger balance sheet.

A dividend of 4.25 cents a share will be payable Jan. 31 for shareholders of record on Dec. 31.

“Declaring a dividend and our continued share repurchase initiatives reflect the health of our business and our belief in the long-term value we’re creating for Xerox shareholders,” said Anne M. Mulcahy, the chief executive.
529 2007-11-20 Apple won dismissal yesterday of a lawsuit claiming that company directors and managers, including the chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, lied to shareholders about the backdating of option awards.

Judge Jeremy D. Fogel of Federal District Court in San Jose, Calif., said in his ruling that he dismissed the suit because it was based on statements made more than three years before the case was filed.

Apple, maker of the iPod and iPhone music and video players, said last year that it backdated 6,428 stock-option grants issued from 1997 to 2002, according to the order. Changing the date on a grant can provide added gains.

Apple argued that the suit was “time barred” because it was not filed within the required three years after the statements the case cites were issued. Judge Fogel said in his order that he would allow shareholders to file the suit again if they could show Apple filed false statements about the option awards on or after July 30, 2003.

Judge Fogel dismissed a similar suit last Wednesday, suggesting shareholders could pursue their case by joining the suit he dismissed yesterday, a derivative lawsuit by Apple investors on behalf of the company, accusing directors and officers of breaching corporate duties.
530 2007-11-20 The Tribeca Film Institute and Gucci have joined to create the Gucci Tribeca Documentary Fund, which will offer financing and production guidance to help independent filmmakers complete documentaries that promote social change, focusing on issues neglected by the mainstream news media. The fund will provide grants totaling $80,000 to a minimum of three filmmakers in 2008 and will be administered by the Tribeca Film Institute. Recipients will be selected by the Tribeca Film Institute, along with Gucci and a selection committee of documentary filmmakers. All documentary filmmakers who have projects in production or postproduction may apply. Applications can be sent from Feb. 5 to April 11, 2008. Recipients will be announced next summer. Information: tribecafilmfestival.org.
531 2007-11-20 Investment banks like Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch have reported trading losses and asset write-downs of more than $40 billion as a result of credit market turmoil that started this summer as delinquencies mounted among borrowers with poor credit histories.

Swiss Re, founded 144 years ago, makes most of its money from premium income generated by taking on some property and casualty risks for direct insurers. But its financial services business provides risk and capital management, structured investments and investment banking.

The company has tried to reassure investors that it is able to absorb the extraordinary financial market developments because of its income in previous months. Insurance companies profited from lower claims this year, in part because no major hurricane struck the United States during the Atlantic storm season.

But Monday’s announcement will heighten the perception of risk in the insurance industry for some time, said William Hawkins, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods here. “At a time when we thought the risk management of the insurance sector was getting better,” he said, “today’s announcement is a serious blow to confidence.”

The share price of Swiss Re fell 10 Swiss francs Monday, or more than 10 percent, to 87.55 Swiss francs, in Zurich trading. A smaller rival, Munich Re, also declined, even though the company said it had nothing to add to a statement it made last month, when it called the subprime issue “harmless.” Shares in other rivals, including Aegon, Allianz, AXA and Zurich Financial Services, also fell.

Swiss Re’s loss originated in investment portfolios that mainly held mortgage-backed securities and included some subprime and asset-backed holdings in the form of collateralized debt obligations, the company said.

George Quinn, Swiss Re’s finance chief, said that the loss, equivalent to 981 million Swiss francs ($879 million) after taxes, occurred in October because of downgrades by credit rating agencies amid a lack of any liquid market for the assets.

The company reduced the value of the collateralized debt obligations to zero and the subprime securities to 62 percent of their original value, it said.

Swiss Re reiterated Monday that it expected to report a net profit for the year because income in other divisions made up for the losses in the financial services unit and that the year-end return on equity would be above its long-term target of 13 percent.

On Nov. 6, Swiss Re reported that its third-quarter profit fell 5 percent, less than analysts expected, to 1.47 billion Swiss francs ($1.31 billion).
532 2007-11-20 “Fuat! Fuat!” hollers the X-ray technician, as Mr. Sarieminli speed-walks by. “Bring on those patients, baby, bring ’em on!”

“Fuat! Fuat! This patient needs a hummer!” a nursing assistant calls out, using the hospital nickname for the sturdy new wide-body wheelchairs for larger patients.

Over the next 15 minutes, Mr. Sarieminli, rescuing stretchers and moving eight patients to the emergency room’s X-ray and CT scan departments, imperceptibly begins to break apart the logjam. Diversion averted.

Even so, it will be two and a half hours before beds upstairs become available so that Mr. Sarieminli can actually transport patients cleared for admission to their hospital rooms.

“I’ve seen patients in the E.R. all day on my shift, ” he says, “and I’ll go home, sleep, come back and guess what? They’re still here!”

In modern health care, delay is a leading complaint of dissatisfied customers, a threat to the critically ill and a vicious headache for hospital administrators and efficiency experts, who measure it assiduously. Many emergency rooms track “door to floor time”— how long it takes a patient who arrives in the E.R. to be wheeled to a bed on a hospital floor.

Of all the cogs in that process (reports! scans! diagnoses! lab results! consults! chains of command! available beds!), one of the most essential and least respected is the patient transporter, whose qualifications typically include a high school diploma, a pleasant disposition and a clean record. “My job is to move the patient from Point A to Point B,” says Mr. Sarieminli, who has worked in this position for seven years.

Few people realize that “patient transporter” is a distinct job category. “I blame those TV medical shows,” says Mr. Sarieminli, taking umbrage. “Who wheels the patients around on them? Doctors!” As if.

At Long Island College Hospital, some 35 patient transporters work under the command of the logistics department. From a central dispatch system, similar to that of a taxi company, transporters are sent to move patients to diagnostic appointments and operations. The dispatcher watches the progress of each job on a computer monitor: blips of red, yellow, green and purple signify “nursing delay,” “patient in bathroom” or that the transporter is taking too long.

As administrators in major hospitals around the country know well, a dawdling patient transporter can set off a chain reaction of delays throughout the institution.

Mr. Sarieminli, however, is not tracked by the computer. The emergency department is so busy and his job is so demanding — on a typical shift he will make about 50 trips from Point A to Point B — that the computer cannot keep up with him.

In fact, most transporters do not like working the emergency room. The work is not only faster-paced than elsewhere in the hospital, but “transporters feel disrespected here,” says Mr. Sarieminli, assaulted by the cacophony of so many on-the-spot bosses, commanding him to move someone right now.

He has wheeled a woman in labor, crowning in the elevator, and hurtled a stab victim through the corridors to the operating room. “That’s me, I’m in the driver’s seat,” he says.

He even has a designated sliver on a hospital pie chart that tracks “door to balloon time” — how long it takes to get a heart attack patient to the cardiac catheterization lab for an angioplasty. Administrators realized that having a patient transporter standing by with a stretcher outfitted with lifesaving equipment, rather than having to order one from the dispatcher, could mean a gain of critical moments.

In the E.R., Mr. Sarieminli, a divorced father of a preschooler and the son of Turkish immigrants (the hospital has turned to him as an impromptu Turkish interpreter), stands with the other wisecracking, nerve-snapping, giddily intense staff warriors: he is a member of a hospital team, a battalion, a family.

“Without Fuat, we can’t get the job done,” says Dr. Tucker Woods, vice chairman of the emergency department.

As Mr. Sarieminli moves through the E.R., he does his bit to preserve dignity in a place notably lacking in privacy. He taps a woozy, swaying patient whose open gown is flapping. “Sir!” Mr. Sarieminli says. “Let’s cover you up. You’re exposing yourself.”

Outside the CT scan department, he whispers to a patient in a wheelchair: “I know you’ve waited a long time, but it’s very busy tonight, ma’am. We haven’t forgotten about you. You’re next.”

For if a transporter is, fundamentally, something of a parking attendant, he can also resemble a bellhop, a frontline meeter-and-greeter who settles the weary, the frightened, the frustrated in their room after a grueling journey.

“I remember you!” Mr. Sarieminli says brightly to a patient with diabetes, as he starts wheeling her to her room after long hours of waiting. She returns the smile, nodding, her angry edginess noticeably fading.

“Watch out for the bump, ma’am,” Mr. Sarieminli says. “Please keep your elbows and feet inside the bars. We wouldn’t want you to get hurt when I go around a tight corner.”

It turns out that the paths connecting Point A to Point B are many and varied. Does the transporter choose the scenic route, with languid pauses for chats with co-workers? The steeplechase course, accounting for every thud and poorly executed corner? Or the circuitous route, involving misread hospital ID bracelets, wrong room numbers and long, chilly waits in the wrong corridors?

Mr. Sarieminli has his own code of professionalism. Always stand behind patients’ heads, not at their feet, so their view is not blocked and they can feel more at ease. Avoid chitchat with co-workers, especially in a foreign language, when in the presence of the patient. “That’s unprofessional,” he says. “So I’ll point to the patient and say, ‘We can discuss the Jets game later.’” He is not permitted to give water or food to patients, but he can escort them to the bathroom.

“I’ve had telephone numbers given to me by patients for their granddaughters,” he says, and adds, a touch wistfully: “But I never pursue them. I just say, ‘I’m at work and I’m a professional,’ and I leave it at that.”

“Ahh, here’s your room!” he says to the diabetes patient, as he lowers the rails of her hospital bed and carefully slides her onto it. “I love this room! What a great view! If you watch carefully sometimes, you can see that cruise ship go by, the Queen Mary, a ship like you wouldn’t believe ... take your time ... hey, you’re doing good!”
533 2007-11-20 PHNOM PENH, Cambodia, Nov. 19 —­ The former Khmer Rouge head of state Khieu Samphan, who was taken from a hospital here and arrested on Monday, is the last of five top figures targeted by prosecutors in advance of trials expected next year for the atrocities of the late 1970s.

He was charged with crimes against humanity and war crimes.

Mr. Khieu Samphan, 76, joins three other members of the Khmer Rouge central committee and the commandant of the torture house Tuol Sleng, who have been charged in connection with the deaths of 1.7 million people from 1975 to 1979.

An urbane, French-educated leftist intellectual who was the nominal head of the Khmer Rouge, he has been placed in a detention factility at the headquarters of the international tribunal set up with the assistance of the United Nations to bring Khmer Rouge leaders to justice.

Arresting officers took Mr. Samphan from a hospital where he had been brought last Wednesday after suffering an apparent stroke, supporting him on both sides as they led him to a police car.

The commandant of the Tuol Sleng prison, the torture house, Kaing Guek Eav, 64, known as Duch, was scheduled to appear at a pretrial hearing on Tuesday, the first appearance in open court of any Khmer Rouge figure for the crimes of the 1970s.
534 2007-11-20 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Nov. 19 — Pakistan’s Supreme Court, filled with supporters of the president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, after he imposed emergency rule on Nov. 3, dismissed on Monday the main challenges to his re-election, all but ensuring his confirmation to another term by the court this week.

The ruling is the first step in a plan laid out by General Musharraf ahead of parliamentary elections he wants to hold in January. In an interview last week, he said that he would resign as chief of the country’s military after the court cleared all the challenges to his re-election. He has repeatedly said that he will take the oath of president as a civilian.

The general swept to victory on Oct. 6 in an election boycotted by most of the opposition parties, but the Supreme Court’s original judges ordered that the results not be officially confirmed until they had heard all challenges by other candidates.

Also on Monday, General Musharraf’s office announced that he would make a two-day state visit to Saudi Arabia beginning Tuesday. He has made few excursions outside the country in recent months. The destination of Saudi Arabia raised speculation here in the capital because Nawaz Sharif, a former prime minister and popular opposition leader, is in exile there, after being deported from Pakistan for a second time in September.

It was Mr. Sharif whom General Musharraf overthrew in 1999 when he seized power in a coup, and he has since been the general’s most uncompromising critic. Diplomats suggested that General Musharraf was making the trip to ensure that the Saudi government would keep his chief rival there and not allow him to leave for Pakistan before the elections. Should he return, Mr. Sharif would represent a serious political threat to both the party of the opposition figure Benazir Bhutto and the party that backs General Musharraf.
535 2007-11-20 The former Khmer Rouge head of state Khieu Samphan, who was taken from a hospital in Phnom Penh and arrested, will join three other members of the regime's central committee and the commandant of its most notorious torture house in a detention cen...
536 2007-11-20 There was a particularly striking number in The New York Times/CBS News poll of Iowa caucusgoers last week. It told the story of the complicated -- and cool-- relationship that Senator John McCain has always had with Republicans in Iowa.      The ...
537 2007-11-20 WHERE THE PROFITS ARE American companies are enjoying hefty profits overseas. Sales at the heavy-equipment maker Caterpillar, for example, have risen by a third in Europe and by 20 percent in Latin America while demand for its products wanes in th...
538 2007-11-21 Blogtalk: Thanksgiving with Crispin Glover, Bloomberg’s cartoon captions, Key Food goes green, Judith Regan’s price, the nickel subway fare, the pride of Bushwick and more New York region links....
539 2007-11-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
540 2007-11-21 The best part of Thanksgiving, some years, is crashing in front of a movie when you're too stuffed to do anything else. In that spirit, here are two bookish clips I'm grateful for. The first, above, is a video I'd never seen – John Hodgman (he's...
541 2007-11-21 Maher Arar gained his expertise about America's lawless program of extraordinary rendition the hard way. Mr. Arar, a Canadian software engineer, was picked up at Kennedy Airport in 2002 and placed in solitary confinement in a Brooklyn detention ce...
542 2007-11-21 The Eagles' first studio album in 28 years, which topped the charts when it went on sale this month, features a single called "How Long?" But for the private equity backers of Warner Music Group, a more appropriate song title might be "How Low?" S...
543 2007-11-21 On the back of record profit so far this year, Goldman Sachs, the global investment bank, is starting a donor-driven philanthropy fund that intends to reach $1 billion over the next few years. The fund, GS Gives, is initially focused on the firm's...
544 2007-11-21 Copper Arch Capital, a New York-based hedge fund founded by Scott Sipprelle, a former banker at Morgan Stanley, is winding down operations, according to press reports. Mr. Sipprelle, who started managing money independently in 1998 after leaving M...
545 2007-11-21 In movies the holidays are a time when families come together, and a lifetime of secrets boil to the surface over a few short days.

In Preston A. Whitmore II’s film “This Christmas,” the Whitfields — a mother, her three sons, three daughters and two grandchildren — gather, along with various significant others, for a Christmas crammed with more melodrama than all the holiday-homecoming flicks from the past decade combined.

For starters, there are pregnancies, covert interracial marriages, gambling debts, new romances, divorces, repressed musical talents, bar brawls and catfights.

Boisterous and bittersweet, the film is not dull, but it does feel hopelessly overstuffed, with scant time to devote to any one story line.

There are also lapses in logic. For instance, one daughter states that people are afraid to hum in the presence of Mom, who blames music for stealing away her husband, just minutes after the family has engaged in a borderline-embarrassing dance-along to Kool & the Gang’s “Get Down On It.” (Again, only in the movies.)

Before the closing credits, the gifted cast members again show off their moves in a dance sequence that might have better served as a DVD extra. But at least they’re having fun — more than audiences probably will as they’re pounded over the head with this mostly formulaic holiday cheer.
546 2007-11-21 Some market watchers suggested that lower trading levels during a holiday week make the market more volatile, but at least one analyst disputed that notion. “I don’t know of anyone taking a day off today,” said Dennis Davitt, who oversees equity derivative trading for Credit Suisse. “Not in these conditions.”

Crude oil futures briefly rose above $99 in overnight trading and an Energy Department report showed that inventories fell slightly last week, leaving investors wondering how soon oil will be nudged above its inflation-adjusted record of $102. Crude settled in New York trading at $97.29, down 74 cents.

The recent run-up in oil prices, which threaten to curb consumer spending, dovetails with a shaky economic outlook released by the Federal Reserve yesterday, which predicted a slowdown in growth over the coming months.

The overnight rout in foreign markets reflected a broad reaction to the Fed’s grim projections and a growing sense that the besieged housing market, which once helped American consumers buy the world’s products and services, has not hit bottom.

The dollar, once a source of strength in uncertain times, also set another record low of slightly above $1.48 against the euro.

Treasury yields — a traditional safe haven for investors in times of crisis — hit two-year lows today, with the yield on the 10-year note dropping below 4 percent in midday trading.

“People don’t know where to put their money at this point, so they’re basically giving it to the government,” Mr. Davitt, of Credit Suisse, said. “You’ll pay the government to hold your money because it’s the only place people trust.”

Stocks dropped at the opening bell and never made it out of the red. Ailing financial stocks were hit again, with the major brokerage firms driven all recording deep losses.

Meanwhile, in what vendors hope won’t be a bad omen for Black Friday, the retail giant Limited Brands posted a 48 percent drop in third-quarter earnings and lowered its end-of-year outlook. The company owns Victoria’s Secret, Bath & Body Works and other shopping mall mainstays. Shares of Limited shares dropped 0.29 percent in early trading.

Abercrombie & Fitch shares leaped 2.7 percent after the apparel company’s earnings rose 15 percent last quarter.

Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P., said the problems stem from broad uncertainty among investors. With banks still announcing write-downs from infected mortgage-backed securities and even venerable firms like Freddie Mac starting to share the pain, the fallout from the housing and credit turmoil lending is still making its way across the broader economy.

“Where do you put your money today?” Mr. Silverblatt asked. “You don’t know when the other shoe is going to drop.”

Economist data released today, though not a major mover in the markets, reinforced the sense of ongoing gloom. Consumer sentiment fell to its lowest level since October 2005, according to a survey by the Conference Board. A composite index of economic indicators declined, as well.

In foreign markets, credit market nervousness has increased in recent weeks as banks hoard cash in anticipation of year-end obligations. Though not as extreme as in August, both dollar and euro-based borrowing benchmarks in London have edged upward, raising the cost of short-term credit.

The dollar has found no respite, although it showed no signs of cracking the $1.50 barrier, a psychological milestone more than anything else. But nothing suggests the dollar will be able to muster a sustained comeback anytime soon.

“It’s getting worse,” said Stephen Jen, global head of currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “In reality we know things are getting worse, and expectations of the U.S. economy and the credit markets are getting revised down.”
547 2007-11-21 The budget airline EasyJet said full-year profit was up 62 percent as passenger numbers grew 13 percent. The company reported a net profit of £152.3 million ($313 million) in the year ended Sept. 30, compared with £94.1 million ($193 million) in the previous 12 months. Revenue rose 22 percent, to £1.8 billion, ($3.7 billion). Passenger numbers were up 13 percent to 37.2 million, but the load factor — the percentage of occupied seats — was 83.7 percent, compared with 84.8 percent in the previous year, reflecting expansion of the company’s network.
548 2007-11-21 Synthes, the world’s largest maker of devices to mend broken and malformed bones, won approval in the United States for a new spinal fusion strip. The synthetic ceramic bone graft substitute, called Chronos, is used to fill gaps in bones that result from surgery or traumatic injury, the company said. Synthes, based in Oberdorf, Switzerland, expanded its range of spinal products this month by purchasing the closely held N Spine, based in San Diego. “This new biomaterial offers surgeons increased handling options,” Synthes said.
549 2007-11-21 German producer-price inflation, an early indicator of price pressures in the economy, accelerated more than economists expected in October after the price of oil rose to a record and the cost of food surged. Prices for goods ranging from newsprint to plastics climbed 1.7 percent from a year earlier after rising 1.5 percent in September, the Federal Statistics Office said. Economists had expected a 1.6 percent gain. “Price pressures are now definitely building up,” said Rainer Guntermann, an economist at Dresdner Kleinwort in Frankfurt.
550 2007-11-21 Fred W. Friendly, producer of the program, called it “the first time any of us appreciated the power of television.”

In 2005, the episode became a big part of a hit movie about Mr. Murrow and his CBS colleagues, “Good Night, and Good Luck.” Mr. Radulovich was a consultant for the film and appeared in original clips from the program.

The Radulovich broadcast was the first salvo that “See It Now” fired against Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, Republican of Wisconsin, and his anti-Communist tactics. Although the case of Mr. Radulovich did not involve McCarthy, and the senator was not mentioned in relation to him, two later “See It Now” programs dealt directly with McCarthy.

In 1998, the State Bar of Michigan honored the program about Mr. Radulovich with a plaque that reads, “It is generally believed that the program was the beginning of the end for the McCarthy era.”

Milo John Radulovich was born in Detroit on Oct. 28, 1926. His father, John, a Serbian immigrant, was an autoworker.

Milo was an aviation cadet at what was then Michigan State College before joining the Army Air Forces in 1944 and becoming a meteorologist. He did top-secret work in Greenland and was discharged as a first lieutenant in 1952. He then attended the University of Michigan on the G.I. Bill and was a lieutenant in the Air Force Reserve.

He learned that his father was suspect because he read a Slavic newspaper seen as pro-Communist. His sister was suspect because she had picketed a Detroit hotel that refused to lodge Paul Robeson, the renowned singer, who publicly admired Stalin.

“No way I would repudiate my family,” Milo Radulovich told The Detroit News in 2005. “I knew if my case went unresolved, the government could do this to anyone, anywhere.”

With the help of lawyers working free, Mr. Radulovich fought back. The Detroit News ran two articles about his case, the second of which Mr. Murrow read. He sent a crew to Michigan.

When Mr. Friendly saw the film, he recognized it as both moving and volatile, according to a 2004 article in Quill magazine by Joseph Wershba, the reporter who went to Michigan. “You’re fired,” Mr. Friendly told the cameraman in a phone call. “I’m fired. Ed’s fired, but we’re going to turn out the greatest broadcast ever done on television.”

In the days before the broadcast, CBS executives grew skittish because of the dependence of Alcoa, the sponsor, on military contracts. The network refused to promote the program, so Mr. Murrow and Mr. Friendly put up $1,500 of their own money for an ad in The New York Times.

“The case against Lt. Milo Radulovich A0589839” it said. (The number was his serial number.) Mr. Radulovich was soon reinstated in the Reserve. He moved to California, and, after difficulty finding work, became a meteorologist for the National Weather Service.

Mr. Radulovich, who lived in Lodi, Calif., was divorced from his first wife, the former Nancy Tuttle; his second wife, the former Sheila Day, died about five years ago. He is survived by his daughters Katherine Radulovich of Sacramento, Janet Sweeney of Elk Grove, Calif., and Danica Berner of Bishop, Calif.; his brothers Sam and Walter and his sister Margaret Fishman, all of Detroit; and a grandson.

Mr. Radulovich never doubted the value of his fight. In speeches he cited parallels to what he saw as similar infringements on liberties in the war on terrorism, saying, “I feel I represent lots and lots of Americans who would have done the same thing.”
551 2007-11-21 In the earliest years of independence, in the 1980s, Zimbabwe impressed many outsiders as a stable and prosperous land, where high school enrollment for black children, held back in the long decades of white minority rule, soared and tourism to game parks and the famed Victoria Falls on the Zambezi River flourished.

But in later years the formerly white-owned farms that once fed much of southern Africa and earned millions of dollars in foreign exchange were decimated by a precipitate land-redistribution program. The economy is in tatters, with hyperinflation running at such a pace that currency bills change hands in brick-sized bundles.

An urban elite with ties to the regime of President Robert G. Mugabe prospers while the poor go hungry. Millions of Zimbabweans have fled to neighboring African states. Political opposition to Mr. Mugabe’s regime has been suppressed with the same zeal as Mr. Smith himself once displayed in the fight against African nationalist strivings for majority rule.

Zimbabwe’s troubles only fed Mr. Smith’s unwavering white supremacist views, his unshakable belief that Africa without white rule would not work.

“I’m pleasantly surprised at the number of people who come to me and say, when you were in the chair, we thought you were too inflexible and unbending; we now see that you were right,” he said in an interview during a visit to London in 2004.

Physically, the man at the center of these storms appeared almost drab. Tall and slightly stooped, he spoke in the clipped monotones of his country, where the English language seemed overlaid with the Afrikaans of South Africa.

Ian Douglas Smith was born on April 8, 1919, in Selukwe, a village about 200 miles southwest of Salisbury, now Harare, the capital, where he later owned a 7,500-acre cattle spread. His father, Douglas Smith, had immigrated to the territory in 1898 from Hamilton, Scotland, settling in Selukwe and eventually establishing a butcher shop.

At school, Mr. Smith excelled in sports rather than academics. In 1940, after studying commerce at Rhodes University in South Africa, he joined the British Royal Air Force as a fighter pilot in World War II. He crashed twice.

The first time, taking off in a Hurricane fighter plane in the Western Desert, he hit a runway obstruction. Flight Lieutenant Smith was badly hurt. Plastic surgery left him with a lopsided expression and a drooping eyelid. Afterward he rarely smiled, partly because of a dour temperament but partly because of the surgery.

His second downing, by enemy ground fire, took place over the Po Valley in Italy. Joining the partisans as a guerrilla fighter there, he trekked across the Alps to Allied lines and flew again over Germany. He returned home a war hero.

Mr. Smith entered politics in 1948 to campaign successfully for a Parliament seat. A little-known political figure who referred to himself as “a backroom worker,” Mr. Smith attained the office of deputy prime minister in 1962, the year his party, the Rhodesian Front, first won power. In 1964, a cabinet revolt against his predecessor, Winston Field, gave Mr. Smith the job of prime minister.

He stepped momentously into the history of central Africa a few months later, at a time when the flood tide of black nationalism seemed to be racing down the continent. Mr. Smith and his colleagues, with the kind of defiance that white Rhodesians applauded, set themselves against what in time proved to be inevitable.

On Nov. 11, 1965, Mr. Smith announced in emotionless tones that Rhodesia had declared independence from Britain rather than bow to pressure from London for concessions toward the black majority.

It was a broadcast proclamation of rebellion, ending with the words: “We have struck a blow for the preservation of justice, civilization and Christianity, and in this belief we have this day assumed our sovereign independence. God bless you all.”

His white countrymen were confident that “good old Smithy” knew what he was doing. His black compatriots were aghast at his display of defiance. But their resentments were countered by a state machinery that encompassed detention without trial, an efficient secret police and, later, martial law. Mr. Mugabe was one of many black nationalists jailed for years by the white authorities under emergency powers.

Condemnation of the rebellion heaped up. The United Nations applied international sanctions intended to cut off Rhodesia from the rest of the world in 1966.

Mr. Smith would not bend. “No African rule in my lifetime,” he said. “The white man is master of Rhodesia. He has built it, and he intends to keep it.”

Later, in 1976, he declared that there would be no majority rule, “not in a thousand years,” in Rhodesia. Black Africans, Mr. Smith said, were not ready for self-government.

He and his followers justified their repression by saying they were “holding the line” against Communism and “resisting the chaos” of newly formed black nations beyond the Zambezi River. He expressed bewilderment at the refusal of the United States, Britain and other Western powers to reinforce his self-adopted “front line against international Communism” — code language for black domination and a reflection of the cold war divisions of the era.

Mr. Smith’s relations with the West, Britain in particular, were not improved by the series of negotiations through which London, the lawful authority in Rhodesia, sought to end the rebellion. Each round of discussions ended with mutual accusations of deviousness and deceit. Each collapse bought Mr. Smith a little more time to extend minority domination. Each time, black anger deepened.

For the black majority, the rebellion was the worst of affronts, an institutionalized humiliation, and in December 1972 nationalist guerrillas attacked a farm in northeastern Rhodesia with rockets, starting a war that eventually took some 30,000 lives, with much of the insurgency mounted from nearby Zambia and Mozambique.

Only in 1976, under pressure by the United States secretary of state, Henry A. Kissinger, through South Africa, Mr. Smith’s main ally, did Mr. Smith acknowledge a need for majority rule. Even then, it was a grudging acceptance, which Mr. Smith was slow to carry out.

On March 3, 1978, he signed an agreement with moderate black leaders, who had pledged to eschew war. Under the arrangement, Mr. Smith agreed to step down, and handed over power to Bishop Abel T. Muzorewa, who won elections in April 1979.

But the vote was condemned by the guerrillas. Their exiled leaders, Mr. Mugabe and Joshua Nkomo, dismissed the settlement as a ploy, because it enabled whites to retain control of the army, economy and legislature. The agreement won no international recognition, and the war continued.

In the fall of 1979, however, Britain presided over what was to be its final conference on Rhodesia. Only Mr. Smith, a member of Bishop Muzorewa’s delegation, resisted the terms that led to British-supervised elections and lawful independence the next spring. Mr. Mugabe came to power. The white Rhodesians’ rebellion had finally crumbled.

A Constitution drawn up at Lancaster House in London contained compromises guaranteeing that whites would have 20 of the 100 seats in Parliament. The Rhodesian Front, Mr. Smith’s party, won them all in the first elections in 1980, and despite wartime threats against his life, he stayed on, asserting that it was in the interests of his white followers.

Mr. Smith and Mr. Mugabe, an odd couple, cooperated with each other at first. After having labeled Mr. Mugabe a bloodthirsty terrorist, Mr. Smith now described him as “a very pleasant change from what most of us had expected.”

But Mr. Smith never apologized for leading the country into war and never came to terms with what he depicted as inevitable decline under black majority rule.

“We gave Rhodesia 15 wonderful years extra,” he said in an interview on his farm at Selukwe, since renamed Shurugwi, in 1983. If he had not declared unilateral independence in 1965, he said, “then this sort of scene would have come earlier.”

The final rift with Mr. Mugabe came in 1985, at the first post-independence election, when white voters gave Mr. Smith’s party 15 of the 20 seats reserved for whites under the Lancaster House Constitution.

Mr. Mugabe said the vote showed that “the enemy of yesterday is still today’s enemy.” From then onward, he shunned Mr. Smith. Two years later, Mr. Smith left Parliament, claiming he had been forced out illegally by Mr. Mugabe.

While he later played a modest, behind-the-scenes role in political life, Mr. Smith never regained the prominence of his days as a rebel against the British crown. He did not figure significantly when an opposition group, the Movement for Democratic Change, began to challenge Mr. Mugabe in 2000. And when Mr. Smith visited Britain in 2004, meeting with Conservative legislators, his stay went virtually unreported in British newspapers.

As he aged, he remained bitter that, in his view, successive outside powers including the United States, South Africa and most of all Britain had broken promises, betraying Rhodesia’s white minority and its leaders in the name of political expediency.

“And in all honesty, what had Rhodesia done to deserve all of this treachery?” he wrote in his 1996 memoir, “Bitter Harvest: The Great Betrayal.” Returning to his prophecies of economic decline under black majority rule, he added in a 1998 postscript to the book: “I think I can correctly comment: I told you so. History records that my predictions have materialized.”

Mr. Smith stayed put in Harare, insisting that his descent from the first settlers who arrived to colonize Rhodesia in the 1890s bound him to Zimbabwe. Even after Mr. Mugabe had ordered a bloody campaign to strip the country’s white farmers of their land in the early 2000s, Mr. Smith kept on farming two estates.

To the end, Mr. Smith insisted that his government, condemned in the outside world as racist and unlawful, had been beneficial to most of the country’s people. Indeed, as Zimbabwe slid into corruption and decline under Mr. Mugabe, Mr. Smith sensed events had vindicated his refusal to dilute white dominance.

“There are millions of black people who say things were better when I was in control,” he said in 2004. “I have challenged Mugabe to walk down the street with me and see who has most support. I have much better relations with black people than he does.”
552 2007-11-21 Gov. Eliot Spitzer called on the Metropolitan Transportation Authority yesterday to keep the basic subway and bus fare at $2. It is good that he has weighed in against the M.T.A.’s plan to raise the fare to $2.25 — and that the authority has just found a windfall of $220 million that it is committing to holding down fares and tolls. That does not mean that riders should start a conga line on the A train just yet. Even if the $2 fare is saved, riders who get discounts through multiple-use MetroCards should still brace themselves for a hit in the wallet.

Governor Spitzer and M.T.A. officials said unexpected revenues and savings should allow them to keep the one-trip fare at $2 through 2009. They said the decision — which still must be approved by the M.T.A. board — was an answer to the pleas that riders made during recent public hearings on the proposed fare increase.

Holding down the base fare would offer relief. Passengers who pay $2 for a single ride — mostly tourists and cash-strapped commuters — account for about 7 percent of tickets sold, according to the Straphangers Campaign, the riders’ advocacy group. Roughly 40 percent of trips are on multiple-ride MetroCards that include bonuses, which bring the cost of a ride down to $1.67. Other passengers depend on unlimited weekly and monthly MetroCards.

It seems likely that the M.T.A. will at least raise the price of some of those multiple-use cards because it still needs to substantially increase revenue. The projected $220 million windfall falls far short of its goal of bringing in an additional $580 million in the next two years.

The governor and the M.T.A. have done a good thing, but they should do better. The city and state have unconscionably underfinanced mass transit for years, a legacy of Gov. George Pataki and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. The formula for funding mass transportation should be changed before any fares are raised.
553 2007-11-21 The 59-page report by Rand, a private nonprofit organization, was commissioned by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly after the department released the data. Of the 508,540 people stopped, about 10 percent were arrested or received summonses.

The report includes six recommendations for Mr. Kelly, such as refining paperwork to capture data on use of force and requiring officers to explain to people why they are being stopped.

“We’re going to take an in-depth review of the six recommendations and study them, and obviously I think the report is well done,” Mr. Kelly said. He added, “It seems to me that they all have merit, and we’ll put in place what we think is appropriate as quickly as possible.”

The other recommendations were to review the boroughs with the greatest disparities; to train newly hired officers in stop-and-frisk policies; to modify the internal audits of street stops; and to flag and investigate those officers who make more racially disparate stops.

The analysts, for the most part, did not explain why the racial disparities exist regarding stops, said Jack Riley, the associate director of the Rand division that did the study.

“There may be missing factors that are not collected by the officers that might help explain the small differences in what we would term adjusted frisk rates,” Mr. Riley said.

“Certainly, resisting arrest or resisting interaction with an officer is not captured and that would be a factor that would influence whether the person is frisked or not.”

Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, called the report “hugely flawed,” saying that the document was more striking for what it did not say than for what it said. She said the report relied on “inappropriate benchmarks” to reach its findings.

The phenomenon of a small number of officers doing most of the stops is roughly similar to patterns found in Oakland, Calif., and in Cincinnati, Mr. Riley said. Rand conducted similar studies there. “There are typically officers who are disproportionately involved in stops of all racial groups, not just minorities,” Mr. Riley said. “Rand has found similar patterns.”

In explaining why roughly 7 percent of the department’s total patrol strength was responsible for 54 percent of all street stops last year, Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, said it was generally based on their assignments to high-crime areas.

“In addition, it involves officers assigned to special units,” he said. “Units that are encountering more suspects such as anticrime, narcotics, gang and other units.”

Rand analysts left it to police officials to come up with an explanation for why blacks and Hispanics were more likely to be frisked, searched, arrested or to have force used against them — such as officers wielding a baton, spraying pepper spray or pointing a gun — on Staten Island compared with other boroughs.

Mr. Browne said the department would have to study why the disparities are most pronounced on Staten Island. "We don’t know,” he said. “It is something we will have to examine.” Greg Ridgeway, the associate director at Rand, who wrote the report, said there were plausible reasons for the 508,540 stops in 2006, despite projections — based on data from national surveys on police and citizen contacts — that suggested 250,000 to 330,000 stops could be expected. This does not include traffic stops.

He said possible reasons included more 911 calls, more officers on the street — there are 44 officers per 10,000 residents in New York City, as opposed to roughly 29 officers per 10,000 residents around the country — more pedestrian traffic and more instances of violent crime than the national average.

The report stated that 69 percent of suspects in violent crimes were described by their victims as black whereas only 53 percent of all those stopped by police officers for stop-and-frisks were black. But the civil liberties group said only a fraction of the 508,540 people stopped last year were suspects in violent crimes, making the analysis flawed.

In one area — the use of force — the Rand study said, “If black suspects are likelier to flee or resist, the observed difference in rates of force may not be due to officer bias.” But Christopher Dunn of the civil liberties group called this “an example of them not doing analysis and instead looking for justifications. It simply reflects the dishonesty that runs through this report.”
554 2007-11-21 WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 — Unions, businesses and interest groups may run television and radio “issue ads” that name candidates in the days before elections, federal regulators said Tuesday, easing previous restrictions.

The unanimous decision by the Federal Election Commission could lead to new commercials next month in Iowa, where the cutoff date for issue ads was just 13 days away. Beyond that, the decision opens the way for even more big-money advertising campaigns by groups trying to influence next year’s elections.

The Supreme Court ruled in June that restrictions on issue ads were unconstitutional, overturning a 2002 campaign law that banned corporations and unions from paying for them within two months of a general election and 30 days of a primary election. But the court offered no clear guidelines for what types of advertisements would be affected, leaving that decision to the F.E.C.

Under the rules adopted Tuesday, issue ads that mention a political candidate will be permissible in the weeks before an election as long as they focus on public policy and do not mention an election, a political party or an opposing candidate. The commission also left the door open for other advertisements if it determined that their main focus was a public policy issue or a commercial transaction.

The commissioners voted to require that financing for advertising by unions or corporations be publicly disclosed.

Groups supported by corporations or labor will still be prohibited from running advertisements that call for the election or defeat of a specific candidate. Only candidate committees and political action committees, whose donors can give limited amounts of money, are allowed to run such “express advocacy” advertisements.
555 2007-11-21 Jonathan Turley, the lead appellate lawyer for Mr. Timimi, said the defense’s lack of access to crucial evidence had made it hard to litigate the case. “We’re shadowboxing in the courtroom with unnamed officials at unnamed agencies,” Mr. Turley said in a telephone interview.

On Tuesday, at an open hearing in her courtroom in Alexandria, Va., Judge Brinkema appeared to be out of patience as well, lawyers there said. The judge, who also handled the terrorism trial that resulted in a life sentence for Zacarias Moussaoui, expressed frustration over the recent disclosure that the government had misled her at the Moussaoui trial by denying the existence of any tape recording of high-value Qaeda detainees. In a Nov. 9 filing with the court, the government acknowledged that three such tapes did exist but said the prosecutors at the Moussaoui trial had not known of them.

Judge Brinkema told federal prosecutors at the Timimi hearing that she wanted the government to find a way to give trial prosecutors, defense lawyers and her own clerk the clearance to review classified material in the case. That could require the direct intervention of the White House, since Mr. Bush has personally handled decisions on issuing clearances for the N.S.A. eavesdropping program.

William Olson, another lawyer for Mr. Timimi at the hearing, said the judge’s tone of frustration indicated “that the situation we’ve been operating under has to change.” And she made clear, Mr. Olson and others at the hearing said, that she was prepared to order a new trial for Mr. Timimi if the problem was not resolved.

Judge Brinkema appeared mindful of the problems in the Moussaoui case when, issuing a written ruling hours after Tuesday’s hearing, she said she wanted a trial prosecutor in the Timimi matter to receive the needed clearances and review the classified submissions to the court “so he can be assured that his representations to the court are accurate.”

The Justice Department declined comment on the day’s developments.

Mr. Timimi’s lawyers are trying to show that the government conducted numerous wiretaps of his international communications without disclosing them to the judge or the defense lawyers, as required.

The government acknowledged at Mr. Timimi’s trial that it had conducted a small number of wiretaps on him through customary court warrants. But Mr. Turley said the defense had also identified what it describes as a 17-month period after the Sept. 11 attacks when it suspects numerous other calls were tapped.
556 2007-11-21 Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Automobile Workers union, said yesterday that he was concerned by General Motors’ exposure to the mortgage lending arm of its former finance unit, GMAC Financial Services, and would seek a meeting with executives at the automaker for more information.

“It’s a concern,” Mr. Gettelfinger said at the Reuters Autos Summit in Detroit. “It’s a pretty big concern. There’s no question it’s an issue.”

G.M. shares closed down almost 8.5 percent on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday amid investor concern over the automaker’s exposure to the subprime market through G.M.A.C., in which it retains a 49 percent stake.

G.M.A.C.’s residential mortgage unit, ResCap, lost $2.26 billion in the third quarter.

ResCap bonds also plunged on Monday, and the cost to insure G.M.A.C. bonds rose. Investors said ResCap might need an injection of capital to avoid violating loan agreements.

The decline in G.M. stock wiped out the gains from a rally that began in September in anticipation of a cost-cutting labor deal between the automaker and the union. Yesterday, shares of G.M. were down 50 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $26.29.

Mr. Gettelfinger said that union members were worried about the drop and that he planned to speak with G.M.’s chief financial officer, Frederick A. Henderson, about the automaker’s exposure to G.M.A.C.
557 2007-11-21 Through the third quarter, Goldman accrued almost $17 billion in compensation (investment banks set aside roughly 50 percent of revenue every quarter for compensation).

Goldman is hardly alone: all investment banks encourage philanthropy.

“At the two firms I worked at, it was not career-enhancing to not do your bit for society,” said Brad Hintz, a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “There was a noblesse oblige, a sense that you would be generous with your contributions.”

Other banks have started donor-advised funds, though they are typically aimed at clients. For example, in 2003, Merrill Lynch started the Merrill Lynch Community Charitable Fund, which allowed wealth management clients and employees to set aside money that could then be used to make donations to one of 65 community foundations (the donor chooses the foundation).

Using the donor-advised fund allows individuals to receive a charitable deduction for setting aside the money (though it might not be paid out right away) and avoid the taxes applied to private foundations. Also, donating through the fund means not having to pay the legal and overhead expenses of managing a private foundation.

“I can time when I generate my charitable deduction without having to release the money directly,” said David Ratcliffe, director of the Merrill Lynch Center for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Management.

Other banks have different approaches. Bear Stearns requires employees to give 4 percent of their bonus and salary to charity every year. At Credit Suisse, holiday parties are paid for only if they raise money for charity. This year the bank has picked one cause — the Trust for Public Land — and it aims to raise $400,000 from employees, which will be matched by $600,000 from the firm.

Different business units within Credit Suisse choose different ways to raise money. The investment bankers will have a foosball competition and casino night; equities will have an auction; and fixed-income requires employees at a certain level to contribute a certain amount. The $1 million raised will contribute to a $3 million budget to build three parks.

“We don’t have a culture of ‘this is how you give,’” said Eric Eckholdt, executive director for the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation.

Goldman’s founders encouraged wealth creation for clients and employees, discouraged ostentation and expected a level of philanthropy. While ostentation in an age of $40 million homes in the Hamptons is hard to control, philanthropy efforts are more visible.

Before Goldman went public, employees who became partners were required to set up a foundation. Then when Goldman went public, the firm set up a foundation that now has $200 million. The new fund will not change any of the firm’s established giving.

“We have, as part of who we are, a very long history of charitable giving,” Mr. Blankfein said. “Think about the people who leave Goldman and go into public service. They don’t become like that — they were like that when we recruited them and we retained them.”

Partners who run foundations already will have the opportunity to fold those foundations into the fund, providing another source of money to build the fund, besides tapping compensation.

Cynics who have watched the wealth creation at Goldman might think that the program is little more than a public relations effort to mask the gigantic bonuses it is expected to pay out starting in early December (to be paid next year). But few want to discourage charitable efforts.

“It is better to be charitable than not to be charitable, particularly if you are going to blow the socks off your competition,” Mr. Hintz said.

Mr. Blankfein said: “It is in the long-term interest of this firm to do good things and not just dress up as if we are doing it. And we are really doing it.”
558 2007-11-21 The Red Hot Chili Peppers are suing Showtime Networks over the new television series “Californication,” which is also the name of the band’s 1999 album and one of its songs, The Associated Press reported yesterday. The lawsuit, filed on Monday, states that the title is “immediately associated in the mind of the consumer” with the Chili Peppers. Additionally, the series, starring David Duchovny, features a character named “Dani California,” which is also the title of a Red Hot Chili Peppers song released in 2006, the lawsuit noted. The suit also names the show’s creator and executive producer, Tom Kapinos, and two production companies, Twilight Time Films and Aggressive Mediocrity Inc. The suit seeks a permanent injunction barring Showtime and the other defendants from using “Californication” for the show’s title, as well as other penalties.
559 2007-11-21 Ms. Robinson added, “If she doesn’t take action here, if her death occurs by chance (or if Anna Karenina had fallen under the wheels by mistake), the tragedy is drained of much of its power.”

Others have argued that it is precisely the careless, accidental nature of Lily’s death that is so tragic, because carelessness, a failure to think things through, is her great flaw, while her great strength is an ability to bounce back. Had she only lived through the night, according to this view, she might have married Lawrence Selden, her soul mate, and reclaimed her place in society.

The newly revealed letter, written by Wharton herself, seems to point to the suicide theory. It is dated Dec. 26, 1904, or just a month before “The House of Mirth” began appearing in monthly installments in Scribner’s Magazine, and is addressed to Dr. Francis Kinnicutt, a well-known society doctor who specialized in the mental ailments of the well-to-do. At the time of the letter, in fact, he was treating Wharton’s manic-depressive husband, Teddy, who was beginning to behave in ways — eventually embezzling her money, setting up a mistress in Boston — that would lead to the dissolution of their marriage.

The letter begins by resorting to the timeless disguise of the advice-seeker. “A friend of mine has made up her mind to commit suicide,” Wharton writes, “& has asked me to find out ... the most painless & least unpleasant method of effacing herself.”

Only on the second page does Wharton reveal that her “friend” is in fact a fictional character appearing in the pages of Scribner’s, explaining, “I have heroine to get rid of, and want some points on the best way of disposing of her.” Later she asks: “What soporific, or nerve-calming drug, would a nervous and worried young lady in the smart set be likely to take to, & what would be its effects if deliberately taken with the intent to kill herself? I mean, how would she feel and look toward the end?”

The letter was found stuck into a first-edition copy of “The House of Mirth,” along with a poem, dated 1906, by someone apparently besotted with Lily Bart. Stephanie Copeland, the president of the Mount, Wharton’s house in Lenox, Mass., which has been restored and turned into a museum, has speculated that the poet must have been a friend of Dr. Kinnicutt.

“The poem is pretty awful,” she said last month. “My guess is that the author is one of those people who just didn’t want to believe in the suicide, and that, knowing of his interest, Kinnicutt gave him the letter, or the first part of it. It breaks off just where Wharton starts to talk about Teddy’s health.”

Since the mid-1980s the first edition, letter and poem have belonged to Amy Beckwith, of Dedham, Mass., who got them from her husband’s uncle and aunt, John and Betty Moses. Dr. John Moses, now retired, was for many years a physician in Scarsdale, N.Y., and in a telephone conversation recently he recalled that the first edition containing the Wharton letter had been given to him in the late ’60s or early ’70s by a grateful patient named Laurence Gomme, head of the rare book and binding department at Brentano’s bookstore.

“To be honest, I didn’t care much about old books or about Edith Wharton, so I just put it on the shelf,” he said. “My interests were more medical and scientific. Now, if the letter had been by Galen, that would have been something else.” He did not object when, learning that Ms. Beckwith was a Wharton fan, his wife made her a present of the book and its contents.

For years, Ms. Beckwith thought the letter might be important, but she put off doing anything about it until she happened to be listening to the audio version of Ms. Lee’s biography of Wharton, published earlier this year by Alfred A. Knopf. “I got to the part where she says that Lily’s death was ‘probably an accident,’ and I thought, ‘Well, let’s not be so sure about that,’” Ms. Beckwith said. “That was what prompted me.”

She got in touch with the Mount, where no one seemed terribly interested, she recalled, until she showed up with the actual letter. “As soon as Stephanie saw it, she recognized Wharton’s handwriting and letterhead, and she got very excited,” Ms. Beckwith went on. “She recognized that the letter filled a gap.”

Ms. Lee, who was shown the letter by Ms. Copeland, said earlier this week: “One of the things that’s so interesting is the reference to serialization. We think of Wharton as a 20th-century novelist, a master of form, and here she is writing like Dickens or Thackeray. The book is about to start coming out, and she hasn’t finished it yet. The other great thing is what the letter suggests about her practical meticulousness, the way she wants to get things right — her literary pragmatism, you could say.”

She added, “Does the letter prove that all along Lily intended to kill herself? I think it’s quite likely that in December 1904, Wharton was thinking that Lily was going to commit suicide, and that by the time she came to the ending, months later, she changed her mind, because of the way those last pages hold onto so many moral positions at once. I think that, as she went on, she decided that it would be more effective if she left the ending ambiguous. It’s actually a much greater book if we don’t know for sure.”

Another person who has seen the letter is the 90-year-old novelist Louis Auchincloss, who may have more Whartonian connections than anyone still alive. His grandmother knew Edith Wharton in Newport, R.I. His parents were good friends of Freddy and Le Roy King, New York lawyers who were Wharton’s executors and also, in her later career, when she was living in France, her advisers about contemporary American diction.

“They were the least American gentlemen I’ve ever met,” Mr. Auchincloss said recently. “That’s why in her late novels you get dialogue like ‘By Jove, I’ve had a beastly, fagging sort of day.’”

Mr. Auchincloss is himself the author of a Wharton biography, a book so fond and intimate that it sometimes reads as if he had known her. “While I was writing it, I sometimes thought I did,” he said, and then declared his position on “The House of Mirth” to be unchanged by the letter.

Taking down his own first edition, he read the concluding pages aloud in his Brahmin accent, and said: “I don’t see what the fuss is about. It’s perfectly clear what happens. Lily doesn’t mean to kill herself but risks death in a desperate bid for rest. Edith Wharton wrote to Kinnicutt because she needed to find a drug that wouldn’t disfigure Lily’s beautiful body. She didn’t want that dreadful Mme Bovary thing, with the arsenic. I mean, how can you have Lily Bart die a messy death?”
560 2007-11-21 Spoiler alert: The hero dies at the end, but shed no tears. Modernism, the artistic revolution that began with the poetry of Charles Baudelaire in the 1840s and quietly expired in the 1960s with Andy Warhol’s Brillo boxes, enjoyed “a good long run.” So Peter Gay concludes in the final sentence of “Modernism: The Lure of Heresy From Baudelaire to Beckett and Beyond,” his sweeping survey of the poets, playwrights, painters and architects who set out to rewrite the rules of art, transform consciousness and, wherever and whenever possible, shock the complacent middle class.

Actually, Mr. Gay points out, that complacency has been greatly exaggerated. All revolutions require an enemy. The Modernists found theirs in the bourgeoisie, a fat, convenient target but also a source of support and encouragement. Enlightened curators, like Alfred Lichtwark at the Hamburg Kunsthalle, and art dealers like Paul Durand-Ruel in Paris, helped prepare the ground for the eventual victory of Modernism’s disorganized troops.

“Businessmen of culture offered and sold artistic products, whether dramas, drawings or volumes of poetry, and with the same gesture advanced the aesthetic cultivation of the buying public,” Mr. Gay writes. The road was long and difficult, but never quite as lonely as the artists themselves often saw it. Their isolation, was, in part, a self- created myth. “If my work is accepted,” John Cage once said, “I must move on to the point where it is not.”

Mr. Gay, the eminent historian of the European Enlightenment, Weimar culture and Sigmund Freud, has spent the greater part of the 1980s and ’90s chronicling the sensibility and cultural life of the Victorian middle class in his five-volume series, “The Bourgeois Experience.” It makes some sense, then, that he should now turn to the artistic avant-garde dedicated to pulling the rug from under the oppressive father figures of the 19th century. Otherwise it is hard to locate the motivation for yet another general work on a movement whose every breath and gesture has been subjected to minute study by legions of historians.

Mr. Gay adds little new in what amounts to a college survey course. A graceful writer, he leads the reader on a pleasant ramble through a well-traveled landscape, pointing right and left to the prominent features along the way and, like a superbly informed guide, offers his thoughts and comments. From seminal figures like Baudelaire and Flaubert, he moves right along to the Impressionists and then, taking the various art forms in turn, advances chronologically through the great debacle wrought by fascism and World War II before wrapping up with such postwar phenomena as Abstract Expressionism and Pop Art.

He has a thesis. Modernism, he argues, was propelled by two main impulses: the urge to overturn established hierarchies and break rules — this is what he means by “the lure of heresy” — and a compulsion to explore the artist’s interior world. These primal drives produced “a single aesthetic mind-set,” a “climate of thought, feeling and opinion,” unifying what might appear to be a scattering of disconnected artistic revolts.
561 2007-11-21 With screenwriters and Broadway stagehands on strike, you might expect the spoken words of 1930s union organizers to land with an extra, galvanizing layer of meaning. But “Rebel Voices,” the Culture Project’s staged reading of monologues from the disenfranchised, is so flat and earnest that it seems detached from the moment even when it should speak eerily to the present.

The speeches, including some from Frederick Douglass, Susan B. Anthony and the labor organizer Stella Nowicki, are mostly culled from “Voices of a People’s History of the United States,” Howard Zinn and Anthony Arnove’s companion book to Mr. Zinn’s revisionist “People’s History of the United States.” The challenge for the cast of six — with guests including Danny Glover and Lili Taylor scheduled to drop in — is to make these words seem fresh.

That happens, but only now and then. Lenelle Moïse brings fierce passion to Sojourner Truth’s plea for equality, “Ain’t I a woman?,” which resonates with every racial and sexual inequality today. And the singer Allison Moorer, the liveliest and most illuminating of the performers, adds a bluesy depth to the songs that are interspersed throughout the piece. She even makes “Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?” sound new.

More often, there is a perfunctory sense of preaching to the converted; after all, it’s not as if busloads of plutocrats are likely to land on the Culture Project’s doorstep. Since “Rebel Voices” (adapted by Rob Urbinati, who directed it with Will Pomerantz) has such difficulty unlocking its voices from the past, its few urgent monologues are the current ones, including Cindy Sheehan’s furious tirade against President Bush and the Iraq war.

“A Question of Impeachment,” a separate program presented by the Culture Project, has all the urgency “Rebel Voices” lacks. “Impeachment” is not strictly theater, but a series of readings and forums in which guest artists (Sam Shepard, Annabella Sciorra and Jackson Browne are promised) and political and military commentators present evidence for the impeachment of Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney.

Unfortunately, the first night, on Monday, was a dull mix of historical readings and familiar information. Anyone fired up enough to want to impeach the president would already know that the Bush administration had discussed going into Iraq long before Sept. 11, and anyone unaware would hardly stay awake through this deadly presentation. But there is the possibility for the series to become livelier, and even in its drowsy state it offers something valuable: a hint at the energizing role that politically engaged theater can play.
562 2007-11-21 Duch, the personification of one of the great mass murders of the last century, seemed to shrink into his chair as he faced a panel of five red-robed judges and a tribunal filled with prosecutors, lawyers and clerks.

A frail, big-eyed man in a white polo shirt, he leaned forward, he leaned back, he put on and removed his glasses. His eyes darted around the courtroom. Invited to address the court, he rose with his palms together in a gesture of respect and pleading, raising and lowering them in front of his face.

“I lodged the appeal,” he began, and was stopped by the command of a judge: “Please speak loudly!”

“The reason I lodged the appeal,” he said again, “is because I have been detained without trial for 8 years, 6 months and 10 days already.”

This detention, most of it in a military jail before the special tribunal was created last year with the assistance of the United Nations, was the basis for the assertion by his lawyer, Kar Savuth, that his human rights had been violated, “even if he was not beaten or tortured.”

A ripple of laughter ran through the Cambodian spectators, who were watching the proceedings on giant screens in an auditorium next to the cramped pretrial chamber.

“This is Cambodian style, they laugh,” said Kek Galabru, the founder of Licadho, a local human rights group. “It’s too much for them because they know that when he was torturing Cambodians there was no talk about the human rights of the victims. Even me, when I hear that, I laugh.”

At least 14,000 people were tortured under Duch’s orders at Tuol Sleng prison, also known as S-21, and sent to the killing fields. Only a handful are known to have survived.

“Under his authority, countless abuses were committed, including mass murder, arbitrary detention and torture,” said a judge, reading the indictment to the court.

He listed methods of torture that included beating, stabbing, suspension from ropes, removal of fingernails and submersion in pits filled with water.

Converted in 1996 by American evangelical missionaries, Duch has become a born-again Christian, apparently ready to confess his sins. When he was discovered in 1999 by journalists he admitted at length to ordering and taking part in atrocities. Comparing himself to St. Paul, he told the journalists, “After my experience in life I decided I must give my spirit to God.”

When the trials begin, his testimony could be damaging to some of his fellow defendants.

A former mathematics teacher, Duch brought the strictness and efficiency of a schoolroom to his prison in a former high school in the center of Phnom Penh, the capital.

“He was strong,” a former Tuol Sleng guard, Him Huy, told David Chandler in “Voices from S-21: Terror and History in Pol Pot’s Secret Prison” (University of California Press, 1999). “He was clear. He would do what he said.”

When asked what kind of man Duch was, another guard told Mr. Chandler, “Ha! What kind of man? He was beyond reason.” The guard said he was most horrified by Duch’s decision to allow two of his brothers-in-law to be brought to the prison and put to death.

“Duch never killed anyone himself,” the former guard said, but he occasionally drove out to the Choeung Ek killing field to observe the executions.

The hearing on Tuesday came one day after the arrest of the former Khmer Rouge president, Khieu Samphan, 76. He was the last of the five initial defendants sought by prosecutors. Taken by the police from a hospital where he was recovering from what was thought to be a stroke, he was charged with war crimes and crimes against humanity.

Two other defendants were arrested last Wednesday: the former foreign minister Ieng Sary, 82, and his wife, Ieng Thirith, 75, a fellow member of the Khmer Rouge central committee.

The fifth defendant, Nuon Chea, 82, the movement’s chief ideologue, was arrested in September. He had been living quietly next door to Mr. Khieu Samphan in a former Khmer Rouge stronghold where most of their neighbors were also former members of the Khmer Rouge.

All of these defendants have complained of medical ailments, and through the years of delays fears have grown that some might die before being brought to justice. The top Khmer Rouge leader, Pol Pot, died in 1998.

In his interview in 1999 with the journalists Nic Dunlop and Nate Thayer, Duch gave what could be a preview of some of his testimony in the trial.

Confirming the authenticity of documents recovered in Tuol Sleng, he pointed out notations made by his superiors.

“This is the handwriting of Nuon Chea,” he said. “You see his handwriting is square. Mine is more oval.”

He admitted his own part in the atrocities but said that he had acted under direct orders and that the entire leadership had been aware of the killings.

“The decisions to kill were made not by one man, not just Pol Pot, but the entire central committee,” he said.
563 2007-11-21 1 teaspoon chopped fresh tarragon or 1/2 teaspoon dried, or 1 tablespoon chopped fresh chervil, mint, dill or parsley

1. Put half the butter or oil in a medium to large skillet over medium-high heat. When butter is melted or oil is hot, add scallions or onion and cook, stirring, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add barley and cook, stirring, for a minute or so, until glossy; add herb, liquid and salt and pepper. Bring to a boil.

2. Turn heat down to low, cover and cook for 20 to 30 minutes, until barley is tender (it will not become very soft) and liquid is absorbed. Meanwhile, heat remaining butter or oil in a skillet over medium-high heat; cook turkey, stirring occasionally, until browned and crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon, then cook mushrooms until crisp in same pan; remove.

3. Check barley’s progress: Continue to cook, if necessary, adding a tablespoon or two more liquid if all liquid has been absorbed and barley is not yet tender. Stir in turkey and mushrooms and continue to cook until all is hot and combined, then garnish and serve.
564 2007-11-21 Some plant collections consist only of seeds, but apples don’t breed true — their seeds don’t duplicate the genetic makeup of the tree that bears them. So the apple collection has always included both seeds, for a broad base of genetic information, and also a living orchard of known varieties. Today, the trees are supplemented by cuttings that are cryogenically preserved at 300 degrees below zero.

The apple collection here was largely assembled by Philip L. Forsline, a horticulturalist with the Department of Agriculture. On an October morning he welcomed me and a fellow enthusiast to a 50-acre farm at the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, a part of Cornell University that houses the Agriculture Department’s collection.

Mr. Forsline grew up on a dairy farm in northern Minnesota, and has been curator of the Department of Agriculture apple collection since 1984. During the 1990s, he took part in several expeditions to central Asia, the home of the domestic apple’s wild parent species and its relatives. He brought back to Geneva a total of 140,000 seeds and 900 live cuttings from those wild parent species.

Today about 2,500 different named varieties of the domesticated apple and selected examples of its wild relatives grow at the Geneva farm. The largest section of the collection is the tidy orchard of domestic trees with some wild relatives interspersed. A hundred yards away are two rangier, less tamed sections that look like little patches of forest. One had been planted with wild seeds from Kazakhstan, and the other from more distantly related wild Chinese species, with strangely stubby and tapering branches that stab like thorns.

Mr. Forsline recalled traveling to the Tian Shan mountains of Kazakhstan and marveling at forests consisting almost entirely of wild fruit and nut trees, with 300-year-old apple trees 5 feet across at the base and 60 feet tall. “There were apples of all sizes and colors. Some were so pale that they looked like snowballs hanging on the trees,” he said.

Mr. Forsline led us to a table of fruits from specimens of Malus sieversii, the ancestor of our domesticated apple species, Malus domestica. Many of the wild fruits looked just like commercial apples, large and brightly colored. And some were tasty, sweet and tart and aromatic, and satisfyingly crunchy. “One of them is pretty similar to a Golden Delicious,” he said.

Mr. Forsline then left us to walk the rows and taste. We walked and tasted that afternoon until it was too dark to read the names of the trees, and came back early the next morning to finish. Because only some of the fruits were at their prime just then, a bite or two was usually enough. The best ones we devoured down to the core.

Mr. Forsline told us that Randolph M. Beaudry, a professor of horticulture at Michigan State University, and Nobuko Sugimoto, a graduate student, had recently finished cataloging the composition of 184 varieties in the “core collection” at Geneva. I was especially curious to find out if they had detected the rose and anise flavors.

Sure enough, Dr. Beaudry confirmed that some apples carry cis-rose oxide, the chemical that gives the perfume of rose to lychee fruits and Gewürztraminer wines. Some apples carry anise-flavored anisole. The researchers also documented volatile chemicals whose aromas we had missed: tomatoes, butter, broccoli and children’s crayons.

Dr. Beaudry is using this survey to understand the apple’s full potential for flavor. “To date there hasn’t been much selective breeding for quality,” he told me. “We’re now doing experiments to identify the genes responsible for apple flavor production during ripening.”

I asked the two experts on apple flavor how best to keep apples flavorful at home. “You have to refrigerate them,” Dr. Beaudry said. “In the fruit bowl they lose moisture and get soft. Cold storage does shut off flavor production in the skin, where most of the aromatics are formed. But when you chew the fruit you create some aromatics by mixing enzymes with their target molecules.”

Ms. Sugimoto added: “You can bring some of the skin aromatics back by letting the fruit sit at room temperature before you eat it. Supermarket apples are stored cold and usually don’t have any aroma, so I leave them on the table until I can smell them. Sometimes it takes days.”

In Geneva, we had visited the nearby laboratory of Susan K. Brown, a horticulturalist at Cornell University, to sample some of the experimental breeds she is developing. Progress is slow, she said.

“It takes four years to taste the results of a particular cross and find out whether you’ve got something weird or bland or good, so we’re working on methods to make our breeding more systematic and precise, and evaluate fruit quality earlier,” Dr. Brown said. “Cornell is hiring four geneticists so that we can really mine the apple genome for genes that can improve quality as well as productivity.”

Dr. Brown volunteered that not all the flavors generated in her breeding program have been appealing.

“We’ve gotten some strange aromas, things like soap, tin cans, cat urine, solvents,” she said.

The most unusual and delicious of her new apples was a red-blushed light green fruit with the clear and refreshing flavor of anise.

“This is a cross between Fuji and one of our numbered varieties,” she said. “It’s being tested by several growers in the Hudson Valley and western New York, and it seems to be producing well. The next step will be taste tests at a few farmers’ markets,” probably next fall.

If people like it, orchards would begin growing the new apple at “supermarket volume,” she said.

Fruits that people like are the exception. Nearly all wild ancestors of our table fruits are small, sour and astringent. And yet Mr. Forsline said that when he was scouting wild apples in the forests of central Asia, “maybe 1 or 2 percent were fruits that I’d be happy to eat.”

That’s a surprisingly high percentage. It took thousands of years of human selection to create the luscious fruits we enjoy today. What natural force could have made such a significant number of wild apples big and tasty?

Bears. So suggest two biologists, Barrie E. Juniper and David J. Mabberley, in their recent book, “The Story of the Apple” (Timber Press, 2006). Mr. Forsline confirmed that brown bears eat large quantities of apples and deposit their seeds intact throughout the Tian Shan forests. A. D. Dzhangaliyev, a Kazakh botanist, has reported that “especially in high-yield years, animals choose the most delicious fruits.” The seeds of the bear’s chosen fruits get the advantage of transportation and a dose of nourishing manure. Over many thousands of years, that advantage may well have nudged apple evolution toward the big and sweet.

For the small and sour ones, Dr. Brown suggested an unexpected opportunity. “A few years ago, as a joke, I put little sour crab apples into my kids’ lunch boxes,” she said. “When they came home they asked for more — they and their friends had loved them! And I realized that the crabs were like those super-sour candies that appeal to kids. That might be one way to get children to eat more fresh fruits.”

In the Geneva orchard, we tasted plenty of painfully astringent and acidic cider varieties, the kind of apples that Thoreau said “would set a squirrel’s teeth on edge and make a jay scream.” With tin-can and crayon flavors in reserve, screaming-jay crabs could be the first in a new family of extreme apples, fruits that would never have been selected by bears, but might be perversely appealing to our two-legged young.
565 2007-11-21 The Thanksgiving holiday, with storms moving across the country from the Northwest, is already shaping up as a difficult travel time. And by the end of the year, close to five million travelers will have been stuck scratching their heads at the luggage carousel.

Toby Sherman is one of them. Traveling with his wife and their 7-year-old triplets last weekend, Mr. Sherman of , Calif., checked five bags with American Airlines at the Airport in Orange County. But just four bags showed up in Chicago, where the Shermans had come to spend Thanksgiving with family.

One son’s clothes were in the missing bag, said Mr. Sherman, who was planning a trip to the mall to buy some replacements. “Never a dull moment,” he said.

Holiday travelers can expect to feel the effects of six years of airline downsizing in one way or another. About 27 million passengers are expected to fly during the 12 days surrounding Thanksgiving, 4 percent more than last year, the Air Transport Association said.

But there are fewer airline employees to look after them, and their bags. And to squeeze more flights out of the day, planes are sitting on the ground for shorter periods between flights. So predictably, more bags fail to join their owners, particularly on connecting flights.

“There’s a lot of opportunity for failure,” said Hans Hauck, manager of baggage operations at American’s headquarters in . Since Mr. Hauck started his job in September 2006, American has not met its bag-handling goal in any month. As of late last week, though, Mr. Hauck remained optimistic that he would make his November number. A look at American’s bag-handling operation, which is the biggest of all carriers, shows it is making lots of little improvements but still losing ground. American misplaced 7.44 bags for every thousand passengers through Sept. 30, the Bureau of Transportation Statistics reported, up from 6.04 for every thousand a year earlier. (All but a tiny fraction of misplaced bags are ultimately reunited with their owners.)

All the big carriers have done worse with baggage so far this year. continues to struggle with bag handling at its hub, three years and more than $12 million in improvements after a Christmas 2004 meltdown. And is trying to improve bag handling at its big hub.

Save for a canceled flight, nothing quite disrupts a trip like a lost bag. Mike Laitman of La Grange Park, a Chicago suburb, bought circus tickets for relatives arriving from , Mont., last Saturday. Then, he watched a missing bag keep them all at O’Hare so long they missed the show.

Baggage representatives for Alaska Airlines “told us to keep waiting,” Mr. Laitman said, watching his nephew ride the baggage carousel. “We’re out $70.”

Lost baggage is actually a worse problem than reflected in the big airlines’ statistics. Smaller regional airlines misplace bags at a higher rate. But they report their statistics separately, even though many passengers travel on these regional airlines for one leg of their trip.

Counting together American and the regional airline it owns, American Eagle, mishandled bags rise to 8.69 for every thousand passengers, or a total of 639,146 through Sept. 30.

American Eagle had the worst bag-handling record of 20 airlines tracked by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics during that period, the agency reported.

American’s baggage operation at O’Hare, the airline’s second-largest hub, after Dallas-Fort Worth, is huge, with more than seven miles of conveyers, hundreds of workers and scores of tractors pulling baggage carts.

Checked bags are immediately sent on a fast conveyor to be screened by the and then sent back to American’s big bag room. There, bar-code readers direct the bags onto piers that handle one or more destinations. From there, bags are placed on carts and towed out to planes for loading.

Bags with unreadable tags are left to circle the piers up to three times before being hauled off and manually placed in the correct stack.

About 2 percent are misread and dropped onto the wrong pier. Then, it is up to a worker stacking the bags on carts to notice the mistake. “He better,” said Ms. Wilewski, the baggage manager.

American and other domestic airlines have resisted investing in radio frequency identification tags, which are used by big retailers to track inventory and are far more accurate. The tags cost about 20 cents each so it would cost $50,000 a day for American’s 250,000 bags, plus the cost of hardware to read them at each step in the process.

“We don’t lose enough bags to justify that investment,” said Mark Mitchell, American’s managing director of customer experience.

American’s workers also stopped unloading entire planes in some instances in the last year, instead hauling off only bags that need to be rushed to connecting flights and then returning for the rest, Ms. Wilewski said. Bags failing to make connections account for 60 percent of mishandled bags, American said.

In the months ahead, American also plans to install laptop computers on tractors that pull baggage carts so that workers know of last-minute gate changes, late arrivals and other complications. Drivers have long used written orders and often arrive at a gate to find the expected plane is not there.

American handles 20,000 to 35,000 checked bags a day in Chicago. Ms. Wilewski’s goal for November is 7.95 mishandled bags for every thousand passengers. “We’re not to go above that. We’re under it right now,” she said.

Her Chicago operation met its monthly goal for the first time in two years in May and then met it again in September and October.

So, last Thursday, when morning flights to and were both delayed by more than eight hours because of mechanical problems, her staff quickly rounded up bags that had already been checked, knowing some passengers would switch flights or perhaps cancel their trip altogether.

As some passengers were rebooked, workers tried to keep their bags with them. Ms. Wilewski said they got nearly all the London bags on the correct flights, but “we did miss maybe fifteen bags on ” in the .

When bags are a no-show at the carousel, American — like some other airlines — hires contractors to deal with passengers. “It’s face-to-face and it’s 90 percent problem resolution,” said Paul Cody, a manager for Prospect Airport Services, which runs baggage claim desks for American in Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth.

Improved computer systems allow his workers to tell travelers within hours where their bag is and when it might arrive in a majority of instances, Mr. Cody said. “That wasn’t the case before,” he said. “If you’re able to provide them with a how, where and when, it really helps.”

For people who do not retrieve the recovered bag themselves from the airport, American uses another contractor, J & W Delivery Systems, to deliver bags around Chicago.

“Most of them think we’re the airline,” said Joe Orto, a J & W owner. “They give us grief. Most of them are still very angry.”

Then again, he adds, if airlines didn’t misplace bags, “I guess we’d be out of business.”
566 2007-11-21 3. Heat remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil in large (14-inch) nonstick ovenproof skillet over medium-high heat until hot. Add onions, parboiled diced potatoes and chopped bell peppers and sauté until onions are nearly soft. Add green beans, if you like. Cover and cook, stirring occasionally until green beans are nearly tender, about 5 to 7 minutes. Add turkey and cook a few minutes more, stirring once or twice.

4. Whisk together eggs, garlic, Parmesan cheese, ½ cup Fontina or Cheddar cheese, salt and pepper in large bowl. Add vegetables and meat and mix well.

5. Pour egg mixture into pan and sprinkle remaining 1 cup of cheese over top. Cook over medium-high heat without stirring, about 3 to 5 minutes, just until edges are slightly set.

6. Transfer skillet to oven and bake until center is set, about 15 to 20 minutes. Run a knife around edges to loosen frittata. Take a wide spatula and slide it underneath to release the frittata from the pan. Then lift the pan and flip the frittata onto a platter. Place a serving platter over the flipped frittata and flip it back onto the serving platter.

7. Spoon the red pepper purée in a ring around the center of the frittata. Slice and serve.

Kerry Moran is an architect in Charlottesville, Va.
567 2007-11-21 1. Peel and core 2 1/2 apples and place in 3-quart saucepan with fennel, shallot, celery, stock, wine, salt and pepper. Simmer 20 minutes, until all are tender.

2. Meanwhile, core and finely dice remaining half apple, toss with half the lemon juice, cover tightly or seal in a sandwich bag and set aside.

3. Purée contents of saucepan in a blender; return to pot. Whisk in remaining lemon juice, cream and mustard. Bring to a simmer, check seasonings and serve, with diced apple and caviar, if desired, garnishing each portion.
568 2007-11-21 1. In a medium saucepan, bring stock to a simmer. Add carrots and cook until they are cooked al dente, 4 to 7 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer carrots to a plate and set aside. Continue to simmer stock until it reduces to 2 cups, about 20 minutes longer.

2. Meanwhile, line a baking sheet with parchment or waxed paper. Use bottom of a 10-inch skillet or cake pan to trace a circle on parchment.

3. On a lightly floured surface, roll pastry to a 10-by-12-inch rectangle. Brush lightly with egg wash; sprinkle with half the cheese. Carefully flip pastry and brush off excess flour. (Cheese will stick to egg wash.) Brush pastry with more egg wash; sprinkle with remaining cheese.

4. Slice pastry lengthwise into 1/2-inch strips and twist each strip several times into a corkscrew (it will be sticky, so handle dough carefully). Using 10-inch circle on parchment as your guide, transfer twisted strips to baking sheet, shaping them into a circular lattice crust, trimming where necessary. Cover with plastic and refrigerate until ready to use.

5. Preheat oven to 400 degrees. In a deep, 10-inch ovenproof skillet, melt butter over medium heat. Add scallions and sauté for 3 minutes. Add garlic and chipotle and cook for 30 seconds. Stir in flour and cook 1 minute. Slowly pour in cream and stock, stirring well. Stir in turkey, carrots, peas, corn, salt and pepper. Simmer until thickened, about 2 minutes. Stir in cilantro.

6. Transfer skillet and baking sheet to oven. Bake until lattice crust is puffed and golden, about 20 minutes. Use a spatula to lift crust and place it on top of filling in skillet. Let cool 10 minutes before slicing and serving.
569 2007-11-21 FORESEEING A SLOWDOWN     The Federal Reserve expects economic growth to slow sharply next year, and policy makers there are worried that even this forecast may prove too optimistic, according to an assessment released by the central bank....
570 2007-11-21 REISS--Patrica B. , of Huntington, NY, died peacefully on November 18 after a long illness. She was dearly loved by her six grandchildren, Emma, Duncan, Walker, Jack, Grace and Sam, her three children, Geoff, Michael and Elizabeth, and her brother...
571 2007-11-22 As the holiday shopping frenzy begins, the Buy Nothing movement gears up....
572 2007-11-22 TOKYO, Thursday, Nov. 22 (Reuters) — Nissan Motor Company said on Thursday that it would recall 713,986 Altima and Sentra cars in North America, mostly in the United States, because their engines may suddenly stop running.

Affected models are 2002 and 2005-6 Altimas and Sentras with 2.5-liter engines.

The crankshaft position sensor can overheat and briefly stop sending signals, possibly causing the engine to stop.

Nissan filed a recall of 622,634 Altimas and 28,373 Sentras in the United States, a spokeswoman in Tokyo said.

The rest were sold in Canada and Mexico.
573 2007-11-22 Gov. M. Jodi Rell said that her focus was on the residents of the homes, and that she had placed state monitors at seven homes operated by Haven. “The company is concerned about its creditors, but I am concerned about the patients,” she said in a statement.

Mr. Termini denied in The Courant this week that his company had done anything wrong by using corporate funds to invest in businesses unrelated to health care, and said he was working to correct the problems at the nursing homes.

Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code generally provides a cooling-off period for debtors who are seeking time to work out their problems with creditors. Under the code, certain legal actions lodged against a company can be temporarily frozen.

Mr. Blumenthal said he would urge the bankruptcy court to appoint an independent trustee to run Haven’s business while it is operating under bankruptcy.

In a petition filed with the court on Wednesday, Mr. Blumenthal criticized the company for failing to pay vendors with funds that the state allots participants in the Medicaid program and for diverting “considerable portions of these funds for other items and investments that inured to the benefit of insiders.”

“Entities that so grossly mismanaged their affairs should not be permitted to continue as debtors in possession,” he wrote.

Lawyers with expertise in bankruptcy said that it was not unusual for a nursing home or chain to seek bankruptcy protection. If loved ones were residing at one of Haven’s homes, “I’d be concerned but I wouldn’t be panicked, at this point,” said Stephen Wright, of Harlow, Adams and Friedman in Milford, which is not involved in the case.

Generally, Mr. Wright and other bankruptcy lawyers said, vendors who make deliveries after a bankruptcy petition have some priority if the debtor’s assets turn out to be insufficient to satisfy all liabilities.

They also said that, as a rule, courts leave managements in place on the theory that they can best protect a company’s assets, but added that when there are allegations of fraud, the court sometimes agrees to install an independent trustee.

Deborah Chernoff, a spokeswoman for S.E.I.U. Healthcare, a union that represents 1,200 workers at Haven’s homes in Connecticut and Rhode Island, said that “whatever needs to be done to stabilize these homes and guarantee good care for these residents should be done.”

But Ms. Chernoff added that the larger systemic problems, including inadequate state financing for Medicaid patients and state regulations on staffing that have not been revised in two decades, should not be overlooked.

“These kinds of stories, as awful as they are, are really symptomatic of a much larger problem that is not confined to one particular nursing home chain,” she said.

Nancy Shaffer, a state ombudsman who oversees operators of long-term care facilities, said, “There have been some concerns with this particular nursing home chain, and I think there are a lot of eyes and ears right now, and that’s a good thing.”

Company officials asked a reporter seeking comment to leave several Haven Healthcare facilities on Wednesday. Outside the company’s home in Cromwell, Charles Camp, 38, who works in the kitchen, said patients were concerned by the recent allegations and by the prospect of a change in control. “That’s the big talk around here at the bridge table,” Mr. Camp said.

As Mr. Camp put it: “It’s shocking, man. I thought I’d get here and there would be some job security, and now it doesn’t seem like that.”
574 2007-11-22 Mr. Morales proved to be a recalcitrant witness, saying he wanted to go home for Thanksgiving and refusing to testify in the presence of reporters because, he said, he was afraid of retaliation from those he might implicate.

In a case that seems like a game of musical chairs, a jury convicted Mr. Lemus and a co-defendant of murder in 1992, but both convictions were reversed in 2005 by a judge who said there was new evidence that others, including Mr. Morales, might be responsible for the shooting.

Mr. Morales was indicted in 2005, but that indictment was thrown out last year by the current trial judge, Justice Bonnie Wittner, who said it violated Mr. Morales’s right to a speedy trial because prosecutors had overlooked the evidence for 15 years. In theory, that meant Mr. Morales would be immune from further prosecution if he told what he knew.

Yesterday, when Mr. Morales said he wanted his testimony to be secret, Justice Wittner ordered court officers to escort the audience from the courtroom and to lock the doors.

She changed her mind about 10 minutes later, after a lawyer for The New York Times contacted her and asked that she open the hearing to the public.

As the hearing resumed, the judge threatened to jail Mr. Morales in $50,000 bail to make sure he would testify. “They need this witness,” the judge said, referring to the defense. “I want to make sure they have him.”

The prosecutor favored jailing Mr. Morales. But in a turn of events that seemed to surprise even the judge, the defense lawyers objected, saying they did not want Mr. Morales to become a hostile witness.

The lead defense lawyer for Mr. Lemus, Jonathan Bach, said that although sealing the courtroom might be extraordinary, it would be justified if it meant, “after 17 years, finally a moment where the truth could come to light.”

Mr. Bach offered to make Mr. Morales the first defense witness, on Monday or Tuesday, so that he would not change his mind about testifying.

Justice Wittner said she did not see how Mr. Morales’s testimony could be kept secret because the lawyers would have to be able to talk about it in closing arguments.

She said that if Mr. Morales failed to show up on Monday or Tuesday, she would bar him from testifying.
575 2007-11-22 The stampede into Islamic finance is mostly an effort to tap an estimated $1.5 trillion of funds sloshing around the Middle East, largely from higher oil prices. While a lot of this oil money was parked in the United States, Britain and Switzerland before Sept. 11, 2001, bankers say many wealthy Arabs are investing closer to home, in part to avoid the hassle of increased scrutiny. At the same time, many Middle Eastern investors are eager to capitalize on Asia’s breakneck growth.

By some estimates, as much as $800 billion of Arab money has moved from the United States and Europe to other regions. Those investments have helped ignite an economic revival throughout the Muslim world at a time of increasing religious conservatism among Islam’s 1.6 billion faithful.

A result is expanding demand for financial services that adhere to Islamic law, or Shariah. “The middle class have the luxury of making these Islamic versus non-Islamic decisions,” said Nordin Abdullah, who runs KasehDia, a firm in Kuala Lumpur that advises companies on how to comply with Shariah. “They’re educated and have money.”

Last year, Saudi Arabia’s largest lender, National Commercial Bank, overhauled its entire retail business to make it Shariah-compliant. Tunisia and Morocco authorized their first Islamic banks this year.

And while the biggest Islamic banks are in the wealthy gulf states, the most attractive potential markets are in Turkey and North Africa and among Europe’s Muslims. Indonesia, the most populous Muslim nation, with more than 190 million Muslims, is the mother lode.

Malaysia, a predominantly Muslim nation with a secular government and a fast-growing, export-driven economy, has emerged as a center for the industry’s development. Here, even non-Muslims are taking advantage of a growing range of Islamic products offering competitive returns.

For instance, David Ong-Yeoh, a public relations executive tired of fretting over the rising interest rate on his adjustable-rate mortgage, refinanced to a 30-year fixed loan from an Islamic financial institution. Now, he pays regular installments that include a predetermined profit margin for the bank.

“The terms are better than on conventional loans,” Mr. Ong-Yeoh, 41, said.

Islamic finance also avoids practices prohibited under Shariah: Islamic bankers cannot receive or provide funds for anything involving alcohol, gambling, pornography, tobacco, weapons or pork.

Proponents of Islamic banking say these are limits any socially conscious investor can support, Muslim or not. They also envision wider appeal for Islamic banking’s ban on interest, which stems from the Koran’s prohibition against usury.

That’s a view that has a long religious and historical tradition. Charging high interest rates to lend money is repeatedly condemned in the Bible. The Greek philosopher Aristotle denounced it, the Romans limited it, and the early Christian church prohibited it.

Western theologians eventually distinguished interest from usury, and it was reintroduced to Christians and Muslims around the time of the Renaissance.

But when Britain took advantage of Egypt’s mounting foreign debt in 1875 to buy Egypt’s stake in the Suez Canal and occupy the country, it generated a backlash against traditional banking in the Muslim world. The belief that all interest charges are unjust now underpins Islamic finance.

“It’s about respecting the interests of the different parties, avoiding taking advantage of any situation of any counterparty and putting in place fair treatment,” said Rasheed Mohammed al-Maraj, governor of the central bank of Bahrain.

Hoarding is frowned on in the Koran, so savings earn no return unless put to productive use. “Money should be used for creating better value in the country or the economy,” Mr. Maraj said. “Money cannot generate money.”

Islamic banks cannot simply trade money either. “In the Islamic finance model, the banks are supposed to mobilize funds through a fund management concept,” said Rafe Haneef, head of Islamic banking in Asia for Citigroup.

Indeed, Islamic banking is supposed to function more like private equity firms than conventional banking. “Private equity is an Islamic concept,” Mr. Haneef said.

Industry proponents say this risk-sharing requirement helps reduce the kind of abuses that led to the subprime mortgage mess. Scholars consider it un-Islamic to overload a customer with debt or invest in a company with excessive debt.

But this approach has inherent problems. Because Islamic financial transactions must have an underlying asset, Islamic bankers tend to have high exposure to real estate and construction projects. Hedging that exposure is difficult — though Islamic derivatives exist, scholars differ on whether they are permissible under the Koran.

“There’s a general acceptance that risk needs to be managed and therefore some form of financial instrument needs to be developed,” said Zeti Akhtar Aziz, governor of Malaysia’s central bank. But “in Islamic finance you can’t have such securities,” he added. “We need to be able to look at some of the issues that revolve around this.”

Islamic financial institutions have to depend on their own boards of Shariah scholars to approve every product. Shariah scholars are rare, and those with financial understanding even rarer, so many scholars sit on several boards, earning up to $100,000 in retainers.

“If they’re complaining there is a shortage, what are they doing to solve this problem?” asked Sheikh Nizam Yaquby, a scholar based in Bahrain who sits on the boards of Citigroup, A.I.G. and HSBC, among others. He noted that Shariah scholars still earn less than accountants or corporate lawyers.

As part of longstanding efforts to develop the industry, Malaysia has created scholarships and training programs. Governor Zeti’s father, Ungku Abdul Aziz, established the first modern Islamic financial institution, Tabung Haji, in 1962 to help poor Malays finance pilgrimages to Mecca and to mobilize rural savings.

Later, the Malaysian government set up Islamic banks as part of a reformist platform to promote national development and blunt the appeal of fundamentalist Islamic political rivals.

In early 2001, the government began offering tax incentives aimed at converting at least a fifth of the nation’s assets to Islamic finance by 2010. (Currently, they make up roughly 12 percent.) With China siphoning away some economic opportunities from Malaysia, Islamic finance has become part of a broader effort to lure tourism, trade and investment from the Middle East.

“We are trying to position ourselves as being acceptable to the Middle East, to petrodollars,” said Wong Fook-Wah, chief executive of RAM Rating Services in Kuala Lumpur. “Hopefully they’ll fund economic growth in Malaysia.”

In the early 1990s, Malaysia devised the first Islamic bond, or sukuk (suh-KOOK), an accomplishment it expanded on in 2002 by issuing the first global sukuk, raising $600 million. Now the global sukuk market totals $82.2 billion, with Malaysia accounting for two-thirds of it.

But as the price of oil has rebounded, Islamic finance has boomed elsewhere.

Sukuk issuance in the gulf is set to overtake Malaysia. Britain, which licensed its first Islamic bank in 2004, plans to issue its own sukuk. The Bank for International Cooperation in Japan is planning a $300 million sukuk. And in July, a Texas-based oil firm, East Cameron Partners, issued the first American sukuk, raising $165.7 million.

Clearly, faith is not the only thing driving the market. At Kuwait Finance House’s Malaysian unit, Mr. Younis said, 40 percent of its depositors and 60 percent of its borrowers are non-Muslims.

“We look at these things just like Apple or Berkshire Hathaway,” said E-lene Kee, a Buddhist corporate lawyer here who advises clients to use Islamic loans to finance construction projects.

Mr. Ong-Yeoh feels the same. “It’s just taking advantage of the system,” he said. After taking out an Islamic loan for his home, he took another for his car.
576 2007-11-22 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, a broad measure of the equity market, is now down 0.11 percent for the year. The index fell 22.93 points yesterday, or 1.6 percent, to 1,416.77.

“This is an ugly week,” Mr. Paulsen said.

The Dow has lost 2.9 percent of its value in the last three days alone. The problems stem from broad uncertainty among investors, said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P.

With banks announcing new write-downs from bad bets on mortgage-backed securities and even venerable firms like Freddie Mac starting to share the pain, the fallout from the housing and credit turmoil is still making its way across the broader economy.

“Where do you put your money today?” Mr. Silverblatt asked. “You don’t know when the other shoe is going to drop.”

Stocks dropped at the opening bell and never made it out of the red. Ailing financial shares were hit again, with the major brokerage firms all recording deep losses.

Crude oil futures briefly rose above $99 in overnight trading, and an Energy Department report showed that inventories fell slightly last week. That left investors wondering how soon oil will be nudged above its inflation-adjusted record high of $102, in 1980. Oil settled in New York trading at $97.29, down 74 cents.

The yield on Treasuries — a traditional safe haven for investors — hit two-year lows yesterday; the yield on the 10-year note dropped below 4 percent in midday trading, closing at 4.01 percent at 5 p.m.

“People don’t know where to put their money at this point, so they’re basically giving it to the government,” said Dennis Davitt, who oversees equity derivative trading for Credit Suisse. “You’ll pay the government to hold your money because it’s the only place people trust.”

Economic data released yesterday reinforced the sense of gloom. Consumer sentiment fell to its lowest level since October 2005, according to a survey by the University of Michigan and Reuters. An index that tracks economic indicators declined as well, the Conference Board said.

The reports dovetail with a shaky economic outlook released by the Federal Reserve on Tuesday that predicted a slowdown in growth over the coming months.

Meanwhile, in what vendors hope will not be a bad omen for Black Friday, the retail giant Limited Brands posted a 48 percent drop in third-quarter earnings and lowered its end-of-year outlook. The company owns Victoria’s Secret, Bath & Body Works and other shopping mall mainstays. Shares of Limited dropped sharply but later recovered to close up 2.4 percent, at $17.95.

Some market watchers suggested that lower trading levels during a holiday week might make the market more volatile, but at least one analyst disputed that notion. “I don’t know of anyone taking a day off,” said Mr. Davitt, of Credit Suisse. “Not in these conditions.”

The dollar closed above $1.48 against the euro, still shy of the $1.50 milestone. But nothing suggests the dollar will be able to muster a sustained comeback anytime soon.

Investor confidence took a direct hit on Tuesday after Freddie Mac, considered a backstop for the mortgage industry, said it lost $2 billion last quarter after a rise in foreclosures tied to subprime mortgage defaults.

Aftershocks of the announcement were still being felt yesterday. An overnight rout in foreign markets reflected a growing sense that the besieged housing market, which once helped American consumers buy the world’s products and services, has not hit bottom.

In foreign markets, credit market anxiety has increased in recent weeks as banks hoard cash in anticipation of year-end obligations. Dollar and euro-based borrowing benchmarks in London have edged upward, raising the cost of short-term credit.

“It’s getting worse,” said Stephen Jen, global head of currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “In reality we know things are getting worse, and expectations of the U.S. economy and the credit markets are getting revised down.”

Mr. Paulsen of Wells Capital, a perennial bull, offered a contrary view. He said that much of the crisis had affected only a small portion of the population, namely Wall Street.

“This thing hasn’t been about people losing their jobs and their incomes,” he said. “It’s been more about C.E.O.’s getting fired, banks writing off hedge fund losses and a showdown between Wall Street and the Fed.”

Still, Mr. Paulsen acknowledged that the recent stock sell-off might have a psychological impact on the public.

“Every day the market goes down,” he said, “it just adds to whatever worries you have.”
577 2007-11-22 Ultralight laptops can easily cost more than $2,000. On the other end, ultracheap machines can be found in seductive ads with prices of $400 after rebates, but they’re usually hefty full-featured versions with big screens.

The Asus Eee PC manages to weigh just about 2 pounds and cost only $400.

Its secret? A small seven-inch screen, a tight but complete keyboard, a flash disk drive, a relatively slow processor and a stripped-down version of the Linux operating system that runs the Firefox browser and Open Office productivity software.

The laptop exploits the Web-centered model of software delivery. Clicking on the e-mail icon takes you to Firefox and your Webmail account. The radio icon takes you to an Internet radio site. Another icon takes you right to Google’s tools for editing text and spreadsheets.

If you must use local applications, you can use a version of Open Office for editing documents and spreadsheets. If that’s not enough, there’s also a copy of Solitaire. If that’s still not enough, there are instructions for installing Windows XP on the machine.
578 2007-11-22 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
579 2007-11-22 The fatal shooting by a federal agent of a man suspected of selling a hand grenade in the Bronx on Tuesday appears justified, the authorities said yesterday.

Investigations into the shooting, which occurred at about 6 p.m. on East 136th Street near the Willis Avenue Bridge, in Mott Haven, will continue, but “all the preliminary investigations indicate the shooting was within the A.T.F. guidelines,” said Special Agent Joseph G. Green, a spokesman for the New York field division of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The guidelines allow the use of deadly force to protect one’s life, Mr. Green said.

Mr. Green said prosecutors from the office of Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, have been notified about the shooting, as is standard procedure. A spokeswoman in Mr. Garcia’s office declined to comment. A spokesman for the Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, said that his office was looking into the shooting.

Mr. Green said that state and federal prosecutors would confer and that officials from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives would conduct an internal review of the shooting.

On Tuesday evening, with the undercover operation in its early stages, an undercover operative and a suspect were meeting to discuss the sale of a hand grenade. But as the operative sat in a Volvo with the suspect, Santos Mulero, 57, of the Bronx, Mr. Mulero unexpectedly produced the grenade, Mr. Green said.

The operative left the car as the federal agent and a detective from the New York Police Department, who were electronically monitoring the meeting, moved in to keep Mr. Mulero from leaving with the grenade, which was later found to be inert, Mr. Green said.

As the federal agent tried to restrain Mr. Mulero, he sped off in the car, dragging the agent 20 feet before the agent fired a shot from his .40-caliber semiautomatic pistol, hitting Mr. Mulero in the head and killing him.
580 2007-11-22 A video game in Spain that allows players to refight the Spanish Civil War and even to change the outcome has stirred controversy some 70 years after that conflict ended. The game, “Shadows of War,” was released on Tuesday, the anniversary of the death of the dictator Francisco Franco, whose forces declared victory in 1939. The game, created by a Spanish company, Legend Studios, at a cost of more than $1 million, has created an unusual amount of controversy, the Spanish daily El País reported. Carlota Leret, the daughter of Virgilio Leret Ruiz, the man commonly cited as Franco’s first victim in the war, told the newspaper that she was not honored that her father’s death is depicted in the game. “I’m surprised that someone has been capable of inventing a video game about a tragic event like the Spanish Civil War,” she said. “It’s not a historical event that’s buried in the past.”
581 2007-11-22 VIENNA — “Late Titian” here at the Kunsthistorisches Museum is one of those serious exhibitions in which inferior work sometimes tests the eye. Partly, it’s a scholar’s paradise, with murky workshop daubs; various versions of the same pictures, more or less good; homages by Rubens and others who fell under the sway of cunning and erotic canvases like the divine “Venus With a Mirror,” and in general a range by the great man himself that lays out the eternal mystery of his aging style.

To the day he died, pushing 90, in 1576, Titian dominated the snake pit that was the Venetian art scene of the late 16th century. Occasionally he polished his later images to a sheen; other times he left them loose, almost abstract. Sublimely moving and often downright haunted, these paintings tend to leap across centuries, into the modern mind-set, provoking cogitations among fretting self-obsessed boomers on the freedoms and sagacity possibly accrued in dotage. Plenty of masterpieces, gathered from the Prado, Louvre and elsewhere, are here to illuminate this point, augmenting the cream of Vienna’s collection, a paradise for the rest of us too.

Let me recommend doing what I did, spending a few hours first at Prater, Vienna’s aged amusement park. On a cold, drizzly weekday morning nearly all the ancient booths were shuttered, and only a few carnies beckoned down empty, rain-slicked alleys. At the bumper car concession an old attendant sweeping leaves from the causeway turned on the power to let an 8-year-old and his father take a few spins; in an empty arcade a forlorn pool table provided a half-hour’s retreat from the rain and melancholy.

It was all very eerie and beautiful, like Vienna, and ideal preparation for pictures like Titian’s “Flaying of Marsyas,” the most haunted work he painted, in which Apollo, having triumphed over the satyr Marsyas in a musical contest, gets to slice off the loser’s skin. Marsyas, hung upside down from a tree, stares expressionless; blood pooling below him, where a tiny dog laps up the droplets. King Midas, a Titian self-portrait, chin in hand and meditative, gazes on, helpless. A crush of figures crowd the foreground, orchestrating complex arrangements of limbs, roughly defined in pigment, from which emerges a single tiny white dot that is the light in Marsyas’s eye, staring blankly back at us.

Does Titian’s late style betray aging infirmity or maybe impatience, or does it imply that pictures like this aren’t finished? Scholars have pondered this question for years. The truth seems to be that Titian, running a very busy workshop, painted differently for different clients under different circumstances. He recycled images, concocted variations that allowed him to make short cuts, had assistants do work when the assignments weren’t for kings and doges. Like the chef of a four-star kitchen, he might drop by at the end to touch up the results.

“Tarquin and Lucretia,” for Phillip II of Spain, makes the case. The protagonists lock in intense combat; Lucretia’s flushed face, her eyes welling with tears, her features finely faceted like a jewel, focuses on Tarquin’s upraised knife. Sketchy pigment, as in the handling of Tarquin’s right knee thrusting between Lucretia’s naked thighs, here becomes a metaphor for violent motion. Other versions of the picture, hung beside it, wouldn’t look so bad if they didn’t suffer from the comparison. Clearly Titian painted one way for the king, and his epigones turned out other works for lesser clients.
582 2007-11-22 Re “The Case of the Rosenbergs: Their Sons’ View” (letter, Nov. 17):

I am glad to have lived long enough to read this moving letter from the sons of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. The early 1950s were a time of hysteria, and seeing how the intelligence agencies have operated in recent years as well as the cherry-picking of information by the administration, one can understand how the unjust rush to judgment of the Rosenbergs occurred.

Those of us who were unfortunate enough to have been caught in the net of the McCarthy years — when hasty accusations of innocent people abounded, causing irreparable damage to many lives — were very suspicious of the accusations against the Rosenbergs.

We see similarities today with the extralegal wiretapping of people, the unfair treatment of protesters of the administration’s agenda and the erosion of civil liberties. It is a chilling reminder of the past.
583 2007-11-22 Wal-Mart’s plans to improve energy efficiency and reduce waste all make good business and environmental sense, but no such improvements can change the inherently unsustainable nature of the big box retailing model.

While the media have given the corporation’s (mostly unfulfilled) pledges to do less harm to the planet abundant coverage, the corporation’s own report admits that it increased carbon emissions by 9 percent last year alone. And that number doesn’t touch the pollution created by increasing traffic resulting from Wal-Mart’s location and design of its stores and parking lots.

Where environmental improvements are more reality than P.R., we should applaud them. But let’s realize that the mission of publicly traded corporations, by definition, is to grow in perpetuity. Where does that leave us on our finite planet?

As investors and as consumers, we should shift support from global chains to independent local businesses and seek more products produced or grown closer to our homes. As citizens, we should seek to shift laws that favor transnational chains to instead encourage entrepreneurs. The only truly sustainable path for business in the 21st century is localization.
584 2007-11-22 This exalted status no doubt helps account for the incredibly fierce and conflicting stances that people take on individual artists. As Mr. Spangberg implied, this is especially true of contemporary artists, who often are positing where we might be headed — what we, even now, are only just in the process of becoming as we shed more comfortable conventions. Compare traditional religious services with the spellbinding, multilayered gospel spun by Adam Pendleton during “The Revival,” which he presented, complete with a choir, early on in Performa.

Mr. Le Roy’s “Sacre” was in large part a comment on the mutability of this pact. After watching a DVD of Simon Rattle conducting the Berlin Philharmonic in a rehearsal of Stravinsky’s “Sacre du Printemps,” Mr. Le Roy, a French choreographer, decided to stage his own conducting performance — of a recording, which was broadcast through speakers underneath viewers’ chairs.

Mr. Le Roy, who studied molecular biology before turning to dance in 1991, has no musical training. At times, as he seemed to come completely unmoored from Stravinsky’s dark world, I found myself drifting too. I could have done without the pelvic thrusts during some of the music’s most insistent, driving passages.

But the arrangement of the speakers had Mr. Le Roy “conducting” various members of the audience, and the moments in which he seemed to be urging you — specifically you — to achieve a desired quality were electric. He occupied a position of supreme power, and supreme vulnerability, in staking his own energies so firmly to the unpredictable responses from various audience members. The lights were up. What would happen if Mr. Le Roy turned to the woodwinds, only to find one of them scanning the program?

By contrast Carlos Amorales’s “Spider Galaxy” courted the idle passer-by and the hurried lunchtime crowd. Mr. Amorales, a Mexican artist, situated his installation in the public atrium at 590 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street. For eight days the glass-enclosed space, with its little bamboo stands sunk into the stone floor and its collection of English sparrows flying around, held his 400-piece wooden structure, its blond blocks arranged like a spider web and emanating ominous burbles and booms.

Twice each afternoon Galia Eibenschutz climbed atop the blocks and enacted a strange little series of hops, stamps and bends. Sheathed in a colorful, plastic-looking hooded cape that mimicked the sculpture’s fractured surface, she resembled a giant bird.

Viewers could perch on special seating that allowed them to feel the vibrations from Julian Lede’s score. Both times I went, I chose the seats, and both times, watching the people who just happened to be in the area proved more interesting than watching Ms. Eibenschutz, which mostly just led to thoughts like “What am I doing watching a giant bird in the middle of a workday?”

My favorite moment came at the end, when she ran wildly through the space, her amorphous costume shifting so that she evoked, in my mind, the giant, carnivorous mutant tadpole in the weirdly excellent South Korean movie “The Host.” No children were eaten, as best I could tell.

Still, performance stakes are high, and highly subjective. Pieces seem either necessary — to a viewer’s world, to her sense of herself — or, like Ms. Rainer’s hopelessly outmoded “RoS Indexical,” they fail.

The “why” is mysterious. Less than an hour after my second visit to “Spider Galaxy,” I was in the Museum of Modern Art, where the Butoh artist Min Tanaka performed “Locus Focus,” a mad, mesmerizing duet with a canonical Western art object, Rodin’s “Monument to Balzac.”

Mr. Tanaka ran crazy circles around the sculpture as Balzac’s eternal sneer stayed put. He leaned against the bronze to take off his shoes, then slid down several steps over his red robe, his muscular, lean body contorted like a rigid embryo. I never stopped to wonder why I was watching. It was enough that I was.

In wildly dissimilar ways Isaac Julien’s film, “Small Boats,” installed at Metro Pictures, also played with cultural identity, inviting viewers in even as it complicated the invitation. Like Mr. Tanaka’s dance, it felt so now — no viewer ennui.

As for “The Silver Globe,” I made it to the Kitchen in time (thankfully this city is hopelessly unpunctual; it started around 8:15), logging five Performa events that day. The reward was a hedonistic, wild mix of film, live music (including Ian Vanek of Japanther), dance and sculpture.

Ms. Ruilova exploited Caitlin Cook’s seductive, anarchistic energy, offsetting the choreographer-musician’s grungy glamour against densely satisfying audio and visual bursts. As the singer Daniel Seward menacingly crooned, “We never, ever, ever, ever, ever do anything nice and easy.” I didn’t recognize myself in it, but it was unrecognizably, irresistibly itself. I leaned forward.
585 2007-11-22 “She just shops and shops,” said Jane Elfers, the chief executive of Lord & Taylor, which has shifted more of its business, 20 percent in total, to youthful, so-called contemporary labels like Free People and Nanette Lepore. Indeed, according to Mr. Doroff, it’s the contemporary customer who has helped lift the Bloomingdale’s numbers in recent weeks.

Another powerful stimulant, at least in New York, is the foreign shopper taking advantage of the weakened dollar. Between 7.6 million and 8 million international travelers are expected to visit the city this year, up from 7.2 million in 2006, according to NYC & Company, a marketing firm. “For us, it’s the right moment to be here,” said Sophie Whettnall, an artist from Brussels, as she bought a pair of Prada shoes at Bergdorf Goodman last week, saving 30 percent because of the currency exchange rate.

And then there’s the affluent American, who may or may not be as highly leveraged as the rest of the economy. She lends still more ambiguity to the picture. While there were definite signs that she was not as excited by the fall collections as retailers and editors had hoped, she was hardly in retreat.

At Nordstrom, where sales in stores open at least a year rose a soft 2.2 percent in the third quarter, executives said in a conference call on Monday that designer fashion was a leader, and that the retailer planned to continue to “serve the growing affluent base.”

No wonder: Coveted labels like Chanel and Lanvin provide hefty profit margins. According to a store spokeswoman, among the articles of clothing that Nordstrom could have sold more of were a $1,990 Oscar de la Renta puffed-sleeve cashmere sweater and a $5,300 Chanel chevron tweed jacket.

It was the same story at Saks Fifth Avenue. This fall, the retailer sold 100 Oscar de la Renta cardigans with a ruffle around the neck for $2,190 each, and 50 black cap-sleeved Ralph Lauren dresses for $1,898 a pop. Twelve people had to have a kooky $615 Comme des Garçons jacket with hand prints on it.

If a single department at the flagship Saks in Manhattan has been hotter than its new shoe salon, Ronald Frasch, the company vice chairman, can’t think what that might be. Another profit source for stores like Saks and Bergdorf has been fine jewelry. Apparently a $5,000 ring can seem more special than a jacket.

Meanwhile, down the avenue at Lord & Taylor, which is undergoing a makeover — more lifestyle-enhancing products and fewer basics — Ms. Elfers reports that early November sales were up 22 percent over the period a year ago. She says people want coats and cashmere sweaters, which alone are up 52 percent in sales. Two months ago during a heat wave you couldn’t give the stuff away.

But, with colder weather and a release of pent-up demand, people are spending. “It’s all happening now,” she said.

Retailers like Ms. Elfers aren’t offering bromides. Facts are facts. Last Friday evening at Barneys in Manhattan a young woman named Carolyn Musher, the sales manager for California Closets in New York, bought a $700 pair of Christian Louboutin shoes and was considering a $1,000 pair of boots. Ms. Musher, dressed in jeans and a navy sweater, was shopping with her mother, Amy Musher, a former magazine editor who now sells vintage pottery online.

And on the previous day, Megan Huston, a doctoral student in anthropology at Columbia, was holding an armload of clothes, mainly by Japanese and Belgian designers, that would soon go on sale. Like many women, Ms. Huston thinks prices are too high. But, she reasoned, “they’re only going to get higher and eventually I might be priced out completely.”

What contributes to the sense of malaise over the fall season is that, while many women professed to love the new fashion — the sophistication, the appeal of more womanly clothes — they wound up buying very little. And it wasn’t because of the weather or prices.

Ashumi Sanghvi, a fashion student and an intern at Condé Nast, was at Bergdorf, dressed in a killer Saint Laurent suit from Tom Ford’s last collection, four years ago. “I feel I shopped a lot more last year,” Ms. Sanghvi said. Looking around, she added: “I think it’s just the environment in the stores. It’s dull and not very enthusiastic.”

Retail experts and financial analysts seem to struggle for an explanation. Robert Burke, a retail consultant, said “there were so many trends but not necessarily a new trend,” and added, “I don’t know that there was an It bag this season.” David Wolfe, the creative director of the Doneger Group, which advises stores on trends, said business was very good for fashion items, like three-quarter-length-sleeve jackets. “People wanted anything that’s new,” he said. But wasn’t that the headline of the fall’s collections?

So there may be something else holding people back from buying clothes, something that doesn’t entirely square with the image of crowded Manhattan restaurants, wild art auctions and throbbing shoe salons.

“Sure the economy is a factor if you know what’s coming,” said Peggy Shafiroff, whose husband works in the financial markets, as she was killing time at Henri Bendel before a hair appointment. Ms. Shafiroff said she had bought a Chanel bag this fall but that’s it. There were lots of clothes she liked, but it kind of irked her, she said with a mild laugh, that “everything now seems to cost $2,500.” The message she got from her husband and their friends on Wall Street, she said, was “batten down the hatches, the storm is coming.” And considering other pressures, like energy costs, she thinks that’s prudent.

A private-equity manager at a leading bank who follows retail, and who requested anonymity, said, “We may get by this year, but there’s a lack of optimism in the country and I think that lack of optimism will put a damper on Christmas spending.” Another source of concern, he said, echoing opinions in the art-auction market, is the staggering amounts of wealth in regions of the Middle East and Asia and the dominating effect such clout is likely to have.

“They’re price-insensitive,” he said of those areas, “and that’s going to be tough on Americans. We’re not the richest guys on the block anymore.”

Without exactly saying so, that may have been what Jeri Hansen, an interior designer in Brooklyn, was feeling as she browsed the racks at Bloomingdale’s. With her red hair, and a smile on her face, Ms. Hansen looked very cheerful; it was her first time really out shopping this fall. She said: “Fashion has become something like the middle class. There’s the high quality at one end and the lower stuff at the other. The middle doesn’t seem to be here anymore.”
586 2007-11-22 But according to a transcript of his September speech obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Wang also suggested that financing for any new environmental initiatives had not yet been approved. “My office is making an effort to push ahead with a ‘seven plus one’ special plan,” Mr. Wang said, adding that he hoped that the State Council and regional government “will support it.”

Mr. Wang also said then that future environmental protection efforts in the Three Gorges region must focus on curbing industrial and municipal pollution into tributaries and bays of the reservoir behind the dam. Those discharges have caused algal blooms that have contaminated drinking water in certain areas, Mr. Wang said.

Other high priorities included improved efforts at water and sewage treatment; creating ecological buffer zones along the shoreline of the reservoir; and improving treatment and monitoring of geological problems like landslides in the steep mountains above the reservoir. He said treating geological hazards was vital “to ensure the lives and property of the people in the reservoir region.”

Tuesday’s account from Xinhua, the official news agency, listed many of the same priorities, if with fewer details, but also cast the broader environmental situation in a more measured tone. Mr. Wang was described as saying that the dam’s environmental impact “has been less damaging than feared.”

Xinhua also stated that the environmental issues were consistent with — or, in some cases, less severe than — predictions made in a 1991 government feasibility report. Xinhua said a new official environmental assessment of the project found “positive impacts of the gigantic dam should on the whole outweigh the negatives.” That new report also said benefits like flood prevention and power generation would not be impaired.

The dam, the largest in the world, was completed last year, though the hydropower complex connected with it will not be finished until 2009. Chinese officials have scheduled a news conference for Thursday to discuss the situation at Three Gorges.

Meanwhile, another landslide in the region served as a reminder of the spate of environmental problems. Xinhua reported that the slide happened Tuesday in Badong County, a sloped region along the shoreline of the reservoir. A cascade of rocks and mud smashed into a construction crew and crushed four workers. No information was provided about the two men still trapped under the rubble.
587 2007-11-22 “I was expecting long lines, but I was the only one checking in,” said Aston Armstrong, 21, a senior at West Point whose midafternoon flight from La Guardia for a trip to Fort Smith, Ark., was running 30 minutes late, a far cry from what she remembered watching on television last year as stranded crowds tried futilely to get to the holiday dinner.

Lori SoRelle, a travel agent, offered a slight grin as she walked off an escalator at Denver International Airport on her way to catch a plane to Washington.

“Everything seems just fine,” Ms. SoRelle said. “I thought it was going to be much worse. This airport can be a mess.”

The heavy volume of travelers checking luggage, passing through security and boarding made some delays unavoidable. As the day wore on, the weather created backups of up to two hours, similar to those of a normal weekday, at La Guardia and Newark Liberty International.

Similar weather-related delays occurred at Boston and Philadelphia airports, and flights between O’Hare International Airport in Chicago and the East Coast were delayed by up to an hour because of rain and heavy traffic. As nightfall approached, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles airports reported sporadic delays. By midnight, most delays had cleared up, although some flights bound for Newark were delayed by fog.

The airline industry, which is on track to record its busiest year, expects a record 27 million passengers in the 12-day period that began last Friday, according to forecasts by the Air Transport Association of America. That is a 4 percent increase from the same period last year.

Planes are likely to run at 90 percent of capacity, also a record, the trade group said. With few extra seats or planes available, storms or mechanical failures could undo efforts by airlines and airport operators to avoid the huge delays that have become as much a part of Thanksgiving Day lore as stuffing and cranberries.

“The system is tight as a drum, and if something goes wrong, there’s little way to fix it,” said George Hamlin, managing director of Airline Capital Associates, an industry consultant. “Unlike the president’s pardoning a turkey or two, the flying public doesn’t pardon the airlines.”

By and large, efforts by carriers and airports appeared to have reaped some dividends. At Denver, which has had the longest wait times at security checkpoints over the past year, the Transportation Security Administration added workers and two screening lanes.

Security lines moved briskly yesterday morning, and travelers expecting the requisite madness seemed surprised as they approached the airport’s two primary checkpoints.

Erin Moore, who was traveling to Santa Barbara, Calif., with her husband and two sons, said she had seen busier days at Denver. “It’s actually better than it usually is,” Ms. Moore said. “We got here two hours early because we thought there’d be such a wait.”

That surprise was registered at Philadelphia International, where hundreds of parking spaces were recently added. William Johnson had heard horror stories about trying to park on busy days there and decided to arrive three hours early..

“Then I get there, and boom, boom, boom, I’m in the economy parking lot and, all right, maybe I had to drive around for a little bit, but I found a parking space, so I’m just relieved,” said Mr. Johnson, who was flying to Chicago with his wife and two sons for a weekend with relatives.

The Strategic Command Center of the Federal Aviation Administration began its workday in Herndon, Va., two hours early, at 5:15 a.m., a practice usually reserved for big snowstorms.

American Airlines, which opened a $1.3 billion terminal at Kennedy International this year, has security checkpoints and gates that can move customers faster than before. American is using new software to dispatch crews, aircraft and baggage, said the managing director of customer experience, Mark Mitchell.

JetBlue hired dozens of customer service agents at Kennedy, its hub. Executives from headquarters in New York are also working as “holiday helpers,” directing passengers to the counters and gates.

Fliers may be flocking to airports in part because fares have risen modestly. Some passengers, trying to avoid expensive tickets, left as early as last Friday for cheaper fares.

Although fares over all are 4 percent to 6 percent higher than last year’s, airlines have been discounting off-peak days like the holiday itself.

But fliers who bought tickets in the summer had the best prices.

“Definitely this year, the early birds got the worm,” said Rick Seaney, chief executive of FareCompare.com.

Tickets have risen as many as nine times since the summer, meaning that “someone who bought before Labor Day paid up to $60 less,” Mr. Seaney said.

Travelers who left for the airport especially early trying to beat the crush found that they had time on their hands before boarding. Others were happily surprised when they arrived at their destinations.

At John Wayne Airport in Orange County, Calif., the Raley family collected luggage in the morning from a carousel that creaked to life.

“When we left our home in Reno, it was 5 a.m., dark and cold,” said Bill Raley, who owns an automobile repair shop in Sparks, Nev. “We wanted to beat the crowds. But it’s pretty calm here.”

Michael Rosenberg, 49, a volunteer customer service agent, or “airport ambassador,” wore a red vest and a gold watch as he guided travelers through the unusually short security line.

“All the staff today are kind of looking at each other like, What’s going on here?” Mr. Rosenberg said.
588 2007-11-22 MARKETS LIMP INTO HOLIDAY     A late sell-off sent stock markets down sharply, with the Dow Jones industrial average closing at its lowest level since April. Widespread worries about expensive oil, a sagging dollar and a gloomy outlook for economi...
589 2007-11-22 PRICE--Barry. Beautiful boy, away from us 32 years. You're always in our hearts. Love and kisses, Mommy, Daddy, Jodi, Blair and Mark...
590 2007-11-23 Literally. From a devastating Business Week story on how hospitals are turning billing over to companies that charge interest rates of up 26.99%: "When you go to the dentist or the vet, you know you have to pay. If you go to the hospital, why shou...
591 2007-11-23 Help yourself to this amusing time-waster....
592 2007-11-23 A bit of coincidental support: Knight renews attack on HSBC over executive pay ... Eric Knight, the investment group's CEO, said in a statement Friday that inadequate corporate governance is "at the heart of the reason behind HSBC's long-term unde...
593 2007-11-23 One passage in today's column may be a bit obscure: The crisis of confidence is plainly visible in the market data: there's an almost unprecedented spread between the very low interest rates investors are willing to accept on U.S. government debt ...
594 2007-11-23 HARRIMAN, N.Y. In the interests of journalism, I went shopping this morning. At the local Wal-Mart, which opened at 5 a.m., the parking lot had few spaces by the time I showed up at 5:25. Among the vehicles was a very large church bus. I guess tha...
595 2007-11-23 The synopsis of this film by Izuru Narushima promises a Jerry Bruckheimer-style pyrotechnic action picture. But the result is a personal and political melodrama with perfunctory gunplay and explosions.

An American stealth bomber crashes in Japan’s northern Alps during a blizzard, prompting high-level government hand-wringing and a top-secret military mission to locate the aircraft and its nuclear payload before undefined rivals can get there first. A widowed and war-traumatized photographer (Takao Osawa) scampers through the mountains trying to locate the bomber, while his sister-in-law (Yuko Takeuchi), the adoptive parent of the hero’s young son, tries to track down a wounded secret agent who witnessed the crash.

Based on a novel by Tetsuo Takashima, “Midnight Eagle” addresses the strained, unequal military relationship between the United States and Japan, likened in various subplots to that of a distant, inept or otherwise inadequate parent and his dependent child.

From the opening Middle Eastern flashback, in which the hero tenderly offers an Arab child a candy bar only to see him destroyed by a mortar, to the present-day subplots in which the sister-in-law nurses a morphine-addicted agent while neglecting her own nephew, “Midnight Eagle” is filled with images of parents who are self-interested, sometimes hapless, yet indispensable.

Directed by Izuru Narushima; written (in Japanese, with English subtitles) by Yasuo Hasegawa and Kenzaburo Iida, based on a novel by Tetsuo Takashima; director of photography, Hideo Yamamoto; edited by William Anderson; music by Takeshi Kobayashi; production designer, Hajime Oikawa; produced by Michihiko Umezawa, Masakazu Yoda, Teruo Noguchi, Tomiyasu Moriya and Kei Fujiki; released by Shochiku Company/Universal Pictures (Japan). At the Imaginasian Theater, 239 East 59th Street, between Second and Third Avenues. Running time: 131 minutes. This film is not rated.
596 2007-11-23 The head of London’s Metropolitan Police, Sir Ian Blair, won a vote of confidence in his leadership from the Metropolitan Police Authority, which oversees the force. Sir Ian has faced sustained criticism over the killing of an innocent man mistaken by the police for a suicide bomber in 2005. The man, Jean Charles de Menezes, 27, an electrician from Brazil, was shot seven times in the head on a subway train after he was wrongly identified as one of four men who had tried to detonate bombs on London’s mass transit system a day earlier. Two weeks before that attempt, four bombers killed themselves and 52 others on the transit system. Fifteen members of the authority supported Sir Ian, seven members voted against him and one abstained.
597 2007-11-23 LONDON, Nov. 22 (AP) — England has the wealthiest soccer league in the world, with matches shown across the globe and business tycoons from the United States, Russia and Asia lining up to own the clubs.

So why can’t England put 11 Englishmen on the field to succeed at the international level?

Steve McClaren became the latest coach to pay the price Thursday; he was fired after England failed to qualify for the 2008 European Championships, losing by 3-2 to visiting Croatia on Wednesday when a tie would have meant qualification.

While the likes of Italy, Germany, Spain, France, the Netherlands and Portugal will try to take the title away from Greece, England’s stars — including David Beckham, Wayne Rooney and Michael Owen — will have to watch the games on television.

One World Cup triumph on home soil in 1966 is not much of a return for one of the high-profile soccer nations.

Wednesday’s defeat was the first time England has failed to qualify for a major tournament since the 1994 World Cup, and its first failure to reach the European championships since 1984.

So what is eating at English soccer? Some point to the fact that foreigners outnumber English players by 2-1 in Premier League lineups.

Roy Keane, the former Manchester United and Ireland captain, who is now the manager of Sunderland in the Premier League, said: “I tend to think there are too many egos in there. I look at the England setup, and they don’t look a happy bunch for sure. The body language sometimes isn’t great.”
598 2007-11-23 Not so long ago, boxed sets seemed big, sometimes intimidatingly so: hours and hours of music, all in one place! Nowadays the problem is that they seem laughably skimpy; bulky, too. You get a doorstop the size of a shoe box containing a few hours of music — that’s a fraction of the capacity of an iPod nano, which is the size of a few business cards. Increasingly, it seems, the main draw is the booklet or sometimes the physical box itself.

Certainly that’s the case with “The Brit Box,” a “comprehensive survey of U.K. indie music” that’s basically a lively (and very readable) booklet full of reminiscences and brief biographies, with a four-CD mixtape thrown in. (Also a suitably silly gimmick: the telephone booth on the cover lights up.) If you’re really curious about how the aftershocks of punk and new wave congealed into a 1990s British rock resurgence that straddled the underground and the mainstream, you could probably learn — and hear — more by going online and exploring Wikipedia, YouTube and a few hundred other sites.

But if you want something you can hold, you could do worse than this compilation, which includes obscure but justly beloved forebears (Felt, Shop Assistants), mainstream juggernauts (like Oasis, above, and Blur; without them this box probably wouldn’t exist) and plenty of bands that seized the British spotlight (however briefly) without ever making a ripple in America. (Rhino. Four DVDs. $64.98.) KELEFA SANNEH

Every day the past of American music has a better future. Four years ago the Dust to Digital label put out “Goodbye, Babylon,” which some called the greatest anthology of American gospel music ever assembled. Now the label, based in Atlanta, has produced “The Art of Field Recording, Vol. 1,” four extraordinary discs culled from tapes recorded by Art Rosenbaum, a professor of art at the University of Georgia who has pursued musicology as a 50-year sideline.

Obviously it isn’t definitive; it’s just one man’s work. But it’s a gold mine, an ark. There are string bands, acoustic blues, ring shouts, “hambone” chants, Sacred Harp and Georgia Sea Island singing, the “lined-out” hymnody of Southern churches, unaccompanied fiddlers and banjoists and jew’s-harpists. A great deal of it is spooky and blindingly beautiful, and the set owes its power to Mr. Rosenbaum’s judicious ear. Almost all of these performers, often recorded in their homes or churches — including members of the W. B. Thomas Gospel Chorus, above — transcend the clichés of their style. There will be more: Volume 2 arrives next year. (Dust to Digital. Four CDs. $69.98.) BEN RATLIFF

These 1956-58 recordings are from Coltrane’s years with Prestige Records, when his discography becomes a spaghetti junction of sideman jobs, cooperative bands, jam sessions and the occasional session as leader. The Coltrane-as-leader sessions came out last year in their own boxed set; this set presents Coltrane with others, taken from records like “Cattin’ With Coltrane and Quinichette” (with the saxophonist Paul Quinichette) and “Tenor Conclave” (with Hank Mobley, Al Cohn and Zoot Sims). There’s a lot of round-robin soloing, and the sense of purpose is diluted, of course: even in Coltrane’s own playing we don’t hear the focus of later years and better albums. But these are still beautiful examples of the casual late-’50s jazz recording session, with pockets of exceptional post-bop playing that has usually gone underrecognized. (Prestige. Five CDs. $59.98.) BEN RATLIFF

This music — recorded a few years after “Bitches Brew” and a few more long steps away from traditional jazz — is very heady and doesn’t reduce very easily. Here’s a warning: Do not give it to a person who only knows that he or she likes the Miles Davis of “Kind of Blue.” But if that person likes funk, and has a fairly deep attention span, then this might be a Xanadu. These jam sessions and collages were made with a changing cast that usually included the electric bassist Michael Henderson and the drummer Al Foster; they build on African and Indian music and some of the compositional ideas of Karlheinz Stockhausen. They’re dense and tense, gnashing and clashing, and utterly great. (Sony Legacy. Six CDs. $139.98.) BEN RATLIFF

Starting with “A Trick of the Tail,” from 1976, these sturdy boxes include jewel-case versions of all nine of Genesis’s post-Peter-Gabriel albums, each paired with a DVD of interviews and videos. Each box also includes a hardcover book, with a CD and a DVD of extras and stray tracks. When you listen to it all, it’s hard not to be struck anew by the long evolution from precious prog-rock to playful new wave, and by the band’s commercial success in the 1980s. Back then it seemed reasonable (though now it seems unimaginable) that a band formed in 1967 might be reborn as a Top 40 juggernaut. (Rhino. “1976-1982”: Six CDs, six DVDs. $129.98. “1983-1998”: Five CDs, five DVDs. $99.98.) KELEFA SANNEH

Forró, the bouncy accordion-and-triangle-driven music of rural northeastern Brazil, gained a nationwide audience through Luiz Gonzaga (1912-89). He found a following among homesick northeasterners in Rio de Janeiro, then became a radio phenomenon, staying folksy while reaching out. His voice is always kindly, and songs he wrote, like “Asa Branca,” became Brazilian standards. These CDs are from his 1940s and 1950s peak: two exploring the variety within his forró, the third trying other styles, from samba to mazurka. The DVD is a concert and documentary from 1984, showing his jovial presence, some admiring star guests and his cheerful determination to bring hope to his hard-working countrymen. (Sony BMG Brasil. Three CDs, one DVD. $78.99.) JON PARELES

Merle Haggard knew early on the kind of characters he wanted to sing about: convicts, salt-of-the-earth workingmen and hard-drinking fools for love. He also forged country music that could swing, twang and stay heartfelt. This straightforward, unflashy compilation covers his whole career, from attempts at country-crooner singles through swinging honky-tonk to his craggy latter-day reflections about his beloved America going wrong. (Time Life. Three CDs. $39.98.) JON PARELES

Emmylou Harris has already compiled her hits for another box. This miscellany, spanning the years from 1970 to 2006, pulls together collaborations (from singing backup with Gram Parsons to joining Willie Nelson, Sheryl Crow, Beck and the Pretenders), outtakes (including some from her trio with Dolly Parton and Linda Ronstadt) and live tracks. In her long career Ms. Harris has played both to and against the purity of her reedy soprano. The songs she chose for this set move from devout sincerity, mountain fingerpicking and gospel conviction to loneliness and mourning, with electric guitar underlining the end of innocence. (Rhino. Four CDs and one DVD. $74.98.) JON PARELES

You can’t win putting heavy metal in a box. It’s too loud and large and profane and multinational; in the end, sort of like jazz, it means too many things. You have to go deep with metal’s subgenres; that’s why they exist. This is a speed tour through the major metal bands from 1968 to 1991, one song each, from Iron Butterfly to Sepultura. There must have been licensing complications, because this is a metal canon without any early Black Sabbath. (Rhino. Four CDs. $64.98.) BEN RATLIFF

With lyrics hovering between revelation and doggerel, and tunes that prize both the concision of mid-1960s rock and the playfulness of psychedelia, Robyn Hitchcock’s songs mingle strangeness and clarity. This set reissues, and adds outtakes to, solo albums from the early 1980s — “Black Snake Diamond Role,” “I Often Dream of Trains” and the stripped-down “Eye” — that seesaw between flippancy and ache. Two discs of demos, including some songs he never revisited, are even more exposed. Wry as the songs might be, no one could mistake them for mere whimsy. (Yep Roc. Five CDs. $39.99 download, $49.99 CD, $99.99 vinyl.) JON PARELES

The producers of the “Jazz Icons” DVDs aren’t just hurling any old footage at the consumer. These are excellent performances by John Coltrane, Sarah Vaughan, Dexter Gordon, Wes Montgomery, Duke Ellington, Charles Mingus and Dave Brubeck, from the prime of their careers. And they’re beautifully shot, mostly filmed for European television. They include a previously unreleased performance by Coltrane, with Stan Getz; a superb Montgomery show with some between-song conversations (red alert, guitar freaks); and heartbreakingly good Vaughan. It’s almost guaranteed that you’ll understand these artists better by watching them work in these films. (Reelin’ in the Years/Naxos. Six DVDs. $95.99.) BEN RATLIFF

LOVE IS THE SONG WE SING:

Excavating the Bay Area epicenter of American psychedelia, this knowledgeable compilation sets the essentials — Jefferson Airplane, Grateful Dead, Santana, Moby Grape — in the context of a scene that still sounds hopped-up and utopian. Folk-rock melts down with blues, soul, jazz, raga and noise, not just in well-known songs but also in artifacts from little-remembered bands like the Mystery Trend, the Front Line and Fifty Foot Hose. “Oh, this can’t last,” the band Kak sang in “Lemonaide Kid,” and money, politics and drugs ensured that it didn’t. But this set captures the fragile cultural moment. (Rhino. Four CDs. $64.98.) JON PARELES

This wooden box isn’t ancient history: it compiles the results of the four recording sessions (one solo) that Jason Molina drew on for “Fading Trails,” an album released by his band, Magnolia Electric Co., in 2006. (He used to record as Songs: Ohia.) Mr. Molina is known for melancholy indie-rock, but this box documents his deepening fascination with old-fashioned country and soul, and his decision to release the full recording sessions seems both generous and shrewd. Indie fans are obsessive, and they don’t mind rummaging through dozens of tracks to find their favorites; shouldn’t more bands be doing this? (Secretly Canadian. Four CDs, one DVD. $37 from secretlycanadian.com.) KELEFA SANNEH

“This is a strange record, I meant it to be,” the producer and composer Joe Meek wrote in the liner notes of “I Hear a New World Part 1,” one of the 12 four-song EPs from the early 1960s reproduced in this boxed set. Ten were productions for others, including the Tornados; he wrote their hit “Telstar.” Mr. Meek, who committed suicide in 1967, used colossal reverb, wordless voices, detuned instruments and other effects that turned pop hokum into grandiose, kitschy mini-epics. None is nuttier than his own “I Hear a New World,” a two-EP stereo extravaganza and “outer space music fantasy” full of abstract noises made with prosaic means. But his treatments of more conventional songs for the Tornados and an English country singer, Houston Wells, come close. (Castle. 12 CDs. $59.98.) JON PARELES

The Time Has Come: 1967-1973

More freak-folk fans should rediscover Pentangle’s pristine and unlikely meld of traditional ballads and acoustic jazz: Jacqui McShee’s airy soprano, the gnarled guitar mesh of Bert Jansch and John Renbourn, the elegantly syncopated counterpoint of Danny Thompson on bass and Terry Cox on drums. This set is for already committed fans; its collector mentality prizes rarity over quality, resurrecting singles and two CDs of live performances that are more earthbound than Pentangle’s studio gems. Newcomers can start with the albums “Basket of Light” and “Cruel Sister” instead. (Castle. Four CDs. $59.98.) JON PARELES

For those of a certain cast of mind, the song of the Titanic is not “My Heart Will Go On,” by Celine Dion, from 1997; it is “Titanic Blues,” by the reedy-voiced medicine-show singer Richard (Rabbit) Brown, from 1927. “You know they stood out on that sinking deck/And they was all in great despair,” Brown sang. “You know accidents may happen most any old time/And we know not when or where.” All the American music here, by black and white singers, lavishly devotes itself to calamity and logically separates into three discs: “Man v. Machine,” “Man v. Nature” and “Man v. Man (and Woman, Too).” It’s the poetry of the police blotter, the violent myth, the unthinkable famine, flood, flu or tornado. (Tompkins Square. Four CDs. $46.99.) BEN RATLIFF

Slack means sexually explicit, so scolds and subversives beware: this is what often happens to pop songs that people consider offensive. They get more charming with age, until they come to seem like harmless mementos from an earlier era. Certainly it’s hard to imagine this compilation — which follows a similar one from 2002, “Trojan X-Rated Box Set” — inspiring anything but fond smiles from the people who hear it. The price (cheap) matches the packaging (bare-bones), the song selection (haphazard) and the sequencing (seemingly random). But it’s hard not to enjoy reggae singers and chatters from the 1980s and 1990s, ranging from Max Romeo to Yellowman to Ce’Cile to Beenie Man, all gleefully delivering lyrics that you won’t be reading in these pages. (Trojan/Sanctuary. Three CDs. $21.98.) KELEFA SANNEH

Song after song on “The Ike and Tina Turner Story” sketches the same predicament: a powerhouse of a woman in thrall to a man she shouldn’t trust. Tina Turner worked her great raspy voice to the edge of hysteria; the music, shaped by Ike, swaggered with ideas from New Orleans R&B, Memphis soul, rock and, eventually, funk. Only later would Ms. Turner’s autobiography reveal how realistic the songs were. Two CDs collect the hits (with a supercharged live substitute for Phil Spector’s production of “River Deep, Mountain High”). The third reissues a 1969 live album that, unfortunately, concentrates on cover versions. (Time Life. Three CDs. $39.98.) JON PARELES

Luther Vandross, who died in 2005, sang the most polished, luxurious soul: grown-folks’ music, as the liner notes to this set put it. And while glossy sentiment made a lot of his music sound dated — the dewdrop synthesizer tones, the metallic drum sounds — his singing is so refined, his songs so single-mindedly devoted to the idea of perseverance and redemption, that the trappings don’t matter. This box tracks his movements from disco’s waning years, as the singer in the bands Luther and Charme, through his own albums, his duets with Mariah Carey and Beyoncé, and finally his last record, “Dance With My Father,” which climbed the charts as he lay incapacitated by a stroke. (Epic/J Records/Legacy. Four CDs. $49.98.) BEN RATLIFF

The Vee-Jay label lasted from 1953 to 1966 and released America’s first Beatles singles, not included on this set. But Vee-Jay’s homegrown blues, doo-wop, gospel and R&B — recorded with no frills but plenty of spunk — encompassed hits from Jimmy Reed, the Dells, Betty Everett, Jerry Butler, John Lee Hooker and the Spaniels, and gutsy non-hits by acts like Sheriff and the Ravels and Gloria Jones (the original “Tainted Love”). Vee-Jay had no signature sound, just good ears. (Shout! Factory/Vee-Jay. Four CDs. $59.98.) JON PARELES
599 2007-11-23 Through the third quarter, UBS won the title as European market write-down leader, taking a $4.4 billion hit in mortgage-related products and an additional $400 million on leveraged loans. Analysts expect $7 billion more in mortgage-related write-downs for UBS.

Credit Suisse paled in comparison, with a write-down of only $947 million on mortgage-related securities and $875 million on leveraged loans.

Among the American firms, investors might have expected Merrill Lynch to weather the storm as a result of its huge and stable brokerage business. Citigroup, meanwhile, has a large retail bank and sufficient global diversification that could have provided a buffer. Instead, they’ve both buckled under a business — mortgages — that accounted for a relatively small portion of profits.

The two managed to write down an astonishing $20 billion or so, with the vast majority coming from mortgage-related products. Lehman Brothers, which investors might have expected to suffer because of its huge mortgage business, has so far taken one of the smallest losses on the Street. Goldman Sachs, with its hefty appetite for risk, could easily have ended up on the wrong side of wildly gyrating markets. Instead, it has generated record profits so far this year after it positioned itself against the collapse.

The global tally of pain has been about $50 billion, according to a Merrill Lynch analyst, Guy Moszkowski, with more expected. No wonder financial stocks have been jettisoned.

And while the agony has been concentrated among those who built and sold the financial fairy tale of structured credit products (creating low-risk investments from high-risk securities), virtually all the banks’ shares have suffered.

Warren E. Buffett, quoted by a Lehman analyst, Jon Peace, said it best: “One of the lessons that investors seem to have to learn over and over again, and will again in the future, is that not only can you not turn a toad into a prince by kissing it, but you cannot turn a toad into a prince by repackaging it.”

Alongside Goldman and Lehman, there were others who avoided the mess in subprime loans and collateralized debt obligations, known as C.D.O.’s. JPMorgan wrote down a meager $339 million on C.D.O.’s. It also made a modest profit on its subprime positions and seems to have avoided the problem with structured investment vehicles, or SIVs, which has racked Citigroup. JPMorgan’s investment bank, a leader in leveraged lending, took a $1.3 billion hit on the value of leveraged loans, but almost all of the players in that business did also. Even Goldman wrote down $1.5 billion in leveraged loans.

The trouble is, even the winners, few as they may be, can take little solace in the pain of their competitors. To the extent the mortgage debacle will slow overall economic growth, everyone will suffer.

And the eye-popping write-downs prove what the skeptics have always said: that the attractive profits made by Wall Street’s opaque trading businesses are unpredictable and worth much less when it comes to assigning price to earnings multiples at the investment banks.

Goldman Sachs today trades at almost nine times trailing 12-month earnings. But shares of traditional asset managers like T. Rowe Price, which are less likely to risk billions of dollars to build expertise in an area riddled with acronyms (A.B.S., C.D.O., SIV), trade at more than 20 times earnings.

That means that even though some firms have so far shown that they are good risk managers, others on the Street proved once again that you can never count too heavily on sophisticated systems, armies of Ph.D.’s or confident managers who have it all under control (and appear to play a lot of bridge or golf).

The failure of many means that none, not even the market leader, will be given the benefit of the doubt.
600 2007-11-23 But the post-Enron standards also force companies to do more to prevent fraud, by examining confidential areas like pending litigation, internal investigations, tax reserves and tax shelters, stock option plans and exposure to environmental liabilities.

To comply, corporate lawyers have been generating large amounts of confidential documents on issues that could affect a company’s bottom line. Those company lawyers want to keep the information from becoming ammunition in lawsuits — but not at the risk of withholding it and losing an auditor’s seal of approval, a red flag to shareholders and regulators.

“The number of internal investigations conducted in response to whistle-blower allegations and other matters has increased substantially in recent years,” said Thomas Riesenberg, Ernst & Young’s general counsel. And with that, he said, has come a greater need for requesting materials in an audit that could be considered confidential.

Well-established rules that are a bedrock of the American legal system protect the confidentiality of communications between lawyers and clients, a concept known as attorney-client privilege. The rules also protect from disclosure a lawyer’s written impressions, conclusions, opinions and research, known as work-product privilege.

The trend of auditors looking further behind the corporate curtain is a major shift from the “don’t ask, don’t tell” mentality of the years before Enron, when they typically signed off on financial statements without asking to see confidential documents, in particular lawyers’ written opinions relating to aggressive tax deals open to challenge by the Internal Revenue Service.

Lawyers typically say that such legal opinions are confidential. Legal rules dictate that if confidential documents are shown to any outside party, including to auditors, they are no longer confidential and are thus fair game in proceedings like lawsuits.

Robert J. Kueppers, the deputy chief executive of the auditing firm Deloitte & Touche USA, said that “we may very well conclude that we can’t get comfortable until we see the legal opinion. That’s when it gets interesting. The general counsel says that it’s privileged, and if we show it to you we risk breaching the privilege argument that we want to sustain.”

But the legal principle of confidentiality that protects communications between auditors and their clients is weaker. Only 30 or so states have laws that protect auditor-client privilege, and few federal courts have addressed it.

“Requests for information from outside auditors are generally broader and more expansive than they were several years ago,” said Carol Ann Petren, the chief general counsel of the Cigna Corporation. So businesses “must be sensitive to the possibility that a third party may subpoena this material.”

In August, a federal court in Rhode Island ruled that the I.R.S. did not have the right to certain internal tax papers from Textron Inc., an aerospace and military contractor. The papers contained assessments by Textron’s in-house lawyers and outside accountants, Ernst & Young, concerning the company’s chances of prevailing against the I.R.S. in its use of aggressive tax strategies.

But in another closely watched case, a federal judge ruled in favor of disclosure of auditing records. In that case, Medinol sued a rival stent maker, Boston Scientific, in a Manhattan federal court in 2001, accusing it of theft of intellectual property.

Medinol wanted to see the minutes of a meeting at Boston Scientific regarding an internal investigation of the company’s exposure to costly litigation. Boston Scientific had already disclosed the minutes to its auditor, Ernst & Young, which used them when preparing the company’s financial return.

The judge, Alvin K. Hellerstein, ruled in 2002 that because Boston Scientific had already turned over the documents to its auditors, it had waived the privilege governing their confidentiality. “In order for auditors to properly do their job, they must not share common interests with the company they audit,” Judge Hellerstein wrote.

In the Shaw case, a Shaw subsidiary, Stone & Webster, took over construction of a power plant in Hood County, Tex., for about $99 million in 2002. A fire hampered completion, and Stone & Webster became embroiled in a dispute about delays and costs with AES, of Arlington, Va., which hired it for the job, known as Wolf Hollow. In late 2002, Stone & Webster sued several AES subsidiaries in a state court in Hood County.

In January 2005, AES subpoenaed Ernst & Young, seeking auditing records for the previous three years. What AES wanted to see was how Shaw’s lawyers and accountants had addressed Stone & Webster’s expected recovery through litigation of the Wolf Hollow project. “What if an in-house lawyer had said, ‘These claims are very weak; there’s this very damaging document?’” said a person briefed on the case who asked not to be identified to avoid harming one of the parties.

Shaw and Ernst & Young objected, but by May 2005 a Texas state judge had enforced the subpoena — even though Texas and Louisiana, where Stone & Webster is based and where a local Ernst & Young office held the records, have state rules protecting auditor-client privilege. The Texas Supreme Court declined to hear Shaw’s appeal, and by April 2006, a Texas judge had dismissed Stone & Webster’s claims.

It is not publicly known what Stone & Webster’s auditing records said regarding its assessments of prevailing in court. Shaw had objected to the subpoenas because it said its public financial statements already contained the information reflected in its auditing records. But in July 2006, Shaw said it would reduce its earnings forecast for the year by $48.2 million in connection with the ruling against Stone & Webster.

Shaw, AES and Ernst & Young all declined to comment on the case, which was settled last year. The Shaw case has set corporate lawyers abuzz.

William Michael Jr., a white-collar criminal defense lawyer in Minneapolis, said that “the minute you’ve waived to your auditors, you take the real risk that you’ve waived to everybody.” He was using the legal term to describe the process by which confidential documents are disclosed.

The Association of Corporate Counsel, in a supporting brief filed on behalf of Shaw, wrote that without guarantees of confidentiality, “talking to the corporation’s accountant is no different than talking to a prosecutor or to the other side in civil litigation.” Critics say the system could have the opposite effect from what it intends, by chilling internal investigations.

The tougher scrutiny has led some executives to consider creative yet legal new approaches.

Thomas J. Sabatino Jr., the general counsel of Schering-Plough, a drug maker, and the recent chairman of a panel on auditor-client privilege for the corporate counsel organization, said that auditors and their clients might try to forge acceptable compromises in which the client “provides factual background, as opposed to attorney-client privileged information.”

But Mr. Kueppers suggests that in the drive to know more, the auditors have the upper hand. “If it’s big — material to the balance sheet or income statement — we need more documentation,” he said. “No one’s going to give us kudos for auditing a conversation.”
601 2007-11-23 Among the nation’s so-called megachurches — those usually Protestant congregations with average weekly attendance of 2,000 or more — ChangePoint’s appetite for expansion into many kinds of businesses is hardly unique. An analysis by The New York Times of the online public records of just over 1,300 of these giant churches shows that their business interests are as varied as basketball schools, aviation subsidiaries, investment partnerships and a limousine service.

At least 10 own and operate shopping centers, and some financially formidable congregations are adding residential developments to their holdings. In one such elaborate project, LifeBridge Christian Church, near Longmont, Colo., plans a 313-acre development of upscale homes, retail and office space, a sports arena, housing for the elderly and church buildings.

Indeed, some huge churches, already politically influential, are becoming catalysts for local economic development, challenging a conventional view that churches drain a town financially by generating lower-paid jobs, taking land off the property-tax rolls and increasing traffic.

But the entrepreneurial activities of churches pose questions for their communities that do not arise with secular development.

These enterprises, whose sponsoring churches benefit from a variety of tax breaks and regulatory exemptions given to religious organizations in this country, sometimes provoke complaints from for-profit businesses with which they compete — as ChangePoint’s new sports center has in Anchorage.

Mixed-use projects, like shopping centers that also include church buildings, can make it difficult to determine what constitutes tax-exempt ministry work, which is granted exemptions from property and unemployment taxes, and what is taxable commerce.

And when these ventures succeed — when local amenities like shops, sports centers, theaters and clinics are all provided in church-run settings and employ mostly church members — people of other faiths may feel shut out of a significant part of a town’s life, some religion scholars said.

Churches have long played an economic role. Medieval monasteries in Europe and Japan were typically hubs of commerce. In the United States, many wealthy denominations have long had passive investments in real estate. And churches, like labor unions and other nonprofit groups, have been involved in serving immigrants, the elderly and the poor.

But the expanding economic life of today’s giant churches is distinctive. First, they are active in less expected places: in largely flourishing suburbs and barely developed acreage far beyond cities’ beltways and in communities far from the Southern Bible Belt with which they are traditionally associated. And in most cases — as at ChangePoint in Anchorage — these churches say their economic activities are not just an expression of community service but, more important, an opportunity to evangelize. The sports dome, for example, is a way to draw the attention of young families to the church’s religious programs.

“We don’t look at this as economics; we look at it as our mission,” Pastor Clauson said.

Scott L. Thumma, a pioneer in the study of megachurches at the Hartford Institute for Religion Research at the Hartford Seminary in Connecticut, whose roster of churches was the basis for the Times analysis, said he has noticed churches that sponsor credit unions, issue credit cards and lend to small businesses.

Although community outreach is almost always cited as the primary motive, these economic initiatives may also indicate that giant churches are seeking sources of revenue beyond the collection plate to support their increasingly elaborate programs, suggested Mark A. Chaves, a religious sociologist at Duke University.

Also feeding this wave of economic activity is the growing supply of capital available to religious congregations.

The Evangelical Christian Credit Union in Brea, Calif., a pioneer in lending to churches and a proxy for this market shift, has seen its loan portfolio grow to $2.7 billion, from just $60 million in the early 1990s, said Mark A. Johnson, its executive vice president. Where bankers were once reluctant to lend to churches, the credit union now shares a market with some of the nation’s largest banks.

ChangePoint paid $1 million upfront and borrowed $23.5 million from a state economic development agency to buy a defunct seafood-packaging plant and warehouse out of foreclosure in July 2005. To do so, it formed a partnership with the for-profit owner of the cold-storage unit surrounded by the seafood plant’s land. An affiliated nonprofit is developing the sports dome with a gift of $4 million worth of church land. The church controls these entities directly or through board appointments, said Scott Merriner, executive pastor and a former McKinsey consultant.

Pastor Clauson acknowledged that a few local businessmen who own sports facilities have complained about the subsidized competition they face from The Dome, a nonprofit organization. It is an issue the church takes seriously, he said.

“We don’t want to be taking bread off of people’s tables,” the pastor said.

But the sports dome “is scratching such an enormous proverbial itch, there is no way we’re harming anyone,” he said, adding, “There is more than enough need to go around.”

Martin McGee, the Anchorage municipal assessor, acknowledged that the property poses an assessment challenge. Land and floor space used only by the church are exempt, he said, but the rest of the seafood plant site is taxable, and the tax treatment of the sports dome site is still under review.

The tax issues will be even more complex for a megachurch project in Charlotte, N.C. There, the University Park Baptist Church paid $11.5 million late last year to buy the Merchandise Mart, a half-million-square-foot office and exhibition space.

Some 57 percent of the space will ultimately be remodeled for church use, but the rest will bring new business activity to the neighborhood, said Claude R. Alexander Jr., the church’s lead pastor who also serves on the board of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.

His church has left its economic mark on the neighborhood it will leave behind when it moves to the mart. With its traffic added to that of another megachurch a few miles away, a once-quiet intersection between the two churches has recently seen the construction of fast-food outlets and other businesses.

The traffic is unlikely to ease when University Park moves. The other nearby megachurch, the Friendship Missionary Baptist Church, already has zoning approval for Friendship Village, a complex of shops, apartments, homes, offices and housing for the elderly on 108 acres off Charlotte’s beltway.

According to Tom Flynn, the economic development officer for Charlotte, University Park’s purchase of the Merchandise Mart already has prompted interest in older properties nearby.

The church, which formed a for-profit property management unit that also includes a small limousine service, envisions a mixture of commercial and religious uses at its new site — with its own share of the space beginning around 38 percent and rising over time.

The entire site is currently taxable, said Alonzo Woods, the church’s director of operations. But when the church moves in, it will seek exemptions for areas used “strictly for church purposes.”

Churches are moving into residential development, as well. Windsor Village United Methodist Church, one of two churches that own shopping centers in Houston, is teaming up with a national home builder to develop more than 460 homes in the southwestern section of the city.

And in Dallas, The Potter’s House, a 30,000-member church established by Bishop T.D. Jakes, is the linchpin in an economic empire that includes Capella Park, a community of 266 homes.

Just how far-reaching the megachurch economy can become is clear at the First Assembly of God Church in Concord, a small community northeast of Charlotte. Under the umbrella of First Assembly Ministries are the church, with 2,500 in weekly attendance; a 180-bed assisted-living center; a private school for more than 800 students; a day-care center for 115 children; a 22-acre retreat center; and a food service — all nonprofit. In addition, there is WC Properties, a for-profit unit that manages the church’s shopping center, called Community at the Village, where a Subway outlet, an eye-care shop and other businesses share space with church programs that draw traffic to the mall.

Doug Rieder, the church business administrator, said WC Properties files a federal tax return and pays property taxes on the commercial space at the mall.

But Mr. Rieder acknowledged the difficulty of allocating space, staff time and expenses to the appropriate tax category. “We’re very intertwined — it gets tough day to day,” he said adding, “I have to constantly ask myself whether I am accurately allocating our costs.”

Concord was delighted to have First Assembly as the new landlord at the mall once anchored by Wal-Mart.

“That’s a very crucial crossroads for the city,” said W. Brian Hiatt, the city manager. “And the church has been a great partner.”

Another contribution the church makes to the city is a free daylong celebration it holds on Independence Day, complete with fireworks.

Mr. Hiatt said no one seemed to find it awkward for a church to conduct the community’s celebration marking the birth of a country committed to separation of church and state.

“It was a very positive event,” he said.

Mr. Rieder, the church business manager, paused when asked whether people of other faiths would have felt comfortable at the event.

“We try not to discriminate in doing community service,” he said. “There are Muslims and other non-Christians here, of course. And we do want to convert them, no doubt about it — that’s our mission. We don’t discriminate, but we do evangelize.”

The same quandary confronts Pastor Clauson in Anchorage. “There is nothing inherently alienating about what we’re doing economically,” he said. “An Orthodox Jewish youngster or a conservative Muslim child encountering our programs would find zero intimidation.”

Nor does he want his community to become divided along religious lines, he said. But at the same time, “we definitely want to use these efforts as an open door to the entity that we feel is the author and creator of abundant life — Jesus.”
602 2007-11-23 When Thanksgiving arrived at Forward Operating Base Airborne, it came to a small and isolated world, a rectangle of concertina wire and barricades on a hillside 8,400 feet above sea level.

Its inner compound, guarded by bunkers, is about 300 yards long by 175 hundred yards wide. The enclosure houses tents, armored vehicles, several latrines and mortar pits, a helicopter landing zone and not much else.

Fewer than 200 people live here, a mix of Afghan interpreters and Afghan Army soldiers, an American Special Forces team, five French mountain infantrymen, a Foreign Legionnaire and dozens of paratroopers from Company D, Second Battalion of the 508th Parachute Infantry, a unit from the 82nd Airborne Division.

The base is near Highway 1, the road linking Kabul, the capital, to Kandahar in the south, and faces two valleys, Jalrez and Nerkh, that are crowded with Taliban fighters.

It has existed for only a few months, but the soldiers plan to make it permanent, a stepping-off point to help secure the highway and eventually to push the Taliban from the valleys. When its residents are not on patrols, they are rushing to finish building it before the season’s advancing chill.

Capt. Aaron W. White, the commander of Company D, was born in West Virginia. Observing the tradition of the better American ground units, he did not eat until all of his paratroopers had passed through the food line, ensuring that there was enough for them before allowing himself a meal.

He watched the soldiers walk by, forming Thanksgiving tables populated by young men of widely disparate backgrounds, clad in green. “It’s amazing how you can throw all different kinds of people together, and they forget about everything and get it done,” he said.

Whatever the soldiers’ backgrounds, one thing unmistakably binds them: the work they face on the other side of the concertina wire.

Since beginning to build a firebase here, the soldiers have been hit by rockets and mortar fire, and ambushed several times. Almost all the patrols up the Jalrez and Nerkh Valleys have dealt with Taliban fighters, who use hidden firing positions dug in orchards and along roads. Nearly 40 Americans based here have been wounded since September.

After all the turkey had been eaten, a huge soldier appeared for dinner. He was 6 feet 3 inches tall and weighed 260 pounds.

He introduced himself: Staff Sgt. Gerald R. White, 29, of Sistersville, W.Va. He was an artilleryman serving his third combat tour, this one as a noncommissioned officer who coordinates and directs fire from artillery, mortars and helicopter gunships.

As he prepared to fill his plate with the leftovers, the setting sun illuminated a fresh purple scar on the back of his neck.

Then came his story. He was wounded when a three-vehicle patrol was ambushed on Sept. 15 in Jalrez.

His vehicle was struck by a rocket-propelled grenade; shrapnel tore open his buttocks and his neck. The ambush blossomed. More and more of the rockets flew toward the broken vehicles and wounded soldiers, he said. Machine-gun fire smacked their windows and doors.

Rockets struck the second vehicle’s turret alone three times, he said. Ten other soldiers had been wounded by the time reinforcements arrived and pushed the Taliban off.

Sergeant White spent four weeks recuperating at Bagram Air Base, north of Kabul. He returned to his tiny base without having been home to see his wife and three children, who are at Fort Bragg, in North Carolina.

Now he pulled something from his left breast pocket. It was a miniature metal placard of a Purple Heart. “I will never quit,” its engraving read.

Many of the soldiers here Thursday said that Thanksgiving meant football and beer. Sergeant White, scarred and as large as a fullback, spoke of his children, ages 11, 5 and 3.

“My little one, he’s my hero,” he said. “He was on his deathbed. He was born six weeks premature, and he had internal bleeding. He took three blood transfusions, but by the time he was 9 months old he was fine.”

“His name is Gerald,” he said. “Gerald Jr.”

He added: “I’m proud of all three of them. I wish I could be there today. It’s a special moment. But I’ll make it up to them once I get home.”

After eating, Sergeant White returned to his post. A Polish patrol was heading north up Highway 1. Intelligence reports said that the Taliban’s spotters on the highway were organizing an ambush.

He paced beside the radios as darkness fell, listening for the Poles, ready to call down fire.
603 2007-11-23 HONG KONG, Nov. 22 — China reversed a decision on Thursday to block a United States aircraft carrier from making a four-day port call in Hong Kong, but the change of heart by Beijing officials came too late to stop the ship from returning to its base in Japan and missing families who had flown to Hong Kong to celebrate Thanksgiving.

The aircraft carrier, the Kitty Hawk, and its flotilla of five support ships were en route to their base at Yokosuka and were not planning to turn around, said a spokesman for the Pacific Fleet in Hawaii, Lt. Cmdr. John Filostrat.

The ships, with 8,000 crew members, were due in Hong Kong on Wednesday for a four-day visit.

Some crew members were planning to join family members who had flown in from the United States, Japan and the Philippines. While the ships were nearby in the South China Sea, the Chinese Foreign Ministry issued a “last minute” refusal of the port call, the State Department said.

But in a surprise reversal, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Thursday that the visit of the Kitty Hawk strike group could go ahead, official news media reported. “It is a decision based on humanitarian considerations only,” Xinhua, the state-run news agency, quoted the ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, as saying at a news conference in Beijing.

Despite China’s reversal, Commander Filostrat said, the flotilla was “continuing to steam to Yokosuka.”
604 2007-11-23 THE ART OF FIELD RECORDING, VOL. 1     Every day the past of American music has a better future. Four years ago the Dust to Digital label put out ''Goodbye, Babylon,'' which some called the greatest anthology of American gospel music ever assemble...
605 2007-11-23 Five Hollywood studios  --  Twentieth Century Fox, Walt Disney, Paramount Pictures, Columbia Pictures and Universal Studios  --  have joined to sue Jeboo.com, a Chinese online service and Internet cafe, accusing it of offering pirated downloads of...
606 2007-11-23 A STORM'S LINGERING COST After 15 years, the visible damage of Hurricane Andrew has largely disappeared, but homeowners nationwide are still feeling the effect of the storm, one of the worst of the century, in their pocketbooks. [Page C1.]     QUI...
607 2007-11-23 THE BRIT BOX     Not so long ago, boxed sets seemed big, sometimes intimidatingly so: hours and hours of music, all in one place! Nowadays the problem is that they seem laughably skimpy; bulky, too. You get a doorstop the size of a shoe box contai...
608 2007-11-23 Leftovers? For the holidays? That's one way to look at this year's crop of boxed sets. Now that most pop careers have already been distilled to a handful of discs, culling has given way to expansion. Musicians and labels are combing archives for o...
609 2007-11-24 Three of Russia’s richest men are in advanced stages of negotiations over the sale of a 25 percent stake in the Norilsk Nickel mining and smelting complex in Siberia. The factory, built by gulag prisoners, produces 20 percent of the world’s supply of nickel, an alloy used in stainless steel.

Russia’s largest aluminum factory, Rusal, majority owned by Oleg V. Deripaska, has signed an agreement with the businessman Mikhail D. Prokhorov to buy a 25 percent stake in the plant, the Interfax news agency reported. Mr. Prokhorov had also received an offer from his former partner in the factory, Vladimir O. Potanin, according to a statement from Mr. Potanin’s holding company, Interros, released last week. ANDREW E. KRAMER
610 2007-11-24 The appellate court, consisting of a three-judge panel, cannot take recent events (including a potential dismissal of Thomas) into consideration; by law, the appeal must be decided on the facts presented at trial. But if the appellate court set aside the judgment, Thomas’s termination would be fair game in a new trial.

The Garden faces legal problems on other fronts, including a sexual harassment lawsuit filed by a former Rangers dancer. And two former security supervisors, both black women, will soon file a suit alleging sexual and racial discrimination, according to a lawyer representing the women.

Although Thomas is not a defendant or a potential defendant in those cases, “anything that happens that reflects on Isiah’s conduct could become relevant,” Nance said. He added, “If I’m the plaintiff’s lawyer, I’m going to try to get into evidence that you ultimately fired the guy that is at the seat of all of these allegations” in the previous case.

If he were the Garden’s lawyer, Nance said, he would consider the legal issues before firing Thomas, regardless of his performance as coach.

During the sexual harassment trial, the lawyers for Thomas and the Garden presented a united front. Their presentation could, “without a doubt,” be weakened if their clients were at odds, Nance said.

Also, Thomas was not ordered to pay damages in the case, so he has less of a stake in its outcome than the Garden does. If he were no longer employed by the organization, Thomas might be inclined to disclose information that could hurt the Garden’s defense in all its harassment cases.

“They don’t need to antagonize Isiah,” Nance said. “If he is fired and no longer has a common business interest with them then, and they’re the ones who are facing the liability and he isn’t, then yeah, he has little motivation to help them. Indeed, if he in any way feels wronged, he might even feel some antagonism toward them.”

So, in theory, the sexual harassment lawsuit that tarnished Thomas’s reputation could save his job.
611 2007-11-24 The authorities are concerned that tree limbs and branches knocked down by an ice storm last winter could create a wildfire risk in rural areas of the state for several years. The Missouri Department of Conservation estimates that there are 34 tons of branches, limbs and leaves on the ground per acre in the state now. That is roughly 10 times the normal amount, and the debris has had a chance to dry. “I don’t think when the ice storm hit in January that anyone realized how big a problem it had caused,” said Rich Stirts, chief of the Logan-Rogersville Fire Department in southwest Missouri. “It wasn’t until this summer we started getting out in the woods that we realized the extent of the damage.”
612 2007-11-24 The return of “The Grinch” brought the count of Broadway productions currently running to nine, as it joined a group of shows with separate contracts with the League of American Theaters and Producers. Performers, ticket takers and union officials said they hoped the reopening would push both sides in the strike toward a resolution in time to reawaken Broadway for the holidays.

“The theater is filled with imagery that moves people,” said John P. Connolly, the executive director of Actors’ Equity Association, who was inside the St. James. “This theater being open, all these people crowding the street outside — that’s the image I hope will break the logjam. This is what Broadway is supposed to look like.”

“The Grinch” had been sold out for Thanksgiving weekend performances, said Tomm Miller, the vice president of marketing for Running Subway Productions, the show’s producers. But because of the strike, she said, tickets were automatically refunded earlier in the week. So when the judge’s ruling came down, the promoters scrambled to resell the tickets, posting on Web sites, calling the press and sending workers to stand on Broadway to tell passers-by that “The Grinch” was up and running.

Between Wednesday afternoon, when the judge ruled, and yesterday at 11 a.m., when the curtain rose, more than 1,600 tickets were sold for the performance.

“It was mostly walk-up business,” Ms. Miller said. “That’s unusual, because usually families need months in advance to plan. We were selling up until curtain.”

Tickets were still available for shows this weekend, she said yesterday afternoon. Jim and Susan Gray of Broken Arrow, Okla., who were in town for a dental convention, had planned to take their children to the show on Wednesday, but when the strike canceled it, they resigned themselves to seeing Radio City Music Hall’s “Christmas Spectacular.” But when they heard that “The Grinch” was back on, they rushed to buy tickets.

Their daughter, Hannah, 5, jumped up and down in her tulle dress as she waited to go into her first Broadway show. Mrs. Gray, a teacher, who brings students to New York to see shows over spring break, said that she had planned to see more of them but that she was thrilled to be able to see at least one.

“That’s what you do in New York: you see shows and you eat,” she said.

Soon they were inside the theater’s chaos. Souvenir sellers offered evil-looking, long-fingered green Grinch gloves. A food vendor shouted: “Get your snacks now! No intermission!”

Mr. Dixon was onstage as Old Max: “ The Whos down in Whoville liked Christmas a lot,” he said as an ominous drumroll began and feathery snowflakes began to fall. “But the Grinch who lived just north of Whoville did not.”
613 2007-11-24 MOSCOW, Nov. 23 — Russian prosecutors charged a deputy finance minister who was the country’s chief sovereign debt negotiator on Friday with conspiring to embezzle $43.4 million in a politically tinged case seen as undermining the position of liberals in the Russian government.

Until his arrest last week, the official, Sergei A. Storchak, had helped oversee Russia’s $148 billion oil windfall fund, one of the world’s largest sovereign wealth funds, and served as Russia’s chief liaison with financial organizations like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.

Mr. Storchak was a leading liberal in President Vladimir V. Putin’s government. His departure is seen as a sign of instability in Russian economic policy-making and has led to an open breach between the finance ministry and security agencies.

“The government needs to make some major decisions about how to manage its oil wealth,” Rory MacFarquhar, a director in Goldman Sach’s Moscow office, said in a telephone interview Friday. “This case could cause the finance officials to take a much more risk-averse approach to investment.”

Over years of high oil prices, Russia has salted away billions in oil money in its Stabilization Fund. In January, Moscow will split it into two funds: the Reserve Fund and the Fund of National Prosperity, the latter intended for state investments. How this money will be invested, and who will make those decisions, is in contention.

Russian media have interpreted Mr. Storchak’s arrest as an effort by security services to influence decisions by the finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, who is also a deputy prime minister, and who has favored a more conservative economic policy. Mr. Kudrin is a chief proponent of saving the bulk of the country’s oil profits in a sovereign wealth fund to offset inflation and any future downturn in world oil prices.
614 2007-11-24 Predictions that five million travelers will lose pieces of checked luggage at some point this year provide depressing food for thought as we line up belt-free and shoeless, clutching the see-through bags of mini-measured toiletry vials that are demanded of modern air travelers. There is plenty of time, while creeping through the security maze, to ruminate over questions like whether potential terrorists have the same preoccupations as the Homeland Security authorities who issue their increasingly detailed instructions.

The authorities’ latest plea is for neatness in packing carry-on bags — folded clothing and small electronics in separate layers, please, with the wiring tucked neatly away. The rationale the government is offering is that the security workers looking at X-ray screens need to have clearer lines of sight. Neatness now counts in the antiterrorist scheme of things, and the public undoubtedly will prove accommodating, even if it makes air travel feel a lot like packing for summer camp.

Inching forward in line, travelers may also wonder at the disquieting news that government investigators have been able to smuggle liquid explosives and detonators past security checkpoints and onto airplanes. Last March, one scrupulous security screener made a show of stopping an undercover tester from carrying on a small bottle of shampoo that was unlabeled but legitimate. That provided enough of a distraction that the same tester smuggled aboard a different liquid for a firebomb.

The authorities insist that they have 19 layers of security, and that the testers’ penetrations do not mean the overall system is unsafe. Perhaps, but what about reports that screeners have been tipped off in advance about tests so the system can pass with flying colors? A former Homeland Security inspector general says there has been a pattern of this, but the government denies it.

What about complaints from security screeners that they were retaliated against when they pointed out gaps in the process? Not to worry — the government is promising to end its practice of denying screeners whistleblower protection.

Waiting in the snaking lines, no one can envy the screeners’ heavy responsibility. Certainly not travelers in their socks confronting the fact that flying is more than ever an act of faith.
615 2007-11-24 It was not clear if Mr. Sharif would be a candidate in the Jan. 8 parliamentary elections that most opposition parties have declared to be illegitimate. But his very presence would energize his party and attract voters away from General Musharraf.

The two men hold the allegiance of rival factions of the Pakistan Muslim League, and General Musharraf’s already anemic popularity has been further weakened by his declaration of emergency rule on Nov. 3.

Not least, Mr. Sharif’s return adds a new dynamic to the country’s already turbulent politics, coming more than a month after another two-time prime minister, Benazir Bhutto, came back to Pakistan with the encouragement of the Bush administration.

The opposition parties are currently scrambling to file nomination papers for their candidates at district offices of the Pakistan Election Commission by Monday. The brevity of the window for filing, set by General Musharraf, favors his party, opponents say.

Also in his favor is the fact that some vocal opponents of the president who want to be candidates remain in jail, despite claims by the government that its critics have been released.

Under pressure from the Bush administration and trying to make the elections appear fair, the government has said more than 5,000 lawyers and opposition party members arrested under emergency rule were freed over the last several days.

But by Friday night, Aitzaz Ahsan, the chairman of the Supreme Court Bar Association, a flamboyant member of Parliament and one of General Musharraf’s most caustic adversaries, was still in prison in Rawalpindi, his wife, Bushra Ahsan, said.

Moreover, the opposition parties said they could not be sure that all their members had been released.

Mrs. Ahsan said that the minister of human rights, Ansar Burney, had visited her husband in jail on Thursday and pledged that Mr. Ahsan would be released so he could complete the filing.

But Mrs. Ahsan said she believed that Mr. Burney was too junior in the cabinet hierarchy to possess the power to deliver on his promise.

“They are refusing to let him out of jail, and nomination papers can’t be filed without a personal appearance,” Mrs. Ahsan said of her husband’s situation.

Another solution, suggested by Mr. Ahsan via a message from jail on Friday morning, was for Mrs. Ahsan to become what she called a stand-in candidate. But, she said, “I am not interested in this sham election.”

General Musharraf has said the elections will be held under emergency rule, which has put severe curbs on the press, scrapped much of the judiciary and forbidden large gatherings.

Because of these strictures, the European Union had decided to cancel the arrival of a team of long-term election monitors, said the chargé d’affaires of the European Commission delegation in Pakistan, Balthasar Benz.

The Bush administration has called the quality of the elections a test of General Musharraf’s commitment to democracy and has committed $26 million for election assistance in Pakistan. Much of that money has already been spent on a program to computerize the voter rolls.

But a delegation of the National Democratic Institute from Washington, headed by a former Democratic senator, Tom Daschle, found severe shortcomings in the election preparations during an October visit to Pakistan. The group singled out faulty electoral rolls as a major problem, saying there were approximately 10 million entries that could not be verified.

The Associated Press reported that the Bush administration was looking into overhauling the way billions of dollars in aid to Pakistan was distributed, as calls mount to cut such assistance. Washington may impose new conditions or limit direct payments to Pakistan’s government, The A.P. said.

With only three days to go before nominations close, it may turn out the government will find a novel solution to the question of Mr. Ahsan’s participation.

The chief commissioner of the Pakistan Election Commission, Qazi Muhammed Farook, said on television this week that some of those being held in jail under the emergency rule would be allowed out to file their papers, and would then be returned to their cells.

“It’s possible they will bring him in custody to sign the nominating papers,” and then take him back to jail, Mrs. Ahsan said.
616 2007-11-24 The judge overseeing the case, Sylvia O. Hinds-Radix of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, said the timing of Mr. Chandler’s retirement seemed to follow a familiar pattern.

“This is not the first time I get no production of a police officer, and the next time counsel comes back I hear he’s no longer employed by the city so we cannot produce him,” Justice Hinds-Radix said at a hearing on Nov. 14, according to a transcript. She ordered the city to find Mr. Chandler or fully account for his absence.

Among the city’s 37,000 police officers, Detective Chandler was more than just another face behind a badge. In 1994, he and a partner shot two people dead on a street in Crown Heights. One of the slain men was a convicted drug dealer who had reached for a BB gun; the other was a shopkeeper.

The officers drew criticism from civil rights campaigners, but the Police Department called the shooting justified and prosecutors did not pursue criminal charges. Years later, Officer Chandler’s partner, Anthony Trotman, admitted lying and committing crimes through most of his 11 years as a police officer. In 2001, after he had been assigned a different partner in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Officer Trotman pleaded guilty to armed robbery and murder conspiracy.

Officer Chandler, who was not implicated in that case, remained on the force. By 2003, he had been promoted to detective and assigned to the Firearms Investigation Command, court records show.

Just after 9 p.m. on Oct. 17, 2003, police reports show, Detective Chandler arrested Mr. Victor on charges of assaulting an officer. The next day, the charges were reduced to resisting arrest. In a criminal complaint, Detective Chandler said that he ordered Mr. Victor to stay by a car while he questioned a suspect in a gun sale, but that Mr. Victor shoved him.

In January 2004, prosecutors dropped the charges against Mr. Victor. The Civilian Complaint Review Board, a mayoral agency that investigates accusations against police officers, substantiated a charge that Detective Chandler had struck Mr. Victor with a gun.

In his deposition, Mr. Victor said Detective Chandler had failed to identify himself as an officer.

“After I asked, ‘What did we do?’ I asked it again, then I was struck again on my head with the gun,” Mr. Victor said. Asked how the case had affected his life, he said: “Right now I have no respect for cops because I did nothing wrong; I was walking home, I was talking to my friend, I got assaulted for asking, ‘What did we do?’”

Detective Chandler was scheduled to give his own deposition on Jan. 12, but city lawyers asked for more time. The deposition was rescheduled for Feb. 28, then for April 19, but Detective Chandler never arrived.

A lawyer for Mr. Victor, Tracey A. Grant, asked the judge to reject the city’s defense for want of a supporting deposition. In July, city lawyers wrote that although Detective Chandler was a city employee, his deposition could create future conflicts of interest. Besides that, the city argued, Detective Chandler was not necessarily their chosen witness for the case.

Justice Hinds-Radix ordered the city to produce Detective Chandler for deposition by Sept. 21. Again, he did not arrive. According to court documents, a city investigator called Mr. Victor’s lawyers on Oct. 1 and said, “Detective Chandler is giving me a hard time; he won’t return any of my calls.”

The deposition was rescheduled for Oct. 12, with the same result. At the hearing on Nov. 14, a lawyer for the city said Detective Chandler had retired.

“We’re having difficulty finding him because he is no longer employed by the New York City Police Department,” said the lawyer, Pamela Beitelman. “In addition to that, because he is not under our power, he acted outside the scope of his employment, and we do not answer for him.”

Whether or not the city plans to defend him, the judge said, Mr. Chandler still must give a deposition as the arresting officer in the case. She gave the city 30 more days to produce him. A spokeswoman for the city’s Law Department, Kathleen O’Brien Ahlers, declined to comment.

The chief spokesman for the Police Department, Paul J. Browne, said Detective Chandler’s retirement took effect Sept. 25. Though he had joined the department in 1990, prior service as a correction officer qualified him for a full pension.

Called at home to discuss the case, Mr. Chandler declined to come to the telephone.
617 2007-11-24 Soybean prices surged to the highest level in more than 30 years yesterday because of strong demand from China and the dollar’s decline to a record low against the euro.

Soybeans rose to the highest price since 1973, when Russia began an import program that created a new source of demand for soybeans from the United States.

Analysts say the major demand now comes from China, where the soybean harvest this year was smaller than expected. Demand there has also grown rapidly along with economic development.

“The real story is China, which has a smaller bean crop than was previously thought and has recently been accumulating,” said John Roach, president of Roach Ag Marketing. “They were reluctant at first, then rushed the market over the past couple of weeks.”

Soybeans for January delivery rose 16.25 cents, to $11.0025 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade, after earlier spiking to $11.03. In July 1973, a bushel fetched $11.87. Soybeans peaked at $12.90 a bushel in June 1973.
618 2007-11-24 “He challenges everything you first give him,” said Alex Gage, Mr. Romney’s director of strategy. “The worst thing to do is go into a meeting with him and say: ‘Well, we think this is the best thing to do. Anybody disagree? No, no, we all agree.’ That will be a red flag for him.”

Even as his advisers talk up his management skills, however, they are not forthcoming on some of the tougher decisions Mr. Romney has faced since entering the race, like how much of his own money to pour into his campaign (of the $63 million he has raised, some $17 million has come from his own pocket), or how to deal with persistent accusations of flip-flopping. And many of the largest decisions are yet unmade, like if and when to give a major speech about his Mormon faith.

Mr. Romney recently told reporters that he was inclined to deliver the address but that his political advisers had warned him against it, raising questions about who exactly holds sway in his campaign.

His aides prefer to direct attention to his past, promoting his image as the turnaround artist who fixed companies, then the 2002 Winter Olympics and finally the state of Massachusetts, where he was governor from 2003-7.

Any effort to cast Mr. Romney as a pragmatic, problem-solving politician must also take into account his partisan slide to the right since leaving the Statehouse, leading him to make blustery comments about doubling the size of the detention camp at the Guantánamo naval base in Cuba and to abandon ideas like requiring people to buy health insurance, which was at the core of his universal health care plan in Massachusetts.

“Prior to running for president, Mitt was not particularly partisan or ideological,” said Eric A. Kriss, who worked with Mr. Romney at Bain Capital and later as the Massachusetts budget chief. “He was more likely to say, ‘Show me the data.’”

Political observers typically cite the Romney campaign as the best-organized operation among the Republican contenders, from its hyper-focused field teams in early voting states to its efficient fund-raising apparatus. The effort is in stark contrast to that of Senator John McCain of Arizona, who was forced to scale back his presidential campaign significantly last summer when he found it had been far overspending what it had raised while pursuing a national strategy.

Mr. Romney has bona fide management credentials, with joint M.B.A. and law degrees from Harvard (he attended Harvard Business School at the same time as Mr. Bush), and a stellar business reputation.

His management approach is built on several core principles, he says, including picking the right team, demanding data, conducting thorough analyses and making sure to have ways to measure success or failure. He said he had developed the process over time in both the private and public sectors.

“I don’t think there are many people who have had that experience in life, who have actually gone through that process again and again and again, and honed it down,” he said.

Much of Mr. Romney’s style was developed in his years at Bain Capital, the private equity powerhouse he helped found. He led a small team that singled out companies for takeover, revamped them and then sold them for profit. But the premium was less on operational prowess, which might be brought to running the sprawling federal bureaucracy, and more on salesmanship and deal making, as well as on the kind of intense analysis he had employed as a management consultant.

As governor, Mr. Romney did little direct managing, delegating much of that to his staff, Mr. Kriss said. When addressing challenges, including solving the state’s budget crisis and shaping its universal health care plan, he took an analytical approach. Both efforts began with Bain-style strategic audits.

His style in the campaign is similar, his aides said, with Mr. Romney relying on a circle of lieutenants, many of whom are longtime friends from Bain, the Olympics or the Statehouse, who are familiar with what he expects.

“He describes himself as the chairman of the company and me as the C.E.O.,” said Beth Myers, Mr. Romney’s campaign manager and former Statehouse chief of staff. “He does not manage this campaign.”

Even so, Ms. Myers consults with Mr. Romney daily by phone or e-mail. She said he demanded explanations for everything, like his travel itinerary and the balance between fund-raising and campaigning.

“It’s a daily thing of justifying,” she said, “making sure we’re not just doing something because we’re supposed to be doing it.”

His aides said Mr. Romney had early on laid out broad expectations for his staff, including that the campaign follow a strict budget. A committee reviews any unplanned expenditures and requires departments to make weekly cash forecasts. Mr. Romney gets monthly budget reports; Ms. Myers receives daily updates.

Another expectation was measuring progress in every aspect of the campaign. Mr. Gage, a veteran of several previous presidential campaigns, said the Romney campaign required a greater level of “documentation” than others he had worked for.

“A lot of presidential campaigns just end up on yellow legal pads,” he said. “People don’t write memos, prepare presentations or organize defenses. It is just sort of ad hoc.”

Staff meetings at the Romney campaign’s Boston headquarters are typically full of statistic-laden spreadsheets and PowerPoint slides. But the defining feature is the kind of back-and-forth that Mr. Romney demands before decisions.

Illustrative of this approach was the way the campaign went about deciding whether to stay in the Iowa Straw Poll after two rivals, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mr. McCain, announced on the same day in June that they were dropping out. The campaign had long been focused on the straw poll as a defining test that could lift Mr. Romney’s profile. But a watered-down field diminished its significance as a bellwether for the nomination and would still cost the campaign millions of dollars.

After a flurry of deliberations at the staff level, Mr. Romney had a conference call with his advisers. Gentry Collins, his Iowa state director, advocated staying in and had prepared data on a number of factors, like cost estimates and get-out-the-vote operations. Mr. Romney ran through a list of questions about why the other campaigns had dropped out and what could be gained by staying in.

“He was looking for a great deal of information,” Mr. Collins said.

By the end of the call, the consensus was to go ahead.

“He is not the kind of you guy can say, ‘We all decided to go do this,’ and he’ll sign off on it,” Mr. Collins said. “He demands to know why we wanted to make that decision, why someone else wants to make another decision.”
619 2007-11-24 PARIS, Nov. 23 (Reuters) — Internet users in France who frequently download music or films illegally risk losing Web access under a new antipiracy system unveiled on Friday.

The three-way pact among Internet service providers, the government and owners of film and music rights was drafted by a commission led by the chief executive of FNAC, a big music and film retailer in France. The industry has called for action against illicit downloads, which are cutting into its sales.

Under the agreement, service providers will issue warning messages to customers downloading files illegally. If users ignore those messages, their accounts could be suspended or closed altogether.

“We run the risk of witnessing a genuine destruction of culture,” President Nicolas Sarkozy said in a speech endorsing the deal.

He added that the Internet must not become a high-tech Wild West, “a lawless zone where outlaws can pillage works with abandon or, worse, trade in them in total impunity. And on whose backs? On artists’ backs.”
620 2007-11-24 The Topps Meat Company of Elizabeth, N.J., which nearly two months ago recalled 21.7 million pounds of hamburger meat, has declared bankruptcy, according to papers filed on Wednesday in federal bankruptcy court in Newark.

In the filing, Topps said the “severe economic impact of the recall” forced it to cease operations.

Topps shut its doors and laid off most of its employees on Oct. 5, a week after issuing one of the largest beef recalls ever. Federal and state health officials found at least three types of the O157:H7 strain of E. coli bacteria in the plant. At least 40 people in eight states were sickened by the contamination, which raised questions about the effectiveness of inspections by the federal Agriculture Department. The agency was also scrutinized for a delay of several weeks in requesting the recall after tests showed that meat sold by Topps was linked to illness from E. coli.

Federal investigators said the company failed to require adequate testing of raw beef it had bought from domestic suppliers, and it sometimes mixed tested and untested meat in its grinding machines.

The probable source of the E. coli contamination was Rancher’s Beef Ltd., a supplier of Topps based in Alberta, Canada, according to the Agriculture Department.

The Topps case is the most serious of 16 recalls this year involving E. coli contamination of beef.

In the bankruptcy filing, the company said that its property in Elizabeth and elsewhere “poses or is alleged to pose a threat of imminent and identifiable harm to the public health or safety.”
621 2007-11-24 Boeing is up about 35 percent in the same period, but it had been somewhat higher until recently. The stock has fallen more than 10 percent since the company reported logistical problems of its own in October.

Some foreign suppliers of components for the 787, the next-generation jet which Boeing is counting on for much of its growth, have not been able to meet deadlines, threatening the company’s timetable for delivering the finished article.

Boeing’s plan is to condense production time once the flow of parts from suppliers picks up. That would mean delivering far fewer planes than promised next year and far more in 2009.

THE inability of the stock to recover from its dive last month — it closed at $89.54 on Friday after peaking around $107 at the start of October— suggests investors are skeptical about the revamped schedule. The chief concern is that it calls for producing many more planes than expected before the 787 is certified for flight.

That raises the risk of more delays and greater expense if problems are discovered that require the 787 to be reworked substantially, said Joseph B. Nadol III, an analyst at JPMorgan. He rates the stock as neutral, a step up from the underweight rating he had for much of the last two years.

The revised 787 production plan can stir doubts even among Boeing bulls. Joseph P. Campbell, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, has an overweight rating and a $112 price target on the stock, even as he foresees $1 billion in added costs from the 787 glitches and wonders how the new timetable can be met. He remains a fan of the stock because he regards the production trouble as only a temporary setback.

“We expect Boeing will have a very hard time staying both on schedule and on budget for the 787, but both may still be possible,” he wrote in a research report. “Even so, we do not expect Boeing’s 787 program will miss in ways that are so important relative to the expected financial results that the share price performance will be negatively affected for extended periods.”

Richard Tortoriello, an analyst for Standard & Poor’s Equity Research, agrees. It may take a while getting into the air, but the 787 is a terrific plane, he said. “It’s more fuel-efficient and cheaper for airlines, and it seems to be the right size, too,” he said. “That’s one reason Boeing is selling so many of them. It’s a midsize plane that has a good range and can get into and out of a lot of airports.”

In other words, it is all that the next (extremely) big thing from Airbus is not. That 800-seater will be able to fly only to certain airports and on high-demand long-haul routes.

By focusing on the 787 and not the delays, Mr. Tortoriello arrives at a $118 target for Boeing’s stock.

“I don’t see it as a huge problem,” he said of the production trouble. “If they overcome it successfully, they should have a great, profitable program going forward. I think the stock price reflects a good dose of worry right now over the 787, and that’s where I see opportunity.”
622 2007-11-24 Britain has accused another former K.G.B. official, Andrei Lugovoi, of killing Mr. Litvinenko, but Russia has dismissed British calls for Mr. Lugovoi’s extradition.

The case has prompted a diplomatic chill between Britain and Russia. In July, Britain expelled four Russian officials and, in a tit-for-tat reprisal reminiscent of the cold war, Russia ordered four staff members of the British Embassy in Moscow to leave.

But Mr. Litvinenko’s supporters likened the British response to appeasement.

“This was aggression against a NATO country,” Oleg Gordievsky, a former K.G.B. officer who became a double agent for the British, told reporters on Thursday at the release of a book of writings by Mr. Litvinenko called “Allegations.”

“This was a dangerous crime to bring extremely dangerous radioactive material” into Britain, Mr. Gordievsky said. “It was a major crime to kill a British citizen by a hostile intelligence service.” Mr. Litvinenko died just weeks after securing British nationality.

British officials insist that their actions in July made clear their disapproval of Russia’s refusal to hand over Mr. Lugovoi. Speaking in return for customary anonymity, a British Foreign Office official said Friday that Britain would continue to press for Mr. Lugovoi’s extradition.

Some of Mr. Litvinenko’s supporters say, however, that they have given up hope that Mr. Lugovoi will ever face trial in Britain. Indeed, his widow, Marina Litvinenko, said in a statement on Friday that “diplomatic efforts to bring the murderers to stand trial in England are not likely to succeed.”

On Friday, Mrs. Litvinenko stood with several of her husband’s supporters outside London’s University College Hospital, where her husband died, listening to a rereading of his deathbed testament accusing Mr. Putin of responsibility for his death — an accusation that Russia has frequently dismissed.

The statement was read aloud by Alex Goldfarb, Mrs. Litvinenko’s co-author in a recent book about her husband, “Death of a Dissident.” Mr. Goldfarb also runs a New York foundation financed by Mr. Berezovsky, the self-exiled Russian tycoon and a bitter foe of Mr. Putin.

Later, in a private ceremony, the family and friends of Mr. Litvinenko gathered around his grave in Highgate, north London, some weeping as they laid fresh blossoms on his tomb. His mother, Nina Belyavskaya, lighted a candle that flickered in the pale sunlight of a chill wintry day.

Mr. Lugovoi has become something of a celebrity in his own country and is campaigning for election to the Russian Parliament in elections scheduled for Dec. 2. Depicting himself as a patriotic Russian subjected to a British conspiracy, he has accused the British security and intelligence services of trying to recruit him and of plotting Mr. Litvinenko’s death.

“It is clear to me what kind of justice we are talking about here,” he told Reuters in Kursk, in western Russia, on Thursday. But at a news conference on Friday, Mr. Berezovsky, speaking of Mr. Lugovoi, said that “if he is a patriot he should come here and clear the name of Russia.”
623 2007-11-24 THE Federal Reserve Board forecast this week that there will be no recession in the United States in the foreseeable future. It says the gross domestic product will grow by as little as 1.6 percent in 2008, but is confident that growth will accelerate after that.

That forecast — the first formally issued by the Fed in line with its effort to be more transparent — was released the same day that the Census Bureau reported a continued slowing of housing starts. The number of new homes being built is now little more than half the level of two years ago.

If the Fed is right, and the economy does stay out of recession, with the unemployment rate barely rising at all, then it will be the first time ever that a housing slowdown this severe has not coincided with a recession. In fact, there has never been a slowdown of anything like this magnitude until after a recession was under way.

The minutes of the October meeting of the Fed’s open market committee, which were released along with the forecast, conceded that there was a risk of a downturn. “Participants were concerned about the possibility for adverse feedbacks in which economic weakness could lead to further tightening in credit conditions, which could in turn slow the economy further,” the minutes reported.

The Fed said there was also a risk from “a more severe contraction in the housing sector and a substantial decline in house prices.”

But Fed officials also concluded that “in recent decades, the U.S. economy had proved quite resilient to episodes of financial distress, suggesting that the adverse effects of financial developments on economic activity outside of the housing sector could prove to be more modest than anticipated.”
624 2007-11-24 CASH INFUSION FOR H&R BLOCK H&R Block, the tax preparer, said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it had received $350 million of extra financing for its mortgage unit from Greenwich Capital Financial Products. The agreement increa...
625 2007-11-24 A federal appeals court ruled that Sony Music must pay the founder of a small record company $5 million for failing to put his company's logo on reissues of Meat Loaf's album ''Bat Out of Hell,'' The Associated Press reported yesterday. Steve Popo...
626 2007-11-24 Taslima Nasreen has been the target of death threats from extremist Muslims since 1994, when she published ''Shame,'' a novel that depicts violence against minority Hindus by Muslim fundamentalists in her native Bangladesh. Agence France-Presse re...
627 2007-11-24 CAREY--Emily (Warner), of Haverford, PA, on November 20, 2007, at age 77. Widow of John P. Carey, Jr., daughter of the late Major John Adams Warner and Emily Smith Warner, granddaughter of the late Gov. Alfred E. Smith. She is survived by her chil...
628 2007-11-25 Missouri's victory over Kansas legitimized its high ranking and gave quarterback Chase Daniel a serious boost in the Heisman Trophy race....
629 2007-11-25 Convention activities will go for 96 hours; with networks no longer providing wall-to-wall coverage and television viewership declining, Mr. Rosenberg hopes bloggers can help kindle excitement about the event and, by extension, about the Democrats themselves.

“Bloggers can give you 24-hour coverage of the convention, of the delegate meetings, of the caucuses, of the parties,” Mr. Rosenberg said. “Everything that goes on, the bloggers can be there to cover.” This includes speeches not delivered in prime time or too late for East Coast print deadlines.

“Bloggers have shown that they have access and they have reach, and their words can be just as influential as those of traditional media,” he added. “They have a very strong connection with their readers. They can sway elections and move message and that’s something we want to take advantage of.”

In 2004, just 30 bloggers had credentials to cover the Democratic convention; even fewer attended the Republican convention. Both parties are planning much wider blogger access in 2008.

The Democrats seem further along in their planning, both compared with the Republicans and compared with where the Democrats were in 2004. That year, the online planning didn’t begin until March, just a few months before the Boston convention. By contrast, Mr. Rosenberg moved to Denver in September, a full year before next year’s convention.

The final number of bloggers has yet to be determined (applications are being accepted between Dec. 10 and April 15). The Democrats are starting a state blogger corps, with credentials going to 56 blogs, one from each state plus the territories. Beyond that, they will credential many more for a general blogger pool made up of local, state and national political blogs as well as video blogs and niche blogs that are not directly about politics but cover the subject in some way.

Mr. Rosenberg said the bloggers would be of “all stripes,” but asked if that included Republican or conservative bloggers, he said that would be decided case by case.

No matter how many bloggers are credentialed, hundreds more are expected among the 35,000 convention-goers in Denver. So the local Colorado blogosphere, spearheaded by ProgressNowAction.org and in conjunction with dailykos.com, is picking up the slack and hosting a blogger hangout at the Alliance Center, just across the street from the Pepsi Center.

Jen Caltrider, executive producer of ProgressNowAction, said the Democrats “are doing a pretty good job of bringing bloggers into the fold” and that the Alliance Center is not so much an alternative to the convention as an adjunct. It will provide food, couches, big televisions, studios for multi-media mixing and will snag big-name convention-goers for interviews with the non-credentialed bloggers.

In a plug for the blogger center, Markos Moulitsas, the founder of dailykos, wrote recently: “I learned in 2004 that being in the convention hall is not that great. It’s hot. You get the crappiest seats. WiFi is spotty at best. Getting through security is a nightmare. Ugh. I’m not even going to apply for a pass.”

He said that not being at the convention center “won’t be a disaster, since the REAL fun will be at our blogger gathering.”

Ms. Caltrider said that so far, 1,300 people had signed up http://www.progressnowaction.org/page/s/Denver2008 for more information, and her group is now in search of sponsors (heads up, Google). “As with most things in the blogging community, it’s not highly organized,” she said. “It’s organic.”

But, she said, even mainstream media types would be welcome at the Alliance Center. That’s where the MSM and the bloggers can interview each other.
630 2007-11-25 The Tigers will next play No. 10 Oklahoma (10-2, 6-2) Dec. 1 in the Big 12 Championship game in San Antonio. Last month, Missouri lost at Oklahoma, 41-31.

Kansas (11-1, 7-1), which entered the game ranked eighth nationally in defense at 300 yards a game, gave up 519 yards of offense to the Tigers.

“Missouri’s offense is really talented,” Kansas Coach Mark Mangino said. “They pitch and catch very well.”

In front of a national television audience, the Missouri junior quarterback Chase Daniel made a strong case to be considered for the Heisman Trophy by completing 40 of 49 passes for 361 yards and 3 touchdowns.

“This guy is special,” Pinkel said of Daniel. “I’ve said this for a year and a half. America got to see today how special he is. What a remarkable competitor.”

This season, Daniel has thrown for 3,951 yards and 33 touchdowns, and has thrown 9 interceptions.

Asked whether his play Saturday night was worthy of a Heisman, Daniel said: “I’ll let you all take care of that. I’m just playing football and trying to win football games.”

Trailing by 14-0 at halftime, Kansas took the second-half kickoff and drove deep into Missouri territory before quarterback Todd Reesing was intercepted at the Tigers’ 11 by Castine Bridges, who returned the ball 49 yards.

After the interception, Missouri covered 40 yards in a seven-play drive capped by a 1-yard touchdown run by Jimmy Jackson for a 21-0 advantage with 10 minutes 36 seconds left in the third quarter.

The teams traded touchdowns before Kansas scored its second touchdown on Reesing’s 5-yard run with 13:02 left in the game. Missouri kicker Jeff Wolfert’s 43-yard field goal a little more than three minutes later made the score 31-14, allowing the Tigers to remain as the only team in the Football Bowl Subdivision to score at least 30 points in every game this season.

Kansas pulled to 10 points behind after a 10-yard Reesing touchdown pass with 8:28 left in the game, but the Tigers scored on another field goal by Wolfert. Reesing then threw another touchdown pass, but the Jayhawks could not recover their onside kick with about two minutes left.

Missouri scored the game’s final points on a safety with 12 seconds left, setting off flickering camera flashes throughout the stadium.

The stakes of Saturday night’s game were perhaps the biggest of the 116 meetings between the teams. The annual game is the second most-played rivalry in the bowl subdivision, behind Wisconsin-Minnesota.

The Tigers opened the scoring with 29 seconds left in the first quarter. Facing fourth-and-goal, they lined up in a shotgun, five-wide receiver formation from which Daniel passed to tight end Martin Rucker for a 1-yard touchdown at the Missouri end of the stadium.

Afterward, Daniel jumped up and down, swinging his arms upward to pump up the frenzied Tigers fans.

Kansas, which entered the game having only trailed for 27:15 this season, advanced into Missouri territory for the first time on the second play of the ensuing drive on Reesing’s 39-yard pass to wide receiver Kerry Meier that went to the Tigers’ 26.

On the next play, Reesing underthrew wide receiver Dexton Fields at the Tigers’ 2 and was intercepted. It was Reesing’s first interception in 213 passing attempts, dating to last month’s Kansas State game.

The Tigers converted the turnover into Daniel’s second touchdown of the game, a 11-yard pass to wide receiver Danario Alexander for a 14-0 lead with 9:21 left in the second quarter. On the play, Daniel scrambled for 12 seconds and received a key block from an offensive lineman right before he threw the ball.

Kansas rebounded on its next possession and drove to the Missouri 16. From there, Scott Webb missed a 33-yard field-goal attempt, his kick hitting the right upright with 6:26 left in the second quarter.

After the miss, Mangino calmly walked over to his offense on the sideline and began raising his right hand, which held his game plan, as if to tell his players to keep their heads up.

After a Missouri punt, Webb missed another field goal, this time wide left from 45 yards with less than 90 seconds left in the second quarter.

Webb’s misses would have made a difference against a Missouri team that could be the Associated Press poll’s fourth new No. 1 this season.
631 2007-11-25 While many of those interviewed here had not made up their minds, and could say little about where Mr. Thompson stood on issues beyond gun rights, there was a reservoir of good will for the fellow Southerner.

Mr. Thompson was quick to remind everyone he met that he was just a “Tennessee boy,” inquiring of at least two men if they were “South Carolina boys.”

He moved slowly from booth to booth, looking admiringly over the various arsenals on display.

Mr. Thompson is increasingly highlighting the fact that two main rivals, Mr. Giuliani and Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, hail from the Northeast.

After the gun show, Mr. Thompson, jokingly referred to one reporter as a “Yankee” before challenging Mr. Giuliani on what he said was a recent conversion to supporting gun owners’ rights. “He never met a gun-control bill he didn’t like until he started to run for president,” Mr. Thompson said.

In New Hampshire on Friday, Mr. Thompson said Mr. Giuliani relies too much on his experience in New York. “Well, New York City is not emblematic of the rest of the country,” he said.

The Thompson campaign has always viewed South Carolina as a must-win state. While Mr. Thompson still does well in the polls here, he has plummeted in the ones in New Hampshire — now ranking behind Representative Ron Paul of Texas — and is lagging in Iowa, well behind Mr. Romney and Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas.

At the gun show, it was not guns that most voters wanted to talk about, but immigration.

In conversations with voters, Mr. Thompson disparaged “sanctuary cities,” which he paints as overly accommodating to illegal immigrants, talked about the threat of biological weapons’ being smuggled across the border, railed against the loss of American jobs and declared the need to make English the official language.

SIOUX CITY, Iowa — Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton had some tough words Saturday afternoon for the college student loan industry, saying banks and other lenders had “ripped off” students with high interest rates and onerous repayment plans.

“I want to get rid of the student loan companies,” Mrs. Clinton said in Sioux City, as she laid out her college affordability plan in response to a parent’s concern about tuition. “I kept working and I got a little scholarship, and I borrowed money from the government at 2 percent interest.”
632 2007-11-25 Axel Teichmann of Germany and Marit Bjorgen won the season-opening distance races at a World Cup cross-country ski meet yesterday in Beitostolen, Norway.Teichmann covered the men’s 15-kilometer freestyle event in 36 minutes 31.1 seconds, beating Lukas Bauer of the Czech Republic by 6.3 seconds. Anders Sodergren of Sweden was third, 31.3 seconds back.Bjorgen, of Norway, won the women’s race, beating Vibeke Skofterud by 20.3 seconds.Bjorgen, a former two-time overall champion, finished in 26:16.3 for her 29th World Cup victoryh.
633 2007-11-25 As he fights to hold on to power, General Musharraf finds himself opposed by the expanded middle class that is among his greatest achievements, and using his emergency powers to rein in another major advance he set in motion, a vibrant, independent news media.

Since he took power, Pakistan’s gross domestic product has doubled. The number of cellphones has soared to 50 million, from 600,000 six years ago. The privatization of banks has led to a huge increase in the sales of cars, motorcycles and, perhaps most important, television sets. Globalization has taken hold, as it has in other countries.

That spreading economic success — and exposure to the outside world — has filled Pakistan’s white collar office workers, stockbrokers and small-business operators with a belief that their country can be more than the backward fief of a few generals, many said in interviews.

While increasingly dissatisfied, however, their ranks remain too thin to exert much influence over Pakistan’s politics, political scientists say. Nonetheless, their emergence could prove decisive, particularly if growing anger translates into greater political activism and broader alliances.

“The emerging urban middle class is very important to Pakistan’s future,” said Teresita Schaffer, South Asia program director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “But by themselves, they are not numerous enough to swing elections or spearhead a major social movement.”

The size of Pakistan’s expanded middle class is in fact debated. Tara Vishwanath, the World Bank’s lead economist for South Asia, said 5 percent of Pakistan’s 160 million people — or roughly 8 million Pakistanis — appear to have moved from living in poverty to being part of the lower middle class between 2001 and 2004. She said data being collected this year was needed to confirm whether the increase was permanent.

While they have no precise figures, Pakistani political scientists say the upper and middle classes may now include 10 to 20 percent of the population.

But, they caution, the recent economic growth has been uneven and concentrated in the banking, cellphone and construction industries while the agriculture and textile sectors have remained stagnant.

Lagging behind has been the roughly 65 percent of the population that lives in rural Pakistan and that has long been where politics is played.

For decades, Pakistan’s moderate elite has been dismissed as “the chattering classes,” who have shied away from the political arena and rarely voted.

Instead the political system has been dominated by feudal landlords who could deliver huge blocks of votes from poor tenant farmers. The key to winning elections was striking the right alliances and spreading graft, not developing a coherent political platform or putting in place broadly beneficial social policies.

Yet the country is slowly changing, in ways that have left a growing number arguing that Pakistan is more prepared than ever for democratic rule.

Growing political and economic clout from the upper and middle classes has helped fuel the creation of the booming cable television industry, which shows programs from around the world and includes a dozen aggressively independent news networks.

Business owners mounted a sweeping private relief effort during the 2005 earthquake that devastated northern Pakistan.

This spring, the middle class vigorously supported a successful campaign by the country’s lawyers to reverse an attempt by General Musharraf to dismiss the country’s chief justice.

For now, greater mobilization is hobbled by a deep distrust of their political leaders and the United States. A perception is growing that the United States will betray middle-class Pakistanis — Washington’s greatest long-term ally in the fight against terrorism — and continue backing an unpopular military ruler who refuses to give up power.

Many said they believed that General Musharraf had tried to contain — but not eliminate — a dangerous rise in militancy in the country because it allowed him to garner billions in American military aid for Pakistan’s army.

“The U.S. needs to realize that Musharraf is not fighting against terrorism and will not fight against terrorism,” said a student at one of the country’s elite universities who said she feared arrest if her name was printed. “He’s only interested in his own survival.”

Since the emergency decree, small pockets of upper- and middle-class activism have emerged. Lawyers are carrying out protests. Students are writing blogs. Journalists are resisting government censorship.

Yet so far few have joined the small protests by the country’s main opposition political parties. They express disdain for the main opposition leaders, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, two former prime ministers whose rule in the 1990s was plagued by allegations of corruption.

“I don’t like anyone,” said Tahir Mehmood, a 23-year-old cellphone shop owner, referring to the country’s political leaders. “Whoever comes, they fill their own pockets.”

Instead, the protests by middle- and upper-class Pakistanis have been quieter. On a recent Friday, Mumtaz Ali, a 27-year-old lawyer who studied law in London, typed e-mail messages on his laptop before heading to a small protest rally.

The messages were thank-you notes to the heads of the American Bar Association and New York City Bar Association for recent protests they held against General Musharraf.

Other wealthy Pakistanis have contacted members of Congress — as well as classmates from American colleges they attended — and urged them to cut American aid to Pakistan, according to Western diplomats.

If free and fair elections are held, new political leaders will emerge in Pakistan, Mr. Ali said, and middle-class apathy will decrease. “The reason they are not going into the streets, is only because they do not have a leader before them,” he said.

Political scientists here agreed. “I think they will vote this time if there is a level playing field,” said Rasul Bakhsh Rais, a political scientist at the Lahore University of Management Sciences. “The middle class that we are talking about is about changing the system.”
634 2007-11-25 BAE and the Saudis have openly acknowledged the payments at the center of the investigation, deny any wrongdoing and say that the payments were known to the British and Saudi governments. “We are aware of the U.S. D.O.J. investigation and we are fully cooperating,” a BAE spokeswoman said. “As it is an ongoing investigation, we cannot comment any further.”

While the BAE investigation apparently ran aground in Britain, it has gained enough interest in the United States to cause some of those in the middle of it to secure high-profile legal advisers. Prince Bandar, a confidant of the Bush family, recently retained the former Federal Bureau of Investigation director Louis J. Freeh, as well as one of the fathers of the F.C.P.A., the retired federal judge Stanley Sporkin, to represent him.

“There have been no charges filed,” Mr. Freeh said in an interview. “The prince denies any impropriety and violating any statutes in the United Kingdom or the United States.”

The revelation that British investigators had discovered that BAE deposited $2 billion in payments into Prince Bandar’s Washington bank accounts led the Justice Department to enter what analysts describe as the highest-profile F.C.P.A. case to date. Passed by Congress three decades ago in the wake of Watergate, it is only in the last five years that the F.C.P.A. has become a powerful tool for prosecuting domestic and overseas companies suspected of bribing foreign officials to secure business.

Justice Department officials estimate that there are about 60 such cases under investigation or prosecution in the United States, with a new, five-member F.B.I. team dedicated to examining possible violations of the act. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group based in Paris that represents 30 industrialized countries, there are more than 150 prosecutions or investigations worldwide involving possible bribery of government officials for commercial gain.

While law enforcement officials and governments in disparate jurisdictions once hesitated to work together to combat corporate fraud, graft has come to be seen as such a severe impediment to global economic growth that cooperation is becoming more frequent.

Analysts say that this shift, along with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley law tightening corporate oversight — and a greater willingness among companies themselves to tackle corruption — has also begun to change how many corporations operate in poorer, developing countries where graft has been most detrimental.

Lawyers, prosecutors and corporate executives in the United States and abroad say they are closely watching the BAE investigation because it offers a test of how aggressively anti-corruption initiatives will be pursued globally, particularly in countries like Britain and Japan that have resisted enforcing such efforts. “The BAE case is a watershed moment,” says Mark Pieth, who oversees anti-bribery efforts for the O.E.C.D. “Large multinationals in many countries have come to us and told us that.”

FOR BAE, the fact that billions in payments to Prince Bandar and his relatives might be considered bribes means more than just the potential imposition of heavy fines. It may also mean, analysts say, that BAE executives potentially could go to prison and the company might find itself barred from doing business with the United States government.

The taint of bribery scandals in emerging markets could also have bruising financial implications for BAE. In regions of the world where bribe-taking has long been baked into business transactions — East Asia, the former Soviet Union, Africa and Latin America, for example — legal investigations could make the company vulnerable as those areas become more desirable for military contractors looking for new clients.

For companies that have not adapted to the new legal landscape, the consequences are becoming more serious. This year, Baker Hughes, the oil services company, paid a record $44 million fine after admitting that it had bribed officials in Kazakhstan, Angola, Russia, Nigeria and elsewhere.

Halliburton, an oil services giant that was once headed by Vice President Dick Cheney, has disclosed that it is facing an F.C.P.A. investigation into its activities in Nigeria before, during and after Mr. Cheney’s tenure at the company. A spokeswoman for the vice president declined to comment. Halliburton did not respond to an interview request.

Aon, a major insurance broker, recently disclosed in corporate filings that it is the subject of an F.C.P.A. inquiry but declined to provide further details. Last month, the Willbros Group, an oil services company, said it would pay $32 million to settle an F.C.P.A. charge related to bribes paid in Nigeria and elsewhere — including $1 million handed over in a suitcase. A former Willbros executive who pleaded guilty to federal charges in the case faces a prison sentence of as much as five years. While executives involved in paying bribes can be jailed, foreign officials cannot be charged under the law.

“The F.C.P.A. has now surpassed Sarbanes-Oxley for being at the nerve endings of corporate general counsels and executives,” says Daniel E. Karson, executive managing director at Kroll Associates, a private investigative firm that conducts due diligence and background investigations for corporations and other clients.

Last week, Alice Fisher, assistant attorney general and head of the Justice Department’s criminal division, traveled to Rome for an anticorruption conference marking the 10th anniversary of the O.E.C.D.’s adoption of anti-bribery regulations, which parallel the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

Ms. Fisher, who declined to comment on the BAE case, said her F.C.P.A. caseload this year was running at twice last year’s pace, and she predicted that the upward trend would continue in 2008. She said she planned to press her overseas law enforcement counterparts in Rome for continued collaboration to combat corporate bribery.

“I don’t take many foreign trips, but this is important to the overall program,” she said. “There are a lot of countries that can do more.”

ONE of those countries, ironically, is Britain, usually among the closest of allies of the United States. Historically, according to documents in British government archives, Britain, long dependent on foreign trade, has resisted anticorruption efforts because it believes that they undermine the country’s business interests abroad.

After a series of articles in 2003 and 2004 in The Guardian, the British newspaper, about possible bribes and other improprieties involving BAE, the Serious Fraud Office of Britain started an official investigation. But after the Saudi government strongly objected to the investigation, Mr. Blair, then the prime minister, ordered it halted late last year on security grounds.

“The result would have been devastating for our relationship with an important country with whom we cooperate closely on terrorism, on security, on the Middle East peace process,” Mr. Blair said at a news conference. “That is leaving aside the thousands of jobs which would have been lost, which is not the consideration in this case, but I just point it out.”

The British High Court recently ordered a full judicial review of Mr. Blair’s decision not to pursue the BAE investigation. Meanwhile, the Justice Department’s BAE investigation has benefited from cooperation by law enforcement agencies elsewhere in Europe, according to people with direct knowledge of the inquiry. A decade ago, such cooperation would have been impossible because many European governments considered corporate bribery tolerable — and in the case of Germany, even made it tax-deductible, as “Schmiergeld,” or “grease money.”

Since then, German authorities have become particularly aggressive in pursuing possible corruption violations, as illustrated through their continuing investigation of Siemens AG, the German industrial conglomerate. Although some American companies once actively lobbied to water down the F.C.P.A., arguing that it made it hard to compete overseas, many corporations here have now thrown their weight behind it in the belief that it can be used to prevent competitors from indulging in bribes. So anti-corruption efforts in the United States are now gathering legal steam.

“There has been a dramatic increase in the resources dedicated to enforcing the law by the Justice Department and the F.B.I., and even more important, a strong public commitment to compliance as well as enforcement,” says Peter B. Clark, who oversaw F.C.P.A. prosecutions at the Justice Department from the enactment of the law in 1977 until his retirement two years ago.

According to top Justice Department officials, strengthening F.C.P.A. enforcement isn’t only about getting American companies to clean up their act or punishing foreign enterprises for breaking domestic laws. It is also part of an attempt to deal with the long-term impact that bribery has on emerging markets.

“Corruption undercuts democracy, stifles economic growth and creates an uneven playing field for U.S. companies overseas,” Ms. Fisher says. “We are facing transnational crime all over the place.”

Any company with an American connection — a listing on the New York Stock Exchange, for example, or the use of an American bank account to transfer suspect payments — opens the door for prosecution under the F.C.P.A. For example, the Justice Department began investigating BAE’s payments to the Saudi royals, and Prince Bandar in particular, this year, after it learned that BAE deposited billions of dollars in such payments in American banks.

Among those institutions was Riggs Bank. Riggs, a subsidiary of the Riggs National Corporation, paid $41 million in federal penalties in 2004 and 2005 to settle a high-profile federal investigation of money-laundering violations before it was taken over by the PNC Financial Services Group. A PNC spokesman declined to comment directly on the BAE matter, but said that any possible transgressions occurred before the takeover and that Riggs was required to divest units catering to diplomats and foreign clients before the buyout.

ON a rainy morning this August, an unusual visitor arrived at the Justice Department’s headquarters in Washington. Although a British citizen, he had, for security reasons, taken a circuitous route via Paris to meet with senior Justice Department prosecutors, F.B.I. agents and members of the criminal division of the Internal Revenue Service.

During two days of questioning in a windowless conference room, that visitor, Peter Gardiner, detailed how he had helped BAE disburse millions to the Saudi royal family to pay for everything from luxury travel to female escorts, according to people with knowledge of the meeting who insisted on anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss the case.

Much of the money Mr. Gardiner said he had disbursed went to cover expenses racked up by Prince Turki bin Nasser, head of the Saudi air force and a major BAE customer. Other funds were earmarked for the honeymoon of Prince Bandar’s daughter. Mr. Gardiner owned a travel agency that catered to the needs of BAE and its Saudi customers, and his information about their dealings has been known to British authorities for some time. It was also a primary basis for some of The Guardian’s articles about the matter.

But the meetings, on Aug. 20 and 21, signaled that the Justice Department had moved beyond asking London for assistance with the investigation to interviewing witnesses and collecting documents directly, based on the belief that BAE’s payments may have violated United States laws banning international bribery and money laundering.

When contacted for an interview about the meetings, Mr. Gardiner said that the Justice Department had asked him not to comment.

In September, about 10 months after Mr. Blair quashed the BAE investigation in Britain, the company won a new contract to supply Typhoon jets to Saudi Arabia; the deal could amount to $60 billion over the next 25 years, according to trade publications.

By the time Mr. Blair shut down the British investigation late last year, however, the Justice Department was already aware of BAE’s practices. As far back as July 2002, representatives from the State, Justice and Defense departments, as well as the C.I.A., sat down in Washington with senior British officials from the Ministry of Defense to complain about suspected bribery by BAE in Central Europe, the Persian Gulf and South Africa.

Sir Kevin Tebbit, then Britain’s permanent under secretary of the Ministry of Defense, rejected the suspicions as baseless. American officials who participated in the meeting later nicknamed him Sir Topham Hatt after a character in the Thomas the Tank Engine children’s series because of what they said was “his almost haughty disdain for the allegations of bribery involving BAE” and the manner in which he challenged them to detail evidence of wrongdoing.

Mr. Tebbit, now retired, declined to comment and referred questions about his interactions with American officials to his former employers in the Ministry of Defense. The ministry declined to comment.

The meeting with Mr. Tebbit came after the United States Defense Department, along with the military contractors Lockheed and Boeing, formally withdrew from a competition to sell fighter aircraft to the Czech Republic in 2001. A letter written by Lt. Gen. Tome H. Walters Jr., then head of overseas sales for the Pentagon, to the Czech foreign minister said that there was a “lack of transparency” in the negotiations. The letter also cited a conclusion by the United States government that competition for the contract was not above board. The contract was subsequently awarded to BAE and its Swedish partner, Saab.

In an interview, General Walters, now retired, said that the problems in the Czech Republic followed similar problems trying to sell American jets to the Hungarian government. BAE secured the Hungarian contract as well. American officials say they believe that the Hungarian and Czech governments were influenced by payments. They cite a C.I.A. briefing during which they were told that BAE paid millions of dollars to the major political parties in Hungary to win the contracts there.

BAE said it is unaware of any investigations of the company in Hungary. “BAE Systems has very strong policies and processes in place which it is clearly committed to communicating to its employees and advisers,” a spokesman said. “Any action which is unlawful, dishonest, harmful to others or otherwise against our policies, is unacceptable.”

Although Mr. Gardiner’s cooperation signaled a possible escalation in the American investigation, those with knowledge of the inquiry say British authorities are resisting requests from Washington for help. Representatives of the Home Office of Britain, which handles these requests, have told Parliament that they have yet to decide whether to cooperate.

Despite tensions between the United States and Britain over the matter, Swiss law enforcement authorities have decided to cooperate with the Justice Department investigation, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The Swiss are likely to soon begin sharing records of financial transactions and bank accounts with American prosecutors. That will be crucial to charting what law enforcement officials describe as a flow of dollars from BAE to a network of company agents and public officials in Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Hungary and the Czech Republic.

So far, the American investigation hasn’t harmed BAE’s booming business with the Pentagon. This summer, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, citing the inquiry, objected to BAE’s purchase of Armor Holdings, which makes armored Humvees and other military equipment, in letters to the Justice Department and the Treasury Department. But the Armor Holdings sale was completed in July for $4.5 billion.

DESPITE the new fondness for the F.C.P.A. in domestic law enforcement circles, the cases are notoriously complex to prosecute and are made even more so by the fact that many overseas jurisdictions are involved. Even in an era of increasing cooperation, internal politics in other countries can become roadblocks.

“The rhetoric has changed,” says Benjamin W. Heineman Jr., who was General Electric’s chief legal officer from 1987 to 2005. “Everybody says the right thing now, but what are they doing?”

Mr. Heineman praises the Justice Department’s efforts but says he is frustrated that the O.E.C.D. isn’t doing even more, especially in the BAE case. “They don’t powerfully name and shame the laggards,” he says.

The threat of an indictment under the F.C.P.A., more than financial penalties, is what worries most companies that may come under scrutiny as part of the Justice Department’s crackdown on bribery.

“No publicly traded company wants to be branded with the stigma of an indictment,” says David Zornow, who directs the white-collar criminal practice in New York for the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. “It’s potentially ruinous.”

Multinational companies competing in these countries are turning to law and accounting firms as well corporate investigators like Kroll to help them navigate through the F.C.P.A.’s regulations and to vet local partners in countries like China and Nigeria.

PricewaterhouseCoopers has doubled the size of its F.C.P.A. practice over the past five years. Deloitte & Touche has mobilized in a similar way. It says that when it scrutinizes companies for possible bribery problems, it looks for such red flags as tuition payments for the children of government administrators, property purchases or rentals from foreign officials or their relatives, and payments in exchange for information about competitor’s activities.

Lawyers with experience in F.C.P.A. cases say that gathering facts in such matters is never easy. Kevin T. Abikoff, a lawyer at Hughes, Hubbard & Reed who has represented several companies accused of running afoul of the F.C.P.A. in Nigeria, says that large companies typically cut employees loose once they are charged with a crime.

“It’s a rare person who says, ‘It was me; it’s my fault,’” he says. “There’s finger-pointing up, down and sideways.”

During the O.E.C.D. anti-corruption meeting in Rome last week, which celebrated the 10th anniversary of the organization’s treaty outlawing international bribery, its head, Angel Gurria, said that national security concerns — the reason Mr. Blair gave for terminating the BAE investigation in Britain — “should not be used” as a reason for quashing bribery investigations. He also voiced concern that anti-corruption efforts were in danger of weakening.

“Now I do not want to spoil the birthday party, but I do have to say that what we have achieved is still not good enough,” he added. “There will be big risks that countries will go back to doing ‘business as usual,’ including corruption. The only way to prevent this is to ensure that everyone plays by the same rules.”
635 2007-11-25 Despite a rally during a shortened trading session on Friday, the stock market gave up more ground last week, as the Federal Reserve issued an expanded and rather gloomy report on the economy.

Wall Street shut down on Thursday for Thanksgiving and rebounded on Friday, but not enough to recover from losses incurred earlier in the week. The Fed’s economic forecast, issued in a new, more detailed format, didn’t help matters. The Fed projected reduced economic growth, higher unemployment and a continued threat from inflation. That report came on top of high oil prices and a weak dollar.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 195.91 points, or 1.49 percent, to close at 12,980.88. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index declined 18.04 points, or 1.24 percent, to close at 1,440.70.

The Nasdaq composite index lost 40.64 points, or 1.54 percent, to close at 2,596.60.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped to 4.00 percent from 4.17 percent the previous week.
636 2007-11-25 This isn’t just true of fashion retailers like American Eagle Outfitters, which is down more than 28 percent this year, or Talbots, off 41 percent. Even Starbucks, whose coffeehouses have become a ubiquitous feature of the American landscape, just reported a decline in same-store sales for the first time. I confess to being a Starbucks regular — I waited in line for my venti half-caf before sitting down to write this column — but its shares are near 2 1/2-year lows.

Part of that drop is because the United States economy seems to be slowing, and the meltdown in the housing sector is affecting consumers’ willingness to spend.

But Wall Street veterans like Byron Wien, who spent decades at Morgan Stanley and is now chief investment strategist at Pequot Capital, also question whether the Peter Lynch approach makes sense anymore. “Times change; markets evolve,” he notes. “What might have worked in the 1970s and 1980s may not work today.”

In part, Mr. Wien says that’s because there is faster growth outside of the United States today in countries like India and China, “and you’re not likely to hang out in those places, even if you visit them.”

What’s more, he says, the sectors that have boomed in recent years have included commodities and energy, “and they’re not the kind of thing that are likely to be part of your everyday experience.”

“Home Depot is a terrific place to shop,” he adds. “But it’s been a disappointing stock. Understanding balance sheets and being able to make earnings projections is more important than anecdotal experience.”

Now semiretired, although he still works with younger Fidelity analysts, Mr. Lynch says he never claimed that investing was simple — or easy: “People take this to the extreme and say, ‘Lynch says you can go to the mall and make a ton of money.’ ”

“You got to do the research,” he adds. “These are not lottery tickets. You’ve got to ask what inning of the ballgame are we in? Is this company financially solid? Are they profitable? When you’re in every mall in the U.S., and there’s nowhere to go, it’s hard to grow.”

Kimberly Greenberger, who covers specialty apparel retailers like American Eagle, J. Crew and Abercrombie & Fitch for Citigroup, wouldn’t knock Mr. Lynch. But she, too, cautions that a packed store on the Friday after Thanksgiving, or even the entire month of December, is very different from a potential winner on Wall Street.

“They’re going to be very busy,” she says. “But these retailers will be judged on year-over-year revenue growth and it’s very difficult for individuals to judge sales relative to last year.”

IN fact, she adds that while there are names in her sector that she likes, like Gap and TJX, owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, she doesn’t consider her group suitable for buy-and-hold investors.

“These are volatile businesses,” she says. “Their problem is figuring out today what I’m going to respond to emotionally next spring, and that’s just a very, very difficult bar to hit on a regular basis.”
637 2007-11-25 At least a half-dozen sponsors, including Fidelity Investments and the Vanguard Group, have either begun marketing retiree-oriented funds or have announced plans to do so.

More are undoubtedly on the way, predicted Burton J. Greenwald, a mutual fund consultant in Philadelphia. “It’s a natural evolution,” he said. “All the major fund sponsors will have such products in a short period of time.”

Investors can choose among significantly different approaches. Some retirees will expect a specific monthly payout while others will favor a variable amount, based on what the portfolio generates. Some will want a fund whose principal is depleted by a certain year — say, 2028 — while others will want one that leaves assets for their heirs.

But while some funds offer annuity-like features, and expect to make consistent payouts, none carry an annuity’s contractual guarantee of specific payouts. One of the first firms off the mark this fall was Fidelity, whose Income Replacement Funds come with a choice of 11 targets, or time horizons, from 2016 to 2036. You specify how big a check you want each month to be paid from the portfolio’s earnings from other Fidelity stock and bond funds, supplemented with as much of your principal as is necessary. If all goes well, your payment will rise each year to keep pace with inflation. The asset allocation of the fund shifts more toward bonds as the years pass. By the horizon date, the fund is liquidated.

Vanguard’s entry, called Managed Payout Funds, is expected to be available in December or January, and is not intended to deplete itself. But whether it can sustain payouts without returning at least some shareholder capital will depend on investment results.

Vanguard will set the payout annually, based on fund performance for the three preceding years: The Real Growth fund expects an initial 3 percent distribution rate, the Moderate Growth fund a 5 percent rate and the Capital Preservation fund a 7 percent rate. Lower payouts imply a greater probability of long-term growth and capital appreciation; Vanguard, unlike Fidelity, will invest in a broad spectrum of asset classes to include commodities, real estate and a new market-neutral fund. Diversity of assets, with little performance correlation to one another, can aid capital preservation as well as returns.

“The availability of a distribution service in a fund without having to sign up and move assets and try to figure out where to take them from first is an attractive vehicle for people,” said Ellen Rinaldi, a principal in Vanguard’s investment counseling and research unit.

Retirees want access to their money, she added, and unlike annuities, which tie up your principal, mutual funds provide it.

What distinguishes John Hancock’s proposed Retirement Income Portfolio and Retirement Rising Income Portfolio from the Vanguard funds is that the dividend is fixed in dollars and cents. In the Rising Income portfolio, it climbs by the inflation rate each year.

At Charles Schwab, the Premier Income fund, with three share classes and a minimum investment of $100, was started at the end of October after raising $116 million during a four-week subscription period. The fund is focused purely on income, not a combination of income and total return, the way some competitors’ offerings are, said Patrick S. Waters, Schwab’s director of retirement investment products.

Other new offerings tailored for retirees are three funds from the Russell Investment Group with specific payouts for 10 or 20 years. They are to be available early next year.

THE Investment Company Act of 1940 bars mutual funds from offering a guaranteed return. But John Hancock has applied for an exemption to the law and believes that if the rules change, future funds of this type will typically carry a guarantee.

Indeed, the DWS Scudder unit of Deutsche Bank expects early next year to begin marketing a fund whose 8.25 percent annual payments over 10 years are to be backed by a warranty from Merrill Lynch. At maturity, the net asset value would be paid to shareholders, or rolled over into another fund.

“I think there will be a move to try to guarantee these products” broadly, predicted Andrew G. Arnott, a product development official at Hancock.

Although retiree-oriented funds seem to have a bright future, specialists say they should not be bought without considering expenses, taxes and, for those who are at least 70 ½ years old, how they mesh with required annual distributions from Individual Retirement Accounts and 401(k)’s.

Some funds are fairly expensive. Shares of Schwab’s Premier Income fund, for example, will cost as much as 0.87 percent a year, versus 0.34 percent for the Vanguard Managed Payout funds. And if the funds are held in a tax-deferred account, penalties can apply to withdrawals if investors are under 59 ½.

Bruce J. Berno, an independent financial planner in Cincinnati, advised investors to be mindful of the source of money they will put into new funds. It’s probably better to use “fresh” cash, he said, than proceeds from selling taxable investments that have capital gains. (In I.R.A.’s, however, money can be rolled over between funds without tax consequences.) What’s more, he observed, most investors who keep the funds in retirement accounts will find that their payments are not big enough by themselves to meet requirements, starting at age 70 ½, for annual distributions tied to people’s longevity prospects. That means investors may have to withdraw money from other retirement accounts as well.

“They’re designed to deliver income, not to optimize taxes,” said Ms. Rinaldi at Vanguard.

Dan Culloton, a senior fund analyst at Morningstar, said that the industry seemed to be meeting a need while avoiding “quick-fix, easy-to-sell” solutions. “The most obvious use for these seems to be for people getting out of their 401(k) plans or people trying to turn their I.R.A.’s into income,” Mr. Culloton said. “They’re designed to help guard against the risk of running out of funds before you run out of days.”

But he urged savers to recognize that in some cases, income payments would be coming out of their own capital, and that these funds could decline in value.

“Their goal is plausible,” he said, but their usefulness will become clearer as the funds “build a track record and people get a feel for how to use them.”
638 2007-11-25 Re “McCain’s Stance on Torture Becomes Riveting Issue in Campaign” (news article, Nov. 16):

One wonders if Republicans genuinely believe in “aggressive interrogation” of detainees or it’s just more swagger. How would they react if an American G.I. is kidnapped in Iraq and shows up on Al Jazeera television being aggressively interrogated by Al Qaeda tough guys?

I cannot believe that torture has become a campaign issue in this country. How much lower can we sink?
639 2007-11-25 A report on Nov. 11 about the marriage of Melissa Grigorieff and Jonathan Koomey misspelled the bridegroom’s middle name. It is Garo, not Caro.
640 2007-11-25 Elizabeth Grant McCarthy, a daughter of Suzanne Grant McCarthy and Dr. Richard E. McCarthy of Little Rock, Ark., was married yesterday to Benjamin McDonald Wikler, the son of Marilyn R. McDonald of London and Dr. Daniel I. Wikler of Cambridge, Mass. Msgr. Francis I. Malone performed the ceremony at Christ the King Roman Catholic Church in Little Rock.

The couple met at Harvard, from which they graduated cum laude.

Mrs. Wikler, 24, is a health policy analyst at Families USA, a health care consumer advocacy and research group in Washington.

Her father, an orthopedic surgeon, is in private practice in Little Rock. Her mother is a senior associate at the Arkansas Center for Health Improvement, an organization that is also in Little Rock.

Mr. Wikler, 26, is a campaign director, in Washington, for Avaaz.org, a group that organizes online petitions and letter-writing efforts on a variety of progressive political issues and also promotes issues through marches, fund-raising, advertising campaigns and other means.

His mother is a senior lecturer in social work at Brunel University in Uxbridge, England. His father is both the Mary B. Saltonstall professor of population ethics and a professor of ethics and public health at the Harvard School of Public Health. The bridegroom is the stepson of Sarah Marchand and of Michael G. Edwards.
641 2007-11-25 My son’s teacher was challenging the class not merely to memorize facts that could be parroted back, but also to consider the source of historical information and the source’s intent — to think critically.

There is a growing army of parents united in their opposition to Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein’s flawed system for grading schools.

I am the parent of a fourth grader at the Earth School in the East Village. The progressive model followed by our school has worked well for my son. While I consider myself an advocate for this form of education, I realize it might not be the best option for every child.

That so many fine schools fell short of the highest standard says more about the shortcomings of the Education Department’s statistical model than it does about the failings of the teachers and administrators in those schools.

To achieve an A under Mr. Klein’s system, our teachers would have to spend even more time preparing the children for tests, which would mean less time for the healthy balance of literacy, math, science, art and fun that has worked so well for so many of us over the years.

My children attend the Center School, a small, progressive, nationally recognized middle school that was given a D. To Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, I say: Shame on you. That D stands for demoralizing and dismissive of a remarkable institution whose work cannot be measured by your statistics.

What the grading system does not recognize is that our beloved teachers and principal are devoted, determined and doing everything they should to give our children an A-plus education.

Battle Over Air Rights on the Upper East Side

“Condos Above Classrooms Strike Some as an Odd Mix” (Nov. 11) reports that Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun is proposing to tear down the Ramaz Lower School on East 85th Street and replace it with a 28-story tower, with the top 18 floors to be condominiums.

The congregation is requesting that the Board of Standards and Appeals allow the construction of 11 more floors of condos than the zoning laws allow, claiming in its B.S.A. filings that otherwise it is “incapable” of paying for needed modernization of its synagogue and “unable to maintain the necessary educational standards” of its school.

The math is simple enough for the school’s pupils to understand. An expert hired by my building’s co-op board submitted a valuation to the B.S.A. that found the profit to be made would be $60.9 million on the estimated project cost of $80 million — a hefty return of over 75 percent on the investment.

The congregation has indicated that it will sell the development rights for the condos to a developer it has declined to identify. But there’s no denying the advantage to the developer of having a prestigious (and politically connected) religious school and synagogue front for what is really its application to the Board of Standards and Appeals for extraordinary and unjustifiable zoning variances.
642 2007-11-25 Yo Gotti is the Memphis rapper with the marvelously squelchy voice and the puzzlingly small fan base, known — if he’s known at all — for “Gangsta Party,” a minor hit. And Pleasure is the singer from (or, it seems, formerly from) Pretty Ricky, the smutty but teen-friendly Floridian brother act. Together they have decided to remake “I Need Love,” the audaciously soft L L Cool J song from two decades ago that has come to be seen as a hip-pop landmark. They call their new single “Let’s Vibe” (TVT), and, true to form, neither man seems interested in delivering implicit lyrics. “I been thinking ’bout kissing you,” croons Pleasure P, and apparently that hasn’t been his only thought. And while some hip-hop lotharios promise endless devotion, Yo Gotti deserves points for truth in advertising. Over that familiar tinkling beat he explains, “She at home with my child, I be flirting in the crowd/I need help, I can’t control myself, these hos be wild.” A breakthrough hit? Maybe not, but it sure goes down easy.

This Danish metal band has a new music video, “Floating,” with a very simple concept: It shows people — including the band members — headbanging in slow motion. (Find it on YouTube.) So instead of grimacing faces and flashing lights, you get hair. Hair flying upward as a neck snaps. Hair gliding back down to rest on a sweaty face. Hair heaving like a cornfield on a windy day. Hair fanning out like the chairs in an amusement-park swing ride. “Floating” is a metal-core rant based on a few propulsive, utilitarian riffs, so it makes sense that the director, Casper Balslev, resisted the urge to add other special effects. And the final screamed vow (“Erase every weakness in me!”) echoes the impression you get from watching all those swinging heads. Catharsis is hard work.

Soca music, the hyped-up descendant of calypso, is a perennial favorite in Trinidad and Tobago and throughout the Caribbean. But what seems like soca’s greatest virtue — its endless good cheer — might also be the reason it has barely made a dent in the United States, where even party music usually isn’t quite so smiley. “Soca Queen” (1720/Black Coral), the debut solo album by Alison Hinds, formerly of the Barbadian soca group Square One, won’t change any of that. But it’s a winsome CD, full of breezy songs that emphasize the genre’s links to both Afro-pop (those bass lines!) and Euro-trance (those synthesizers!). It includes some old favorites: a live version of the warp-speed “Faluma”; two mixes of “Roll It Gal.” Novices should skip straight to an energetic mash-up with an innocuous title. It’s called “The Show,” and it starts with a mild provocation. “Beyoncé couldn’t make it tonight,” Ms. Hinds announces, as the band plays a suspiciously familiar riff. No hard feelings: After a few jubilant minutes, Ms. Hinds decides it’s time to ransack Diana Ross’s catalog instead.

This elusive British producer was a cult favorite even before he released his self-titled debut album last year. Hazy and mysterious, “Burial” helped propel the hybrid microgenre known as dubstep. Now, sooner than we thought, comes the follow-up, “Untrue” (Hyperdub/Cargo), which finds him — he seems to be a he, whoever he is — creeping toward pop songs. “Archangel,” the album’s first track (after a brief, atmospheric introduction), sounds like a disintegrating love ballad, with vocal snippets mutating over an uneven beat. The album summons ghostly noises and disembodied voices to evoke a world of abandoned subcultures and imaginary nightclubs. This is party music for an empty room.

He is probably still best known for “Honky Tonk Badonkadonk,” but Trace Adkins isn’t merely country music’s greatest gluteologist. He’s also a sensitive (and sometimes subtle) singer with a beautiful deep voice, a former oil-rig worker and, by his own account, a mean drunk, now dry. He explains all this in his plain-spoken but complicated new book, “A Personal Stand: Observations and Opinions From a Freethinking Roughneck” (Villard). Interspersing autobiographical chapters with political ones, he charts his various obsessions, excoriating soccer (which “should be abolished”) and “Islamic fundamentalism,” but not his first wife (who shot him through the heart and both lungs, he says). And while he talks about his love of country acts ranging from Merle Haggard to Exile (the rock band that went country in the 1980s), he is noticeably restrained on the subject of his own music. He describes one hit, “Chrome,” as “my own brand of pop, rappin’, crunk, country,” adding, “I don’t know what it is.” And for anyone curious about his current listening habits, he offers a gruff analogy: “I doubt if there are many plumbers who, at the end of a long day, go home and crawl up under the sink.”
643 2007-11-25 Another way to get an accurate idea of what you have would be to go from closet to closet, room to room, and take digital pictures.

Mark L. Schussel, vice president and public relations manager for the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies in Warren, N.J., said it was important to take pictures of furniture, furnishings and even architectural improvements to the home.

A short list would include old or exotic moldings, columns, bannisters and other woodwork or plasterwork; fireplace mantels; unusual windows (like stained glass and skylights;) expensive chandeliers; built-in bookcases; billiard tables; bathroom counters and cabinetry; home theaters; wine cellars; and bars. (It is also wise to have things like antiques, artwork, rugs and expensive musical instruments appraised periodically.)

Michael H. Spain, owner of the Spain Agency in Mahopac, N.Y., said most homeowners’ policies provided “contents coverage” for 50 to 70 percent of the insured value of the home. “So there is usually plenty of coverage, as long as you can prove your loss,” he said.

For co-op, condo and rental policies, however, policyholders must determine how much insurance they need for their contents. “So you have to be accurate,” Mr. Spain said. “And everyone should insist they are insured for replacement cost coverage.”

But what do you do with all these pictures and records?

Experts recommend that such information be kept somewhere other than the home — at a relative’s house, at the office or in a safe-deposit box, for instance. The Insurance Information Institute, however, has made that easier and taken it one step further.

The institute’s free “Know Your Stuff — Home Inventory Software” (knowyourstuff.org) makes it possible to store records of your stuff by burning them onto a CD or printing out a room-by-room document that can be stored off the premises.

The latest version of the software offers an optional service known as Vault 24, which keeps your inventory list online. A basic account — at vault24.com — costs about $15 a year.
644 2007-11-25 “An important shift in the rhetoric of recordings has occurred,” Mr. Katz said in a recent telephone interview. Historically “the stock rhetoric concerned fidelity.” Looking back through his research files, Mr. Katz found fascinating advertisements from as early as the 1890s touting the Berlin Grammophon. “It does not imitate,” a typical ad states. “It reproduces sound with lifelike purity and tone.” That mystique lasted a good hundred years, Mr. Katz said.

“But recorded sound as a re-creation of reality has almost been dropped,” he added, pointing out that ads today for MP3s and iPods seldom make claims for the beauty of the sound. Instead typical ads depict stylish people with iPods as accessories to clothing, clipped on jeans, belts and shirts. Music has become portable, wearable. The reproduced sound, if not rich and deep, is clear and lively. That’s good enough.

For decades the pursuit of high-quality sound on high-end sound systems drove the recording industry, especially its classical music branch. “Good enough had never been good enough,” Mr. Katz said. But now, he added, for listeners and even the industry, “good enough is good enough.”

Any discussion of recording technology has to note one intriguing quirk in the story: Few musicians have been audiophiles. More than the average music-

loving amateur, working musicians understand the big gap between recorded music and the real thing. They can listen through the inadequacies of any recording and focus on what they want to hear.

That has certainly been my experience. Since college days I have owned the 13-LP Angel Records set of Artur Schnabel’s 1930s recordings of the complete Beethoven piano sonatas. By now these vinyl discs are well worn. My turntable (remember turntables?), though nearly 20 years old, still works fine. Listening to these LPs is hardly a luxurious sonic experience. Still, for me, the freshness, immediacy and probing insight of Schnabel’s performances cut right through the crackling surface noise and the slightly tinny tone.

In another twist to the story, though musicians tend not to be audiophiles, they do like their MP3s and iPods. The sound is acceptable, but convenience is the selling point. They typically spend lots of time listening to recordings for professional purposes. To get this listening accomplished while exercising on a treadmill or walking to a rehearsal is an efficient use of time.

Naturally, the contention that audiophiles are an endangered species is strongly contested by those in the sound reproduction industry. Go to Stereo Exchange on Broadway in the East Village, generally regarded as a dependable outlet for top-quality sound systems, and talk to Alan C, as he calls himself. He’s nicknamed the Audio Elf by audiophiles who have been turning to him for decades.

“The demand for the best audio equipment has never stopped,” he said when I spoke with him on a recent visit to the store. “Even the death of vinyl is simply not true.” He noted that turntables, with sales of five million a year in the United States, are making a comeback.

Maybe. But at Stereo Exchange I was struck by the rows of huge high-definition flat-screen televisions hooked up to inconspicuous CD and DVD players. The sight did not suggest that fanatical devotion to audio quality was driving sales. But Alan C insisted that HDTV has increased interest in home audio because people want “excellent sound with their TV.”

He demonstrated some of the latest items in sound-system equipment. He sells most of the familiar brands. Lately he has been very keen on amplifiers and CD players made by Cayin, a Chinese company, and on Totem Acoustic speakers, specifically the Rainmaker model, from Canada.

I listened to some of “Heroes and Villains,” the baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky’s new aria recording on the Delos label, on the modestly priced system ($1,295) that Alan C had selected. It sounded very good, not clinical and souped-up like some systems I have heard. He showed me what happens when you add an extra woofer to the mix: It enhances the resonance of the bass. But in deference to the musician in me, I must say that I enjoyed this recording every bit as much during a recent flight, when I listened on my new noise-

As for CDs themselves, when digital technology and compact disc recordings galvanized the classical music market in the mid-1980s (and innovations in the industry were historically driven by classical music audiophiles), they were touted as space-saving conveniences, much as MP3s are touted today. Still, the real selling point was the sound quality: free of surface noise and crackle, crystal clear, not subject to deterioration. But as CDs gained popularity, a backlash came from traditional audiophiles, who castigated the sampling of sound involved in the new technology.

Digital recording does indeed sample sound: little slices, called bits, are recorded at the stunning rate of 44,100 times per second. Defenders of the old analog technology used in stereo recordings said that the infinitesimal missing slices of music on CDs undermined the sound quality. Yes, the sound was clear and flawless, but it lacked warmth and richness, they said; it was cold in comparison with the best vinyl recordings played on top-quality stereo systems.

That debate has never been settled, though even holdouts for analog technology have to concede that the quality of digital recording has vastly improved over the years.

The MP3 samples sound as well, but at a significantly reduced rate. The technology is complicated, and I don’t pretend to understand it. The term MP3, as Mr. Katz explains in his book, was taken from Motion Picture Experts Group 1, Level 3, “a name that reveals little about its current use.” The technology was developed to make it possible to compress huge amounts of video and audio data into manageable files that could be zipped through e-mail messages around the world.

Engineers argue that a sound recording has large amounts of irrelevant data; a cymbal crash in a symphonic work, for example, will temporarily obscure the sound of other instruments. So why not remove some of the covered sounds, which could not be heard anyway, to compress the file into a transferable format?

Not until peer-to-peer, or P2P, networking was developed in the 1990s, championed by Napster, did the potential of file sharing and the applicability of the MP3 as a portable sound system for music become apparent. Mr. Katz invokes a charming metaphor to explain the concept of peer-to-peer transferring, as opposed to the traditional method of client-server downloading, in which information flows from a central source to individual users.

“If a public library is analogous to a client-server model,” he writes, “P2P is more like the arrangement my wife, her mother and her aunt have to circulate their collection of mystery novels among one another.”

In any event, these breakthroughs gave us the MP3 and, later, Apple’s iPod. But neither manufacturers nor ardent users of these devices made exaggerated claims for the high quality of their sound. Convenience was the appeal, and the sound was, well, good enough.

One thing is certain: The users who are delighted by these handy new devices are not audiophiles in the old sense. Mr. Katz acknowledges that he is no audiophile. His stereo system is hardly fancy; the headphones he bought in 1988 still serve him well.

On the other hand, he explained, he could not imagine teaching without an MP3. This semester he is offering an introductory course in rock and a seminar titled “The Art and Culture of the Hip-Hop D.J.” It would be impossible to assemble all the CDs he would need for those classes. But with his MP3 and his laptop, he has every recording he needs right at his fingertips. If a student asks about the Rolling Stones, he can immediately call up any of 60 songs. And students never complain about sound quality.

Meanwhile, in the November issue of the British magazine Gramophone, a widely read journal devoted to reviews of classical recordings and DVDs, only a few back pages out of 138 are given to short reports on sound equipment. One article, “Choosing Desktop Speakers,” offers advice on how to “dock your iPod on a speaker system.”

The target consumers are not audiophiles.
645 2007-11-25 Some moments seem surefire. Take a lovely young woman in a red turn-of-the-century ball gown. Stand her in the middle of a darkened Victorian dining room draped with holiday greenery, a Christmas tree twinkling in the corner. Strike up the orchestra, and turn her and her strong, clear voice loose with some beloved lyrics — say, “Here we are as in olden days/Happy golden days of yore.” And what you’ve got is a certain kind of magic. Normally.

Alas, not so in the Paper Mill Playhouse’s sadly lifeless production of “Meet Me in St. Louis,” directed by Mark S. Hoebee, the theater’s acting artistic director, and currently limping through a five-week holiday run.

“There’s no plot — that’s the problem,” a woman in the audience announced authoritatively at intermission at a recent performance.

Not much of one, true, but sometimes that’s part of the show’s charm.

Here we are in 1903, and the big, bustling upper-middle-class Smith family (Dad is a lawyer) has nothing more pressing to worry about than having dinner earlier than usual because the eldest daughter, Rose (Julia Osborne), is expecting a long-distance call from her boyfriend and wants privacy.

Oh, her younger sister Esther (Brynn O’Malley) is a little perturbed that the handsome new neighbor hasn’t noticed her. And the youngest child, Tootie (Sophie Rudin), could be a source of concern, what with her penchant for declaring her dolls dead and burying them. But mostly the Smiths are endearingly functional.
646 2007-11-25 As the march of events has lurched in unexpected directions over the past three decades, many a political thinker has been thrown off track and hurled into confusion, if rarely into silence. But not John Gray. He has usually been a little ahead of the zeitgeist, waxing contrarian about whatever consensus is about to form. Gray has been called a chameleon. If so, he belongs to a very peculiar species: one with precognition, able to change colors before landing on whatever patch of landscape lies just around the corner.

In the early 1980s, Gray, who teaches European thought at the London School of Economics, was the most capable defender of Friedrich von Hayek as a social philosopher rather than just a propagandist for free-market policy. But he later became decidedly critical of any notion that the future belonged to liberal democracy. In 1989, as the Soviet Union was reforming itself out of existence, he wrote that this would not inaugurate “a new era of post-historical harmony” but rather “a return to the classical terrain of history, a terrain of great-power rivalries, secret diplomacies, and irredentist claims and wars.” Over the following decade, he advanced a critique of globalization that sounded, at times, profoundly anticapitalist, if by no means Marxian.

Such an ideological itinerary seems like a calculated effort to lose friends. But whatever its twists and turns, Gray’s thought has in fact been remarkably consistent, with his journalistic writings simply framing, in the most provocative possible way, theses that have accumulated in more sedate works like “Enlightenment’s Wake” (1995) and “Two Faces of Liberalism” (2000). His latest book, “Black Mass: Apocalyptic Religion and the Death of Utopia,” treats fundamentalist Islam and Western triumphalism as similar and related phenomena. This argument revisits themes Gray developed in “Straw Dogs,” a volume of pensées originally published in 2002 and now reissued in paperback by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

“‘Humanity’ does not exist,” he announced in “Straw Dogs.” “There are only humans, driven by conflicting needs and illusions, and subject to every kind of infirmity of will and judgment.” This may be the key to all of Gray’s thought, and it is no accident that he echoes Margaret Thatcher’s famous statement that there is no such thing as society. (As she put it, “there are individual men and women, and there are families” — but nothing else.) The irreducible plurality of human “needs and illusions,” Gray argues, means it is utopian to imagine that any single kind of political or social order could ever be good for everyone. “If there is such a thing as spontaneous social evolution,” he writes in “Black Mass,” “it produces institutions of many kinds.”

Alas, conservatives have completely lost track of this crucial point, at least by Gray’s lights, which is why “traditional conservatism ceased to exist” at some point over the last few decades. What has emerged instead is a faith that the marketplace and the values of liberal society are universal in principle, if not yet in geographical distribution. Resistance is futile. And if people in benighted lands resist anyway, the use of military power can force the pace of progress.

The likely (indeed almost inevitable) consequence of doing so would be a cruel parody of the norms being exported. “Illiberal democracy,” Gray writes, “rests on the belief that the common good is self-evident. Everyone who is not deluded or corrupt will support the same policies so there will be no need to protect personal freedom or the rights of minorities. It is enough that the popular will, which is identical with the common good, can be fully expressed.” Thus the heirs of Rousseau will join hands with those of bin Laden, to dance around a bonfire consuming the intractable variousness of human notions of “the good.”
647 2007-11-25 In Thomas Mallon’s review of “Gay Artists in Modern American Culture,” by Michael S. Sherry (Nov. 11), a book I have not yet read, Mallon says that Sherry refers to criticism written in The New York Times by Howard Taubman and myself in the 1950s and ’60s, articles that invited gay playwrights to end their “dissembling” through heterosexual characters and put their own “sick lives” on the stage. Mallon writes: “Such advice was offered, Sherry says, not as a way for playwrights to liberate their creativity but as a means of shielding straight audiences against what was seen as ‘insidious influence.’” About Mr. Taubman’s criticism I cannot speak, but please permit me to point out two matters regarding my own articles. (There were two such articles, on Jan. 23 and Feb. 6, 1966, both available in my collection “Persons of the Drama.”)

First, the phrase “insidious influence” or any comparable phrase does not appear in my articles. Second, my intent was precisely the reverse of the one given above. I attacked a society that prevented gay playwrights from treating their lives frankly and then complained about disguises in gay writers’ plays. “A serious public, seriously interested in the theater, must sooner or later consider that when it complains of homosexual influences and distortions, it is complaining, at one remove, about its own attitudes. I note further that one of the few contemporary dramatists whose works are candidates for greatness, Jean Genet, is a homosexual who has never had to disguise his nature.” Do these comments — there is much more in this vein — smack of “shielding straight audiences” against “insidious influence”?

Restrictions on gay playwrights melted away in the next five years or so, and I hope that my articles helped a little in this liberation.
648 2007-11-25 In his memo, Hill explained the potential problem: “Depending on the facts alleged in the report in any given case, a named player may find himself denied a visa at a U.S. Consular office abroad, detained and denied admission at a U.S. port of entry upon returning to the U.S. to report for Spring Training, or have an application for permanent residence denied.”

A majority of baseball players, in the majors or the minors, who have been suspended in the three years the testing program has been in effect were foreign-born.

Four major league players were suspended last season for using illegal substances. One of them, Neifi Pérez of Detroit, was suspended twice, presumably for testing positive for amphetamines. He was suspended for 25 games in July, then for 80 in August and has 25 games left to serve on the second suspension.

Pérez, a 34-year-old Dominican infielder who has played for five teams in an 11-year career, is a free agent. Should he sign with a team, he will apply for a visa at the United States consulate in Santo Domingo.

That Pérez was suspended twice is no secret, but a consular official would be less likely to have a list of suspended players than he would be aware of players named in the more current Mitchell report.

Furthermore, if the report does name names, it is expected to include the names of players who have not surfaced with suspensions. One source will be a list of customers provided to Mitchell by Kirk Radomski, a former Mets clubhouse attendant, who awaits sentencing in a steroid distribution case.

The applicable statute and guidelines, Hill said, “make it hard for adjudicators to ignore this issue if it gets to this high level of public disclosure.” He added: “If players are named, I don’t see how a consular office in Santo Domingo can avoid asking questions. If they are obligated to ask these questions, if they have evidence of drug violations, they can’t treat this different because we’re dealing with baseball players.”

A player’s name in the Mitchell report, Hill said, will raise questions that the government cannot ignore. A player’s ability to get a visa, he said, “will depend on how the player answers the questions.”

Hill also raised the possibility of a player’s being considered a trafficker of illegal substances.

“I’ve had discussions with consular officials in the last couple days about whether a player who obtained steroids for their own use shared it with other players or put them in touch with people who provided him with steroids,” Hill said.

“If it’s considered an element of trafficking, then the standard is reason to believe. If the consul believes the Mitchell report and thinks a player has engaged in trafficking, that’s grounds for rejection and there’s no appeal.”

In his memo, Hill wrote, “The broad discretion granted government officials in such cases may result in consequences never intended by Senator Mitchell; indeed, the impact of his report on the career and family of a player he decides to name publicly may be devastating.”

On the other hand, Hill said, if a player cited in the report is asked if he used the substance and says he did not, “they have to accept that.” But if it later comes out that the player’s denial was false, “the player is at risk for denial of an offense and misrepresentation.”

If it reaches that point, Hill said, the player may never be able to enter the United States again.

“That is grounds for a permanent ban from the U.S.,” he said. “Visa fraud provides a permanent ban.”

Rob Manfred, baseball’s chief labor executive, and Michael Weiner, the players union’s general counsel, declined to comment on the issue. However, lawyers involved with players said Mitchell and his associates had been told often that Mitchell had the power to affect players’ lives in a meaningfully negative way without the players having the ability to rebut his information.

“He has acknowledged that is the case and has said he has every intention of being fair,” one lawyer said.

The Mitchell statement said he understood Hill’s concern and added, “If he has any evidence of specific instances” in which any player has been denied a visa because of his use of performance-enhancing substances, “Senator Mitchell would like to know about it, and he will, of course, give it his careful consideration.”

In a curious development in Florida, the state that I have proposed be stricken from the baseball map, the newly renamed Rays have scheduled a news conference Wednesday to announce plans for a $450 million stadium to replace awful Tropicana Field.

The Rays, who plan to seek commercial uses for Tropicana, are announcing their plans even though they have not completed funding for their new waterfront home. The governor of Florida and the mayor of St. Petersburg are scheduled to participate, indicating their support.

“There are a lot of things left to be done to get it approved,” a Rays spokeswoman, Carmen Molina, said. “We’re in the stages of talking about it and getting out our renderings. It’s in the very beginning process of discussions. We do have the governor’s backing on it.”

Across the state, the Florida Marlins have tried in vain for years to get a new stadium. Each time they seem to get close, the state legislature blocks the project by refusing to vote it the rest of the money it needs.

The Rays will not say until Wednesday whether they will need the legislature’s help, but why would the state’s politicians help the Rays when they have consistently refused to help the Marlins? Baseball officials are optimistic that the Marlins’ efforts will soon be successful, but they have been optimistic before.

A Marlins spokesman, P. J. Loyello, said Jeffrey Loria, the team owner, and David Samson, the president, “don’t want to comment on the Tampa Bay stadium quest.”

What’s this business coming to? Players are taking less money to play where they prefer to play rather than taking the most lucrative offer. What a novel concept.

Mike Lowell, the World Series most valuable player, could have had a $50 million contract but took one year and $12.5 million less to stay with the Red Sox.

Tom Glavine rejected a $13 million option he had with the Mets for next season and signed instead with Atlanta for $8 million.

“I don’t think I’m worth $13 million; I’m not that kind of pitcher anymore,” Glavine said, adding a large dose of reality and integrity to the explanation of his decision.

As bad as he looked opting out of his Yankees contract when he did, Alex Rodriguez made a good recovery, taking Warren E. Buffett’s good advice after taking Scott Boras’s bad advice. It should come as no surprise that Buffett gives better advice than Boras. Rodriguez called Buffett, the Berkshire Hathaway wizard, when he realized he had made a big mistake.

“We talked,” Buffett said, adding: “I never like to get into what people talk to me about. I will confirm that he said he loved being a Yankee and Steinbrenner had been very fair to him. I think Alex has learned a lot from this.”

Although Buffett would not acknowledge it, he advised Rodriguez that if he wanted to stay with the Yankees, he should go to them without Boras. That’s what Rodriguez did and he found the Yankees receptive.

“I predict a big season for him,” Buffett said of Rodriguez, a three-time most valuable player. “He works hard. He takes it very, very seriously in terms of working to get in shape and being in condition.”

Buffett would not discuss their conversation in detail, but he probably imparted his philosophy: “You don’t want to give up something you need for something you don’t need.”

In other words, if it is important for Rodriguez to stay with the Yankees, he should not go out seeking more money elsewhere, as Boras wanted him to.
649 2007-11-25 THE culture of the victimhood designated on subway maps by a green line snaking from Queens to Brooklyn is well established. And so, when it comes to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s rider report card program, which solicits rider evaluations, there is little suspense.

“Everybody knows what the rider report card on the G is going to be,” said Teresa Toro, transportation chairwoman of Community Board 1 in Brooklyn. Indeed, there is gleeful expectation among some of the train’s riders and advocates, from blogs (“Is the G an F?”) to civic groups, who, with regard to the line’s pending grade, are generally hoping for the worst.

Ms. Toro, for her part, has urged riders to candidly respond to the transportation authority on her blog Save the G (www.savetheg.org), which takes its name from a coalition of community advocates in Brooklyn and Queens. For each line, the agency distributes paper report cards to riders at train stations for one week, and riders have additional time to fill out identical report cards online. The deadline for the G train was Thursday; Marisa Baldeo, an M.T.A. spokeswoman, said the results would be announced in December.

Among G riders, the train cuts a tragic figure: It is the system’s neglected stepchild, singularly destined never to reach Manhattan shores. That the G consists of 4 cars instead of the standard 8 or 10 only adds to its punch-line potential. A result, though, is that the very notion of including the G in the rider report card program, which extends to every line in the system, amounts to a boost of self-esteem for those who hope that a bad grade will spur improvements.

“For once,” Ms. Toro said, “the G is being measured right along with all the other lines.” In the social sense, at least, the G train has arrived.

Still, seasoned G train advocates emphasize that they have been voicing their concerns for years and that the line still has a long way to go. James Trent, chairman of the transportation committee of the Queens Civic Congress, a member of the Save the G coalition, said that given the G’s eternal and much-publicized woes, he did not find the rider report card program particularly encouraging.
650 2007-11-25 CAREY--Emily (Warner), of Haverford, PA, on November 20, 2007, at age 77. Widow of John P. Carey, Jr., daughter of the late Major John Adams Warner and Emily Smith Warner, granddaughter of the late Gov. Alfred E. Smith. She is survived by her chil...
651 2007-11-25 McCREADY--Lauren S. RADM USMC (Ret.) died at his Redding, CT home November 15 from heart failure at age 92. Regarded as one of the founders of Kings Points Merchant Marine Academy in February 1942, he developed the wartime and peacetime engineerin...
652 2007-11-25 To the Editor:     ''Condos Above Classrooms Strike Some as an Odd Mix'' (Nov. 11) reports that Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun is proposing to tear down the Ramaz Lower School on East 85th Street and replace it with a 28-story tower, with the top ...
653 2007-11-26 I missed this - it's a week old - but still quite a quote: Bottom line: private demand for US financial assets has disappeared. In emerging market terms, the US has experienced a sudden stop. "Sudden stop" is a term of art - it refers to crises, l...
654 2007-11-26 Apple’s attack ad on Microsft’s Vista retains the bemused attachment of the already-classic campaign....
655 2007-11-26 JPMorgan Chase announced on Monday that it has appointed Barry Zubrow as its chief risk officer, a position that had been vacant since Don Wilson retired last year. In some ways, though, the bank seems to have done better than its rivals even with...
656 2007-11-26 A former Credit Suisse investment banker accused of leaking inside information about a string of merger deals intends to plead not guilty to a new indictment, his lawyer said on Monday. Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, a native of Pakistan who worked...
657 2007-11-26 Hedge funds can inspire terror in boardrooms these days. Whereas directors might once have trashed an angry letter from a hedge-fund manager holding a few million shares of their companies, in this age of investor activism, they are far more apt t...
658 2007-11-26 The Democrats are opening the doors of their convention in Denver next year to more bloggers than ever before....
659 2007-11-26 HONG KONG, Nov 27 (Reuters) - Asian stock markets fell across the board on Tuesday with investors dumping shares in favour of the relative safety of government bonds on worries that credit market problems will dent economic growth.

The drop in investor risk appetite kept the dollar pinned near 2-½ year lows versus the low-yielding yen, while oil slid below $97 a barrel, further weighed by prospects of an OPEC output increase.

"Rather than thinking that the credit issue is going to have a limited impact on a small number of financial institutions, it now looks like we're seeing a general easing in global growth that will extend into 2008," said Angus Gluskie, portfolio manager at White Funds Management in Australia.

In the latest sign of trouble in the credit market, UBS downgraded home financing providers Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to neutral, citing increased mortgage losses and erosion of other home-loans investments.

Adding to the gloom Goldman Sachs downgraded HSBC to sell, saying Europe's biggest bank would likely need a further $12 billion in provisions for its U.S. subprime mortgage and home equity loans.
660 2007-11-26 The Republican candidate's latest commercial showcases his efforts in bucking special interests and in supporting unpopular causes....
661 2007-11-26 The exit package for Warren Spector, the former president of Bear Stearns, insures that the man charged with the oversight of two internal hedge funds that spectacularly blew up this summer won't want for money, The New York Post reported. Accordi...
662 2007-11-26 Gottex Fund Management, the Lausanne- and London-based fund of hedge funds group, this month made its opening on the Swiss Exchange, the latest in a line of alternative asset managers cashing in on a perceived appetite among investors for publicly...
663 2007-11-26 As bidders continued to circle Northern Rock, SRM Capital, a Monaco-based hedge fund firm, has bumped up its stake in the troubled British lender. SRM increased its share of the bank to 6.44 percent from 6.17 percent, according to a regulatory fil...
664 2007-11-26 Starbucks' stock has been decaffeinated lately, as The Times notes. Maybe Starbucks needs to reconsider a rejected ad jingle:...
665 2007-11-26 The stock market fell sharply late today and investors rushed to the safety of Treasuries as concerns about mortgage-related losses continued to unsettle the financial market.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 2.3 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 237.44 points, or 1.8 percent, to 12,743.44. Both indexes are now down more than 10 percent from their record close on Oct. 9, the generally accepted definition of a market correction.

The Nasdaq composite index was off 2.1 percent, putting it more than 11 percent below its peak on Oct. 31.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell to its lowest level in more than three years, to 3.841 percent, from 4.001 percent Friday evening. It was the biggest one-day drop in the yield in more than three years, suggesting a significant weakening in investor confidence from already low levels.

The market did not appear to be reacting to any one development. Rather, market specialists say investors were exhibiting a growing awareness that they do know how bad the problems could get in the financial system and the broader economy.
666 2007-11-26 The Federal Reserve, meanwhile, said it would supply additional liquidity to the banking system through the end of the year in response to heightened pressures in money markets.

The Fed news and HSBC report increased worries that financial companies could be in for more large write-downs due to the fallout from the housing slump. That weakened demand for higher risk equities, but boosted the allure of lower-risk government debt.

“We have been following the equity markets and as stocks go lower, bonds go higher,” said Ted Ake, head of bond trading at Mizuho Securities in New York, adding “the Fed is doing everything it can to alleviate any kind of funding issues for the year but there is still a flight-to-quality tone to the market.”

Benchmark 10-year notes were trading 1-13/32 higher in price for a yield of 3.84 percent from 4.01 percent late on Friday. Yield on the 10-year note reached as low as 3.79 percent, its lowest level since March 2004. Bond yields move inversely to prices.

Gains were the strongest on the long end of the Treasury curve, with the 30-year bond trading 2-20/32 higher in price for a yield of 4.28 percent from 4.43 percent late on Friday, making for the biggest single day dip in 30-year yields in over three years.

“The triple-digit sell-off in stocks is a factor, but there is a flight-to-quality bid,” said David Coard, head of fixed-income sales and trading at The Williams Capital Group in New York.

Adding to worries about the fallout from the global credit crisis was news that Senator Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat who heads the housing panel of the Senate Banking Committee, was calling for a federal regulator to scrutinize billions of dollars of loans that have helped keep troubled mortgage lender Countrywide Financial afloat in recent months.

At the end of September, Countrywide had borrowed $51.1 billion from the Federal Home Loan Bank system — a government-sponsored program.

Despite the Treasuries price surge, gains in the short end of the market were limited by traders reluctant to push prices too high ahead of the auction of $20 billion of 2-year notes and $13 billion of 5-year notes later this week.

Two-year notes were trading 10/32 higher in price for a yield of 2.90 percent from 3.07 percent late on Friday, while 5-year notes climbed 28/32 for a yield of 3.22 percent from 3.41 percent.

“The Treasury market price action is being driven by a four-letter word that starts with F, and that is F-E-A-R,” said William Sullivan, chief economist at JVB Financial Group in Boca Raton, Fla.
667 2007-11-26 LOS ANGELES, Nov. 25 (AP) — Jason Kidd had 15 points and 14 assists to help the Nets overcome Kobe Bryant’s 31 points and beat the Los Angeles Lakers 102-100 on Sunday night.

Richard Jefferson had 27 points for the Nets, who have won three straight after a six-game losing streak. Vince Carter had 19 points in a reserve role and Bostjan Nachbar scored 9 of his 15 points in the fourth quarter.

Bryant, Kidd’s teammate on the United States national team, made 15 consecutive free throws before missing a game-tying foul shot with 6.1 seconds to go.

Bryant, the two-time defending league scoring champion, started out 3 of 16 from the field, going the entire second and third quarters without a basket. His next field goal came on a layup with 6 minutes 13 seconds to play. But during his drought, the Nets had turned a 14-point deficit into an 85-72 lead with a 16-3 run.

Carter triggered the Nets’ rally, making a 3-pointer with 2.6 seconds left in the third quarter to tie the score at 72-72. The Nets took their first lead 24 seconds into the fourth on Nachbar’s layup, and Jefferson capped the run on a layup that gave the Nets an 84-74 lead with 8:39 remaining.

Bryant made a 3-point play and a pair of 3-point baskets in a 55-second span, and Sasha Vujacic followed with another 3-pointer — his only points of the game — to give the Lakers a 96-94 edge with 1:28 left.
668 2007-11-26 Landlords of the 23 buildings were exiting the state’s Mitchell-Lama program. The program encouraged the creation of middle-income housing by offering owners low-interest mortgages and tax abatements, in return for caps on rents. It was enacted in 1955 by the New York State Legislature and named in honor of the two legislators who sponsored it, Senator MacNeil Mitchell and Assemblyman Alfred A. Lama.

Both the old and new regulations apply only to buildings that were completed before 1974. Those buildings are required to move automatically into the rent stabilization system, which limits the size of rent increases. Buildings completed after 1974 can go to market-rate rents and require no state oversight.

State housing officials said the “unique and peculiar” provision had been intended to permit rent increases in unusual situations, as when an owner sought to rent out a unit that had been occupied by a building manager or family member and therefore had an exceptionally low rent.

But tenant advocates said landlords of buildings leaving subsidy programs like Mitchell-Lama had been trying to use the provision for their entire buildings by claiming that withdrawing from the program itself constituted a unique and peculiar circumstance.

The new regulation says that justification can no longer be used.

“A lot of the residents of Mitchell-Lamas are seniors on a fixed income and disabled families who simply could not afford the increases that landlords were requesting,” said Ellen B. Davidson, a staff attorney with the Legal Aid Society, which supported amending the regulation.

Sue Susman, the tenant association president at Central Park Gardens at 50 West 97th Street, one of the buildings that had applied for increases, said that had the loophole not been closed, her rent of $1,000 a month for a three-bedroom unit would have gone up to $5,275.

At another affected building, Columbus Manor at 70 West 93rd Street, Hector Cardona said rent for the two-bedroom unit he shares with his wife would have shot up to $4,500 a month from $981.

“It’s astronomical, a jump like that,” said Mr. Cardona, 66, a retired union organizer and president of the tenant association. “We would have had to get out. We would have ended up upstate somewhere.”

Even before the regulation was clarified, no landlord had successfully used the loophole to raise the rents for a whole building. At a few buildings that had applied for increases under the provision, tenants had agreed to modest rent increases in negotiations with owners.

Now, landlords of the 23 buildings will be sent a copy of the new regulation and must decide whether to revise or withdraw their applications, said Greg Fewer, director of policy at the Division of Housing and Community Renewal’s Office of Rent Administration.

At a public hearing in September, Mitchell Posilkin, general counsel for the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents residential building owners, criticized state officials for characterizing the provision as a loophole.

“Rather than being some sort of illegal scam or nefarious scheme, this supposed ‘loophole’ has existed as a matter of law for over 30 years, and its use in this specific context has been upheld by the state’s highest court as recently as two years ago,” Mr. Posilkin said in his testimony.

In 2005, the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that the owner of a former Mitchell-Lama building on the Upper West Side, KSLM-Columbus Apartments, could apply for buildingwide rent adjustments under the provision. The owner later settled the rent dispute with tenants.

Mr. Posilkin said that owners of buildings withdrawing from Mitchell-Lama had the right to increase artificially low rents to pay for increased taxes and debt burdens, maintenance and “to ensure their continued economic vitality.”

The owners of four Manhattan buildings, including Columbus Manor and Central Park Gardens, sued the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, seeking to have a judge order the agency to grant their “unique and peculiar” applications. The owners argued that they were entitled to have their initial regulated rents reset to conform with the rents in the area. The suit was denied this year.

The new regulation takes effect as the number of buildings in the Mitchell-Lama program has dwindled rapidly in New York City in recent years, as more owners have opted out of the program to seek higher profits in the real estate market. A report released in May by the Community Service Society, a liberal research and advocacy group, found that from 1990 to 2006, some 26,000 units in Mitchell-Lama rental developments, or 40 percent, had been lost in the city.

These days, much of the city’s moderately priced housing is built under the so-called 80-20 program, in which developers of new buildings reserve 20 percent of their apartments for low- or moderate-income households in return for state- or city-issued tax-exempt bonds.

City officials and state legislators have also expanded the number of neighborhoods where developers are required to include apartments for low- and moderate-income tenants in order to receive tax breaks.
669 2007-11-26 Consider the following:

¶The only unbeaten team in major Division I football is remote Hawaii (11-0).

¶A sophomore, Florida’s Tim Tebow, is a leading contender to become the first freshman or sophomore to win the Heisman Trophy.

¶South Florida, Boston College, Oregon and Kansas, which all began the season outside the top 25, have been No. 2 in the Associated Press poll.

¶Notre Dame, one of the most storied programs in college football history, set a team record for losses in going 3-9.

Why is this happening? After Stanford, a 41-point underdog, defeated the perennial power Southern California, the question was asked. After the third time a No. 1 team lost to an unranked opponent, the question was asked again. Scholarship limits have prevented programs from stockpiling talented players, leaving plenty of players for previously overlooked teams.

Spread offenses have neutralized larger programs’ speed and size advantages. Increased coverage on television and the Internet has created more interest among more teams and players.

And more universities have committed millions to enhancing their programs.

“The whole season is a reflection of what’s happened in college football,” said Mike Tranghese, commissioner of the Big East Conference. “There’s been a lot of parity and teams have lost some games that have been mind-boggling to anyone who follows the sport.”

It would be difficult to make up a better story than the one that has unfolded this season in Columbia, Mo. And that is fitting for Missouri, which is better known for its journalism school than its football teams.

John A. Walsh, the executive editor of ESPN and a 1968 Missouri journalism graduate, says the Tigers’ season has been nothing more than “a publicity stunt to help the journalism school to draw attention to its 100th anniversary next fall.”

But as he looks more seriously around the nation, he said, “The reason we’re all drawn to sports in our day jobs is the human drama and the uncertainty.”

“This puts that to the nth power,” he said.

Missouri began this season unranked, with odds of 150 to 1 against a national title, according to Danny Sheridan, a sports analyst and oddsmaker. Now, the Tigers are 11-1, ranked No. 1 in the Associated Press poll for the first time since 1960 and need only a victory over Oklahoma in the Big 12 Conference championship game to play for the title.

Missouri Coach Gary Pinkel, whose team beat the previously No. 2-ranked Kansas, 36-28, on Saturday night, found himself searching for words yesterday to describe just how topsy-turvy this season has been.

“I don’t really know what historical event or what sporting event to compare it to,” Pinkel said.

In the Bowl Championship Series standings released yesterday, Missouri moved up to No. 1, from No. 4, and West Virginia was No. 2, up from No. 3. If the Tigers and the Mountaineers win their games next Saturday, they will meet Jan. 7 in New Orleans for the national title.

Missouri is an underdog against Oklahoma in the Big 12 title game, according to Sheridan, but West Virginia is expected to win its final game, a home contest with neighboring Pittsburgh known as the Backyard Brawl. The Mountaineers began the season No. 3 in the Associated Press poll, then lost at South Florida on Sept. 28 and were sent down the rankings. West Virginia, which plays in the Big East, lurked on the outskirts and steadily climbed up the rankings amid the cacophony of upsets.

The West Virginia athletic director, Ed Pastilong, gazed out the window of his box during halftime Saturday as his team improved to 10-1 with a 66-21 victory over Connecticut in Morgantown. He marveled at the possibilities this season has yielded. He said that at kickoff next Saturday night at 7:45, all 1.8 million people in the state would be watching the game on television or listening on the radio.

“Of all the sports, college football is the least predictable per game and per season,” Pastilong said. “That’s what’s occurring this year.”

Sheridan said there was one enduring lesson from the wildness of this season.

“You’ve got to be crazy to bet on sports,” he said.
670 2007-11-26 GREEN BAY, Wis., Nov. 25 (AP) — A company voluntarily recalled nearly 96,000 pounds of ground beef products after two people were sickened, possibly by E. coli bacteria, the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the Department of Agriculture said Saturday.

The beef products by the company, American Foods Group of Green Bay, were distributed to retailers and distributors in Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Ohio, Tennessee, Virginia and Wisconsin. The problem surfaced after an investigation by the Illinois Department of Health, which was looking into two reports of illnesses.

The bacteria type is E. coli O157:H7, which is harbored in the intestines of cattle. Improper butchering and processing can cause the bacteria to get onto meat. Thorough cooking, to at least 160 degrees internal temperature, can destroy it.

E. coli O157:H7 is a potentially deadly bacterium that can cause bloody diarrhea and dehydration. The very young, the elderly and people with compromised immune systems are the most susceptible.

The products subject to recall were produced on Oct. 10. They were distributed for further processing and repackaging and will not have the company’s establishment number on the package.

Some of the recommended use-by dates have already expired. In that case, consumers can contact their retailers to see if the products in question were at stores. Consumers are also urged to look in their freezers and return or throw out the products if they find them.
671 2007-11-26 CINCINNATI, Nov. 25 (AP) — Chad Johnson commandeered a television camera behind the end zone, swung it around and aimed it at the field as part of a touchdown production that was two months in the making.

What he saw through the viewfinder Sunday: the Tennessee Titans playing themselves out of the picture.

Johnson, a Pro Bowl receiver, had a career-high 12 catches, set the Cincinnati record for career receptions, scored 3 touchdowns and steadied the Bengals to a 35-6 victory against the fading Titans.

“He deserves the credit,” quarterback Carson Palmer said of Johnson. “He’s that good. We did a good job around him, too.”

After emerging as one of the N.F.L.’s first-half surprises, Tennessee (6-5) has lost three games in a row as its hold on a wild-card playoff berth disappeared. The offense has been sloppy and the defense has lost its ability to stop anybody, giving up 28, 34 and 35 points during the slide.
672 2007-11-26 In addition to greed, there are four other elements that contributed to the mortgage mess: executive hubris, stupidity, lack of effective risk management and an absence of regulation in the collateral debt markets.

We tend to think of the financial executives as M.B.A. wizards, but they apparently failed to understand something that most of us learned by eighth grade: If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.

“Wall St. Firm Rakes In Profit in Credit Crisis” (front page, Nov. 19) detailed how Goldman Sachs was able to largely avoid the losses plaguing its counterparts. The executives who have lost their jobs, and those who haven’t, would do well to study the Goldman risk-management practices.

Unfortunately, the real losers seem to be only the investors and borrowers. There seems to be little call either in Washington or on Wall Street for fundamental reform.

It is maddeningly frustrating that the much-touted ethic of personal responsibility does not apply to corporate executives.
673 2007-11-26 GAUGING HOLIDAY SALES According to two reports, retail sales surged on the day after Thanksgiving but the amount spent by each shopper fell, with stores dangling steep discounts and consumers worried about the economy.      ON THE PICKET LINE Many...
674 2007-11-27 Why the numbers and the strategy simply don’t work for Microsoft to combine with Yahoo....
675 2007-11-27 As AOL learned with its failed attempt to offer broadband service, open access to networks doesn’t help if the price is too high and the terms too tough....
676 2007-11-27 Verizon Wireless will allow any device and any application to run on its network next year. This will help increase volume and strengthen its hand in bidding for more bandwidth....
677 2007-11-27 The good news for Citigroup is that it just found $7.5 billion to freshen up its wilting balance sheet. The bad news is that it sacrificed a lot to get it - and it may still need more. The government of Abu Dhabi is not handing over bags of money ...
678 2007-11-27 Could this be the dawn of a new business model for the music industry? Following Radiohead's decision last month to let fans pay whatever they wanted to download their latest album "In Rainbows", other artists, staid and crazy, are trying the same...
679 2007-11-27 Stacey Kent (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) A few weeks ago, a friend turned me onto "Breakfast on the Morning Tram" (Blue Note), the new CD from the American-born, London-based jazz singer Stacey Kent. Now I can't get it off my iPod. Kent ha...
680 2007-11-27 As more economists warn of a recession, Republican and Democratic candidates may have to re-evaluate their top campaign issues to reassure anxious voters....
681 2007-11-27 A Swedish bank, SEB, acquired Key Asset Management, a manager of funds of hedge funds based in London. The deal marks the first time that SEB made an outright acquisition of a hedge fund firm, although SEB also offers its own alternative investmen...
682 2007-11-27 Guy Hands, the chief executive of the buy-out group Terra Firma, is in "a wild panic" about his $4.7 billion acquisition of EMI and how he'll manage to make a return on the record company, according to The Financial Times' Alphaville blog. As part...
683 2007-11-27 HSBC's announcement Monday that it would bail out its two structured investment vehicles, or SIVs, by taking $45 billion in assets onto its balance sheet, was an attempt to repair investor confidence and create a long-term solution for assets that...
684 2007-11-27 While Rio Tinto continued Monday to outline why a $153 billion takeover proposal from rival mining company BHP Billiton was not in its best interests, the company nevertheless seemed to signal that it was receptive to suitors. "We would always res...
685 2007-11-27 A Wachovia Securities broker must pay a fine of more than $346,000 after a judge found that he illegally traded on insider information concerning the acquisition of the propane gas distributor Blue Rhino. The broker, Mark Michel, who worked in Wac...
686 2007-11-27 Ms. DeFrancis said there had been no threat of a lawsuit.

“The first feeling is that this is a huge punch in the stomach,” she said. “But this organization is strong and making progress and will get past this.”

The Red Cross has suffered from rapid turnover of leadership since Elizabeth Dole, now a Republican senator from North Carolina, stepped down as president in 1999. Her replacement, Dr. Bernadine Healy, resigned after less than two years, and it took more than a year to name her successor, Marsha J. Evans.

Ms. Evans resigned in 2005 after waging a power struggle with the Red Cross board, and it took the organization another year to find Mr. Everson, who was then commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. He was seen as a strong leader capable of dealing with the organization’s huge bureaucracy, standing up to its powerful board and reassuring major donors.

Trent Stamp, president of Charity Navigator, a Web site that rates the efficiency of charities based on financial statements filed with the government, said the firing was a major setback for the Red Cross. “This will affect fund-raising, organizational morale and public trust in this organization, which is already dangerously low,” he said.

He noted that the organization appeared to be turning a corner under Mr. Everson, earning generally high marks for its performance during the recent California wild fires. “I’m worried that that good will will be undone,” Mr. Stamp said.

Organizations, whether for-profit or not, rarely describe their reasons for firing an executive as bluntly as the Red Cross did. The most similar comparison is the Boeing Corporation, which forced the resignation of two chief executives because of ethical lapses, including affairs with employees.

Mr. Everson, who is 53, did not respond to a message left on his cellphone. In a statement released by the Red Cross, he said: “I am resigning my position for personal and family reasons, and deeply regret it is impossible for me to continue in a job so recently undertaken.”

Mr. Everson’s wife, Nanette, served in the White House counsel’s office as the chief ethics officer during the current Bush administration and, most recently, as general counsel at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a position she left last spring to return to the private sector. The Eversons have two children.

Since he joined the Red Cross at the end of May, Mr. Everson has traveled around the country, visiting chapters and blood services operations and courting donors. He set ambitious fund-raising targets and, in a conversation about eight weeks ago, he said he was concerned about declining donations.
687 2007-11-27 The troubled housing sector reached a new low this summer, and consumers remain deeply skeptical about the economy, according to reports released today.

Prices of single-family homes in the third quarter fell 4.5 percent nationwide compared to a year ago, according to the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller National Home Price Index. It was the largest drop since the index since the index was begun in 1988.

A separate survey by S.&P./Case-Shiller of home prices in 20 major metropolitan areas showed a drop of 4.95 percent in September from a year ago, the biggest decline in more than six years. Prices declined 0.9 percent in September alone, and were down in all 20 metropolitan areas, the survey found.

The Case-Shiller surveys are widely followed by investors.

A steady rise in foreclosures tied to the struggling mortgage market has weighed down housing demand and boosted business inventories. Tightened lending standards have also made it more difficult for Americans to procure the loans needed to purchase homes.

The result has been a steadily worsening drop in value. Home prices fell 3.3 percent nationwide in the second quarter from a year earlier, and 1.7 percent in the first quarter. Prices were still rising as recently as the fall of 2006.
688 2007-11-27 The wife of Steve Fossett, the adventurer whose plane disappeared in September, asked a court to declare him legally dead, saying she believed he was killed in a plane crash in rugged terrain. Michael A. LoVallo, a lawyer for Peggy V. Fossett who filed the petition in Cook County Circuit Court, said the request was a step toward resolving the legal status of Mr. Fossett’s estate, which according to court papers surpasses “eight figures in liquid assets, various entities and real estate.” Mr. Fossett, 63, disappeared Sept. 3 after taking off in a single-engine plane from an airstrip near Yerington, Nev., heading toward Bishop, Calif.
689 2007-11-27 For the broader economy, the danger from the rush into Treasuries is that it will further limit the availability of credit to consumers and businesses, possibly slowing the economy even more. Banks and investors have already become more strict about lending to customers with blemished credit histories and are charging much higher rates to businesses with ratings below investment grade.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.841 percent yesterday, from 4.001 percent late Friday and 4.403 a month ago. It was the biggest one-day drop in the yield in more than three years.

With financial stocks leading the way, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 2.3 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 237.44 points, or 1.8 percent, to 12,743.44.

Both indexes are down more than 10 percent from record closes on Oct. 9. It is the first time they have fallen that much since the bear market ended in October 2002. The Nasdaq composite index was off 2.1 percent, putting it more than 11 percent below its peak on Oct. 31. Much of yesterday’s decline came in the last hour and a half.

Stock markets were also down in Europe and Latin America, with Mexican and Brazilian indexes falling about 3 percent. Stocks opened sharply lower in Japan this morning.

Earlier in the day, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York tried to ease some anxiety by saying that it would offer a longer term for financing in the money market than it does usually. It will start with $8 billion tomorrow and the Fed said it would lend as much as is needed to keep overnight bank lending rates at its target of 4.5 percent. The bank also increased the amount of money securities dealers could borrow.

American and European central bankers have been trying to keep capital flowing smoothly in the main arteries of the world’s financial system. But they have been stymied by the uncertainty surrounding the quality of the investments that banks and brokerage firms created, sold and held during the credit boom.

Each time investors think that policy makers have effectively come to the rescue, another large institution reveals a portfolio tainted with shaky bonds.

“What they have done so far isn’t really fixing the problem; it isn’t easing credit,” Douglas Peta, chief market strategist at J.& W. Seligman, an investment firm in New York, said of the Fed and other central banks.

Yesterday, investors appeared to be focused on news that Citigroup, the world’s largest bank, is considering more layoffs. Citigroup shares fell 3.2 percent, to $30.70; it is down nearly 45 percent for the year. After hours, Citigroup shares dropped another 2.9 percent to $29.80. Another large bank, HSBC, said it would help rescue two investment vehicles by taking $45 billion in assets onto its balance sheet to avoid their being sold at current prices.

Banks have already written off about $50 billion in bonds tied to home loans, and some economists estimate the total losses could be $400 billion.

While the Federal Reserve has cut its benchmark interest rate twice in recent months, by 0.75 percentage point, the actions have not helped lower the cost of borrowing for most banks and financial institutions.

Policy makers meet again on Dec. 11, but they have signaled in several public appearances that they do not see a need to cut interest rates further.

One indication that the Fed’s rate cuts are not easing the flow of capital can be seen in the premium that investors are demanding to hold risky assets. High-yield debt is fetching a yield of 10.46 percent, up from 8.91 percent at the start of October. In other risky assets like bonds tied to subprime mortgages there is little to no trading going on.

“There is so much uncertainty and almost paranoia among certain market participants that market moves tend to be manic at times,” said Derrick Wulf, a portfolio manager at Dwight Asset Management, a bond trading firm based in Burlington, Vt. “Today we saw credit spreads widen across asset classes.”

Shares of finance companies and discretionary consumer products have taken the biggest beatings recently. But other sectors like technology where companies, especially semiconductor makers, have reported slowing growth have also started to slip. (Technology shares remain up for the year, whereas the overall S.& P. 500 is down 0.8 percent.)

“Until someone can quantify how bad the problem is, there will be a fear factor,” said Scott Black, president of Delphi Investments, an investment firm in Boston. “And nobody wants to own financial stocks.”

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
690 2007-11-27 “I discovered it was a lot of dirt, dirty hands, and crawling around on all fours,” Ms. Lauvergeon, 48, said, explaining how her interest shifted from the past to the future.

Ms. Lauvergeon’s long path from dirty hands to clean energy took some unexpected turns, including ones through the halls of power at the Élysées Palace, where she served as a top adviser to François Mitterrand, and into the bastions of the very male business world, leaving her, in the end, one of the most powerful women in corporate Europe.

Ms. Lauvergeon grew up in Orleans, the heartland of France, where her father was a professor of geography. Her interest in the past gradually made way for college studies in chemistry and physics, leading to a degree from the École des Mines in Paris, an elite engineering school.

After graduation she worked for several French companies, including the former Usinor steel company, now part of the Arcelor-Mittal steel group. In the first half of the 1990’s, she was Mr. Mitterrand’s lead aide on international trade issues. In 1995, she became a partner in Paris at Lazard Frères, spending several months in the investment bank’s New York office.

Today, Ms. Lauvergeon spends much of her time on the road, selling Areva’s nuclear products and services. When she is in Paris, she makes time to drop off her two children, ages 8 and 4, at their private school.

“I started late,” she confesses. Her husband, Olivier, is also in business.

Even as the nuclear industry opens new projects around the globe, the industry has been consolidating. After Toshiba’s $5.4 billion takeover of Westinghouse, General Electric and Hitachi joined forces in a $2 billion deal. Russia has carved Atomstroyexport, the Russian nuclear power company, out of the old Soviet atomic energy ministry.

In France, Ms. Lauvergeon assembled Areva in 2001 from the bickering factions of France’s state-owned nuclear establishment, the fuel company Cogema and the reactor builder Framatome, creating arguably the world’s only one-stop nuclear shop, selling uranium, reactors, fuel reprocessing and waste storage.

It was around this time that she first visited a nuclear reactor. “It was clean, very modern, and I was impressed by the idea that a tiny amount of uranium produced a huge amount of energy,” she said. And this, she added, despite her being at the time, “very ecolo,” French slang for environmentalist.

“At the time, many said we had no future,” she recalled. “I said, ‘We have a future, and we should invest.’ In this new situation, we’re very attractive.”

Of course, much of the increasing appeal of nuclear power has to do with the rising cost of oil and the need to reduce the level of greenhouse emissions. Companies like Westinghouse, General Electric and Areva, which design and build nuclear power plants, are taking advantage, landing contracts in Asia and even turning their sights on Western countries, like the United States.

“It’s not expensive, and the costs are totally predictable,” Ms. Lauvergeon said recently in her office in a meticulously restored Art Deco building in the center of Paris. “The cost of uranium is only 5 percent of your costs.” Moreover, she said, nuclear energy is not dependent on foreign sources of fuel and produces no greenhouse gases.

Not everyone shares her enthusiasm. “Currently there is no safe way to deal with radioactive waste,” said Nathan Argent, who follows the industry for Greenpeace, one of many antinuclear groups. They argue, moreover, that the spread of nuclear technology leads to the proliferation of atomic weapons.

Ms. Lauvergeon insists Areva is not in the business of proliferation. “Without ambiguity, we don’t accept to do business with countries that don’t accept, without doubt, international controls,” she said.

Some governments heed their antinuclear constituencies. Germany, once a leader in nuclear energy, is committed to exiting nuclear energy by 2020; Sweden is similarly committed to phase out its nuclear plants by 2010.

But Ms. Lauvergeon highlights Areva’s experience in converting spent fuel into mixed oxide, or MOX, pellets that can be burned in nuclear reactors. She can speak with conviction because France, unlike most of the world, never backed away from atomic power. Roughly 80 percent of the country’s electricity is generated by nuclear plants.

The new government of President Nicolas Sarkozy is giving Ms. Lauvergeon a helping hand. Addressing the United Nations, and on trips to Mediterranean countries, notably Libya and Morocco, Mr. Sarkozy has promoted French nuclear technology.

And he was present at the signing of the Areva-CGNPG agreement, according to Xinhua.

Areva will supply the China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group with two cutting-edge nuclear reactors in the city of Taishan in the southern province of Quangdong. Areva will also help run and maintain the plants, whose design will include a European pressurized water reactor, or EPR.

Under the 8 billion euro ($11.86 billion) deal, Areva will also cooperate with the Chinese on future civilian nuclear energy, including the reprocessing of spent fuel.

In the first nine months of 2007 Areva generated revenue of $11.6 billion, up 6.8 percent from the year before, building power plants, but also mining and processing uranium, and disposing of spent fuel. Its order book in the first half-year was up 30 percent, at $45 billion, before the Chinese deal.

Areva is currently building two new EPR plants in France and in Finland.

But Ms. Lauvergeon faces strong competition from companies like Westinghouse, General Electric and Atomstroyexport. She says she is not fazed, noting that Areva is taking the battle to Westinghouse’s home turf: it reached a joint venture with Constellation Energy, a Baltimore utility, to sell its power plants in the United States, and it is cooperating with Électricité de France, the French utility, to penetrate the American market.

Now Areva needs cash to grow, and the French government is considering all options, including selling shares in Areva. Less than 5 percent of Areva trades on the Paris exchange, in nonvoting investment certificates; a possible merger with the French turbinemaker Alstom would create an even more muscular competitor. This likelihood has driven Areva’s shares up more than 50 percent over the last year. Ms. Lauvergeon says she favors joining with “one or two industrial partners.”

But the centerpiece of Ms. Lauvergeon’s sales pitch is of course the EPR, which she has sold to China. Areva is building the first of its kind in a dark pine forest in Finland. But the Finnish project is years behind schedule and news reports have set cost overruns as high as $1 billion.

Ms. Lauvergeon, who says Areva does not publish the provisions it makes for such losses, acknowledges that the company is unlikely to make money on the project. But she even puts an optimistic spin on the loss.

“It’s an investment, an incredible show window,” she says.
691 2007-11-27 Hometown paid its first assessment with a bank loan. When the bank declined credit for the second year, the hospice structured a five-year payment plan with the Centers for Medicare and Services, the federal agency that administers the program, at 12.5 percent interest.

The next bill is expected any day.

“If they hit us with a number in the several hundred-thousand range, I just don’t see how we can survive,” said Gaines C. McCorquodale, Hometown’s other owner.

In the early days of the Medicare hospice benefit, which was designed for those with less than six months to live, nearly all patients were victims, who tended to die relatively quickly and predictably once curative efforts were abandoned.

But in the last five years, hospice use has skyrocketed among patients with less predictable trajectories, like those with and . Those patients now form a majority of hospice consumers, and their average stays are far longer — 86 days for Alzheimer’s patients, for instance, compared with 44 for those with lung cancer, according to the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission.

The commission, which analyzes Medicare issues for Congress, recently projected that 220 hospices — about one of every 13 providers — received 2005 repayment demands totaling $166 million. The National Alliance for Hospice Access, a providers’ group that is lobbying for a three-year moratorium on the collections, places the numbers at 250 hospices and $200 million.

Because fewer than a tenth of all hospice providers have faced repayment, Medicare officials suggest that management might have been an issue. But Lois C. Armstrong, president of the hospice access alliance, said that if the cap on Medicare reimbursements was not lifted, the availability of care would tighten at a time when demand for hospice care was exploding and when new research suggests it saves money for the runaway Medicare program.

Many elderly people here in the remotest reaches of the state’s Black Belt would most likely live out their last days alone if not for Hometown Hospice nurses like Meg Appel Youngblood.

One recent autumn morning, Ms. Youngblood forded the Alabama River by ferry and set off on her rounds of the storied quilting enclave of Gees Bend, looking in on old women who had grown too feeble to quilt or to care for themselves.

Inside a clapboard house, she checked the vital signs of Loretta L. Pettway, a former farmhand whose stitchwork has been celebrated in postage stamps and picture books, and found that her was a bit high.

“Miss Loretta, have you had your medicine?” she asked, and Ms. Pettway, 65, weary from chronic heart disease, shook her head no. “I didn’t think so,” Ms. Youngblood said, as she started to inventory the 14 pill bottles Ms. Pettway had stowed in a plastic bag.

Medicare’s coverage of hospice, which began in 1983, has become one of the fastest growing components of the government’s fastest growing entitlement. Spending nearly tripled from 2000 to 2005, to $8.2 billion, and nearly 40 percent of Medicare recipients now use the service.

To be eligible, patients must be certified by two doctors as having six months or less to live, assuming their illness runs a normal course. They must agree not to bill Medicare for curative procedures related to their diagnosis.

Medicare, which pays the vast majority of hospice bills, reimburses providers $135 a day for a patient’s routine home care. The hospice is then responsible for providing nurses, social workers, chaplains, doctors, drugs, supplies and equipment, as well as bereavement support to the family.

Studies have reached various conclusions about whether hospice care actually saves money, especially for long-term patients. But a new study by researchers concluded that it saved Medicare an average of $2,300 per beneficiary, calling hospice “a rare situation whereby something that improves quality of life also appears to reduce costs.”

In 1998, Congress removed limits on the number of days that an individual could receive Medicare hospice coverage, a move that encouraged physicians to refer terminal patients.

But lawmakers did not remove a cap on the aggregate amount that hospice providers could be reimbursed each year, a measure designed to contain the program’s cost. A hospice’s total annual reimbursement cannot exceed the product of the number of patients it serves and a per-patient allowance set by the government each year ($21,410 in 2007).

For reasons that are not fully understood, problems with the cap have been most prevalent at small, for-profit hospices in Southern and Western states like , Alabama and .

Those programs typically have had higher proportions of noncancer patients and, thus, longer lengths of stay. But the Medicare advisory commission’s analysis also determined that the average length of stay in the cap-busting programs was significantly higher for all types of patients, including those with cancer.

Herb B. Kuhn, the deputy director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said that finding was attracting attention at the center, which is eager to keep the hospice care benefit from morphing into a long-term care entitlement. “Well over nine out of 10 hospices seem to be managing well, including the ones in higher-wage areas, so it does raise an issue of management,” Mr. Kuhn said. Mr. Kuhn said it remained a question whether hospice care saved money, but called it “a wonderful benefit” that “probably needs refinement” after nearly 25 years.

Among the matters meriting review, he said, is whether doctors have been premature in certifying patients as terminal. Medicare has issued disease-specific guidelines for the certifications, which must be made by both a personal physician and the hospice medical director.

The medical director at Hometown Hospice, Dr. Sumpter D. Blackmon, said he relied heavily on the judgment of the hospice’s nurses to determine whether prospective patients were rather likely to live longer than six months. But of the 56 patients on the books on Oct. 31, 17 had been there for at least that period, including two for more than 500 days.

“Doing this for 40-something years,” said Dr. Blackmon, a longtime physician here, “every time I think somebody is going to die tomorrow, damned if they don’t live for a year and a half.”

A number of hospice providers said ethical and legal constraints would prevent them from discharging patients who outlived their profit potential. But some said they sometimes delayed admission for those patients with illnesses that might result in longer stays.

Like other providers, Richard R. Slager, the chairman and chief executive of , which is based in and has programs in 14 states, said his company now aimed its marketing at cancer patients.

“In communities where we have had cap issues, we have to really look hard for shorter-length-of-stay patients to offset it,” Mr. Slager said. “It’s a never-ending nightmare.”

After being hit with $200 million in cap charges over four years — the equivalent of a year’s revenues — Mr. Slager said he chose to close or sell 16 of 58 hospices.

Some providers have survived only by aggressively recruiting new patients, using this year’s Medicare reimbursements to pay off last year’s cap charges, while stalling for Congressional relief. Ms. Youngblood, the Hometown Hospice nurse, said that after she visited her charges — doling out their pills, and turning the sweet potatoes in their ovens — she trolled for new patients at and senior centers.

At the small hospital here, she said, the nurses joke about her “marketing” forays: “They’ll say, ‘Here comes Nurse Kevorkian. She has no shame.’ And I’ll say, ‘Look, I have to have a paycheck, too.’”
692 2007-11-27 LONDON, Nov. 26 (Agence France-Presse) — Britain has opened a formal investigation into a possible instance of an accidental attack in which two Danish soldiers died in southern Afghanistan, the Ministry of Defense said Monday.

Danish television reported on Sunday that the Danish soldiers, who died Sept. 26, were killed by missiles fired by British forces who mistook them for Taliban fighters.

“We are working closely with the Danish government to establish the details and the causes of this incident and there is a board of inquiry into it ongoing,” said a spokesman for the Defense Ministry, on the condition of customary anonymity. “It would not be appropriate to comment further before the board of inquiry is complete.”

He said he did not know how long the inquiry would take.

The Danish TV2 television station reported Sunday that British troops from the International Security Assistance Force believed that they were fighting Taliban when they launched six to eight missiles at a position held by 14 Danish soldiers.

The British forces kept firing for nearly an hour without noticing that it was another position for the international force, killing the Danish soldiers, Thorbjoern Ole Reese and Mikkel Keil Soerensen, the television station’s correspondent said.

Two Danish soldiers said they knew the British had fired at them because they found remains of British missiles in their position, on the Helmand River in the Upper Geresk Valley.
693 2007-11-27 The bailout means HSBC will not participate in the larger SIV fund, a bank spokesman said. Instead, HSBC expects its action to “set a benchmark and restore a degree of confidence to the SIV sector, while providing a specific solution to address the challenges faced by investors in Cullinan and Asscher,” Stuart Gulliver, HSBC’s chief executive of corporate and investment banking, said in the statement.

The step may prompt other banks to seek similar solutions, some analysts said.

While HSBC may have found a way to bolster investor confidence in its SIVs, some bank executives are still concerned about additional write-downs, especially after HSBC said earlier this month that losses in the housing market were spreading to credit card and other consumer loans, forcing it to set aside $3.4 billion, more than it had forecast four months earlier.

HSBC may have to set aside an additional $12 billion for bad debts, Roy Ramos and other Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a note, lowering their recommendation for the stock to sell, from neutral. Shares of HSBC fell about 16 pence, to £8.12 in London trading Monday. They have dropped 13 percent this year.

Shares in Northern Rock, in the meantime, rose 33 percent, to £1.15 after the troubled mortgage lender — looking for a buyer to help repay more than $41 billion in emergency loans from the Bank of England — said it planned to speed up takeover discussions with Virgin while continuing to explore other options.

Virgin’s bidding group, which includes the billionaire investor Wilbur L. Ross, proposed to immediately repay £11 billion of loans as part of “a clear path toward repayment in full” and to bring Northern Rock under the Virgin brand by combining it with Virgin Money.

Virgin would also inject £1.3 billion into Northern Rock, half of which it aims to finance by offering new shares to existing shareholders at 25 pence each. The implied value of Virgin Money is £250 million, bringing the total investment from Virgin, which would own 55 percent of Northern Rock, to £1.55 billion, or $3.2 billion, Northern Rock said.

The chairman of Northern Rock, Bryan Sanderson, said in a statement that he was “pleased that a solution that firmly restores the company’s prospects has been identified.”

Northern Rock had to ask for emergency assistance when turmoil in the credit markets caused the bank’s access to financing to dry up, causing panic among its depositors and a run on the bank.

A solution for Northern Rock would come as a relief for the British government, which has been criticized for being slow to react to the credit squeeze.

Pressure on Chancellor Alistair Darling to find a solution mounted as the possible burden on British taxpayers became clear and the emergency loans exceeded the country’s transport budget. The situation has already dented the Labor government’s reputation for economic competence and a failure to find a buyer may force it to either nationalize Northern Rock or put it into administration.
694 2007-11-27 Sherman signed a seven-year contract that will pay him $1.8 million a year.

“I’m not going to delve into something unless I feel like we have a legitimate chance to win championships,” Sherman said.

Sherman, 52, has not coached in college since leaving Texas A&M to become an assistant in Green Bay in 1996. He will remain with the Texans (5-6) for the remainder of the season.

Sherman became the Packers’ head coach in 2000, and Green Bay went 59-43 and won three National Football Conference North division titles in his six seasons. The Packers also produced two of the four highest-scoring seasons in franchise history under Sherman.

Gailey was 44-32 in six years at Georgia Tech. He lost at least five games each season and was 0-6 against Georgia. The Yellow Jackets were 7-5 this season.

Jon Tenuta, the defensive coordinator, will take over as interim coach for the Yellow Jackets, who are expected to play in the Emerald Bowl or Humanitarian Bowl. He will be a candidate for the job permanently.

Rumors of Nutt’s departure began after the loss last winter of key recruits and a popular assistant coach. Trouble mounted for Nutt after the Razorbacks lost their first three Southeastern Conference games.

Arkansas finished the regular season 8-4 and knocked Louisiana State out of the No. 1 spot with a 50-48 victory in three overtimes Friday. The defensive coordinator Reggie Herring will coach the team in its bowl. Nutt went 75-48 at Arkansas since being hired in December 1997.

“Houston’s decision to resign was neither forced, or encouraged, or requested,” Chancellor John A. White said.

Doba said he would not return at Washington State after a 5-7 season in which the team missed going to a bowl game for a fourth consecutive year. He was 30-29 in five seasons, including Saturday’s 42-35 win over Washington, which gave him a 3-2 record against the Huskies.

Lynch was named interim coach after Terry Hoeppner died from complications of a brain tumor in June. He led Indiana to a 7-5 regular season. The Hoosiers are in position to receive their first bowl bid since 1993.

Roof went 6-45 at Duke. The Blue Devils lost at least 10 games in three consecutive seasons, including a winless 2006.

After snapping a 22-game losing streak with a victory at Northwestern, Duke dropped nine in a row to finish this season 1-11. The Blue Devils have lost 25 consecutive Atlantic Coast Conference games.

Bower spent 29 years at Southern Miss as a quarterback, assistant and head coach. He was 119-82-1 in 17 seasons and had held the same job longer than all but three coaches in the Football Bowl Subdivision. Only Penn State’s Joe Paterno (42 years), Florida State’s Bobby Bowden (32) and Virginia Tech’s Frank Beamer (21) have longer tenures.
695 2007-11-27 Warner Brothers yesterday named Jeff Robinov, its head of film production, to be the president of a newly created Warner Brothers Pictures Group, which will manage the company’s filmmaking operation along with worldwide theatrical marketing and distribution.

The authority to approve motion pictures will remain solely in the hands of Alan F. Horn, president and chief operating officer of Warner Brothers, although Mr. Horn said he would spend more time focusing on new businesses and new territories with Barry M. Meyer, the company’s chairman and chief executive. Mr. Robinov’s promotion will presumably create room for his longtime deputy, Kevin McCormick, to succeed him.

Mr. Robinov, 49, benefited from a similar shuffle in 2002. When Lorenzo di Bonaventura, his predecessor, was made a corporate Warner Brothers executive vice president and given responsibility for both physical production and domestic marketing, Mr. Robinov was given the production chief’s title. (Mr. di Bonaventura left soon after for unrelated reasons.)

This promotion, to take effect in January, will give Mr. Robinov, a 10-year veteran of the studio, oversight of departments led by far more senior executives, as well as of Warner Independent Pictures, the studio’s specialty division. He will oversee physical production, postproduction and theatrical music, and will share responsibility for the direct-to-video unit, Warner Premiere, with the company’s home entertainment group.

Mr. Horn credited Mr. Robinov with having shaped the studio’s “event-film strategy” and said he would be charged among other things with improving communication and wringing new efficiencies out of the studio. Mr. Robinov did not venture to say where those efficiencies might be found. “I’m just trying to get to January,” he said.

Warner Brothers, part of Time Warner, has had a solid but unexceptional year at the domestic box office, so far placing third in market share behind Paramount and Sony on the strength of the latest “Harry Potter” installment and the surprise hit “300.”
696 2007-11-27 GALVESTON, Tex., Nov. 26 (AP) — Investigators said Monday that they were “fairly confident” that a toddler whose body washed ashore last month in a plastic storage bin was a girl whose Ohio grandmother called the authorities after seeing a sketch of “Baby Grace.”

The mother and the stepfather of the girl, Riley Ann Sawyers, 2, were in custody. While investigators were awaiting DNA test results on Monday, the lawyer for the mother, Kimberly D. Trenor, 19, said the child was Riley.

The authorities declined to say how the girl died, but Ms. Trenor’s statement to the police, obtained first by the Houston television station KTRK, indicated that she and her husband, Royce C. Zeigler II, 24, beat and tortured her to death in July.

An autopsy revealed three skull fractures, but the cause of death had not been determined.

Maj. Ray Tuttoilmondo of the Galveston County Sheriff’s Department said he could not discuss details of how and where the girl died.

But Ms. Trenor told the police that Riley died after she and Mr. Zeigler beat her on July 24, according to the statement. The statement said the girl was beaten with belts, had her head held underwater in a bathtub and was thrown across a room, her head slamming into a tile floor. Ms. Trenor told the police that they kept the body in a storage shed for one to two months before putting it in a plastic bin and dumping it into Galveston Bay.

Ms. Trenor and Riley moved this year from suburban Cleveland to Spring, a Houston suburb.
697 2007-11-27 LONDON, Nov. 26 (Reuters) — GlaxoSmithKline signed a deal on Monday to sell a nonprescription version of Merck’s cholesterol-lowering drug Mevacor.

The move signals Glaxo’s commitment to its consumer health care operation, despite calls by some investors for it to spin the unit off to focus on prescription treatments.

Under the agreement, Glaxo, which is based in London, will have exclusive American rights to sell a nonprescription version of Mevacor. The over-the-counter version is currently awaiting regulatory approval.

In return, it will make undisclosed milestone and royalty payments to Merck. Merck is based in Whitehouse Station, N.J.

This year, Glaxo introduced Alli, an over-the-counter version of the Xenical obesity drug from Roche Holding, and sales have been higher in the United States than some analysts expected.
698 2007-11-27 Encouraged by healthy DVD sales of the show’s first season and strong ratings for late-night reruns on the Cartoon Network beginning in 2003, Mr. Groening and Mr. Cohen approached Fox executives about ways to resurrect “Futurama.” To no avail.

“We suggested coming back with direct-to-DVD episodes a couple of times,” said Mr. Cohen, who has a degree in physics from Harvard. “I had even typed up this elaborate mathematical presentation on how it couldn’t possibly lose money. We never really got any response.”

Until 2005, when, Mr. Cohen said, “Fox called us and said, ‘How would you like to do a DVD?’ And we said, ‘That seems like a good idea.’”

And that is how “Bender’s Big Score,” the first of four direct-to-DVD feature-length “Futurama” movies, came to be released today. The other three discs will be issued over the next year, and the new material will also be edited into 16 half-hour episodes to be broadcast on Comedy Central as part of that network’s acquisition of “Futurama” rerun rights.

“It’s interesting that a studio now sees it as viable to release a show with a prime-time budget directly to DVD and expects to make their money back,” Mr. Cohen said. He and Mr. Groening have been walking picket lines in the writers’ strike, in which a central issue is the amount of compensation writers will receive from material released exclusively on DVDs or distributed through the Internet.

Steven Melnick, senior vice president of marketing for Fox Television, said his studio began to consider a “Futurama” resurrection after the successful direct-to-DVD release of new episodes of “Family Guy” in 2005. That Fox animated show had been canceled but found new life in Cartoon Network reruns and compilation DVD sales. The series rejoined the Fox prime-time roster in May 2005.

“It took a little while for people to understand what the economics would be to support this,” Mr. Melnick said, “but ‘Family Guy’ showed us it is possible to green-light new episodes without a network commitment.”

The “Futurama” creators, interviewed together in Mr. Groening’s production office here, said they were thrilled to find that the studio believed it made more economic sense to commit to four DVD movies: cheaper than hiring and rehiring writers, directors, voice actors and animators for one movie at a time.

“It’s basically a miracle that we were able to get back almost our entire crew,” Mr. Cohen said, noting that the original cast is back, and that the animation is being done by the same studio that did the series, although this time in a wide-screen, high-definition format.

Although the budget was roughly comparable to what it cost to produce a season of the original series, the writing staff for the movies was smaller, and the operation was “much more informal and with less support personnel,” Mr. Cohen said.

But there was also less interference. “There were no network censors, no broadcast standards to worry about,” Mr. Cohen said. “It was kind of left to us to set the tone we wanted.”

Which is why significant elements of the story take place on a nude-beach planet, a concept that had been on the “Futurama” idea board since the first season and features all manner of alien backsides. “There is a profusion of buttocks,” Mr. Cohen admits. “We pushed it a little bit in the buttocks department.”

There are also cameos from Sarah Silverman, Coolio and a surprisingly uninhibited (although not in any way naked) Al Gore. The story, full of elaborate twists, is essentially a time-travel tale loaded with flashbacks to the original series and more than its share of inside jokes, many requiring freeze-frame study to appreciate fully.

Though Mr. Groening and Mr. Cohen said they would be willing to continue with the direct-to-DVD model, they would rather have “Futurama” evolve into a theatrically released feature film or return to network television.

“It would be very vindicating to come back as a series,” said Mr. Groening, adding that he felt that the show, his first animation project after “The Simpsons,” never received the promotional push it deserved on Fox.

“‘Futurama’ always felt like an underdog show to me,” he said. “‘The Simpsons’ is a show that you’re always competing with people’s favorite memories of the past, trying to live up to them. With ‘Futurama’ you’re not just watching the show, you’re also rooting for it.”
699 2007-11-27 Women in the sunniest countries seem to get endometrial cancer less often than those who live far from the equator.

Using a large World Health Organization database, researchers have found lower rates of the cancer, which strikes the lining of the uterus, in populations with a higher exposure to UVB radiation, the ultraviolet light that causes the skin to produce vitamin D.

“There is a mathematical relationship,” said Cedric F. Garland, a professor of family and preventive medicine at the University of California, San Diego, and a co-author of the study, which appears in the November issue of Preventive Medicine.

The researchers assembled information on endometrial cancer in 107 countries. In both Northern and Southern Hemispheres, the higher the latitude, the higher the risk — even after adjusting for many variables. They also found that higher rates of meat eating, per capita health expenditure and the percentage of the population that was overweight were each associated with a higher risk of endometrial cancer.

Though the researchers did not measure vitamin D levels, Dr. Garland said, “we believe that vitamin D accounts for the finding, since the geographic distribution corresponds to that of other cancers which have been shown in studies of individuals to be related to levels of vitamin D.”
700 2007-11-27 The antioxidant beta carotene may help prevent mental decline in men, a new study reports, but only with long-term use.

Using data from the same study that established the benefits of low-dose aspirin in reducing the risk of heart disease, researchers followed almost 4,000 men for an average of 18 years. Half of them received 50 milligrams of beta carotene every other day — the equivalent of four carrots a day — and half were given a placebo pill. When that part of the study ended in 1998, an additional 2,000 generally healthy men with an average age of 73 were recruited and randomized in the same way: half got beta carotene and the rest took a placebo. All 6,000 continued in the study, which went on for another three years. The paper appears in the Nov. 12 issue of The Archives of Internal Medicine.

Men who took the antioxidant for three years or less had no improvement on standard tests of memory, but those who took it for 15 years or more scored consistently higher on all tests. The differences were small, but the authors pointed out that even modest improvements in verbal memory predict substantial differences in rates of dementia.

“The broader message,” said Francine Grodstein, the lead author and an associate professor of medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, “is that this is the first study that has shown that there are ways, through fairly straightforward lifestyle modifications, that we can help memory as we get older.”
701 2007-11-27 A man with a deep voice may have a survival advantage, a better chance of passing on his genes.

Researchers have found that men with deeper voices have more children — at least among the Hadza, a group of hunter-gatherers in Tanzania.

According to background information in an article published online for the Dec. 22 edition of Biology Letters, most women in Western societies find lower-pitched male voices more attractive, judging them healthier and more masculine. Meanwhile, men find higher-pitched voices more appealing.

The evolutionary reasons for reproductive success are difficult to discover in a society that uses modern birth control methods. The Hadza use no birth control and choose their own spouses; this makes them what the researchers call a “natural fertility population” where hypotheses about human reproductive success can be tested.

Researchers collected voice recordings (in Swahili, the common second language for the Hadza) and reproductive histories from 49 men and 52 women to determine if voice pitch might affect the number of children.

After controlling for age, voice pitch was a highly accurate predictor of the number of children a man fathered, and those with deeper voices fathered significantly more. The researchers estimated that voice quality alone could account for 42 percent of the variance in men’s reproductive success. The quality of women’s voices was unrelated to how many children they had.

The reasons that a lower-pitched voice gives a man a greater chance of producing many offspring are not clear, but the researchers make several suggestions. Deep-voiced men might have more mates, healthier mates or shorter intervals between births; perhaps they start reproducing at an earlier age.
702 2007-11-27 Roy Smalley at shortstop? Let’s get Bucky Dent to play there, too. Ken Griffey and Omar Moreno in center field? Let them platoon, even if it means the left-handed hitting Griffey having to bat against left-handed pitchers. Sparky Lyle is the closer? Goose Gossage can close, too; they can share the job.

What about Dave Collins? He is fast and can cover a lot of ground in the outfield. But tell him when he gets to spring training to get a first baseman’s glove, just in case.

Is this what Moreno wants to do? Probably not, but he evidently is prepared to add many dollars to his payroll, which last season was $110 million, seventh highest in baseball.

Moreno did not enjoy his team’s early exit from the playoffs last month. Three games, three losses to the Red Sox. He was not happy about it.

His new general manager, Tony Reagins, does not like to see his boss unhappy. At the recent general managers meetings, he was one of only two general managers who said he would pursue Rodriguez after Rodriguez walked away from his contract with the Yankees.

Moreno had said privately he would not spend a quarter of his payroll on one player, but he apparently did not tell Reagins he should not explore the possibility of acquiring Rodriguez.

Asked if the Angels were prepared to pay $30 million to $35 million a year for Rodriguez, Reagins said: “That’s hypothetical. We don’t know what the price is going to be. When we get to that point, we’d have to take a strong look at it. There are numbers that are being thrown around, but I don’t know how much merit they have. It could be that. It may not be that.”

Reagins wanted to find a big hitter to team with Vladimir Guerrero. Rodriguez would have been a perfect addition to the Angels lineup. But Rodriguez had second thoughts about leaving the Yankees and crawled back, leaving the Angels to find another big bat.

Hunter is not Rodriguez, but he was the best hitter available in the free-agent market, and Reagins swooped in and scooped him up for less than one-third of what he would have had to pay Rodriguez.

But as was noted earlier, Hunter plays center field, which is where Matthews started 133 of the Angels’ 162 games last season. The Angels said Matthews was fine with the idea of losing his job, not just his center field job but his everyday job in the outfield.

He will take turns spelling Guerrero in right field and Garret Anderson in left and being the designated hitter, which means he will be the D.H. most of the time. That role was probably not what Matthews had in mind when he signed with the Angels a year ago, but $50 million is $50 million. It is a lot more than the $2,512,500 he made in 2006, and he was not going to get that kind of money anywhere else.

Yet players have big egos, understandably so, and they do not like the appearance of losing a job or being moved to a different position because someone new supposedly plays the position better. The player may initially say it is all right, anything to help the team win, but the move may start to grate on the player and at some point his true feelings may emerge.

Three years ago, Mike Cameron said he did not mind when the Mets moved him to right field because they had signed Carlos Beltrán to play center. But Cameron did mind, and he was not happy during the 2005 season. After the season, the Mets traded him to San Diego.

It is not very likely the Angels could find a taker for the expensive Matthews if he were unhappy and they wanted to trade him. However, they could have left field available for him in 2009 if they do not exercise Anderson’s $14 million option.

In the meantime, maybe they could have Hunter and Matthews serve as a two-man outfield, both playing center and neither playing center.
703 2007-11-27 The governor said he would not be a candidate, and speculation in Mississippi political circles on Mr. Lott’s Republican successor immediately centered on Representative Roger Wicker of northeast Mississippi, along with Representative Charles W. Pickering Jr., a former Lott aide who plans to retire from the House. The potential Democratic challengers include former Gov. Ronnie Musgrove and former Attorney General Mike Moore.

Mr. Lott is the sixth Republican senator to announce his retirement, and one of the more practiced ones.

His party is the presumptive favorite to retain the seat next year in this deeply Republican state. But in next year’s elections, Republicans must now defend 23 Senate seats, and Democrats only 12. Seventeen Republicans and five Democrats are giving up their House seats.

James A. Thurber, director of the Center for Presidential and Congressional Studies at American University, said there was no question in his mind that Mr. Lott’s decision had been influenced by the new ethics and lobbying rules. Senators who retire this year have to wait only one year before lobbying their former colleagues, instead of the two years that go into effect in 2008.

“The new two-year cooling off period is encouraging people who have been around for a long time, especially in the minority, to leave,” Mr. Thurber said. “They know that the golden window of opportunity is immediate.”

Mr. Lott, responding to questions about why he was stepping down so soon after his 2006 re-election, said he had wanted to leave the Senate after his previous term expired, but “then Katrina intervened” and he ran again “because the people I loved so much were still struggling” with the storm’s aftermath.

Now, “we’ve gotten through Katrina, and I just felt like I needed to do something with my limited time in life.” He said he had no specific plans.

Senate Republicans quickly began maneuvering for a shuffling of their leadership. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, currently the No. 3 Republican, announced that he would make a bid for Mr. Lott’s post as whip. Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, who lost the whip’s job to Mr. Lott by one vote last year, said he would support Mr. Kyl.

Mr. Lott announced the end of his career at a news conference much as he had conducted the bulk of it, with an accommodating affability that included ingratiating mentions even of ideological opponents like Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York.

“This is not a negative thing. There’s no malice, no anger,” he said, smiling into the crowded meeting room of a motel here where he said he had held his first victory party 35 years ago.

Mr. Lott, the smooth Senate maneuverer with a penchant for compromise, was something of a throwback to a less-partisan era, and the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, praised him on Monday as “reaching across the aisle.”

Mr. Lott, who once held the same post as Mr. Reid, said, “You can get things done even in the minority, if you’re willing to work with the other party.” He rejected suggestions that his party’s diminished status had hastened his leaving.

He lost his home here to Hurricane Katrina, then struggled with his insurance company as thousands of others here did, something he said had spurred him on as an advocate for storm victims.

It was Mr. Lott’s instinct to ingratiate that led both to his most pronounced moment in the national spotlight and subsequent fall, and to his slow climb back. At a 100th birthday tribute to Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina in 2002, Mr. Lott alluded favorably to Mr. Thurmond’s campaign for president as a segregationist Dixiecrat in 1948, saying the nation would have been better off had Mr. Thurmond been elected.

The apparently offhand remark provoked an outcry. President Bush rebuked him despite Mr. Lott’s public apologies, and the senator was forced to quit his post as Republican leader. The episode embittered Mr. Lott, leaving him with a momentary and uncharacteristic sharp edge. But by last year all had been forgiven and forgotten, and his colleagues elected him to the party’s No. 2 position in the Senate.

Many Mississippi residents, whites especially, were indignant at the treatment meted out to a power in the state’s politics for three decades, and many felt Mr. Lott had nothing to apologize for. Through it all, Mr. Lott insisted he was not defending segregation in his tribute to Mr. Thurmond, maintaining he had changed, like many other Southerners, from the days when he once had.

From early years as a vote-hustling high school leader, then cheerleader and conciliating fraternity president at the University of Mississippi during the 1962 crisis over integration, Mr. Lott has had a natural campaigner’s instinct for the tide of majority opinion in his often ornery state.

He began his political career working in the successful 1967 campaign for governor by Representative John Bell Williams, a Democrat, who ran one of the last openly racist campaigns for governor in the state. Mr. Lott became an aide to the longtime Democratic congressman from the Gulf Coast, William Colmer, an old-line segregationist, and Mr. Lott appears to have had no difficulty defending Mr. Colmer’s positions.

When Mr. Colmer retired in 1972, Mr. Lott ran for his seat as a Republican, and won. He quickly entered the national spotlight as a youthful last-ditch defender of President Richard M. Nixon.

For years Mr. Lott patiently toiled in the House, advancing to minority whip in the early 1980s, then to the Senate in 1988 and finally to Senate majority leader, before his quick fall in 2002.

“I’ve been on mountaintops,” Mr. Lott said Monday. “I’ve been down in the valley. I took a few licks. I made a few mistakes.”

CHICAGO, Nov. 26 (AP) — Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the former House speaker who made a farewell speech to colleagues 11 day earlier, formally resigned Monday in a letter to Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois.
704 2007-11-27 A SCOLDING FROM GERMANY Klaus-Peter Müller. below, president of the German banking association, has criticized American banks for their mortgage-market excesses, which have harmed two German banks and will continue to cause problems for investmen...
705 2007-11-27 Senator Trent Lott's announcement on Monday that he would resign in a few weeks added to the growing Republican exodus from Congress, but may have strengthened Mr. Lott's post-Senate job prospects.      By retiring before the end of the year, Mr. ...
706 2007-11-28 After two women were charged with looting expensive Upper East Side apartments during open houses, real estate agents have offered tips for keeping property safe when showing your home....
707 2007-11-28 William Ackman has never lacked for confidence in his bets on companies like Target and McDonald's. Now, he seems so assured of his bet against bond insurers that he says he will donate the more than $500 million he expects to earn from those shor...
708 2007-11-28 The transatlantic exchange NYSE Euronext expects United States companies with New York Stock Exchange listings to seek secondary listings in Amsterdam, a Dutch newspaper quoted a NYSE Euronext board member as saying on Wednesday. "A substantial nu...
709 2007-11-28 Two small hedge funds have merged in a rare deal as tiny investment pools, watching giants such as the Citadel Investment Group prepare to post returns of up to 27 percent for the year, huddle together looking for better returns. The two funds, TL...
710 2007-11-28 A British hedge fund has hired a former litigator to invest $100 million in European legal disputes, in what The Times of London says is believed to be the first formal arrangement of its kind. MKM Longboat, a Jersey-based, London-run hedge fund t...
711 2007-11-28 Shares in UBS powered higher on Wednesday on speculation that Asian or Gulf-based investors might target European banks whose stock has weakened in the wake of the subprime crisis. The speculation was prompted by Citigroup's $7.5 billion stake sal...
712 2007-11-28 Shareholders in Clarins might need to reach for the company's famous creams to smooth out some recently acquired worry lines. Since June the value of the luxury cosmetics and perfumes maker has been alternately buoyed and deflated by talk of bids ...
713 2007-11-28 The Fed has cut its benchmark interest rate by three-quarters of a point since September to ease the fallout from the subprime mortgage crisis. But recent anxiety in the credit markets has made banks and mortgage companies less eager to lend, leading many investors on Wall Street to call for another slash in interest rates that would make it easier for banks and consumers to borrow money.

In his speech this morning, delivered to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, Mr. Kohn pledged that the Fed “will act as needed” to address the volatility of the current economic situation.

“Uncertainties about the economic outlook are unusually high right now,” he said. “In my view, these uncertainties require flexible and pragmatic policy making.”

Mr. Kohn noted that “the increased turbulence of recent weeks partly reversed some of the improvement in market functioning over the late part of September and in October.” And pointing to “heightened concerns about larger losses at financial institutions now reflected in various markets,” he said the results could be “a more defensive posture in granting credit, not only for house purchases, but for other uses as well.”

Mr. Kohn, who will vote at the bank’s policy meeting on Dec. 11, acknowledged the “moral hazard” debate that has clouded recent discussions over Fed policy, referring to the bank’s reluctance to reinforce investors’ poor decisions by lowering interest rates. Some analysts argue that this approach effectively rewards banks for poor investments.

But Mr. Kohn said that “when the decisions do go poorly, innocent bystanders should not have to bear the cost.”

“We should not hold the economy hostage to teach a small segment of the population a lesson,” he said, suggesting that a rate cut would be justified

Mr. Kohn’s rate-cut remarks were strongly worded, but Fed officials still appear deeply divided on the issue. The bank issued a statement last month that suggested it would be reluctant to lower rates again before next year. Less than two weeks ago, Randall S. Kroszner, a Fed governor, said that “the current stance of monetary policy should help the economy get through the rough patch during the next year.”

Ben S. Bernanke, the bank’s chairman, has also hinted in speeches and Congressional testimony that he is skeptical of an additional rate cut, citing the threat of inflation and underlying strength in the economy.

But today’s economic data suggests that strength may be abating. Spending at retail outlets is softening and businesses are pessimistic about holiday sales, according to the beige book, a regular survey of national economic conditions conducted by the Fed. Foreign money appears to be keeping many domestic businesses in the black, as tourists and export buyers are attracted to American goods by a record-low dollar, the survey showed.

“The beige book reflected what we already know, that we are seeing the economy broadly decelerating,” said Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at IdeaGlobal.

Businesses also appear more cautious about spending as they anticipate a drop-off in demand over the coming months, as new orders of durable goods — major consumer products like appliances, airplanes and machinery — declined in October by 0.4 percent, the Commerce Department said.

A major indicator of spending — orders of nonmilitary capital goods including appliances and home computers, but excluding aircraft — fell 2.3 percent, suggesting slower spending by consumers. It was the first decline in the category since June, but orders are still down 1.2 percent from last October.

Inventories at businesses ticked up 0.2 percent, following a 0.3 percent uptick in September. The rise could suggest declining demand and a gloomier outlook for business activity.

Meanwhile, existing-home sales dropped for the eighth consecutive month as mortgage availability dries up amid the continuing credit crunch. Sales fell 1.2 percent in October to a 4.97 million annual pace, down from 5.03 million in September, the National Association of Realtors said today. Inventories of homes also rose last month, by 1.9 percent.
714 2007-11-28 The French drink company Rémy Cointreau said its first-half profit fell from a year earlier, when it booked gains from asset sales. Net income at Rémy Cointreau, the maker of Rémy Martin cognac and Piper-Heidsieck Champagne, dropped to $56.5 million (38.1 million euros) for the six months through Sept. 30, from 75.7 million euros, a year earlier, the company said. Sales rose 5.6 percent, to 374.4 million euros ($555.7 million).
715 2007-11-28 Business confidence in Germany rose in November for the first time since April, a closely watched survey showed, defying analysts’ expectations for Europe’s largest economy. Another report, this one from the government, estimated that Germany’s annual inflation rose to 3 percent this month, its highest level in more than 13 years, as a result of high prices for oil products, food and beverages. The Ifo Institute for Economic Research said its business climate index rose slightly, to 104.2, from 103.9 in October, after slipping for six straight months. Companies assessed their current situation more positively than in October, but were “somewhat more cautious” regarding the six-month business outlook, said Hans-Werner Sinn, above, Ifo’s president. The 3 percent annual inflation estimate by the Federal Statistics Office was up from 2.4 percent in October.
716 2007-11-28 Bank of Montreal reported a 35 percent decline in quarterly earnings, reduced by previously announced charges, but profits excluding the charges rose 8 percent. Analysts said the bank’s 2008 outlook, including a target for 10 to 15 percent growth in earnings per share, was an encouraging sign; the company’s stock rose 5 percent. Bank of Montreal, which is based in Toronto, said earnings for its fourth quarter, which ended Oct. 31, were 452 million Canadian dollars ($457 million), or 87 Canadian cents a share. That compares with net income of 696 million Canadian dollars, or 1.35 Canadian dollars per share, a year earlier. The bank said significant items included charges in its capital markets unit and restructuring expenses.
717 2007-11-28 The defense minister, Mostafa Mohammad Najjar, said Iran had built a new long-range missile. In comments reported by the Fars news agency, he said the missile had range of 1,200 miles. He did not say how the missile, called Ashoura, differed from the Shahab-3, also with a range of 1,200 miles, or if it had been test fired.
718 2007-11-28 WASHINGTON, Nov. 27 (AP) — Freddie Mac cut its quarterly dividend in half Tuesday and announced plans to sell $6 billion in preferred stock to bolster its finances in anticipation of more losses.

Freddie Mac, chartered by Congress to buy home loans from mortgage lenders, is the nation’s No. 2 buyer and guarantor of home loans after its government-sponsored competitor Fannie Mae. It will sell $6 billion of a special class of stock.

The money raised through the sale will be used to buttress the company’s balance sheet “in light of actual and anticipated losses,” Freddie Mac, based in McLean, Va., said Tuesday in a statement.

Management of the stock offering was led by Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street firms recently hired by Freddie Mac as financial advisers to help it examine possible new ways of raising capital.

The company’s board declared a dividend of 25 cents for the fourth quarter, compared with a dividend of 50 cents in the third quarter. The company said it needed the dividend cut — its first since it became a public company in 1989 — to hold on to enough cash to maintain its financial flexibility and satisfy regulators.

The company’s book of mortgage contracts lost substantial value during this year’s credit turmoil.

The offering of preferred stock and the halving of the dividend were expected after Freddie Mac last week posted its biggest quarterly loss ever — $2 billion in the third quarter — and warned that it might need to curtail its business unless it could raise new capital. The loss, due in large part to Freddie Mac’s need to set aside $1.2 billion to account for mortgages gone sour, far outstripped what Wall Street was expecting.
719 2007-11-28 The Constitution protects individuals against unreasonable searches, but for this protection to have practical meaning, the courts must enforce it. This week, the Supreme Court let stand a disturbing ruling out of California that allows law enforcement to barge into people’s homes without a warrant. The case has not prompted much outrage, perhaps because the people whose privacy is being invaded are welfare recipients, but it is a serious setback for the privacy rights of all Americans.

San Diego County’s district attorney has a program called Project 100% that is intended to reduce welfare fraud. Applicants for welfare benefits are visited by law enforcement agents, who show up unannounced and examine the family’s home, including the insides of cabinets and closets. Applicants who refuse to let the agents in are generally denied benefits.

The program does not meet the standards set out by the Fourth Amendment. For a search to be reasonable, there generally must be some kind of individualized suspicion of wrongdoing. These searches are done in the homes of people who have merely applied for welfare and have done nothing to arouse suspicion.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, based in San Francisco, rejected a challenge brought by welfare recipients. In ruling that the program does not violate the Constitution, the majority made the bizarre assertion that the home visits are not “searches.”

The Supreme Court has long held that when the government intrudes on a person’s reasonable expectation of privacy, it is a search for purposes of the Fourth Amendment. It is a fun-house mirrors version of constitutional analysis for a court to say that government agents are not conducting a search when they show up unannounced in a person’s home and rifle through her bedroom dresser.

Judge Harry Pregerson, writing for himself and six other Ninth Circuit judges who voted to reconsider the case, got it right. The majority decision upholding Project 100%, Judge Pregerson wrote, “strikes an unprecedented blow at the core of Fourth Amendment protections.” These dissenters rightly dismissed the majority’s assertion that the home visits were voluntary, noting that welfare applicants were not told they could withhold consent, and that they risked dire consequences if they resisted.
720 2007-11-28 Wells Fargo & Company, the nation’s second-largest mortgage lender, after Countrywide Financial, said yesterday that it would take a $1.4 billion fourth-quarter charge for losses it anticipated in connection with home loans.

The bank said that it would continue to provide home equity financing directly to customers, but that it would not originate or acquire home equity loans through indirect channels. Wells Fargo will also not originate home equity loans through third parties when the combined loan-to-value ratio of the first and second mortgages is over 90 percent or where the second mortgage is not behind a Wells Fargo loan.

The bank is putting $11.9 billion into a special liquidating portfolio. The bank’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission said that the figure is 3 percent of its total loans outstanding, but that it represents the riskiest element of the $83.4 billion in its National Home Equity Group portfolio. The loans are generally clustered in areas of the country that are having the greatest decline in retail prices.

R. Scott Siefers, an analyst who follows Wells Fargo for Sandler O’Neill, said: “It is unfortunate certainly because Wells Fargo has had an aura of invincibility. Over the last few years, it has not gotten involved in a lot of the issues that have caused so much pain for the group. It is one of the largest mortgage lenders in the country so this is going to be painful for everybody.

“As good as they are, we are dealing with a pretty big issue industrywide,” Mr. Siefers said. “Will there be more? It will depend on how depressed the real estate market stays, but they are taking care of a good deal of the riskiest stuff now. Still, identifying credit problems is always difficult to do in one fell swoop.”

The bank said it expected to write off $1 billion in 2008 and 2009.

The chief financial officer, Howard I. Atkins, said in a statement yesterday that “the bank had largely avoided many of the credit and capital market problem areas in the industry.”
721 2007-11-28 “It’s not like this is a new issue for him,” said Mr. Saltsman, referring to Mr. Huckabee’s faith. “He’s talked about this issue everywhere he goes.”

Mr. Huckabee’s advisers admit privately they are cognizant of how Mr. Romney’s religion can work against him and how Mr. Huckabee’s evangelical roots are to their advantage at least among some voters. They pointed out, however, that all candidates have aspects of their biographies that can be beneficial or not, depending on the audience.

The issue is a delicate one for Mr. Huckabee. He has waffled in recent interviews about whether he considers Mormons to be Christians. The Southern Baptist Convention, the denomination he is a part of, does not consider Mormons to be part of historic Christianity.

At Huckabee gatherings, those with serious reservations about Mr. Romney’s Mormonism are easy to find, although many also point to his shifting positions over the years on abortion and gay rights to explain why they do not support him.

Barbara Heki, 51, from Johnston, Iowa, who began volunteering for Mr. Huckabee over the summer, compared Mr. Romney to Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who was dogged by accusations of flip-flopping when he ran for president in 2004. Nevertheless, Ms. Heki admitted that her evangelical faith also figured prominently in her choice.

“Mormons spend two years of their lives as missionaries, preaching an anti-Christian doctrine,” she said. “I don’t want someone out there, if I can help it, who’s going to be acting on an anti-Christian faith as the basis of their decision-making.”

Polling on the Mormon issue is often difficult because of respondents’ reluctance to admit bias in surveys. A New York Times/CBS News poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers released Nov. 13 found that about two-thirds of Mr. Huckabee’s supporters are evangelicals, compared with about one-third of Mr. Romney’s.

The survey found over all that Mr. Romney was in a tight race with Mr. Huckabee, 27 percent to 21 percent. Among evangelicals, 36 percent favored Mr. Huckabee and 22 percent Mr. Romney, even though they said in almost equal numbers that Mr. Romney and Mr. Huckabee each shared the values of most Iowans.

Danny Carroll, a former speaker pro tem in the Iowa House and Mr. Huckabee’s Iowa campaign co-chairman, said he was drawn to Mr. Huckabee in large part because of the way religion permeates the former Arkansas governor’s life. Mr. Carroll said he had reservations about Mr. Romney because of his more moderate past positions in addition to his religion, saying he was concerned about where Mr. Romney went for strength and wisdom.

“I think it just causes some uneasiness as to how somebody is going to respond when heavy responsibility is placed on them,” Mr. Carroll said. “I think the Christian would like to know that the person has a strong anchor and prays to the God of the Bible.”

At a recent Huckabee event in Iowa, Glenda Gherkey, an evangelical from Evansdale, posed a question to the candidate.

“I’m concerned a lot of Christians are thinking about the values issues and forgetting about the creator behind the values issues,” Ms. Gherkey said. “I guess I feel like this country and this world needs a president who would be able to pray to the God of the Bible and he would be able to hear his prayers.”

She wondered, Would Mr. Romney’s prayers “even get through”?

In response, Mr. Huckabee said he did not want to “speak for any other candidate or denigrate them at all.”

But he added: “My views are what they are. I don’t think I’ve ever hidden where they come from.”

He then tried to make a joke: “I’m glad you’ve made your choice for me. I don’t care why. I’m just glad you did.”
722 2007-11-28 The details of Verizon Wireless’s alternative approach have yet to be worked out. The company did not disclose how much the service would cost or what rules would apply.

Lowell McAdam, chief executive of Verizon Wireless, said the company would hold a meeting with mobile phone makers and programmers in the first quarter of next year to talk about the service, with the goal of introducing it next summer.

“The trend we see here is an explosion of innovation,” Mr. McAdam said. “People want to take so much of what’s on the Internet and put it on the phone.”

Other companies are likely to feel pressed to follow Verizon’s lead, analysts and executives said. “If they don’t change their own business model, someone else will do it for them,” said Roger Entner, a senior vice president at IAG Research. “This way they have control.”

Consumers are already able to add software and make purchases online with many cellphones, but often the carriers do not make this easy, preferring instead to highlight their own offerings on phone screens.

The carriers have also been at odds with Silicon Valley companies like Google that want people to be able to use phones in much the same way that they can use any PC for access to the Internet.

Verizon Wireless, too, is not abandoning its traditional service. Instead it will offer a separate service plan allowing consumers to buy a phone — one compatible with its network — and call a toll-free number to have it activated. A Verizon lab will test whether the phones can connect to the network, allowing the company to maintain control over what devices are permitted.

Still, programmers will be able to develop software to run on the phones without authorization from the company. “We will not be the gateway to go through,” Mr. McAdam said.

The company’s move won praise from Google, Microsoft and the Federal Communications Commission, among others, but consumer groups offered a cautionary note.

“There are a lot of unanswered questions,” said Gene Kimmelman, vice president for federal affairs at Consumers Union, an advocacy group in Washington. “We have significant concerns about prices being sky high.”

Another potential hurdle is the Verizon network’s use of CDMA technology, which is less common than the GSM technology of AT&T, T-Mobile and many overseas carriers. As a result, users of Apple’s iPhone and many GSM-compatible phones will not be able to use Verizon’s service.

Still, added Mr. Kimmelman, “it’s a step in the right direction.”

That step has not come without a bit of prodding. Federal regulators are moving to encourage the creation of a more open national wireless network when they auction off spectrum licenses in January. The auction rules require bidders to partly build a network that is largely free from carrier constraints.

Among those expected to bid are Google, which many in the industry say will be a formidable competitor to the likes of AT&T and Verizon. Google has put together a consortium of companies to use its software and help it turn mobile phones into hand-held computers. Mr. Kimmelman said the Verizon Wireless announcement was fueling speculation that it would be a bidder in that auction, too.

But analysts have noted that Verizon Wireless has been sending mixed signals. It filed a petition in September with the federal courts requesting a review of the auction rules on openness, calling them “arbitrary” and “capricious.” Mr. McAdam said his company filed the petition not to halt competition, but because it believed “it was not necessary for the F.C.C. to get involved.”

He added that Google was not the enemy of the traditional telecommunications companies that the news media made it out to be.

“It’s very common and popular in the press to view Google and Verizon at each other’s throats," Mr. McAdam said. “We have far more in common with Google in meeting demands of consumers than in conflict.”

No matter the motivation, many expect the result to be good for consumers. “This is only going to drive innovation for consumers, which is a good thing," said Cyriac Roeding, who is in charge of mobile content efforts at CBS.

If Verizon’s effort is successful, then content creators, software developers and device makers, who have chafed under the control of the wireless companies, will need to show what they can do. At a telecommunications conference in San Francisco, those groups were outwardly hostile toward the carriers, complaining that they were too controlling.

Now, Mr. Entner said, “the ball is in the court of the device manufacturers and software developers.”

“They have to put up or shut up.”
723 2007-11-28 Housing prices fell the most in almost 20 years this summer, and consumers remain deeply skeptical about the economy, according to reports released yesterday.

Prices of single-family homes in the third quarter fell 4.5 percent nationwide compared with a year ago, according to the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller National Home Price Index. It was the largest drop since records for the index began in 1988.

A separate survey by S.& P./Case-Shiller of home prices in 20 major metropolitan areas showed a drop of 4.95 percent in September from a year ago, the biggest decline in more than six years. Prices declined 0.9 percent in September alone, and were down in all 20 areas, the survey found.

The Case-Shiller surveys are widely followed by investors, though many market watchers are looking to this week’s reports on sales of new and existing homes in October. The three surveys are expected to provide a decidedly bleak portrait of the current housing market.

A steady rise in foreclosures tied to the struggling mortgage market has weighed down housing demand, and tightened lending standards have made it more difficult for Americans to get home loans. The result has been a steady drop in value.
724 2007-11-28 Since then, the Port Authority has continued to manage the heliport while city officials prepared to find a new operator. Bids on a new 10-year lease are due in December.

The changeover at the heliport comes at a time of flux in the local helicopter business. To placate supporters of Hudson River Park, the city is planning to move another Manhattan heliport from the west end of 30th Street and may limit its use for sightseeing flights.

Some sightseeing services relocated to that heliport and the one downtown a few years ago after they were banned from the city’s third heliport, at the east end of 34th Street. Amid complaints from neighborhood residents about noise, the 34th Street heliport was also barred from operating on the weekends.

The opposition to the constant whir of the rotors conflicts with the Bloomberg administration’s view that the city must have a heliport open 24 hours a day for emergencies and to serve corporate aircraft.

The West 30th Street heliport is the only one that is open around the clock. The downtown heliport, which serves a mix of corporate executives, business travelers and tourists, operates from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. seven days a week.

That schedule is not expected to change under a new contract, though the city is studying how much more traffic the downtown heliport could handle, said Patricia Ornst, the director of aviation for the Economic Development Corporation. She said that that heliport has handled a combined total of about 40,000 takeoffs and landings annually.

Ms. Ornst described the Port Authority’s withdrawal as a “friendly divorce” that the city considered a chance to revamp the heliport and its terminal.

“We see there’s an opportunity to really make this a world-class facility and one that is more friendly to both the corporate travel industry as well as the tourists,” she said.

She also said that the city had not yet sought permits from the state’s Department of Environmental Conservation and other agencies whose approval would be needed for the installation of a refueling system. But she said that the Fire Department had provided suggestions on how such a system could be safely configured.

One of the bidders will be Avports, which operates the 34th Street heliport as well as airports around the world, according to Pat Wagner, who manages that heliport.

“We’re interested in operating that heliport also, so we’ll be bidding,” Ms. Wagner said. She described the downtown heliport as the best of the three in Manhattan because it has a modern two-story terminal and the largest landing pad.

“The facility itself is A-1,” she said.

Ms. Wagner said her company would like to have a fueling operation there to serve the sightseeing helicopters, some of which currently stop at the 34th Street heliport to refuel. Selling fuel would give an operator an additional way to earn a profit, she said. But she added that a private company should be able to make more money than the Port Authority by paying significantly less for labor than the Port Authority does.
725 2007-11-28 Orgeron finished 10-25 and was routinely the target of fan discontent. Boone and Chancellor Robert Khayat endorsed Orgeron midway through the season before the Rebels lost five of six games.

VIRGINIA ADDS YEAR FOR GROH Virginia exercised an option to add a year onto the contract of Coach Al Groh, who guided the Cavaliers to a 9-3 record this season. Groh’s deal will now run through the 2011 season.

Also yesterday, Groh was named Atlantic Coast Conference coach of the year.

“This is an indication of confidence on my part and the university’s part on the work that Al and his staff have done,” Cavaliers Athletic Director Craig Littlepage said. “I think it’s also a good indication of the confidence that we have in the future direction of the football program, both in the short term — that is, in the upcoming bowl game — as well as in the long-term future. I’m very pleased we’re at this point.”

A year ago, the Cavaliers finished 5-7 and the university declined to add another year to Groh’s contract then.

WIDENHOFER RETIRING Woody Widenhofer, New Mexico State’s defensive coordinator and a former assistant with the Pittsburgh Steelers, will retire after Friday night’s finale against Fresno State.

Widenhofer, 64, won four Super Bowl rings with Pittsburgh, first as linebackers coach (1973-76) and later as defensive coordinator (1977-83).

During his 40-year career, Widenhofer was also head coach at Missouri, going 12-31-1 from 1985 to 1988, and Vanderbilt, where he was 15-40 from 1997 to 2001.

UCONN ACCEPTS BOWL BID Connecticut accepted a bid to play in the Meineke Bowl on Dec. 29 against an A.C.C. team.

The Huskies were chosen over Cincinnati as the Big East’s representative for the game, which will be played at Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte, N.C.

The A.C.C. team is not expected to be named until after Saturday’s conference championship game. Wake Forest and Maryland are the leading contenders.

The Huskies are coming off their best season since moving to the highest division six years ago. UConn (9-3, 5-2) was in the hunt to win the conference title and capture the league’s Bowl Championship Series berth until Saturday’s 66-21 loss at West Virginia.

UConn beat out Cincinnati for the berth despite the Bearcats’ 27-3 win on Nov. 10, one of two losses in its final three games for Connecticut.

The bowl bid caps a record-setting season for UConn, which earned its first top-25 ranking before losing to West Virginia. The Huskies tied the 1998 and the 2003 teams for the winningest regular-season record in team history.

AUBURN REVIEWING DOG BITE Auburn plans to review its security procedures after cornerback Jerraud Powers was bitten by a police dog Saturday late in the Alabama game.

Powers was celebrating breaking up a pass in the end zone when the dog bit him on the hand in the fourth quarter, a scene that received more television and Internet airtime than any other moment in the game.

The dog was restrained by a police officer just off the playing field when it lunged at Powers and snapped at his gloved hand.
726 2007-11-28 But at other elite universities that offer early action, the number of applications did not increase significantly.

At Stanford, 4,574 early-action applications came in last year by the deadline of Nov. 1 — almost the same number that arrived this year.

“I don’t know what to make of it,” said Richard H. Shaw, dean of admission and financial aid at Stanford, adding, “We’re perfectly happy with the numbers we have.”

There were about 10 percent more early-action applications this year at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, compared with the 3,493 last year, said Stuart Schmill, the interim director of admissions, although the final tally has not yet been determined. But Mr. Schmill warned that it was not clear whether the increase this year was attributable to the elimination of early admission at Harvard and Princeton, because in recent years early applications to M.I.T. had been increasing anyway.

Some Ivy League universities that offer binding early admissions, including Dartmouth, Brown and Columbia, also reported modest increases in their applications this fall, though none attributed this to the elimination of early admission at other universities.

Many deans at universities offering early action think fewer students admitted early will end up enrolling. At Georgetown, the yield on early action — the proportion of students accepted who eventually attend — has been about 60 percent, Mr. Deacon said. This year, he said, it could decline to 50 percent.

Yale officials also said it will be harder this year to predict how many applicants offered early admission will choose to be freshmen next fall. “We’re kind of puzzling over that,” said Jeffrey Brenzel, Yale’s dean of admissions.

The entire admissions picture at Yale this year is kind of a puzzle, too. Yale’s early-action applications grew to 4,820 this year, from 3,541 last year, seemingly a 36 percent increase. But early applications to Yale declined significantly last year, compared with the previous year. So the number this year, compared with 2005, when there were 4,084 early applications, is really an 18 percent increase.

Some educators think the decline at Yale a year ago was caused by the news, the previous spring, that the university had become the first Ivy League school to admit fewer than 10 percent of its applicants in its early and regular rounds combined. But Mr. Brenzel does not accept that theory. Nor does he feel ready to explain the increase this year. “I resist the temptation to speculate,” he said, “because we really don’t know.”
727 2007-11-28 Stock markets snapped back today after promising news emerged from the Middle East.

Financial shares rose after the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, a Middle Eastern sovereign fund, made a $7.5 billion investment in Citigroup, which is struggling to work off its exposure to subprime mortgage securities. Shares of Citigroup rose 1.2 percent.

Meanwhile, crude oil futures fell nearly $3 a barrel after Saudi Arabia’s oil minister announced an increase in production levels. The price decline briefly allayed fears that expensive energy will drag down consumer spending over the holidays.

The optimistic developments sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 215 points, or 1.7 percent, to 12,958.44. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 21.01 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,428.23. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 39.81 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,580.80. The yields on Treasury bonds, a traditional safe haven for anxious investors, recovered after hitting three-year lows yesterday.

The gains went a long way toward making up for yesterday’s steep sell-off, when all the major indexes entered correction territory after dipping 10 percent below the latest high set in October.

“The equity market is suffering a degree of denial lately,” said Rob C. Carnell, chief international economist at ING. “It would love to go up, and it will go up on anything remotely favorable.”

Investors appeared unfazed by a pair of disappointing economic reports this morning, including a survey that showed consumer confidence at its lowest level in two years.
728 2007-11-28 Ms. Kazemi was arrested while she was photographing outside the notorious Evin prison in Tehran. The authorities first said that she had died of a stroke and then claimed that she had fallen and hit her head, but a committee appointed by Mohammad Khatami, the reformist who was president at the time, announced that she had died of a fatal blow to her head that had caused her brain to hemorrhage.

The judiciary charged an intelligence agent, Muhammad Reza Aghdam Ahmadi, with semi-intentional murder, and he was eventually acquitted. But lawyers representing Ms. Kazemi’s family have said that Mr. Ahmadi was just a scapegoat, and they have accused a prison official, Muhammad Bakhshi, of inflicting the blow.

John A. Terry, a lawyer in Toronto who represents the Kazemi family, said they doubted that the court’s decision would lead to any meaningful action.

“We have very low expectations,” he said. “We have no indications that this is part of some reform push or transparency push that wants to get to the heart of the matter.”

Mr. Terry said he had asked the Canadian government to try to take part in the new investigation.

The family has filed a civil lawsuit in Montreal against the Iranian government and several of its officials. Hearings are expected to begin next fall.

In the Canadian Parliament, Helena Guergis, the secretary of state for foreign affairs, repeated the government’s call “for a new and credible investigation.”

“Iran has an obligation to the Kazemi family to ensure that the perpetrators of this terrible crime are brought to justice and the rights of the family are upheld,” Ms. Guergis said.

In a separate case, ISNA reported Tuesday that Hossein Moussavian, a former nuclear negotiator who was arrested in May, had been cleared of charges of spying and the possession of confidential documents. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said this month that Mr. Moussavian was a spy, and the minister of interior accused him of passing information to the British.

The spokesman for the judiciary, Mr. Jamshidi, told the news agency that although those charges had been dropped, Mr. Moussavian had been found guilty of “propagating against the regime.” He did not elaborate on the charge, but said the case would be completed within the next three to four days.
729 2007-11-28 Panther forced Mr. Peña to accompany him to the edge of a river where the paramilitaries threw the dead bodies that they chose not to cut up and bury. A dead body floats about 48 hours after being thrown into water. That is how villagers could calculate the approximate time of death of their loved ones.

Panther wanted him to plead for mercy. “He had pleasure in scaring people before killing them — it was perverse,” recalled Mr. Peña, now 50. “I didn’t beg. So he let me go.”

But they would not forget. Four months later, Mr. Peña heard a knock on his door. When he opened it, he saw a young boy from whom he bought fruit every Saturday. Like many poor children in troubled countries, the boy was thin and sad, Mr. Peña recalled. He wore no shoes. But he was always clean. The boy used to steal the fruit that he sold to Mr. Peña, but Mr. Peña pretended he didn’t know.

The boy spoke solemnly. “Sir, I have come to tell you something,” he said. “You have a meeting at the district attorney’s office in Yopal the coming week. When you leave, they are going to kill you.”

Almost no one knew about the meeting except Mr. Peña and the district attorney himself. He knew immediately, then, that the boy was speaking the truth.

“I understood on that day, that there was nothing more I could do here,” he said. “I had to leave.”

Mr. Peña sold all his belongings and ripped up his paperwork related to being public defender. He fled to Bogotá with only his clothes and sought to build another life.

Tears run down Mr. Peña’s face today as he thinks back to the impoverished boy. He never even learned his name.

Mr. Peña fled, but they came for him years later in Bogotá. In April 2006, someone called on his cellphone and said, “This time you won’t flee.”

The phone calls came again, sometimes at home, sometimes on his cellphone. But they clearly knew where he lived.

Panicked, Mr. Peña applied for an American tourist visa and left for the United States with a suitcase last fall. He received political asylum in June.

But he had always pictured a life in Colombia, so he had never learned English. A Colombian lawyer who does not speak English has limited employment options, even in New York City.

Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, helped him find a job as a clerk in a hardware store on the Upper East Side. The charity used $255 to pay for Mr. Peña’s evening English classes. Now Mr. Peña lives in a high-rise in East Harlem, where he rents a room. He cannot go home.

“I did not come here for the American dream,” he said. “I came here because it was a choice between life and death.”
730 2007-11-28 Ms. True has been on trial since late 2005 in Italy on similar charges of conspiring to acquire illicitly excavated antiquities. She has denied the charges in both cases and did not attend Tuesday’s hearing here.

The threat of criminal prosecution has emerged as a crucial tool for archaeologically rich countries as they press American museums for the handover of artifacts acquired in recent decades.

Prosecutors in Italy and Greece have generally asserted that the criminal cases and the drive to reclaim objects are independent of each other. Still, they concede that their strategies are interrelated. Christos Koumbis, a state prosecutor, disclosed for the first time on Tuesday that he had recommended that the charges be dropped. If “the wreath had not been returned, then we may have decided differently,” he said in a brief interview. Greek Culture Ministry officials declined to comment on the outcome of the case.

In August the Getty agreed to return 40 ancient treasures to Italy after long and contentious negotiations. The criminal charges against Ms. True remain in effect there, although related civil charges were dropped in August.

The wreath is believed to have been unearthed about 15 years ago. Greece first laid claim to it in the mid-1990s, although its precise site of excavation was not yet known. Last year, however, its government sent the Getty a dossier of evidence, including documents and photographs, to support its claim that the wreath had been illegally removed from northern Greece and passed on to a market through Germany and Switzerland before being sold to the Getty in 1993 for $1.1 million.

The deal to return the wreath and a fourth-century B.C. kore, or statue of a young woman, was brokered last December. In July of last year, the Getty also acceded to Greece’s request that it return a large stele, or grave marker, it acquired in 1993 and a small marble relief bought by the museum’s founder, the oil magnate J. Paul Getty, in 1955.

Ms. True would have faced up to 10 years in prison if she had been tried and found guilty of receiving a stolen artifact. She still faces lesser charges related to at least 29 unregistered antiquities that were found in her summer villa on the Greek island of Paros during a police raid last year.

Her lawyers have said that the objects were there before she bought the property in 1996 and that the charges are a form of harassment.

Ms. True was the Getty’s chief antiquities curator from 1986 to 2005. She resigned the post in October 2005 over what the museum said was an impropriety related to the 1996 purchase of the villa on Paros.

The Los Angeles Times reported then that Ms. True had used a lawyer recommended by the London antiquities dealer Christo Michailidis to arrange a real estate loan for the house the previous year.

Under Getty policy, such a loan would have posed a conflict of interest, because he was a close associate of another dealer with whom the Getty did business.

Harry Stang, Ms. True’s lawyer in Los Angeles, said she was gratified by the appeals court’s decision on Tuesday. “She was pleased that the court ruled as it did on her Greek counselor’s motion,” he said. “She was fully prepared if necessary to defend the case on the merits.”

“While we’re all very pleased that the Greek law was properly applied with respect to the statute of limitations,” he added, “it also should be noted that at no time during these proceedings have the Greek prosecutors provided any evidence as to the existence of a crime.”

A spokesman for the Getty, Ron Hartwig, said the museum was “pleased that the charges against Marion True have been dismissed.”

The wreath is now on view in an archaeological museum in Salonika, Greece.
731 2007-11-28 NICKEL - FARA--Leslie A. Washington Square Partners mourns the death of Leslie Nickel-Fara, a Senior Vice President who joined the firm in 1994. Her work for Cooper Union, Downtown Brooklyn, Jamaica, Queens and many other projects will be remember...
732 2007-11-28 OIL PRODUCERS' DEEP POCKETS Oil-producing countries flush with petrodollars have embarked on a global shopping spree, with the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority's investment of $7.5 billion in Citigroup the latest example.        Abu Dhabi is typical...
733 2007-11-29 At year’s end, Raymond W. Kelly will become the longest-serving police commissioner in more than half a century. The post has had a profound influence on the reputations and legacies of New York’s mayors....
734 2007-11-29 Johan Santana, the star pitcher of the Minnesota Twins, is at the center of trade talks between the Twins and a number of clubs. He won't come cheaply. The team that lands him would likely have to give up multiple top prospects and sign Santana to...
735 2007-11-29 Members of our roundtable offer up their views on the Republican presidential candidates' performances last night....
736 2007-11-29 A look at business partners who are turning to coaches and therapists to improve their communication skills....
737 2007-11-29 KfW Group, which organized the bailout of IKB Deutsche Industriebank over subprime losses, said an agreement was reached with German banking associations to cover the lender's remaining risks of about $520 million. The additional risks stem from g...
738 2007-11-29 The Securities and Exchange Commission ruled Wednesday that public companies could block investors from putting director candidates on corporate ballots, a major setback for shareholders seeking a greater say in boardroom affairs. In a 3-to-1 vote...
739 2007-11-29 LOS ANGELES, Nov. 29 — Striking screenwriters on Thursday night dismissed a new set of proposals from producers as “a massive rollback,” and called on their members to continue their walkout with fresh resolve despite a plan to continue talks on Tuesday.

In a move to end a nearly four-week-old strike by writers, Hollywood’s studios and networks — represented by the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers — earlier in the day offered a new package of proposals that includes a revised offer for payments related to movies and shows distributed via new media.

In a statement, producers said the new package, styled a “New Economic Partnership” with writers, would add $130 million to $1.3 billion already paid annually to writers.

One company executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid conflict with writers and other executives, said the word “partnership” was chosen to convey a sense that the new proposals were far-reaching, offered new approaches to issues that had separated the parties and involved “give and take” between writers and producers.

The new proposals were disclosed in a press release at the end of a Thursday bargaining session. The sides had talked for four days in an effort to conclude a nearly four-week old strike by 12,000 members of the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East.

Writers have been demanding payments for electronic downloads many times higher than the companies initially offered, and have sought to limit promotional showings to a matter of days, at most.
740 2007-11-29 Sears Holding, the owner of Sears and Kmart, said today that profit for the third quarter plunged an eye-popping 99 percent, from $192 million last year to just $2 million, as customers flocked to rival stores during the back-to-school shopping season.

The dismal performance reignited a long-simmering debate over the company’s cost-cutting strategy for the two historic retail brands, which have struggled for relevance since Edward S. Lampert, the billionaire financier, merged them in 2004.

The company’s stock took a pounding, closing down 10.5 percent at $104.09, a decline of $12.25.

Sears attributed the results to a one-time gain of $100 million during the comparable period a year ago and a variety of factors outside its control, like warm weather, a tight credit market and stiff retail competition.

But frustrated analysts pointed to what they see as a bigger problem inside Sears: an unwillingness to invest in aging Sears and Kmart stores, leaving the two chains unable to compete with chains such as Wal-Mart, Target, Home Depot and Lowe’s.

“Taking too much cash out of the company and away from the consumer has caught up with Sears,” said Burt Flickinger, a retail consultant, who called the company “a ticking time bomb.”
741 2007-11-29 WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 — The White House issued an economic forecast today that calls for “solid growth” through next year, a prediction that is more optimistic than that of the Federal Reserve and far more optimistic than those of many analysts on Wall Street.

The administration predicted that the economy will expand by 2.7 percent in 2008, that unemployment would remain below 5 percent and that the outlook would be even better in 2009. By contrast, Fed officials are predicting “subpar” growth through next year, starting with a sharp slowdown over the next six months. The “central tendency” of forecasts by Fed policy makers is for growth to slow to between 1.8 percent and 2.5 percent next year.

The White House was closer to the Fed on its estimate about unemployment, predicting that it would average 4.9 percent next year — up only slightly from 4.7 percent. But many analysts think the Fed’s unemployment forecast is itself too optimistic, because it is inconsistent with its forecast for slower growth.

“We are forecasting solid growth for 2008 of 2.7 percent, and that is good solid growth,” said Edward Lazear, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, in a conference call with reporters. He said the healthy growth was “especially significant,” given that the administration expects the housing market to be a drag on the overall economy throughout next years.

The administration did reduce its forecast for growth next year by about four-tenths of a percentage point. Mr. Lazear said the downward revision reflected the unexpectedly steep drop in the housing market as well as earlier downward revisions of growth in previous years.

“Obviously the housing market has been softer than people expected,” he said. “We are not the only ones who were surprised by that. For the most part, our revisions are in line with other revisions.”
742 2007-11-29 The only production that will remain dark tonight is the play “The Homecoming” at the Court Theater, which was to have started previews last Friday.

There are a variety of logistical obstacles to opening up a show that has been dark for two and a half weeks, from restarting complicated machinery to doing the dry cleaning. Some shows, like “Wicked,” scheduled rehearsals today in advance of the evening curtain, while producers of other shows, like “Hairspray,” did not feel that their casts needed a tune-up.

Executives rushed to complete the details needed to get the theater buildings ready for shows and to alert the public that Broadway was back in business. “We’ll do some complimentary tickets and some discounts at the box office,” said Nicholas Kaledin, the company manager for the long-running musical “Rent” at the Nederlander Theater on West 41st Street. “We will not turn away anyone who walks up to the box office today.”

He said his biggest single task would be to compute the payroll for the actors who walked out in sympathy with the stagehands. “It’s complicated because it is done in eights, based on the number of performances,” he said.

The accord ended the second strike on Broadway in five years but the longest since a 25-day musicians’ strike in 1975. A musicians’ strike in 2003 lasted just four days.

The announcement came around 10:30 Wednesday night, capping a third day of marathon negotiations, and was met by cheering stagehands, with nearly 100 gathering outside the law offices where the negotiations had been taking place.

Leaving around 10:45 p.m., Charlotte St. Martin, the executive director of the League of American Theaters and Producers, announced: “Performances begin tomorrow night.”

In a statement issued later, she said, “The contract is a good compromise that serves our industry.”

About five minutes after Ms. St. Martin left the building, senior union officials, including James J. Claffey Jr., the president of Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, the stagehands’ union, came outside to louder applause, holding their fingers in the air to represent Local 1.

“You represented yourselves and your families and your union proud,” Mr. Claffey said to the stagehands who had gathered. The membership of the union is scheduled to vote on the settlement in 10 days. Local 1 officials would not comment on the chances of ratification, but officials on the union negotiating committee seemed happy with the terms of the five-year contract.

“It’s equitable for everyone involved,” said Kevin McGarty, a business manager for Local 1. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in a statement on Wednesday night, called the agreement “great news not just for everyone who earns their living on or around Broadway, but for everyone who lives in, works in, or visits New York City.”

About 350 of the 2,200 active members of the union participated in the walkout, which began Nov. 10.

The strike, the first in the union’s 121-year history, darkened 31 theaters, shuttering 27 shows and one Duran Duran concert, which moved elsewhere. Eight shows remained open on Broadway in theaters that maintained separate contracts with the union, though a ninth — “Dr. Seuss’ How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The Musical” — was reopened Friday after a judge granted an injunction forcing the theater to let the show run.

Broadway lost out on millions, posting ticket sales of $7.2 million for the two weeks that ended on Sunday. Last season, Broadway grossed $42 million for the two comparable weeks.

The city comptroller’s office reported that the strike was costing the city $2 million a day, which would mean almost $40 million in lost revenue over the two and a half weeks of the strike.

At the center of this dispute were work rules in the stagehands’ contract that the producers’ league considered costly and inefficient. The league wanted changes to several rules, including those governing how many stagehands must come to work every day that a show is being loaded into a theater; minimum lengths of time for which stagehands can be called to work; and the kinds of tasks stagehands are allowed to perform during certain work calls.

From the beginning, Mr. Claffey said the union would be open to changes in return for benefits of equal value. But the league, pushed by a more aggressive generation of producers, was determined to cut labor costs.

For months the sides bargained, and some changes were made, if not the major ones the producers originally sought. And in the last few days, the negotiations came down to how much the union thought these changes were worth.

The sides met for three long days at the law offices of Proskauer Rose, the firm representing the league, where they calculated the value of each other’s offers and went back and forth in old-fashioned horse trading to arrive at a series of wage increases that both sides could live with.

Neither side released details of the settlement.

But among the changes the league was able to achieve, according to officials involved in the talks, was a daily minimum of 17 stagehands on the load-in, the lengthy and costly period when a production is loaded into a theater. In the recently expired contract, producers would set a number of stagehands needed for a load-in — say, 35 — and all of them would have to stay every day for the entirety of the load-in, an arrangement that producers said often left large groups of stagehands with nothing to do.

The league was also able to gain an extra hour on the continuity call, the hour before or after a performance when stagehands perform duties related to that performance. In the old contract, any work that took longer than one hour required a minimum four-hour work call. In the tentative deal, stagehands can be called for two hours before a performance or for an hour before and after, though they would earn double for the hour after the show.

In return for these changes and others, union members would get yearly raises well above the 3.5 percent that the league had been offering.

The league was determined for these negotiations to be different from past talks, raising a $20 million fund to weather a work stoppage, declaring a deadline and floating the possibility that it would lock the stagehands out.

The talks, which were at times acrimonious, broke down in early October, with both sides presenting what they called final offers. On Oct. 12, the stagehands voted unanimously to give union officials authority to call a strike; four days later, the league announced it was imposing parts of its final offer on the stagehands, and the scene was set.

On Nov. 8, Thomas C. Short, the president of Local 1’s parent union, gave Local 1 strike authority and the next day he ordered the stagehands to walk out. The strike began at 10 a.m. on Nov. 10, a Saturday.

The mayor offered to provide a mediator and a neutral place to talk, an offer that the union repeatedly declined.

The latest round of talks came about after a series of back-channel conversations between league members and union officials. The two sides met until just before dawn on Monday, recessed until that evening and went for a second all-night session that ended after dawn on Tuesday. Then, after what union officials called a “rain delay,” the final day of talks began Wednesday morning with the contentious financial issues still to be resolved.

Asked about the protracted length of the negotiations, Mr. McGarty said: “There were a lot of issues that had to be ironed out one at a time.”

The league seemed happy with the outcome, or at least happy that the strike was finally over. “Everyone was thrilled,” said Alecia Parker, an executive producer of the musical “Chicago” and a member of the league’s negotiating committee. “Everyone was shaking hands.”
743 2007-11-29 The television at the bar of Bisteca Fiorentina on Restaurant Row had switched from sports coverage to news of the settlement. A big smile spread across the face of an assistant manager, Gheorghe Tanasa.

The restaurant lost half of its normal nighttime business during the strike, and is now looking for a rebound, Mr. Tanasa said. “I hope tomorrow our phone will start ringing,” he added.

On West 44th Street, opposite the theater where “The Phantom of the Opera” should have been playing, the three-story Angus McIndoe Restaurant suffered a 90 percent plunge in its after-theater business, said a manager, Chuck Novatka.

“I’m from the Hamptons,” he said, “and I’m equating this with missing a July or August there. This time of year is most of our business.”

News of the agreement was also welcomed by Broadway fans.

“I had to come outside when I heard the cheering,” said Laura Heywood, 28, a producer for Sirius Satellite Radio who lives on West 48th Street, near the site of the negotiations. “I missed five shows during the strike. I have tickets for ‘Little Mermaid’ tomorrow, so it’s good timing.”

At 48th Street and Broadway, outside the Proskauer Rose law firm where the talks had taken place, Karim Simmons, 40, of Bayside, Queens, held up a large green poster that read: “Welcome back, Broadway. The show will go on.”

Nathan England, 24, a native of Wales, was visiting New York from Hamburg, Germany, with his girlfriend. Last night was their final one in the city.

“Typical,” he said. “We’re leaving tomorrow. We would have definitely gone to a musical, no question. It’s one of the reasons we came to New York.

“We wanted to see a Knicks game, the tree at Rockefeller Center and a musical. Oh well. I guess it’s one reason to come back.”

They had hoped to see “Avenue Q,” he said.

A group of pedicabs stopped at the corner of Broadway and 45th Street. The drivers exchanged news of the strike’s end, and after the announcement, one lifted his fist into the air and shouted, “Thank you.”

A driver from Istanbul, who would not give his name, said that business had been slower this year than last year, and he thought that the strike was partly to blame. Men and women selling purses and sunglasses outside Planet Hollywood and the Virgin Megastore agreed.

Tending his hot dog, sausage and pretzel cart on Broadway near the TKTS discount ticket stand, Hicham Sahraoui said he had suffered a 50 percent drop in sales. “I’m very happy we can all start making some money again,” he said.

As an aspiring actor and a practicing bartender at Smith Bar and Grill on Eighth Avenue, Daniel Cardona had dual cause to celebrate. The theatergoers who often duck into the bar for a quick drink during intermissions will be returning, he said. And, he added, “I’m going to go see a couple of shows myself now.”

Fellow workers in the theater industry said they, too, were relieved to go back to work.

George Costacos, an Actors’ Equity member, said: “None of us thought this was going to last this long. And as we know, one union affects all unions, especially stagehands. We, as actors, are in their hands, and we have tried to show our support for them.”

Before the negotiators announced an agreement, several members of the stagehands’ union were singing “Kumbaya” and calling their families on their cellphones, saying, “I hope to be back home soon.”

Some headed home, and some headed to nearby bars or restaurants.
744 2007-11-29 The Guardian Industries Corporation and three other companies were fined $724 million by European regulators who said they fixed the price in Europe of flat glass used to make windows, fire-resistant glass and mirrors. The four companies were Guardian, based in Auburn Hills, Mich.; Compagnie de Saint-Gobain of France; the Pilkington Group of Britain; the Asahi Glass Company of Japan.
745 2007-11-29 Prime Minister Almazbek Atambayev stepped down and was presented with a service award by President Kurmanbek Bakiev. But members of Mr. Atambayev’s Social Democratic Party, an opposition party, said he was forced from the post to keep him from interfering with what they said were government plans to rig parliamentary elections scheduled for Dec. 16, according to news agency reports.
746 2007-11-29 A vast archive of German war records opened to the public, giving historians and Holocaust survivors who have waited more than 60 years access to concentration camp papers detailing Nazi horrors. The 11 countries that oversee the archive of the International Tracing Service have finished ratifying an accord unsealing some 50 million pages kept in the German town of Bad Arolsen, said the service’s director, Reto Meister. “The ratification process is complete,” said Mr. Meister, whose organization is part of the International Committee of the Red Cross. “We are there. The doors are open.”
747 2007-11-29 There is apparently no such thing as a meaningless football game to Rutgers Coach Greg Schiano, whose teams seemed to play them most of the time only a few years ago.

“I think I speak for the entire program — I hope I speak for the entire program — when I say there’s not a game you don’t get fired up to play and you don’t want to do your very best,” he said Monday at his weekly news conference.

That will have to serve as the incentive tonight, when Rutgers (7-4, 3-3 Big East) ends its regular season at Louisville (5-6, 2-4) in a nationally televised game that does not have the punch it once figured to have.

Rutgers is in fifth place in the eight-team Big East Conference and will probably receive a berth in the International Bowl on Jan. 5 in Toronto.

The game, which pays each team $750,000, will be played for the second time at the Rogers Center in Toronto.
748 2007-11-29 The City Council passed a greenhouse gas reduction bill yesterday that puts into law the ambitious carbon dioxide emissions goals that were laid out in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s sweeping sustainability plan last April. The bill, which Mr. Bloomberg supports, requires that heat-trapping gases from city government buildings and vehicles be cut 30 percent from current levels by 2017. Moreover, it requires that carbon emissions from the entire city, including privately owned buildings, be reduced by 30 percent by the year 2030. Transforming the emissions controls from goals into law will ensure that they will be enforced in future administrations, said Councilman James F. Gennaro, chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee.
749 2007-11-29 Twelve states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, sued the Environmental Protection Agency yesterday for weakening regulations that for two decades have required businesses and industries to report the toxic chemicals they use, store and release.

The suit, filed in the Federal District Court in Manhattan, asks the court to reverse the agency’s move and so restore all the chemical reporting requirements that were previously part of its Toxics Release Inventory program, or T.R.I.

Community groups across the country have used the program to track the amounts of hazardous chemicals in local neighborhoods. Under the program, companies must provide information about the types of toxic chemicals stored at plants and factories in each state, as well as the quantities discharged from each plant.

Besides the states of the New York tristate area, the plaintiffs are Arizona, California, Illinois, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Vermont.

Their suit takes aim at a change, adopted by the environmental agency last December, that streamlined the T.R.I. process by reducing the amount of information that companies are required to report. The new rules allow them to file shorter, less detailed forms if they store or release less than 5,000 pounds of toxic chemicals. The old rules required a longer, more comprehensive form whenever a company stored or discharged as little as 500 pounds.
750 2007-11-29 Meanwhile, Roddick is the leader of a tightly bound veteran squad that includes the world’s best doubles team, Bob and Mike Bryan, and that has been building collectively to this moment for years under its captain, Patrick McEnroe.

“I was just talking to Mike Bryan about it,” McEnroe said in an interview conducted during a drive from Memorial Coliseum to the team hotel. “And Mike said: ‘When you started picking us all, we were all the young guys, and we’re not the young guys anymore. We’ve been groomed for this, for this match.’”

After multiple frustrations on the road, the Americans at last have the home-court advantage in a final, which has allowed them and McEnroe to cherry-pick a surface as far from clay as possible. They should also have ample support considering that Memorial Coliseum’s 12,000 seats sold out in fewer than 30 minutes and that the several hundred tickets put back on sale this week have also gone quickly.

“It’s fun, because we’ve all been through it together,” said McEnroe, who took over for his older brother, John, as captain in 2001. “We were in Spain for the 2004 final, in Belgium and the Slovak Republic and all those matches, and it’s been pretty much the same guys. So it’s nice to see them get the chance to do it at home. Obviously, we know it’s a tough match, even on a surface that we like and in a home environment, but we certainly have it lined up so the positives are with us.”

It has been a long wait. The United States was beaten by the Russians in last year’s semifinals on clay in Moscow, and the current 12-year stretch without a championship is the longest the Americans have gone without winning the Cup since the competition began in 1900.

The United States won that inaugural match at Longwood Cricket Club in Boston, and the Americans have since won the Cup 31 times, more than any other country.

But the Americans no longer dominate men’s tennis, and it has been awhile since Pete Sampras produced one of the finest and pluckiest performances of his career to lead the United States to a 3-2 victory in the 1995 final against the Russians on clay in Moscow.

Sampras was responsible for all the American points, winning both his singles matches despite cramping against Andrei Chesnokov on the first day and needing to be carried from the court.

But upon returning to the United States, Sampras was disappointed to discover that the American public had not paid much attention to his labors, and he shifted his energies to the more individualistic pursuit of Grand Slam titles and ranking points.
751 2007-11-29 Mr. Cox has pledged to consider the issue again next year, but despite several last-ditch efforts by pension funds, he decided to move ahead with the vote yesterday to eliminate the need to go to court to clarify the issue.

“Doing nothing would put all investors at risk,” he said yesterday. “Doing nothing at this time would enable an easy run around the commission’s required disclosures and our antifraud rules in proxy contests.”

Investor advocates, however, criticized the ruling, calling it the latest policy initiative led by Mr. Cox that has failed to benefit shareholders. Many critics believe there is little chance for the ruling to be reversed and suggested Mr. Cox’s insistence on holding the vote because of lawsuits was a political red herring.

“This is a serious wrong turn from the commission,” said Rob Feckner, the president of the California Public Employees Retirement System, one of the nation’s largest pension funds. “In effect, the commission has turned back the clock on corporate democracy by withdrawing a shareholder right that is taken for granted in other developed countries.”

Frederick E. Rowe Jr., a Dallas money manager who is president of Investors for Director Accountability, was similarly critical. “Now instead of thinking on behalf of owners — Warren Buffett 101 — directors will be more inclined to follow the wishes of the C.E.O.”

In separate statements, Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, expressed disappointment with the vote. Both lawmakers said the agency should have waited until a new commissioner had been selected to fill the second Democratic seat on the five-member panel. The post has been vacant since September when Roel C. Campos left.

Shortly after the vote, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees moved ahead with plans to test the rule. In what is the first wave of about 10 or so similar proposals, the group asked JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns to allow all shareholders to vote on bylaw changes for electing directors.

If the two companies use the S.E.C.’s new rule to deny the request, the group said it was prepared to go to court to defend a federal appeals ruling that blocked American International Group from barring a similar proxy-access proposal under previous rules.

Until last year, the S.E.C. had told companies for more than 30 years that they did not have to allow a vote on changing the rules for the election of directors.
752 2007-11-29 Lungs damaged by emphysema lose their elasticity and trap stale air. As a result, they can enlarge, or hyperinflate, to 150 percent of their normal size, or more, preventing the diaphragm from moving normally. Instinctively, patients begin working other muscles to compensate, and sometimes become barrel-chested or raise their shoulders so much that they look like they are wearing shoulder pads. On X-rays, abnormally wide spaces between the ribs are a telltale sign of the disease. Doctors and nurses can spot patients in waiting rooms, sitting straight up on the edges of their seats, leaning on their hands with elbows stiff and shoulders up as if they are about to push off. But no matter how hard they try, they cannot take in enough air.

In theory, by cutting away the most diseased tissue, the operation should stop some of the air trapping, and by restoring the lungs to their proper size, it should let the diaphragm work so that the chest can move more normally.

The surgery has had a rocky history. Reports of fantastic recoveries made it popular in the 1990s, but health officials wanted a rigorous study. A government-sponsored experiment began in 1996, and ultimately found the operation beneficial only for some types of emphysema, and useless or even harmful in others. In 2003, Medicare decided to cover it only for people like those who had done well in the study, and only at experienced hospitals.

The number of operations has fallen sharply, from thousands a year to under 200 in 2006. Some researchers praise the outcome as a triumph of data over wishful thinking, but others say that the pendulum has swung too far, and that many patients who could be helped are missing out.

Meanwhile, researchers are experimenting with valves and other devices that are implanted in the lungs through scopes passed down the throat, without cutting through the chest. The devices are meant to vent trapped air into the airways, where it can be exhaled, and to deflate diseased parts of the lungs — without having to cut out any tissue. In some cases, the implants might replace surgery, but they might also help patients who are not candidates for the surgery.

After Mrs. Gallagher’s second bout with pneumonia, doctors recommended lung-volume reduction, and she agreed to it in the hope that it would give her back some of her life — let her be more active, take trips with her husband, keep up with her grandchildren.

Dr. Ginsburg operated through tiny slits, rather than opening the entire chest. He inserted a camera, and guided by a monitor, cut away a cellphone-size slab of each lung. The operation took about 90 minutes.

“We did exactly what we wanted to do,” Dr. Ginsburg said. “The question is, will it work?” Ideally, the operation can set the clock back three to five years, he said, but added, “At the end of the day she’s only as good as what she has left.”

Mrs. Gallagher had a rough recovery. She spent 10 days in the hospital, twice as long as expected. She had trouble breathing and could not keep food down, which worried her family because she was already frail.

A few days after leaving the hospital, she was supposed to resume exercising in a pulmonary rehabilitation program that had begun before the surgery. Her daughter wondered how she would manage, when she was too weak even to dress herself.

But she bounced back quickly. Two weeks later, she said, “I’m doing terrific,” adding that she had just walked 25 minutes on a treadmill without needing oxygen, something she could not do before. Her appetite was back, and she had polished off a dinner of veal parmesan and baked ziti.

“My breathing isn’t as shallow as it used to be,” Mrs. Gallagher said. “I can take a deeper breath. I’m very, very happy.”
753 2007-11-29 Southwest is also hurt by higher fuel prices, but far less than competitors, giving the carrier a distinct advantage in an industry where beating the other guy often seems more important than actually doing well. Some other airlines, meanwhile, could start reporting losses as early as the current quarter, unless they are able to rapidly raise fares, said Roger E. King, an analyst at CreditSights, an independent research company. “Airlines were not made for $90 oil,” Mr. King said in a report last week.

Indeed, at American Airlines, annual fuel costs rise $80 million for every dollar increase in a barrel of oil, said Thomas W. Horton, the chief financial officer. The difference between January’s low and today’s price would translate into an increase of about $3 billion a year in fuel spending. So, this month, Jamie Baker, an analyst at JPMorgan, cut his estimate of 2008 results at AMR, American’s parent, from a profit of roughly $500 million to a small loss and noted that American and others needed to raise fares.

It was just 10 months ago, in January, that other airlines were enjoying the prospect of Southwest’s misery. As oil dipped down to about $52 a barrel that month — Southwest’s hedges cap most of its fuel needs at about $51 a barrel, so they were of little use at that point — the carrier was looking like an airline with more than its share of problems.

Traditional hub-and-spoke carriers like Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines had deeply cut their costs by running through bankruptcy and could now profitably compete with Southwest’s fares.

Moreover, because they could draw more business travelers with first- and business-class seating and other perks, hub-and-spoke carriers could bring in more revenue per seat than Southwest.

Southwest also has the highest labor rates in the industry because it was the only big airline that had not demanded deep wage concessions from workers.

Gary C. Kelly, chief executive of Southwest, was the architect of the fuel hedging program when he was chief financial officer. The big hedges were put on starting in 2000.

The hedges have helped keep Southwest profitable, producing gains on the hedging contracts of $455 million in 2004, $892 million in 2005 and $675 million in 2006, as well as $439 million for the first nine months of 2007, as oil prices have nearly doubled this year.

These gains mostly offset rising fuel prices while other airlines were largely unprotected against the increases.

Mr. Kelly does not play down the need for Southwest to change its business, including finding ways to charge more per ticket and to reduce operating costs.

The airline has already changed its boarding policy to favor business travelers and to end the practice of passengers lining up, as if for a cattle call, an hour or more before boarding. It is looking into arrangements for Southwest to be paid for funneling travelers to international airlines’ overseas flights. And it is exploring selling tickets through channels other than its own reservation system and Web site, to better attract business travelers.

Of these and other changes intended to increase revenue at Southwest, Mr. Kelly said, “It’s going to take us the entire decade.” The hedges, he said, “bought us time to retool our company.”

Indeed, in recent years other carriers could identify investments they needed to make — redoing airplane interiors to compete against foreign airlines, upgrading computer systems to improve employee productivity and airline reliability — but they often lacked the money for the projects. All but American Airlines among the major hub-and-spoke carriers have spent time in bankruptcy, and American only narrowly avoided it.

Other airlines certainly could have hedged in the late 1990s when they were solidly profitable. But they were a little giddy over that decade’s boom, entering into expensive labor agreements and, in some cases, buying new planes.

Since Sept. 11, 2001, some airlines have been too broke to hedge; many agreements between parties in the energy derivatives market require players either to have a strong credit rating or to post collateral. Also, some forms of hedging are expensive.

Southwest’s hedges used during the first nine months of 2007, which included options that allowed — but did not require — it to buy energy products at certain prices, cost $42 million. A small sum in retrospect, but not so easily spent when higher oil prices were only a possibility.

Early this year, more airlines were in decent financial shape and, with oil at about $52 a barrel, it would have been a smart time to do some hedging. “Everyone was tired of having Southwest’s advantage rubbed in their noses,” said Frank Boroch, an analyst at Bear Stearns.

Still, airlines did very little. “Maybe they were distracted,” Mr. Boroch said, noting that US Airways was trying to buy Delta during this period. “It’s a copycat industry. If everybody is in the same boat, that’s going to give you comfort, or an excuse.”

At $52 a barrel, airline executives were thinking, “‘Maybe this will continue,’” Mr. Boroch said. “‘Why hedge at $52 when it might go to $40?’”

JetBlue Airways, which had kicked itself in early 2006 for not having hedged fuel costs, did not do much this year, either. “We all wish we were Southwest,” said Tim Walker, a JetBlue officer who manages its fuel contracts. “Southwest was just gorgeous what they did years ago. They put their foot down.”

Now, airlines unprotected from higher oil prices face some tough decisions, Mr. Boroch said. They can ground some gas-guzzling planes and hope that reduced capacity drives up fares and thus profits. They can merge with another airline to reduce costs, which is what a New York hedge fund is asking Delta and United Airlines to do. Or, as Mr. Boroch noted in a report this month, they can “maintain the status quo until Chapter 11 becomes inevitable again.”

He has started charting how much cash individual airlines have and how many months it would last under various oil-price outlooks.

Higher fares would certainly help airlines, and the companies are trying. But raising listed fares and actually collecting significantly more money per ticket are two different things. When fares are raised, airlines can end up selling fewer of the higher-priced seats and more lower-priced seats, and reap little increase in the average seat price.

Mr. Boroch counted six industry fare increases in the third quarter, yet Southwest’s average ticket price for that period, $105.37, was just 62 cents higher than a year earlier.

Through October, a survey by the Air Transport Association of seven big airlines, excluding Southwest, found domestic fares actually paid by passengers up just 0.3 percent. “The trend of higher revenues more than offsetting higher fuel prices is at risk of ending soon,” Philip Baggaley, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in a report last week.

The question for Southwest is whether it can turn yet another huge temporary advantage into a long-term edge. Its revenue-raising ideas are relatively modest, initially seeking an additional $100 million in annual sales. And it faces labor negotiations with its main worker groups. None want to make concessions.

Southwest’s best immediate bet may be that other airlines stumble again. Every jet grounded by a hub-and-spoke carrier is a growth opportunity for Southwest. And any merger of big airlines would probably eliminate flights in some markets, another opportunity.

It really comes back to taking advantage of the misfortune of others. In a memo to Southwest managers last May, Mr. Kelly, the chief executive, laid out the obstacles the company faces. But then he quickly noted, “this cycle could, and should, be another one of those times we can prevail.”

Southwest generally expects high fuel prices to prevail and, if it sees what it thinks is a short-term decline in oil prices, the carrier would consider adding to its hedges for years beyond 2009. It was not just the other airlines that failed to hedge in January, with oil at about $52 a barrel. That was also an opportunity for Southwest, said the treasurer, Mr. Topping.

“In hindsight,” he said, “we’d have picked more up.”
754 2007-11-29 Dr. Finkelstein’s faulty practice led to at least one transmission of hepatitis C from one of his patients to another, and Nassau County health officials said they were investigating a case of hepatitis B to determine whether it could be linked to Dr. Finkelstein.

Dr. Daines said the long delay was the result of a careful, painstaking and “first-rate” investigation into how the patients, who all received epidural injections for pain, might have been exposed to infection.

The commissioner’s proposed changes were reported by Newsday yesterday.

Among the proposed changes, Dr. Daines said, is an effort to coordinate the work of officials who focus on the professional conduct of doctors, public health scares, like hepatitis C infection, and medical malpractice suits.

In Dr. Finkelstein’s case, one part of the department was looking into how the hepatitis C transmission occurred, but it was months later — and only after a patient complained — that the department’s Office of Professional Medical Conduct, which investigates and disciplines doctors, took up the case. Under state law, those investigations are not open to the public until they are concluded.

The medical conduct office, which found no evidence of wrongdoing and recommended no disciplinary action against Dr. Finkelstein, receives about 8,000 complaints a year, resulting in about 400 active investigations, Dr. Daines said.

Meanwhile, there was no discussion in the course of either investigation about Dr. Finkelstein’s unusually high number of malpractice suits — 10 settlements in the last 10 years, according to public records — which put him in what insurers call a “high risk” category, Dr. Daines said.

While information on malpractice cases and settlements is available to the public on the medical conduct office’s Web site, it has not been part of the state’s evaluation of doctors whose practices have been called into question, Dr. Daines said.

He said the department was considering whether — and when — to notify the public about doctors’ malpractice histories. He added that malpractice insurance premiums, which have skyrocketed in the last several years, are themselves a form of free-market disciplinary action.

Patient advocates, who — along with Nassau County officials and Gov. Eliot Spitzer — were deeply critical of the Health Department’s handling of the case, said they were cautiously encouraged by Dr. Daines’s proposed changes.

“I think at this point there’s no reason not to think that Commissioner Daines is genuine in his concern and that he really wants to fix what’s broken,” said Arthur Levin, director of the Center for Medical Consumers in New York City. “Like many of us looking at this very bizarre episode, it is less important for the specifics of what happened than it is for shining a light on what systemically may be a problem.”

Also at issue in the Finkelstein case was the time the doctor took to give his records to state health officials. He had been asked to do so voluntarily. Dr. Daines said the department was looking into ways health officials could be more aggressive in obtaining medical records, under subpoena if necessary, which should be easier with many doctors moving to electronic record keeping. But he said there were no policy changes in the offing on obtaining records.

Dr. Daines also said he was interested in loosening confidentiality rules about naming doctors and making the confidential investigations into charges against them more transparent.

State law, however, requires the department to keep the identity of a doctor confidential until the conclusion of an investigation. The law was challenged, but in 1993 an appeals court upheld it, and said that any changes would have to be made by the State Legislature.

Still, Dr. Daines said, “I think we’re ready for another discussion about that issue.”
755 2007-11-29 Mr. Hellwig said late in the day that he did not believe the child had been charged in juvenile court yet, but that under New Jersey law he could be charged with juvenile delinquency and the adult who owned the weapon could face criminal charges.

Mr. Hellwig said he believed that the child was staying at his home.

County officials said the boy was too young to go to juvenile detention. Juvenile court officials said Wednesday that a hearing for him had not been scheduled yet.

The weapon, a .45-caliber handgun, had one bullet in it, Mr. Hellwig said. It was being checked to identify the owner and tested to determine whether it had been used in any crimes.

“We believe it was taken from the home,” Mr. Hellwig said, adding, “We as parents or responsible guardians are responsible to check our children’s rooms, that there’s nothing in there that shouldn’t be in there, to prevent things like this from happening.”

Mr. Hellwig said the state’s Division of Youth and Family Services was investigating.

Andy Williams, a spokesman for the agency, said he could not comment on whether the child’s family had previous contact with child welfare workers.

“If the police have a situation like this and wanted to check that the home was safe, and the children in the home were safe, certainly they call us,” he said.

The school, in a neighborhood of neat two-story homes, has 340 students in kindergarten through fifth grade, 70 percent of them eligible for free or discounted lunch, according to the Web site of Public School Review, a nationwide profiling service.

On the streets nearby, neighbors and parents expressed shock and worry.

“I’m glad they caught him,” said Sharon Hurdle, who was walking her 6-year-old son, Tereek, home from the school. “How did a 9-year-old get a gun? It’s crazy, shocking.”

Tabitha Rodriguez, who has a son in the pre-kindergarten program at the school, said she was not surprised by the incident.

“Look at the condition of the area,” she said. “Is anyone safe these days? We do live in Plainfield, and things happen. You just have to hope and pray that you’ll be O.K.”

But Lenise Young, 34, who attended the Plainfield schools, was more surprised. “Never in a million years do I think that would happen in my neighborhood,” she said as she waited on a bench for a ride on West Fourth Street. “A weapon to us was a rock or a stick. It’s so sad.”

Hector Sache, a Clinton student who gave his age as 9 ½, said that guns in schools were not unheard of, but “I’ve never heard of a kid going to fourth grade with a gun.” He added, “Usually it’s in middle school or something that I hear that.”
756 2007-11-29 The timing is particularly difficult, he said, because “we are in the critical phase of reshaping our involvement in the military missions,” including plans to withdraw from Iraq.

The headline on the cover of the Polish edition of Newsweek after the soldiers were arrested on Nov. 13 said bluntly, “Blood on the Uniform.” On the cover of Polityka, a respected weekly newsmagazine, the larger question rang out: “Afghanistan: What Are We Doing There?”

The country has 1,200 soldiers in the NATO operation in Afghanistan. Poland has also been a significant ally for the United States in Iraq, and it still has 900 troops there. It has been a consistent contributor to international missions.

Western military experts have held up Poland as a success story among former Warsaw Pact countries that have joined NATO. The new government has also declared its intention to phase out conscription completely by 2010, as Poland continues its effort over many years to transform its army from a lumbering institution of the Communist era to a nimble modern force geared toward distant missions like Afghanistan and Iraq.

But the war in Iraq was unpopular with the Polish public even before the invasion in 2003. The opposition Civic Platform party ran in parliamentary elections this fall in part on the promise to bring troops home.

In his inaugural address last week, the new prime minister from that party, Donald Tusk, said Polish troops would be out of Iraq by the end of next year.

But Mr. Tusk renewed the country’s commitment to keeping troops in Afghanistan. Public opinion is opposed to that mission as well, according to one recent survey here conducted for the newspaper Gazeta Polska.

“Our soldiers’ blood being spilled is pointless,” Agnieszka Kwiatkowska, 32, said Monday as she waited for a train at the main station in Poznan.

Wladyslaw Czysz, 80, a former soldier living in Poznan, said, “The ones who should be charged are those who arrested them.” He was referring to newspaper photographs here showing the arrests of the soldiers by officers wearing ski masks, images that inflamed public opinion.

Many civilians here either say the soldiers are innocent, or at least give them the benefit of the doubt, saying that that the deaths were probably accidental.

The military prosecutor’s office said that on the morning of the mortar attack, separate Polish and American patrols left a shared base. They were attacked with improvised explosive devices. Several hours later, another group of Polish soldiers was sent to reinforce the patrols that were waiting with their damaged vehicles. The reinforcements opened fire with their mortar, killing the civilians.

Up to this point there has been no suggestion of American involvement in the civilian deaths.

At first, the soldiers said they had been returning fire. But Lt. Col. Zbigniew Rzepa, on the prosecution team, said Monday, “We already know that this is not true,” although he did not explain why. The trial is unlikely to begin before February, and may start much later, Colonel Rzepa said.

The timing of the attack, two days after the first Polish soldier was killed in Afghanistan, fueled speculation in the news media that the killings may have been an act of revenge, though such suggestions have died down.

“Nobody thinks that this was an intentional act of vengeance by Polish soldiers,” said Jacek Relewicz, the lawyer for one of the privates in custody.

Marek Sterlingow, a reporter for Gazeta Wyborcza, a leading daily newspaper, said, “I think that it is very unlikely that they did it on purpose.” Mr. Sterlingow was at the base the day after the attack and has written several articles about it. “It is most likely that this was an accident, maybe an accident caused by a not-very-good tactic,” he said.

He added, “I think that the Polish military got into such a bad situation because of the instinct of covering up.”

Despite the controversy, the new government says it is committed to the Afghanistan mission. “We have to contribute to the missions of NATO,” said Mr. Klich, the defense minister, “even in such an exotic place for Polish public opinion as Afghanistan.”
757 2007-11-29 Millions of Americans, especially children, are needlessly getting dangerous radiation from “super X-rays” that raise the risk of cancer and are increasingly used to diagnose medical problems, a new report warns. In a few decades, as many as 2 percent of cancers in the United States may be due to radiation from CT scans given now, according to the report.

The risk from a single CT, or computed tomography, scan to an individual is small. But “we are very concerned about the built-up public health risk over a long period of time,” said Eric J. Hall, who wrote the report with David J. Brenner, a fellow Columbia University medical physicist.

It was published in The New England Journal of Medicine today, and the study was paid for by federal grants. Some experts say that estimate is overly alarming. But they agree with the need to curb these tests particularly in children, who are more susceptible to radiation and more likely to develop cancer from it.

“There are some serious concerns about the methodology used,” but the authors “have brought to attention some real serious potential public health issues,” said Dr. Arl Van Moore Jr., chairman of the American College of Radiology’s board of chancellors.

The average American’s total radiation exposure has nearly doubled since 1980, largely because of CT scans. About 62 million scans were done in the United States last year, up from three million in 1980. More than four million were in children.

Since previous studies suggest that a third of diagnostic tests are unnecessary, that means that 20 million adults and more than one million children having CT scans are needlessly being put at risk, the authors write.
758 2007-11-29 SanDisk, like other makers of portable multimedia players, seems to always be one step behind Apple. But that may be changing.

The new SanDisk Sansa View compares favorably to the iPod Nano from Apple, at least on paper.

The View comes in 8-gigabyte ($150) and 16-gigabyte ($200) versions, while the Nano has 4 gigabytes ($150) or 8 gigabytes ($200). The View has a 2.4-inch screen as opposed to a 2-inch screen on the Nano. SanDisk claims 35 hours of audio and 7 hours of video playback on a single charge; the Nano claims 24 and 5. The View has a built-in FM radio; the Nano requires a $25 accessory for radio play.

And there’s more. The Nano’s storage capacity can’t be expanded, while the View can add as many as 8 gigabytes using a MicroSD card.

The View is bigger than the Nano, about the size of an open slider phone, weighing in at 2.9 ounces compared with the Nano’s 1.74 ounces. In this case, bigger may actually be better. STEPHEN C. MILLER
759 2007-11-29 Johan Santana, the star pitcher of the Minnesota Twins, is at the center of trade talks between the Twins and a number of clubs. He won’t come cheaply. The team that lands him would likely have to give up multiple top prospects and sign Santana to a long-term contract. How far should a team go to get Santana?
760 2007-11-29 The two recently brought in a third partner and are now involving her in the process as well.

Like couples who have improved their relationship with therapy, business partners who have had success with coaching or mediation swear that they would never again build a partnership without first going through some kind of process with a potential partner. They often say they do not make a move without first consulting the coach, who can sound like another person in the partnership.

The catalyst for bringing in an outsider usually appears in the form of a business obstacle rather than an interpersonal one. That was the case for Danielle Walsmith, Lauren Tarne and Limor Gallo, three friends who founded Sweet Talk Public Relations in Los Angeles.

About six months into the business, the women ran into some trouble. They had started their company with one major client, and when that work came to an end, they were at a loss as to how to find new business.

When another entrepreneur suggested the partners talk to a career coach about the challenges in their business, Ms. Tarne immediately thought of Maggie Mistal, who had a radio show about careers on the Martha Stewart channel of Sirius Satellite Radio. “I listened to Maggie and thought she had such great insights,” Ms. Tarne said.

The three women started meeting with Ms. Mistal by conference call and within a few meetings realized that they could not tackle their business issues until they handled some interpersonal ones. “It was a lot more complicated because we are all friends,” Ms. Tarne said. “We are very direct people, but when it comes to each other, we were walking on eggshells.”

One issue the three women were unable to talk about was how they were going to manage the maternity leave of Ms. Gallo, who was nearing the end of her pregnancy during the time they did their coaching.

At their sessions with Ms. Mistal, they identified who was good at various aspects of the business and made some progress on defining their individual roles within the company.

“It really helped our confidence as entrepreneurs to be able to say it is O.K. to be strong in some areas but not in others. Even that it is O.K. to fail with some clients and have successes with others,” Ms. Walsmith said. “Through the coaching, we gained a better understanding of what we really wanted to be doing in the business and in our lives.”

After about 10 sessions with Ms. Mistal, the women are now revisiting their goals for the business. Ms. Tarne and Ms. Walsmith are continuing on, albeit with a different business model. Ms. Gallo, who recently gave birth to her first child, will not be returning to the company when she is ready to go back to work. “Before I could work 15-hour days,” she said. “I just didn’t realize, until my son was born, how much motherhood takes from you.”

All three women say that their friendship has endured even though the business is not going forward as planned. “I’m taking a step back to refigure out my own career, as is Sweet Talk,” Ms. Gallo said. “Yet we can still ask each other for help. We want each other to succeed.”

Anthony Sandberg and Richard Jepsen, partners in OSCS Sailing School in San Francisco, say that working with Larry Ledgerwood, a business trainer, is one of the main reasons their partnership is still thriving after 28 years. They say Mr. Ledgerwood has taught them to better understand themselves and their individual styles of communication, which has transformed the style of their meetings.

“Larry initiates conversations and makes it so comfortable for us to say more,” Mr. Sandberg said. “There used to be a problem and we would jump to find a solution. We now make sure to establish some kind of rapport first, by talking about what is going on in our lives, clearing the unresolved energy, and making sure we are totally present. If that is not cleared up, who knows what you are dealing with.”

Mr. Ledgerwood also encouraged the two to clearly define their roles in the business so that it was clear who is making the final decision on any particular kind of issue.

The marriage analogy is never far away in discussions about relationships between business partners.

Mr. Sandberg says he believes his marriage might have survived had he and his former wife done the kind of intensive counseling he and Mr. Jepsen have done with Mr. Ledgerwood. “I look at young folks in love and suggest that they go get some counseling, review their values, and really get to know the other person,” Mr. Sandberg said.

Mr. Jepsen said that one reason he and Mr. Sandberg have been partners for 28 years “is that we share the same values and view of the world.” But, he added, “there are always going to be temperamental quirks, and those are manageable with the right coaching.”

The two men recently grappled with a dire business challenge, the oil spill that temporarily halted all sailing in San Francisco Bay and closed their marina for 10 days.

“We had to make big decisions and plan for what would happen if we had to close for several months,” Mr. Sandberg said. “And we met with Larry to move the conversation along.”
761 2007-11-29 For now, though, the situation is looking bleaker for many businesses. Already, companies in everything from furniture manufacturing to Web site design are tightening their belts, delaying expansion and scrambling for other sources of cash.

“This is a very big deal,” said Andrew Tilton, a senior economist in the United States Economic Research Group at Goldman Sachs. “You’re basically crimping the growth of the more vulnerable companies. If they can’t borrow the money, their options are much more limited. They’d have to have less ambitious hiring plans, buy less machinery and cancel projects.”

Two years ago, in what now seems like another era, Carmen Murray easily borrowed $100,000 from a local bank to finance her company, Rodeo Carpet Mills, which makes high-end rugs in an industrial stretch near Los Angeles. Getting a check was as simple as returning a mass-mailed flier.

Today, Ms. Murray is seeking a fresh loan from the bank to finance an expansion to supply Las Vegas hotels with floor coverings. She needs new machinery and 15 more workers, bringing the total work force to 45. If she manages to get the money, it will not come easily.

“They want this; they want that,” Ms. Murray sighed. “I got the sense that I have to start all over again. They need to know who I am and all about my business.”

A survey of bank loan officers conducted by the Federal Reserve in October found that about one-fifth of lenders had tightened lending requirements for commercial and industrial loans for large and midsize businesses over the previous three months. A slightly smaller proportion reported tightening lending to small companies.

By themselves, commercial bank loans have actually surged: large companies have tapped prearranged lines of credit to weather the financial chaos that has accompanied the unraveling of the American real estate market.

But this source of finance has been nowhere near enough to compensate for the virtual shutdown of the short-term commercial paper market. Much of this debt had been pledged against the value of mortgages, making them effectively radioactive in markets around the globe.

In recent years, a lot of commercial lending was inspired by an upward spiral of enrichment: banks made new loans, then swiftly sold them off for profit, using the proceeds to extend still more. But with much of the financial world unnerved by the mortgage meltdown, buyers for commercial loans are scarce.

“Since the resale market went away, major banks have had much less availability to make loans,” said Mark A. Sunshine, president of First Capital, a private commercial lender. “Absolutely, credit is much less available.”

Some of the drop reflects the subsiding in the run of mergers, diminishing the demand for credit by companies buying other companies. Some can be explained by what many economists view as a healthy return to the skeptical scrutinizing of prospective borrowers by banks. But lenders and borrowers from northern Virginia to southern Arizona confirm that the credit tightening has already begun to cut money reaching healthy companies as well, affecting their spending and hiring.

What loans are being extended are going primarily to companies with longstanding relationships with banks. Lenders are reluctant to bet their increasingly scarce capital on riskier, less-established companies in a time of economic anxiety. That leaves many of those companies on a limb.

“Small businesses are just inherently more risky, and banks are going to be more conservative in protecting their assets,” said Jody Keenan, who chairs the board of the Association of Small Business Development Centers in Burke, Va. “We’re starting to see a tightening already, particularly for very small companies. We’re talking about real impacts in local communities.”

A slowdown among smaller companies could be especially costly to the economy in terms of jobs. More than half of American jobs are at companies with fewer than 100 workers, according to Moody’s Economy.com.

In recent months, smaller companies have been adding jobs even as larger firms have been shedding workers, according to the ADP National Employment Report, which tracks changes at companies with payrolls overseen by ADP. From May to October, 276,000 of the 378,000 jobs added were at companies with fewer than 50 employees, the report found.

To be sure, the strongest companies with property to put up as collateral and years of profits they can point to are still able to borrow, often at increasingly favorable terms.

The downturn in the housing market has made banks reluctant to sink money into anything related to real estate, from title companies to bathroom tile manufacturers.

But lenders have sought refuge in more vibrant areas — notably agriculture, which has benefited from the rise in global demand and the sudden boom in ethanol production.

Richard Brown, president and chief executive of the Krause Corporation, which makes soil-tilling equipment at its factory in Hutchinson, Kan., relies upon lines of credit from banks to smooth out the seasonal nature of the business. Though it sells its products mostly in the spring and fall, the company must make them year-round.

Mr. Brown said banks had been calling him relentlessly to offer new loans.

“They’re trying to maintain their business and get past the subprime debacle, and where can they go?” Mr. Brown said. “Agriculture in this country is very strong.”

But in other parts of the economy, notably the auto industry, access to credit has tightened considerably, as banks steer their limited capital away from companies with declining sales.

A year ago, when he needed new machinery, Doyle Hayes, president and chief executive of Pyper Products, an auto parts maker in Battle Creek, Mich., went back to the local branch of Comerica bank, where he has been doing business for years. He borrowed $300,000.

Last week, when Mr. Hayes needed $140,000 for a new robot, he did not even bother to inquire at the bank. “We knew what the answer was going to be,” he said, meaning the bank would have turned him down. “When the auto industry goes down, anything that has four wheels becomes suspect.”

Still, Mr. Hayes did not put off the purchase. “You can’t save yourself into prosperity,” he said. He managed to borrow the money instead from Battle Creek Unlimited, a nonprofit economic development arm of the city.

In Arizona, Dennis Long, president of Enterprise Resource Group, which manages computer networks for businesses in the Phoenix area, is keen to expand, particularly by picking up work from the federal government. But that requires hiring a sales representative, and he lacks the capital to go beyond his $100,000 line of credit from Wells Fargo Bank.

“The bank says we’re maxed out,” Mr. Long complained. “It just seems like before they were a little more ‘Let me see what I can do,’ where today I just get ‘no.’”

In Los Angeles, Ms. Murray, too, has grown accustomed to a less-than-exuberant reception from the bank. Having started at the rug factory as a receptionist some 25 years ago, she now owns the company. A Mexican-American entrepreneur, she hopes to capture contracts that are set aside for minority-controlled companies.

She may eventually try an alternative source of finance aimed at small lenders, with the state guaranteeing her loan. Curiously, at one such institution in Los Angeles, Pacific Coast Regional Small Business Development Corporation, the volume of lending has slowed considerably in recent months, said Mark Robertson, the firm’s president and chief executive.

It may be that the effects of the credit tightening are still unfolding, he suggested. Eventually, a parade of would-be borrowers may show up at his door. His business tends to move in the opposite direction of the economy: when times are bad, more people need help to qualify for a loan. Perhaps things just have not gotten bad enough.

But Mr. Robertson thinks another factor may be at play. Business prospects are so uncertain that smaller entrepreneurs have lost their nerve for risk.

“Any business owner that is experiencing less traffic to their establishment is not willing to take on more debt,” Mr. Robertson said. “Everybody has kind of a wait-and-see, hold-off sort of attitude.”
762 2007-11-29 The sound quality is very good, especially if you use the 80-gig Zune’s included earbuds. They’re not hard disks like the iPod’s and those of the smaller Zunes; they’re soft rubber bulbs that snuggle securely into your ear canals, sealing out the outside world.

On the 80-gig model, the screen is bigger than the iPod Classic’s — but it’s the same number of pixels. As a result, the pixel grid is far more visible, giving you a screen-door effect during videos with bright scenes.

Some of the biggest Zune-iPod differences involve the Zune’s wireless feature. As on the previous Zune, you can beam songs to your friends’ Zunes, to demonstrate your superior musical taste. But beamed songs no longer self-destruct after “three days or three plays”; the time limit is gone. You have all the time you like to listen to them three times.

Unfortunately, that beaming feature will remain irrelevant as long as there’s nobody to beam songs to. You could go a year without spotting another Zune (and, in fact, you probably just have). But at least the antipiracy limitations on beamed songs is now infinitely more sensible.

Microsoft. meanwhile, has finally begun to exploit its wireless transmitter in more useful ways. The Zune can’t surf the Internet, as the iPod Touch can. But it can now synchronize its music and photos (although not videos) with those on your Windows PC over your wireless home network.

Now the value of wireless synching may not be immediately apparent. Hooking up a U.S.B. cable, the usual way to sync a music player, has never been a particularly harrowing task.

But what’s great is that you can make it automatic. You come home, you set the player in its charging dock ($50) or a speaker dock, and presto: the thing syncs as it recharges. The next time you grab your Zune, it’s charged, synched and filled with your latest tunes or your favorite podcasts.

Microsoft has also written a new Windows-only loading-dock program for the Zune. You no longer use Windows Media Player for that purpose.

That’s good, because it allowed Microsoft’s programmers to start fresh and create a streamlined, simple, spartan program dedicated to its task. Really spartan. There aren’t even any menus. (How unlike Microsoft.)

But it’s also bad, because the new program pointlessly duplicates Media Player’s functions. Now you have to learn two different programs and maintain two different libraries. (How Microsoft.)

The online Zune store is better now, too. It now lets you swap song suggestions and 30-second clips with your friends, and it finally offers podcast subscriptions. (Microsoft must absolutely hate saying the word “pod” every time it touts this feature.) And unlike Apple’s store, the Zune store offers an optional $15-a-month all-you-can download plan, although you lose your entire music library when you stop paying.

If you’re tempted to align yourself with Planet Zune rather than Planet iPod, you should ask two important questions.

First: How do I know Microsoft won’t dump me the way it dumped people the last time around?

After all, the Zune is not Microsoft’s first effort at an iPod-like universe of player, software and music store; that honor goes to the PlaysForSure format. And everybody who bought into it must be feeling just a tad rejected at this point. When it introduced the Zune, Microsoft shut down its PlaysForSure store and further development efforts. Whatever songs you bought in the PlaysForSure format won’t play on the Zune.

The second question is, How much will I miss the richness of the iPod economy?

Microsoft hasn’t had nearly as much time as Apple has had to cultivate a culture of add-ons and flourishes. So its player, its software or its store can’t rival the abilities of Apple’s.

Here are some of the iPod features that the Zune lacks: Games, alarm clock, stopwatch, world clock, password-protected volume limiter, graphic equalizer, notepad, auto-synched copy of your computer’s calendar and address book, and Disk Mode, which lets an iPod serve as an external drive for carrying around computer files.

If you use the Zune’s wireless features, you’ll also get much worse battery life: 19 hours of music playback on the 80-gig Zune versus 30 on the equivalent iPod. The 80-gig Zune is still thicker and chunkier than its iPod rival, too.

Above all, you may miss that thriving virtual bazaar of iPod accessories: more than 3,000 stereo docks, cases, car adapters, and so on, compared with only a handful for the Zune.

Here are some of the iTunes software features missing in the Zune’s software: Smart Playlists, which assemble groups of songs based on criteria that you specify (“80’s up-tempo songs I haven’t heard in three months”), choice of visualizers (screen-saver effects that dance to the music), closed captioning for videos and TV, Cover Flow view, and a graphic equalizer.

The Zune store is missing a lot of iPod features, too: TV shows, movies, audio books, monthly allowances and comprehensible pricing.

At the iTunes store, you pay $1 a song. But on the Zune store, you pay using Microsoft Points, which are sold in blocks of 400 ($5). Songs cost 79 to 129 points, which means 99 cents to $1.61. Suddenly, you’re a currency trader.

This absurd system serves nobody except Microsoft. First, it’s a ham-handed effort to make you lose track of how many dollars you’re actually spending. Second, you can’t just buy one song; the least you can spend is $5. And finally, you’ll inevitably waste money, since it’s unlikely that Microsoft’s various song prices will divide evenly into 400.

The bottom line: the iPod is still a more versatile, compact and beautiful machine. But the Zune has come a long way in very little time. Already, its potential audience is no longer limited to a sect of irrational Apple haters. It’s now a candidate for anyone who values its unique powers — excellent built-in FM radio, scratchproof case and wireless auto-synching — more than they value the richness and choice of the iPod universe.
763 2007-11-29 The survey focuses on public costs associated with the new generation of immigrant workers. It does not, however, analyze contributions they make by paying taxes and taking undesirable, low-income jobs — an omission criticized by some immigration scholars.

Still, the survey provides a panorama of the effects of immigration since 2000.

About 30 percent of all immigrants and their children lack health insurance, Mr. Camarota reports, compared with 13 percent of native-born Americans. One of every three uninsured people in the country is an immigrant or a young American-born child with at least one immigrant parent, he found. Immigrant families account for almost three-quarters of the increase in the uninsured in the past 15 years, he concludes.

Immigrants are employed at higher rates than Americans, according to the survey. But because of their low educational levels, many work in low-paying, entry-level jobs that do not provide health insurance or other benefits.

“Immigrants have had an enormous impact on the lack of health insurance,” Mr. Camarota said. “If we are going to have a debate about health insurance, we should recognize that most of the growth in the uninsured comes from recently arrived immigrants and their American-born kids.”

Mr. Camarota was criticized by some immigration scholars for failing to examine the progress immigrant families make the longer they remain and work in the United States.

“This is a one-eyed portrait,” said Dowell Myers, a demographer at the University of Southern California who has studied immigrants’ use of public services. “It is a profile of immigrants’ dependency without any profile of their contributions.”

Mr. Myers said his research shows that within a decade, new immigrants in California moved up quickly to steadier jobs with more benefits, and the rates of uninsured immigrants dropped sharply.

Mr. Camarota’s analysis suggests why illegal immigration has become the source of contention in many states. The majority of immigrants arriving in recent years are from Mexico and Central America, and more than half of them are illegal.

The states that have received the largest numbers of the new immigrants are also states where immigration has been hotly debated. After five states that have been high on the immigration list for decades — California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey and Texas — those receiving the most new immigrants included Arizona, Georgia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Virginia.

The analysis confirms earlier estimates of about 11.3 million illegal immigrants in this country.

About 31 percent of immigrants over 25 years old, both legal and illegal, have not completed high school, according to Mr. Camarota, compared with 8.4 percent of American citizens. Among adult Hispanic immigrants, nearly 51 percent do not have high school diplomas, he reported.

Mr. Camarota found that about one-third of immigrant families receive some kind of public assistance. The services were mainly food stamps and Medicaid associated with care for their American children, he found. The majority of children in immigrant families, whether the parents are legal or illegal, were born in the United States and so are American citizens.

“The welfare system is designed to help low-income workers with children,” Mr. Camarota said. “The study shows that it is very difficult not to have these public costs if you have low-skilled immigrants in large numbers.”

Mr. Camarota did not present evidence of large scale use of public benefits by illegal immigrants themselves.

Wayne Cornelius, a political science professor at the University of California, San Diego, who has studied Mexican immigration for decades, called Mr. Camarota’s conclusions about immigrants’ use of public services “misleading.”

The census data, Mr. Cornelius said, does not allow concise estimates of use of public services by illegal immigrants.

Mr. Cornelius said his field research in San Diego County had shown that illegal immigrants under-used the health care system, given their health needs.

“They are less likely to have health insurance, but they are also less likely to seek medical attention,” Mr. Cornelius said.

He added that research in California has shown that illegal immigrants from Latin America are far less likely than American Hispanics to use emergency room services or seek public primary care.

Mr. Cornelius also faulted Mr. Camarota for focusing only on first-generation immigrants. The study “obscures the very significant progress that immigrants’ children and their grandchildren typically make,” Mr. Cornelius argued.

Mr. Camarota reported that both legal and illegal immigration have continued to grow. A study in 2005 by another demographer, Jeffrey S. Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, found that the rate of growth of immigration peaked in 2000 and declined somewhat in the next five years.
764 2007-11-29 Mr. Giuliani, who has led in national polls, found himself and his record in New York — including his past support for gun control — under scrutiny.

And many candidates had high points: Mr. Giuliani with his line about Mr. Romney’s mansion; Fred D. Thompson, the former senator from Tennessee, giving a spirited defense of gun rights; Mr. Huckabee, when asked how Jesus would feel about the death penalty, responded, “Jesus was too smart to ever run for public office”; and Senator John McCain of Arizona, in highly emotional terms, condemned torture.

The candidates focused heavily on red-meat Republican issues like abortion, guns and taxes, but there was no discussion of health care proposals. And for the first half-hour, they clashed fiercely on a single issue, immigration, which has aroused strong passions for months on the campaign trail. The subject drew passionate responses from the candidates on the debate stage, as they not only scored political points off one another, but managed to illuminate some of their differences on related subjects like education, health care and public safety.

After Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, and Mr. Giuliani argued over immigration, Mr. Romney turned on Mr. Huckabee for a proposal he made as governor of Arkansas to give breaks in college tuition to the children of illegal immigrants.

“Mike, that’s not your money,” he said. “That’s the taxpayers’ money. And the right thing here is to say to people that are here legally as citizens or legal aliens, we’re going to help you. But if you’re here illegally, you ought to be able to return home or get in line with everybody else, but illegals are not going to get taxpayer-funded breaks that are better than our own citizens.”

Mr. Huckabee responded: “In all due respect, we’re a better country than to punish children for what their parents did. We’re a better country than that.”

“I worked my way through college,” Mr. Huckabee added. “I started work when I was 14, and I had to pay my own way through, and I know how hard it was to get that degree. I’m standing here tonight on this stage because I got an education. If I hadn’t had the education, I wouldn’t be standing on this stage. I might be picking lettuce. I might be a person who needed government support rather than who was giving so much money in taxes I want to get rid of the tax code that we’ve got and make it really different.”

The questions elicited differences among the candidates on a variety of issues. Mr. Romney tangled with Mr. McCain over whether waterboarding should be defined as torture. Mr. Romney said that if the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade and Congress passed legislation outlawing all abortions, he would sign it; Mr. Giuliani said he would not, saying abortion should be up to each state.

Tom Tancredo, the congressman from Colorado, Mr. Huckabee, Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani said they all supported or had signed a pledge put forward by an anti-tax group, Americans for Tax Reform, never to raise taxes; Mr. McCain and Mr. Thompson said they would make pledges only to the American people; Representative Duncan Hunter of California said that raising taxes could be necessary in a national emergency; and Mr. Huckabee called for getting rid of the Internal Revenue Service.

The candidates themselves submitted videos, with Mr. Thompson’s being perhaps the most barbed: it showed a video of Mr. Romney when he supported abortion rights, and Mr. Huckabee on raising taxes. Mr. Giuliani’s video playfully told of how he had tackled the perils of New York City, taking on King Kong and even reducing snowfall.

And Representative Ron Paul of Texas, whose libertarian, anti-war candidacy has made him a surprise fund-raising sensation on the Internet, allowed that he was “struggling to figure out how to spend the money.”

Mr. Thompson used the immigration issue to score against both Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani. He noted that Mr. Romney had once supported an immigration bill similar to the one he opposed as a presidential candidate. “Now he’s taken another position, surprisingly,” he said, dryly alluding to some of the other positions on which Mr. Romney has changed, such as his switch from supporting abortion rights to opposing them.

And he questioned the wisdom of Mr. Giuliani’s attack on the illegal immigrants whom Mr. Romney had hired. “As far as Mayor Giuliani is concerned, I am a little surprised the mayor says, you know, everybody’s responsible for everybody that they hire,” he said, an allusion to the recent indictment of Bernard B. Kerik, whom Mr. Giuliani hired as police commissioner and later in his private business. “I think we’ve all had people, probably, that we have hired that in retrospect probably it was a bad decision.”

Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney got into a heated dispute on the subject of torture, with Mr. McCain saying Mr. Romney’s failure to condemn waterboarding reflected a fundamental misunderstanding of American principles.

“How in the world anybody could think that that kind of thing could be inflicted by Americans on people who are held in our custody is absolutely beyond me,” Mr. McCain said.

Mr. Romney did not back down, however, and said he was glad the military detention facility at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, was still open. “I want to make sure these people are kept at Guantánamo,” he said, and “not be given legal representation in this country.”

Mr. Romney said he opposed torture but would not detail the interrogation techniques he found acceptable.

Mr. McCain, growing obviously emotional, said, “Then you would have to advocate that we withdraw from the Geneva Conventions.”
765 2007-11-29 WEISS--Dorothy (Dotty). Born December 7, 1919, died November 27, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin, devoted and cherished mother of Howard and Neil, adored grandmother of Nolan and Amanda. A pillar of the Canarsie community: President of the...
766 2007-11-29 COMPANIES FACE TIGHT CREDIT Credit flowing to American companies is drying up at a pace not seen in decades, threatening the creation of jobs and the expansion of businesses, while intensifying worries that a recession is near....
767 2007-11-29 Monkeybiz, a nonprofit group in Cape Town, South Africa, supports women's health care by distributing beaded animals made by more than 450 women in communities outside the city. The organization gives supplies and training to the women, who work a...
768 2007-11-30 Now $60-a-bottle luxury dog scents make pets more palatable for the workplace....
769 2007-11-30 Asked for his take on the Rudolph Giuliani controversy over security detail expenses, the Republican rival says the former New York mayor should be given the opportunity to respond....
770 2007-11-30 At the Italian restaurant dell'Anima...
771 2007-11-30 Rugrat commentator M. Alex refers us on to Tension Breaker for the a Depp against Depp throwdown....
772 2007-11-30 A former registered representative at Bear Stearns pleaded guilty on Friday for his role in what authorities had called one of the most pervasive insider trading rings since the 1980s. Ken Okada, 32, one of 13 people criminally charged earlier thi...
773 2007-11-30 John Thain doesn't start at Merrill Lynch until Monday, but he's already poised to make a key hire from his alma mater, NYSE Euronext, The Wall Street Journal reported. Nelson Chai, chief financial officer of the New York Stock Exchange owner, is ...
774 2007-11-30 A pair of hedge funds that are getting battered by the choppy markets of the past few months are serving as a stark reminder that the pain inflicted on the once white-hot hedge-fund sector isn't only confined to those with subprime-bond exposure, ...
775 2007-11-30 Verizon Wireless said today it will use a technical standard known as LTE for its next generation network. Since that standard is being adopted by most of the world, and by AT&T in the United States, Verizon’s move will spur competition and give...
776 2007-11-30 “People who don’t follow this sport will have no idea how much this will mean to these guys, if they win it,” Courier said by telephone earlier this week. “They won’t understand the scheduling sacrifices that are made, the effort in finally getting all the way through.”

Tennis is first, foremost and forever an individual sport, historical achievement primarily measured by Grand Slam titles. But here was Courier to make the case that Davis Cup memories, though they offer no widespread acclaim and modest monetary reward, are essentially priceless.

He played in 14 Davis Cup competitions, or ties, and was on the winning side in 13. In 1992, with the 10-year-old Roddick watching from the stands, Courier finished off Jakob Hlasek of Switzerland in four sets, the clinching match, and was carried around the court by his teammates — Pete Sampras, Andre Agassi and John McEnroe.

Three years later, he went to Moscow, saw Sampras win two singles matches and the doubles with Todd Martin, all three American points on a clay court, Sampras’s least favorite. Courier described the triumph as “Pete’s finest hour that no one knows about.”

Isn’t that the blessing and curse of Davis Cup, with its Byzantine scheduling that confounds even some tennis fans? This week, you could argue that more intriguing than United States-Russia to the general audience are those stunning results Sampras produced in Asia last week in a series of exhibitions against Roger Federer.

What did it mean that Sampras, 36, stating a desire to take one set against the man he believes will surpass him as the leader in career Grand Slams, beat Federer in straight sets in their third match after pushing him to two tie breakers in the second?

Courier, who had the matches recorded and ready for viewing, said he had commented on his Outback Champions Tour (Sampras played in three events this season) that if Wimbledon were best-of-three sets, Sampras would still be a top-three seed.

“He’s got a bomb of a serve and that’s not going away until his arm can’t take it,” Courier said. “Anyone who follows the game would know that on a fast indoor court, Roger, great as he is, is still going to struggle to break Pete’s serve.”

The authenticity of exhibition tennis is a fair issue, but having watched some of Sampras-Federer, let me say that Sampras, if nothing else, did back up a claim he made last summer — that Federer’s dominance on fast courts has been aided by a dearth of attacking opponents. With Sampras following his serve to the net, Federer struggled to play himself into a zone.

Roddick and Blake are two Federer contemporaries without enough weaponry to challenge him, or carry on in the tradition of Sampras, Agassi and Courier, who combined for 26 Grand Slam titles and headlined what Blake this week called “the greatest generation probably in the history of the American game.”

These days, only Roddick of the American men has a Grand Slam victory (2003 United States Open). There is no American tennis boom and the most recent buzz involves one of the visiting Russians, Nikolay Davydenko, and the betting irregularities during one of his matches last summer.

That is a cloud over tennis but not over Portland, as far as McEnroe, Roddick, Blake and the Bryan brothers doubles team (Mike and Bob) are concerned. They are in the final, at home, on carpet, a made-to-order opportunity for a bunch of pretty good guys who have typically shown up for Davis Cup when McEnroe has asked, and now try to carve a little niche for their generation that lives, even now, this weekend, in the shadow of Sampras.
777 2007-11-30 “There isn’t a tone of desperation in this market now,” said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at The Hartford. And while the morning rally in the Dow fizzled, Ms. Krosby suggested that in a volatile environment, even a modest upswing was something to cheer. “To get a sideways pattern in the market has a calming effect,” she said.

While the week was heartening for investors, there were new signs that the broader economy is beginning to feel the effects of high oil prices and tightened lending standards.

Consumer spending edged up a smaller-than-expected 0.2 percent in October while personal income grew at a 0.2 percent annual rate, below the 0.4 percent reading in September, the Commerce Department said today. Economists have warned for weeks that rising energy costs would put pressure on consumers’ pocketbooks.

Prices rose more than expected in October, a sign that inflation could be starting to tick up. A closely watched gauge, the personal consumption expenditures deflator, rose 2.9 percent last month, up from 2.4 percent in September. Core prices, which exclude food and energy costs, stayed steady at an annual rate of 1.9 percent, slightly faster than analysts had predicted.

Meanwhile, spending by construction companies declined more than expected in October, and business activity in the Chicago area — considered a bellwether for the broader industry — stayed at a middling level.

But investors took the gloomy data in stride — in fact, the news may have pushed stocks higher. Signs of an economic slowdown offer could underscore the need for a new rate cut, which many investors believe is necessary to avoid a recession.

“In some weird, perverted, only Wall Street sense, even the bad news is good,” said James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.

Markets rallied at the opening bell as investors reacted to a Thursday speech by Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, who said that a “fresh wave of investor concern” had led to tougher credit conditions that posed new risks to the economy, a sign that the central bank is seriously considering lowering its benchmark interest rate when it meets on Dec. 11.

Noting that investors have been shaken by losses and write-downs on soured mortgages, Mr. Bernanke said a new round of turbulence in financial markets had reversed some of the recovery in credit markets after a first round of panic broke out in August over subprime mortgages.

“Needless to say, the Federal Reserve is following the evolution of financial conditions carefully, with particular attention to the question of how strains in financial markets might affect the broader economy,” he said.

Mr. Bernanke’s comments reinforced a Wednesday speech by Donald L. Kohn, the Fed’s vice chairman, who pledged that the bank would be “flexible and pragmatic” in its policy making. Fed officials foresee growth next year of 1.8 percent to 2.5 percent.
778 2007-11-30 MEXICO CITY, Nov. 29 — In a setback for journalistic freedom in Mexico, the Supreme Court ruled Thursday that the governor of Puebla did not violate the rights of a journalist when he had her jailed on defamation charges.

The judges ruled 6 to 4 against the journalist, Lydia Cacho, despite an investigation by one of them that concluded that at least 30 public officials, among them Gov. Mario Marín of Puebla State, had conspired to harass her.

The case has been closely watched in Mexico as a test of whether the country has changed since the days of one-party rule, when jailing journalists and dissidents on questionable charges was a longstanding method of silencing dissent or intimidating the press. Had the ruling gone the other way, Mr. Marín would have been stripped of his official immunity and could have been charged with human rights violations.

“The ruling seems to me a blow to Mexican journalism,” Ms. Cacho said after the ruling. She predicted that journalists would censor themselves because “the Supreme Court has ruled that corrupt politicians always have more power than the victims of crime.”

In her 2005 book, “The Demons of Eden,” Ms. Cacho exposed a pedophile ring in Cancún. She accused a businessman, Jean Succar Kuri, of luring poor, under-age girls to his home and coercing them into having sex with him and his friends. She also mentioned a businessman from Puebla, Kamel Nacif, and said he was paying for Mr. Succar Kuri’s defense. (Mr. Succar Kuri, who is awaiting trial on child pornography and child molestation charges, maintains his innocence.)
779 2007-11-30 The H. J. Heinz Company posted an 18 percent increase in quarterly profit yesterday as the weak dollar improved results in Europe and in emerging markets, and price increases helped offset rising ingredient costs.

The company also raised the top end of its 2008 earnings forecast as new products and a 23 percent increase in marketing lifted sales.

Profit was $227 million, or 71 cents a share, in the second quarter, which ended Oct. 31, compared with $191.6 million, or 57 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

Analysts on average had forecast 67 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.

Sales rose 13 percent, to $2.52 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, acquisitions and divestitures, sales increased 8.1 percent.

Like most American food companies, Heinz has been facing higher costs for corn-based sweeteners, dairy products and other ingredients. The company has raised prices and improved productivity to offset the higher expenses.
780 2007-11-30 Millbrook Capital, the activist hedge fund seeking a breakup or sale of the Brink’s Company, is expected to announce its four nominees today for directors of the security company.

The announcement is the next step in Millbrook’s effort to force changes at Brink’s. The company’s shares have risen threefold since Millbrook first invested in 2003, but the hedge fund has argued that the stock could rise even further if Brink’s separated its armored truck and security provider units.

Millbrook has argued that the current board, excluding Michael T. Dan, Brink’s chairman and chief executive, lacks both Wall Street and security-industry experience. Another activist fund, Pirate Capital, called last month for the separation of the chairman and chief executive positions and the elimination of the staggered board system.

Among the four candidates Millbrook plans to nominate are Peter A. Michel, the former chief executive of Brink’s home security unit, and Robert J. Strang, the chief executive of Investigative Management Group, a corporate investigative firm.

The fund will also nominate John S. Dyson, its founder and chairman, and Carroll R. Wetzel Jr., a former mergers and acquisitions banker at Chase Manhattan Bank.

If all of Millbrook’s nominees were to be elected, Mr. Dan would lose his seat on the Brink’s board. The hedge fund plans to support the addition of a board seat for Mr. Dan in that case, but would seek a new chairman.
781 2007-11-30 “I really like what Chris has done,” Coach Eric Mangini said, “and I think Chris has made progress over the course of two years with the route running. He has a good feel for getting open against man coverage. At the top of the route, there’s so much that you have to do to really separate, and Chris has done some nice things there.”

Coles also likes what he sees in Baker.

“He has great size and great hands and is very athletic,” Coles said. “He brings us the total package.”

That total package includes Kellen Clemens, facing his fourth game as a starter. Clemens has a rating of 56.9, the lowest of the 34 starting or former starting quarterbacks in the N.F.L.’s weekly statistics. In comparison, Chad Pennington, Clemens’s predecessor, is 87.5. Atop the list are Tom Brady of the Patriots (127.9), Ben Roethlisberger of the Steelers (106.0) and Tony Romo of the Cowboys (105.3).

Mangini was careful not to blame Clemens for last Thursday’s 34-3 blowout loss to the Cowboys.

“I liked some of the throws that he made,” Mangini said. “Some of the throws he made were dropped, so if you look at it by the numbers it wasn’t very good.”

When a quarterback throws to a tight end, he usually is trying to connect in a tighter area. Clemens has a stronger arm than Pennington, so he may be able to get the ball to Baker quicker. Baker welcomes help from anywhere.

“This year, personally, my season has gone O.K., but not ideally,” Baker said. “I want to be more involved. I’ve had that chance the last two weeks, and I’m trying to make the best of it. The team’s season has obviously not been very good. It’s the first time I’ve been with a team with this record, and I’m trying to work through it.”

When an injured player is declared inactive for a game, how does he spend his time? “Last week,” Laveranues Coles said, “I was on the sideline and then in the locker room and then the sideline again. There was a trainer in the locker room helping me rehab my ankle. It wasn’t frustrating not playing because I was just as competitive as anyone on the field. You tell the guys playing what you see.”

The Jets claimed Kareem Brown, a 6-foot-4, 295-pound defensive lineman, from the New England Patriots, who drafted him last April in the fourth round. The Jets made two moves with rookies on their practice squad, signing wide receiver David Ball of New Hampshire and releasing cornerback Manny Collins of Rutgers.
782 2007-11-30 A body found about 50 miles east of El Dorado appears to be that of a missing college student who led a secret life as an Internet sex star, the police said. The authorities said the preliminary physical description of the body found matches that of the student, Emily Sander, 18. Investigators refused to give details about the state of the body or how it was found. Police Chief Tom Boren of El Dorado said the cause of death was not yet known.
783 2007-11-30 A federal judge has dismissed a lawsuit filed against the government by two North Dakota farmers seeking to grow industrial hemp, which can be used to make a variety of products from rope to lotion. The judge, Daniel L. Hovland of United States District Court in Bismarck, said in his ruling on Wednesday that the best remedy might be to change the definition of industrial hemp under the Federal Controlled Substances Act, which does not distinguish the plant from the illegal drug marijuana.
784 2007-11-30 State lawmakers, stepping into a vacuum left by the defeat of immigration legislation in Washington, have considered more than 1,560 bills related to immigration this year and enacted 244 of them in 46 states, according to a report by the National Conference of State Legislatures. The number of measures enacted nearly tripled from the 84 in 2006, creating a legal patchwork for immigrants across the country. A large number of measures determined whether states would give drivers’ and other licenses to illegal immigrants, and established penalties for employers hiring those immigrants.
785 2007-11-30 The board will vote on the proposed cuts the same day it takes up the fare increase, which would raise the cost of subway and bus rides. The $2 base fare would not go up, but unlimited ride MetroCards would.

The holiday service change would take effect immediately. The removal of the elevator operators would occur next year, but officials did not give a date.

Three of the days scheduled for cuts — Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s Day — already have limited service but would apparently have further reductions. Others, including Martin Luther King’s Birthday, the day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve, have operated under normal weekday service schedules in the past.

“I think on certain holidays it may be justified, but the day after Thanksgiving, when everyone is out shopping and out and about, it isn’t justified,” said Andrew Albert, a member of the authority’s board who represents transit riders. It was not clear from the documents how many buses would be taken off the streets. The budget said the authority would provide an “intermediate level of service, sufficient to meet ridership demands.”

Transit spokesman Paul Fleuranges said the changes should not be viewed as cuts at all.

“It’s not a service cut,” he said. “It’s matching service with the number of riders we have.”

Barry Feinstein, the chairman of the transit committee of the authority’s board, said that although the changes would cause some riders to wait longer for buses, service would be sufficient to avoid overcrowding.

Asked about starting the cuts within days of voting on a fare increase, he said, “Any money we save now will save us more money later on.”

The bus schedule changes are noteworthy because the authority’s new administration, which took over this year, has been adamant about not cutting service at a time of growing ridership.

The move also contrasts with an effort in 2005, when the authority encouraged holiday ridership with a special MetroCard discount program.

Both the bus and elevator changes were quietly inserted into a revised budget hundreds of pages long. It said the elevator operators would be removed from five stations with deep platforms that can be reached only by elevator: 191st Street, 181st Street and 168th Street on the No. 1 line and 190th Street and 181st Street on the A line.

The elevators at those stations were once run with operators stationed inside, but the authority removed many of them in 2004. Many subway riders protested, and the authority agreed to keep one elevator in each station staffed at all times.

Mr. Feinstein said removing the elevator operators had not resulted in an increase in crime.

But some straphangers said removing them altogether would make them feel less safe.

“It’s good to have someone have an eye on things if anything fishy happens,” said Andrew Thompson, 41, a Washington Heights resident.
786 2007-11-30 Opinion polls released in the last week have found Mr. Chávez’s proposals tied or trailing the opposition position among likely voters, after months of polls showing it likely to pass. In recent weeks, students have rallied in Caracas to protest the changes, and some of those demonstrations have turned violent. On Thursday, tens of thousands of people flooded the streets of the capital in opposition to the referendum proposals.

Venezuela’s foreign minister, Nicolás Maduro, asserted on Wednesday that a United States Embassy official was conspiring to defeat the referendum proposals, and threatened to expel the diplomat. And Mr. Chávez said this week that CNN was trying to instigate his assassination.

Like this sort of political volatility, reduced access to information on public finances is expected to make investing in Venezuela a riskier prospect, said Francisco Rodríguez, who teaches economics and Latin American studies at Wesleyan University.

Investors in Venezuelan bonds already struggle to ascertain what assets back the country’s debt and what resources it could count on in the event of a financial crisis.

Oil profits are the basis of Mr. Chávez’s intended socialist revolution, which aims to help the poor in Venezuela and other countries. Petrodollars finance social benefits including free health care, free education and government-subsidized food, and oil profits permit the vast public spending that has helped create nearly four years of economic growth.

But large chunks of revenue have been managed opaquely — to a degree that it is hard to measure the state’s success in carrying out its social projects or in monitoring corruption.

“It’s not really clear how the money is invested,” said Theresa Paiz-Fredel, a senior director of Fitch Ratings.

The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a program started by the British government with support from the World Bank, says that a lack of clarity in oil-revenue management can be a sign of the “resource curse,” where natural resources fuel corruption and undermine the rule of law instead of contributing to long-term growth. Venezuela is not one of the 15 signers of the initiative, and some economists say it is laboring under the curse.

They point to corruption charges this year against the state oil company, leveled by a pro-Chávez lawmaker. Officials denied wrongdoing, but eventually conceded that the oil company had too few rigs. Separately, a director of Petróleos de Venezuela resigned after a shadowy incident involving company executives, a charter flight to Buenos Aires with a Venezuelan businessman, and a briefcase with $800,000 in cash.

Facing mounting criticism, Finance Minister Rodrigo Cabezas has released two reports this year disclosing the Fund for National Development’s revenue balance, and he promised in May to conduct a comprehensive audit of all projects the fund financed to give it “more transparency.” But analysts trying to gain access to the data are still frustrated, saying that the reports are neither detailed nor frequent enough.

The New York Times requested interviews to obtain details on the fund from the finance ministry, the central bank, Petróleos de Venezuela and the state-run Banco del Tesoro. After more than two months of efforts, none of those organizations granted an interview or provided any information.

Simón Escalona, vice president of the National Assembly’s finance commission, said he had not “seen any lack of transparency” in the development fund. But, Mr. Escalona was unable to provide updated information on its total assets, bond investments or on transfers from the state oil company to the fund.

Mr. Chávez has long sought control over Venezuela’s foreign reserves. The central bank has already lost much of its independence; a report in March by Barclays Capital said transfers from the bank to the Fund for National Development were determined more by Mr. Chávez than the bank.

Still, the central bankers occasionally criticize government policy, a practice likely to end if the referendum passes, as will most public debate on state spending, Mr. Rodríguez of Wesleyan said. And the unfettered spending of reserves could increase inflation, at 17 percent already the highest in Latin America.

“They will stop being foreign reserves,” Mr. Rodríguez said, and become just “another account.” In October, Fitch Ratings lowered Venezuela’s outlook to negative from stable, saying that inflation and a weakening currency had made it vulnerable to a decrease in oil prices.

Still, oil-producing countries are not generally known for their transparency. Qatar, for instance, does not publish figures for its large investment fund, which is fed by oil revenue, according to Luc Marchand, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s.

But even Russia, despite criticism that the government is weakening institutions, is adopting a system used by Norway that will integrate its main oil fund into the budget and make it easier to track, according to Frank Gill, also of Standard & Poor’s. And authorities in Moscow have strict investment criteria for the oil fund.

Venezuela differs from Russia and many petrostates, including Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, in another way. Those countries all run budget surpluses, while Venezuela’s heavy social spending results in a deficit, according to data compiled by Mr. Marchand.

Some economists, like Mark Weisbrot at the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, say that social spending, which he puts at 21 percent of the gross domestic product last year, is proof that Mr. Chávez is combating the resource curse. Mr. Weisbrot points to government statistics showing that poverty has fallen to nearly 30 percent from 44 percent since Mr. Chávez was elected nine years ago, and unemployment has dropped to 8 percent from 15 percent.

Mr. Chávez frames his designs on full control of oil revenue as part of a crusade against Washington-based institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which he says advance American business interests. A deputy finance minister, Rafael Isea, told state television last summer that eliminating the central bank’s autonomy would curb the I.M.F.’s ability to “manage our reserves and influence internal policies.”

The government has nationalized electric and phone companies here that once had American companies as stockholders, has ceased filing financial reports of the state oil company to the Securities and Exchange Commission, and has announced plans to withdraw Venezuela from the I.M.F. and the World Bank. In September, Mr. Chávez ordered the oil company to convert its investment accounts from dollars to euros and Asian currencies.

The march to socialism has not been as smooth as he may have hoped. Officials became aware that plans to leave the I.M.F. could conceivably result in a default of Venezuelan debt. Months after the announcement, the country is still part of the I.M.F.

Students of history warn that the 1970s oil boom also coincided with heavy spending and questionable accountability.

In his book “The Magical State,” Fernando Coronil, a professor of history and anthropology at the University of Michigan, documents how policies intended to spur development in the 1970s loaded Venezuela with debt and helped create financial crisis in the 1980s and ’90s.

“It’s one thing to declare the intent to use these resources for the benefit of the population, it’s another to prove it,” he said, “and in order to do that you have to have checks and balances.”
787 2007-11-30 In a letter to The Princeton Packet on Tuesday, a resident, Jonathan Eckstein, wrote: “I urge the State Legislature to vote down this absurd legislation and put the rights of human beings like Mr. Rivera above those of domestic animals, however tragically misunderstood. I would hate my hometown and home state to go down in history as the place where suburbanites valued their dogs above the lives of those they hire to tend their yards.”

Congo, having been granted a stay of execution, is muzzled and under house arrest, as his owners await a decision on their appeal.

It started in June, when Mr. Rivera, 42, and a crew of day laborers arrived early in the morning at the house of Guy and Elizabeth James, the owners of six shepherds — Congo, Lucia, Shadow, Bear, Hunter and Magnus.

The facts of the attack are in dispute. The Jameses say that the landscapers arrived earlier than expected and that Congo, who is typically kept inside when workers are about, was provoked when Mr. Rivera became scared of the dog and grabbed Mrs. James. It is unclear what role the other dogs played. Mr. Rivera, who received a $250,000 settlement from the Jameses’ homeowners’ insurance company, argued that he was merely trying to get away from the dogs and was using Mrs. James as cover when he was mauled.

The next day an animal control officer took Congo and four other dogs (Magnus was in the woods at the time of the incident and was left home) to an animal shelter, where Congo stayed until he was released pending the appeal. He was sent home two weeks ago after five months in lockup.

The James family argued that while in the shelter, Congo’s health was deteriorating and he was losing weight, even though Mrs. James faithfully brought him his favorite raw beef patties and chicken chewies.

“It’s horrendous what we’ve had to deal with,” Mr. James said as Congo bounded around their kitchen on Saturday, clenching a stuffed cow that was a homecoming gift. “But we are confident, going forward, that we are going to win this war.”

In State v. James, on Oct. 30, Judge Russell W. Annich Jr. of Municipal Court in Princeton Township declared Congo vicious and the attack unprovoked, a ruling that under the state “vicious dog” law requires the animal to be put down. The judge did note, however, that, “none of the dogs have any documented history of previous violent or disagreeable behavior.”

And an expert witness for the defense, an animal behaviorist, testified at the trial that Congo was simply doing his job, protecting his owner the way any reasonable canine would under the circumstances. The Jameses also submitted to the court dozens of letters from character witnesses and others who had come into contact with Congo during his 18-month life.

“I have had the pleasure of knowing Congo over the past two years and feel confident in stating that my relations with him have always been friendly and warm,” wrote one friend of the family.

Nevertheless, the judge ruled that Congo was not provoked, and that the attack — initially by Congo and then, the judge said, by the four other dogs — “continuing unabated for three minutes, was a response grossly disproportionate to the prevailing situation.”

Mr. Rivera received 65 rabies shots after the attack and spent five days in the hospital after a three-hour operation, according to his lawyer. Mr. Rivera declined to comment. The lawyer, Kevin S. Riechelson, said that Mr. Rivera, after serving as a witness for the prosecution, wanted to distance himself from the whole mess after hearing about the anti-immigrant sentiments stirred by the case.

“He’s concerned,” Mr. Riechelson said. “He doesn’t have any ill will toward the dog; he just feels owners should have taken greater responsibility.”

The Jameses appealed the township ruling to Superior Court in Trenton, and its ruling is expected in four to six months.

“It’s really not about Congo,” Mr. James said. “It’s about everybody and their rights. It’s hit everybody’s nerves.”

Under the conditions of his release, Congo is not allowed to leave the house, except to go to the vet, and he must wear a muzzle and be leashed if he is outside.

The office of Gov. Jon S. Corzine has been flooded with more than 4,000 telephone calls, letters and e-mail messages on Congo’s behalf, said a spokesman, Jim Gardner. But the governor is not considering a pardon, Mr. Gardner said.

“He said he was prepared to let the court take its course, and he didn’t think this is one of the things a governor ought to be tampering with,” Mr. Gardner said. “He said personally he’d love to see the dog survive because he knows how much people care about their pets.”

But Mr. Corzine is not the first New Jersey governor to be inundated with pleas for mercy on a canine.

In 1994, Taro, a 100-pound Japanese Akita from Haworth, N.J., who was ruled vicious after biting a child and killing a terrier, was spared the death penalty by Gov. Christie Whitman. Taro was allowed to live, but was ordered to leave the state. He spent his exile in Westchester.
788 2007-11-30 Members of an elected assembly convened to rewrite Ecuador's Constitution voted last night to dissolve Congress, a move expected to strengthen President Rafael Correa. The decision gives the assembly the legislative powers of Congress while it debates a new Constitution over the next six months. Mr. Correa has been seeking to strengthen the office of the president after a long bout of political instability; he is the eighth president in 10 years. The assembly is controlled by Mr. Correa's movement.
789 2007-11-30 Re “New York Manhole Covers, Forged Barefoot and Sweaty in India” (front page, Nov. 26): I’m so sorry to hear that manhole covers are made under such miserable conditions for workers in India. For the first time this morning, I looked at each one I passed on the Upper West Side on my way to work: at least half were made in India.

I’m especially sorry because my daughter, 3, so loves them: she jumps on them and draws on them with her sidewalk chalk. We’ve always paid close attention to the things that distinguish New York City — the manhole covers, the water towers, the public transportation system that lets us live here without owning cars.

Let’s distinguish ourselves in this way: ensure that our city buys products made under humane conditions.

The horrifying photograph of foundry workers in West Bengal, India, is a scene out of Dante’s “Inferno.”

It is shocking to contemplate that in the 21st century these primeval conditions still exist in a country that prides itself on its technological and academic achievements, and proclaims itself as the world’s largest democracy. For shame! Mark Davis
790 2007-11-30 Re “For Romney & Company, Campaign Is All Business” (news article, Nov. 24):

Perhaps the campaign of Mitt Romney is emblematic of much that is wrong with our present political condition. Mr. Romney may have been a business manager par excellence, but the United States government has never been and should not now be thought of as a business.

While the goal of most businesses is the greatest monetary profit possible, the goal of good government is the welfare of its citizenry, and achieving that end often requires measures that would never be considered good business.

After big business and lax government brought the country — and the world — to its knees in 1929, where would we be if President Franklin D. Roosevelt had opted for a series of business-like measures to deal with the Great Depression? And would a business-oriented President Dwight D. Eisenhower have sent federal troops into Little Rock to take a firm stand on civil rights?

When I hear any candidate touting his or her business success as an invaluable qualification for office, I cannot help but envision someone who is eager to strip down government to its barest and most primitive form so that real business may grow unchecked and at the expense of the American people.
791 2007-11-30 “This latest incident has made it extremely awkward for us to continue that defense,” he said.

Liao Chu-yuan, the chairman and owner of JSSY, said the company had worried about the possibility that children might choke by swallowing the beads, but had not considered the possibility that the chemicals in the beads might be poisonous.

“We really didn’t look into the F.D.A. part, the food part,” Mr. Liao said in a telephone interview, referring to the Food and Drug Administration in the United States. He said that when JSSY checked F.D.A. regulations after problems with the beads surfaced this autumn, the company quickly found that the chemical was banned in anything that people might consume.

Liang Shuhe, a deputy director general of China’s ministry of commerce, said Chinese toy makers faced narrowing profit margins — a result of rising wages and the appreciation of the yuan against the dollar — but should still meet safety standards.

“Toy safety is a high priority, as is the health of children,” he said.

Aqua Dots and Bindeez beads are brightly colored and somewhat smaller than jelly beans. Children assemble them in patterns and then sprinkle them with water, causing the beads to adhere and form permanent shapes.

Mr. Liao said on Thursday that JSSY had chosen a glue ingredient for the beads that cost half as much as the glue ingredient that the beads’ main distributor, Moose Enterprise of Australia, thought JSSY was using. But he said repeatedly that the inexpensive hazardous ingredient had not been used for cost reasons. The ingredient also softens the plastic beads.

JSSY tested the more expensive ingredient in its initial development of the beads and found two problems with it, according to Mr. Liao. One problem was that beads manufactured with it tended to swell when sprinkled with water, posing a choking hazard.

The other problem was that mixing plastic with the more expensive ingredient took six hours in a rotating drum and produced a sticky, oily material that was hard to manufacture into beads. The less expensive glue ingredient took just two hours in the drum and produced a more malleable mixture, Mr. Liao said.

He said that Moose Enterprise came to him nearly two years ago with samples of Japanese-made beads for children that also stick together when sprinkled with water.

Those beads, marketed in Europe and Japan as Aqua Beads, are manufactured using a different process developed for the dental industry. Aqua Beads have not been recalled. An independent European laboratory found no problems with them earlier this month, said Peter Brown, the chief executive of Flair Leisure Products, the British distributor of Aqua Beads.

JSSY spent a year independently developing its own chemical formula to produce beads similar to the Japanese toy, and then started large-scale manufacturing at the end of last year, Mr. Liao said.

JSSY did use the inexpensive glue ingredient in all the samples it sent to Moose and independent laboratories for safety tests, Mr. Liao said. The labs did not find any problems with the beads, but the labs may not have been aware the ingredient could be hazardous, he said.

The United States tightly regulates the inexpensive ingredient to prevent kitchen chemists from using it to make GHB. But in China, the same ingredient is widely used in cosmetics, including face creams, Mr. Liao said.

JSSY did not share its chemical formula with Moose, he said, adding that, “In chemistry, we usually don’t tell the marketing company our formula — our formula is valuable.”

Mr. Liao refused to say how Moose came to have the impression that the more expensive ingredient was being used. “Moose will probably sue me, so we’ll have to save it for that,” he said.

Moose executives were traveling on Thursday and were not available for comment.

The main factory for the beads is a white three-story building with a sliding steel gate and a slogan on the front, “With the right mentality, you can go far.” The factory stands in a gritty neighborhood on the northeastern outskirts of Shenzhen, just north of Hong Kong. Two smaller factories nearby package the beads.

On a recent morning, a half-dozen suppliers to the main factory were outside the gate, complaining that they had not been paid for months.

Mr. Liao acknowledged on Thursday that he had been late in paying suppliers. He said that Moose suddenly stopped paying him altogether when the recall was announced. That left Mr. Liao with a shortage of cash to pay suppliers.

Mr. Liao said that he would be able to pay the suppliers with the proceeds from JSSY’s sales of other toys. He also repeated several times that the company’s choice of the inexpensive ingredient had not been made for financial reasons. “The cost issue is not really the issue,” he said.
792 2007-11-30 But in recent days, both Mr. Giuliani’s Republican rival Mitt Romney and Democrats have accused him of a pattern of misleading figures and have begun to use the issue to try to undercut his credibility.

An examination of many of his statements by The New York Times, other news organizations and independent groups have turned up a variety of misstatements, virtually all of which cast Mr. Giuliani or his arguments in a better light. “He’s given us a lot of work up until now,” said Brooks Jackson, the director of Annenberg Political Fact Check, which is part of Factcheck.org, a project of the Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania that has corrected statements by candidates in both parties.

Aides to Mr. Giuliani dismiss questions about his use of statistics as nitpicking, arguing that no one can dispute the big points he makes by using the statistics: that crime dropped significantly during his tenure, say, or that he worked to restrain spending in New York.

“The mayor likes detail, and uses it frequently on the campaign trail in ways the other candidates don’t,” said Maria Comella, a spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani. “And at the end of the day, he is making points that are true.”

Mr. Giuliani is not alone in citing statistics in a questionable way. Last month, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, said that financing for the National Institutes of Health had decreased under President Bush; it has increased. Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, said the national debt had doubled under President Bush; it has not.

But with Mr. Giuliani running so strongly on his record, statistics have taken on a central role in his campaign.

In recent days, Mr. Giuliani seems to be taking greater care to be precise.

At the Republican debate on Wednesday night, he was careful when referring to crime statistics in Massachusetts during Mr. Romney’s term as governor, which had been the subject of a debate over the weekend. And at a “Politics and Eggs” breakfast on Monday in Bedford, N.H., he took greater care to describe his record on cutting taxes.

Last weekend, speaking about his belief in supply-side economics, Mr. Giuliani said, “I lowered, argued for lowering, and got the hotel occupancy tax lowered by 33 percent. And I was collecting $200 million more from the lower tax than the city had been collecting from before I was mayor from the higher tax.”

In fact, the increase in revenues from the hotel occupancy tax was just over a quarter of what Mr. Giuliani asserted — the city’s hotel tax revenues grew by roughly $58 million during his term, according to the city’s Independent Budget Office — and a booming economy, as well as the reduction in crime Mr. Giuliani helped produce, probably played a part.

Factcheck.org has reported that the Giuliani campaign exaggerated when it boasted on its Web site that “Mayor Giuliani increased the police force from 28,000 to 40,000,” noting that most of that increase came from his merger of the Transit and Housing Police Departments with the New York Police Department, a transfer of more than 7,000 existing officers to the department.

The campaign argues that giving housing and transit police officers jurisdiction beyond the city’s public housing and subways gave the city more flexibility to fight crime. It said that it usually notes the effects of the merger when describing the size of the police force, and said it would change a post on its Web site to mention the merger when citing the increase.

And the group also found that Mr. Giuliani erred at a Republican debate when, while calling for tort reform, he said that 2.2 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product “is spent on all these frivolous lawsuits.” That statistic, the group reported, came from a study that pegged the cost of all civil claims at 2.2 percent of the G.D.P., without judging whether the cases had merit or not.

Even some people who support Mr. Giuliani’s proposals say he risks undercutting his own arguments when he relies on imprecise or questionable statistics.

In a recent radio advertisement by the campaign about his health care proposal, Mr. Giuliani repeated another false statement that he had been using on the campaign trail. In the advertisement Mr. Giuliani, who has had prostate cancer, asserted that his chances of surviving prostate cancer in the United States were 82 percent, while his chance of surviving in England would have been only 44 percent. His point was that the American health care system is far superior to England’s government-run system, which he refers to as “socialized medicine.”

The figure came from an article written by one of Mr. Giuliani’s health care advisers, but was soon discredited: the source of the research that was used to derive the statistic said that its data had been misused. The Office for National Statistics in Britain said that the true five-year survival rate was 74.4 percent — still lower than in the United States, but by a much smaller margin. Mr. Giuliani stood by the statistic, however, and kept using the advertisement, though it has since gone off the air.

Ramesh Ponnuru, a senior editor at National Review magazine, said Mr. Giuliani’s plan “may be the best of the Republican health care plans.”

“The trouble is that the exact statistic he used was misleading,” Mr. Ponnuru said in a recent interview, elaborating on a blog post he wrote. “It became an argument about the statistics, and he dug in and defended it when he was wrong.”

Another radio advertisement that Mr. Giuliani ran over the summer stated that as mayor he “turned a $2.3 billion deficit into a multibillion-dollar surplus.”

That was also misleading. According to independent fiscal monitors, Mr. Giuliani did have to close a $2.3 billion deficit in his first budget, and did accumulate a multibillion-dollar surplus during his tenure. But by Mr. Giuliani’s last full fiscal year in office, the city was spending more than it was taking in in revenues, and Mr. Giuliani ended up spending almost all of the surplus to balance his final budget.

Last weekend, questions about Mr. Giuliani’s use of facts moved front and center in the campaign. Mr. Giuliani charged that “violent crime and murder went up” in Massachusetts while Mr. Romney was governor. The number of reported killings did go up in those years, but the state’s overall rate of violent crime went down, according to statistics compiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Mr. Romney accused Mr. Giuliani of having “a real problem with facts,” and aides circulated a statement calling Mr. Giuliani’s crime statistics “about as accurate as his prostate cancer survival numbers for England.”

“He has now done this time and again, making up facts that just happen to be wrong, and facts are stubborn things,” Mr. Romney said.

Frank Luntz, a Republican strategist who once worked for Mr. Giuliani, said he doubted that the issue would hurt him politically.

“When he talks about New York, people see it,” Mr. Luntz said of Mr. Giuliani, “and they feel it, and if a number isn’t quite right, or is off by a small amount, nobody will care, because it rings true to them.”
793 2007-11-30 This show says no to a lot: expensive materials or fabrication processes that result in shiny (read lulling) surfaces. It says no to heavy machinery and computers, to displays of bravura skill. (“Unskill” is one of the words in the show’s useful glossary.) It says no to feeding the stream of paintings, installation works, big-screen videos and Dolby-sound films that turn today’s biennials and international exhibitions into such entertaining spectacles. It also turns its back on the most usual suspects, including Jeff Koons, Bill Viola, Gerhard Richter, Matthew Barney, Louise Bourgeois, Rachel Whiteread and even Banks Violette.

Almost nothing here needs to be plugged in, and nearly all of it looks on first glance like junk or detritus. One result is a strange combination of save-the-planet zeal and visual consistency: the coherence, say, of the Museum of Modern Art’s 1965 “Responsive Eye” exhibition of Op Art, as if reinterpreted by Greenpeace. Ms. Hoptman’s essay details its ancestry in another MoMA show from the ’60s, “The Art of Assemblage.”

Collage and assemblage have been dominant strategies since the early 1980s, when both the appropriation artists and the Neo-Expressionists started cutting, pasting, layering and juxtapositioning to one end or another. The catalog lauds Haim Steinbach, Cady Noland, Richard Tuttle and David Hammons, as well as Arte Povera as precedents. David Salle, Paul McCarthy, Franz West, and Peter Fischli and David Weiss could also be cited.

The main idea here seems to be to make art that looks like art only on careful examination, guided by the assumption that everything, every detail, is intentional and meaningful. The disheveled surfaces may often say Rauschenberg, but Joseph Cornell’s delicate precision is frequently the more useful analogy.

The works that especially reward such scrutiny include Carol Bove’s Cornellian “Utopia or Oblivion” — a meticulous arrangement of five books, a tensile string-and-stick sculpture and two Knoll-esque end tables — that entangles postwar art, design and sexism. It is on the fourth floor, where Martin Boyce creates haunting, skeletal trees from Minimalist neon. Comments on ready-mades, cubes and photo appropriation abound in works by Sam Durant, Nate Lowman, Shinique Smith, Rachel Harrison and Tobias Buche.

On the third floor, where fragility and survival are issues, materials are often actively manipulated, and the body is frequently evoked. Elliot Hundley pulverizes and expands collage in profuse accumulations of cut-and-pasted paper, fake flowers, straight pins and balsa wood. Redolent of tattooed skin, his works suggest civilization going, beautifully, up in smoke, or drifting away like a giant crippled kite.

Meanwhile, Urs Fischer’s one-legged wax female nude is a life-size candle designed to burn throughout the show. Matthew Monahan, in “Liberator’s Retreat,” reconstitutes a ravaged monumental figure with a fascinatingly tragic face in the transient material of florist’s foam.

One of the most beautiful works is Ms. Genzken’s “Elefant” on the second floor, a column of cascading vertical blinds festooned with plastic tubes, foil, artificial flowers, fabric and some tiny toy soldiers and Indians. The flamboyant silhouette of this sculpture evokes both a crazy banquet centerpiece and one of the twin towers billowing smoke. Nearby, the seemingly hippielike amalgams of twigs, knit wool and paint by Ms. Bircken reward close examination.

Some of the work is derivative or just doesn’t try hard enough, the leading example being Gabriel Kuri’s aluminum blankets as banners. And yet there’s Abraham Cruzvillegas’s wonderfully buoyant “Matière Brute,” a balancing act of two scraps of lumber and red-surfaced sandpaper that updates Calder. The works by the Portuguese artist Carlos Bunga, which suggest modern furniture fused with architectural models, are appealing but familiar; there are more interesting works of his in the catalog. The cardboard-plywood works by the talented Gedi Sibony suffer in this context; again, try the catalog. And Kristen Morgin’s little vessels of wired-together ceramic shards seem obsessively reskilled; they could have been shown at the OK Harris Gallery, Ivan C. Karp’s mecca of Photo Realism and eye-killing craft, in SoHo any time since 1974.

Playing with the art-exhibition form is a New Museum tradition, and this show will grow and change considerably. The curators plan to add a raft of collages by 11 more artists to the show’s mostly bare walls on Jan. 17. On Feb. 13 a music and spoken-word component (already available on CD), along with an online contribution by its affiliate Rhizome, will join the fray.

“Unmonumental” is not curatorial rocket science, nor are all of its artists strangers to sold-out shows. But it is well done and visually polemical, a result of hard work, clear thought, a bit of courage and the trust and encouragement of Lisa Phillips, the museum’s second and current director. The curators’ guiding principle — that one strategy, collage-assemblage, has a monopoly on artistic viability — may seem a bit blinkered. Yet their show also vigorously reminds us of what a smart young artist once told me: Pluralism doesn’t equal peaceful coexistence; it just means more sides to the argument.

But mainly “Unmonumental” celebrates the New Museum’s upgrade with a display of art and ideas that every curator of contemporary art in New York should study, all the better to go out and find gauntlets of their own to toss.
794 2007-11-30 Both Mr. Chávez, a self-described socialist who has won elections by wide margins, and his critics say opinion polls show they will prevail, suggesting a highly contentious outcome. But departing from its practice in last year’s presidential election, Venezuela did not invite electoral observers from the Organization of American States and the European Union, opening the government to claims of fraud if he wins.

The intensified polarization has altered this city’s appearance, with graffiti of “Sí” by the president’s supporters competing with “No” scrawled throughout Caracas. A pro-Chávez march is scheduled here for Friday before the frenetic campaigning around the referendum ends. Polling places are to close at 5 p.m. Sunday, with results expected as early as that evening.

“I’m out here because I want my children to live in a country ruled by a president, not a king,” said Alexander Dávila, 42, a bank manager at Thursday’s march carrying a sign reading, “Socialism is the philosophy of failure.”

Violence has already marred the weeks preceding the vote. Two students involved in anti-government protests claimed they had been kidnapped and tortured this week by masked men in Barquisimeto, an interior city. And in Valencia, another city, a supporter of Mr. Chávez was shot dead this week in an exchange of gunfire at a protest site.

Tension has also been heightened by rare criticism of the constitutional overhaul from a breakaway party in Mr. Chávez’s coalition in the National Assembly and former confidants of the president; the government has called this dissent “treason.”

Some of the most stinging criticism lately is from Marisabel Rodríguez, Mr. Chávez’s ex-wife. This week on Caracol Radio of Colombia, she said he had threatened her with death after she publicly criticized the government’s policies. (Mr. Chávez has not publicly responded to her accusation.)

Mr. Chávez and senior officials here have exhibited increasingly erratic behavior. Mr. Chávez has lashed out at leaders in Colombia and Spain and asked for an investigation into whether CNN was seeking to incite an assassination attempt against him.

Reports of such plots are not in short supply here. The main state television network broadcast coverage this week of a memorandum in Spanish that it claimed had been written by the C.I.A. in which destabilization plans against Mr. Chávez were laid out. American involvement in Venezuelan politics remains a particularly delicate issue here, after the Bush administration tacitly supported a coup in 2002 that briefly ousted Mr. Chávez.

“We reject and are disappointed in the Venezuelan government’s allegations that the United States is involved in any type of conspiracy to affect the outcome of the constitutional referendum,” Benjamin Ziff, a spokesman for the United States Embassy here, said in a statement.

A C.I.A. spokesman called the document “a fake,” while analysts, including investigators who had previously uncovered financing of Venezuelan opposition groups by the United States government, expressed doubts about the authenticity of the memo.

“I find the document quite suspect,” said Jeremy Bigwood, an independent researcher in Washington. “There’s not an original version in English, and the timing of its release is strange.”

Even some of Mr. Chávez’s critics have welcomed some of the constitutional proposals, like measures to explicitly prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual or political orientation. Political discrimination has been a contentious issue after Mr. Chávez’s purge of dissident employees from the national oil company and the politicization of the federal bureaucracy.

But the proposal to expand the president’s power to issue emergency decrees has alarmed human rights groups. The new charter would allow the president to suspend some due process rights, like the right to be tried by an independent tribunal. And Mr. Chávez could declare states of emergency for unlimited periods and censor news organizations.

“Proponents of these amendments insist that this government would never violate these basic rights,” said José Miguel Vivanco, Americas director for Human Rights Watch. “But why, then, have they gone to such lengths to empower the president to do so?”

At the home of Ms. Torrealba, the hairdresser, near open sewage alongside a deafening highway in southwestern Caracas, the shifting loyalties of some voters were on full display. In December, she and her siblings awoke with fireworks to celebrate Mr. Chávez’s re-election to a six-year term, with 63 percent of the vote.

But her sister, Yohana Torrealba, 20, said she was alarmed by what she viewed as political intimidation by teachers in Misión Ribas, a social welfare program where she takes remedial high-school-level courses.

“The instructors told us we had to vote in favor and demonstrate on the streets for Chávez,” Yohana Torrealba said. “They want Venezuela to become like Cuba.”

Throughout the slums of Coche, confusion persists about how life could change if the constitutional proposals are approved. Many residents who own their homes, however humble, fear that the government could take control of their property, despite efforts to dispel those fears by Mr. Chávez’s government.

Others wonder what will happen to the mayor and the governor they elected if Mr. Chávez wins the power to pick rulers for new administrative regions he wants to create. Some said they feared that if they voted against the proposals, the government could discriminate against them if their votes were made public.

But Mr. Chávez has an unrivaled political machine, with supporters controlling every major government institution. He also retains the loyalty of many voters in Coche and elsewhere. “It’s a lie that they’re going to take our houses away,” said Yanelcy Maitán, 40. “No one has done more for the poor than Chávez.”
795 2007-11-30 PART of the joy of owning a second home is sharing it with others. And all the better if those others are willing to pay for the privilege. If that’s one of the reasons you’re thinking of buying a ski condo — or renting out one you already own — then you need to consider a few big questions.

The first issue comes right when you’re buying: Location. In the ski-condo market, that means being on or near the slopes. “If I was looking at two places and one was on the bus line” to the ski area, “and one was two blocks off, I would still buy the one on the bus line even if I loved the other, because of the ability to rent it out later,” said Christine Karpinski, author of “How to Rent Vacation Properties by Owner” (Kinney Pollack Press).

Once you’ve got the location down, consider the extras. Your renters will. Multiple bedrooms, a hot tub and a fireplace are big draws in the ski market. “The traveling public today wants more amenities,” said Ken Libby, who owns Stowe Realty in Vermont. “They want flat-screen TVs, hot tubs, big bathrooms. So if you’ve got an older house and expect to make income with it, you have two choices: fix it up or accept less money.”

The next big question is: Who’s going to be in charge of the rental process? “If you’re looking to do it through a property management service, it might be better to buy where there are managers on site with experience and history,” Ms. Karpinski said. “If you don’t intend on using a management service, your spectrum opens more, because it doesn’t matter where you buy.”

A management company can take care of everything from evaluating a rental price to finding tenants to arranging for housekeeping and snow removal. It can also provide peace of mind. “For one thing, we’re able to put a presence in the house on a daily basis, with housekeeping, etc.,” said Doug Faurer, a partner at Alpine Property Management, which has offices in Snowmass and Aspen, Colo. “So you’re getting feedback if things aren’t quite right. For example, if someone is smoking or if a tenant is particularly messy.”
796 2007-11-30 NO DISCOUNT FOR MEDICARE Despite its enormous buying power, Medicare pays far more to provide oxygen equipment to people with respiratory diseases than the prices typically charged to an individual seeking the service at a local drug store.       ...